Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Report included Contents About Orkla 03 Message from the CEO 07 Orkla’s business areas Orkla Foods 09 Orkla Confectionery & Snacks 10 Orkla Care 11 Orkla Food Ingredients 12 Orkla Investments 13 Report of the Board of Directors 15 Corporate governance 29 Sustainability Orkla’s sustainability work 37 Nutrition and health 42 Food and product safety 49 Responsible sourcing 53 Environment 60 Occupational health and safety 65 Human resource development and 68 corporate culture Orkla and society 73 Annual Financial Statements 2016 80 Notes Group 85 Financial Statements for Orkla ASA 2016 140 Historical key figures 151 Share information 152 Additional information for valuation purposes 155 The Board of Directors of Orkla ASA 156 The Group Executive Board 160 Governing bodies and elected representatives 164 Group Directory 165 Photo: Ole Walter Jacobsen. Orkla employees, their children and friends are models in the photos taken by Ole Walter Jacobsen. Design and layout by Design Container. 2 About Orkla Annual Report 2016 A leading branded consumer goods company Orkla is a leading supplier of branded consumer goods to organised under the Orkla Investments business area, consisthe grocery, out-of home, specialised retail, pharmacy and ting of its investments in Sapa (50% interest) and Jotun (42.5% bakery sectors. The Nordic and Baltic regions and selected interest), in addition to Hydro Power and financial assets. countries in Central Europe are Orkla’s main markets. The Orkla Group also holds strong positions in selected Orkla ASA is listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange and its head product categories in India. office is in Oslo, Norway. As of 31 December 2016, Orkla had 18,154 employees. The Group’s turnover in 2016 totalled Orkla’s Branded Consumer Goods business comprises the NOK 37.8 billion. Orkla Foods, Orkla Confectionery & Snacks, Orkla Care and Orkla Food Ingredients business areas. Orkla also has operations 2016 in brief • S uccessful innovations and more efficient operations of the leading branded consumer goods companies in contributed to sales growth and improved results for the the Czech Republic and Slovakia. Branded Consumer Goods business. • The acquisition of Harris strengthened Orkla’s position • O rkla strengthened its long-term competitiveness by inin the UK painting tool sector. Orkla also consolidated creasing collaboration across the Group – as “One Orkla”. its presence in selected niche markets and geographies through a number of smaller acquisitions. • B randed Consumer Goods was strengthened by a number of acquisitions, while the Group’s exposure outside Branded • O rkla’s associates Sapa and Jotun continue to deliver good Consumer Goods was reduced through the continued results, with a substantial improvement in profit for Sapa. sell-off of real estate properties and the share portfolio. • T he return on the Orkla share (including reinvested dividend) • W ith the purchase of the Hamé food company, Orkla was 15.6% in 2016. The Board proposes to increase the doubled its turnover in Central Europe and became one dividend to NOK 2.60 per share. Orkla in the world Leading in the Nordics Leading in the Baltics Strong local brands Sold Orkla products Orkla is the leading branded Orkla is the leading branded Orkla has 300 local brands Every single day Orkla sells consumer goods company consumer goods company with strong positions 8.5 million consumer units in the Nordic region in the Baltic region Geographical spread of sales revenues1 Orkla’s top ten categories Snacks Toppings Norway 12 31% Confectionery Nordics excl. Norway 15 40% Side dishes/condiments Baltics 2 5% Sauces and flavourings Rest of Europe 7 20% Ready-to-eat dishes Rest of Europe 1 4% Margarine Dehydrated casseroles, soups and sauces Total 37 100% Hygiene 1Excluding internal sales and other operating revenues Pizza 3 About Orkla Annual Report 2016 About Orkla Organic growth1 for Branded EBIT (adj)2 for Branded Earnings per share Consumer Goods Consumer Goods (diluted) 4.22 4.3 3.8 3.24 3.4 2.8 3.0 2.8% 1.63 1.56 NOK per share 1.8% NOK billion 1.1% 0.68 0.7% % 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 -2.8% 1 Adjusted for currency translation effects and structural changes Your friend in everyday life 2Operating profit before other income and expenses Improving everyday life with healthier and more enjoyable local brands STRATEGIC PILLARS Consumers Customers People Operations Society We deliver brands We are a preferred We develop talent, We deliver profitable We contribute to people love, and partner delivering long teamwork and diversity. growth through the society we innovations that term profitable growth We want people to an efficient and operate in by building delight and engage, and added value based grow and flourish so sustainable value strong businesses. every day on strong brands and they deliver at their full chain Sustainability is our key local customer and potential. We are proud to future growth and consumer insight to be part of a winning competitive power team Brave Trustworthy Inspiring CORE VALUES One Orkla one team for growth 5 Vision and values Orkla’s vision is to be “Your friend in everyday life”. This vision is underpinned by the values “Brave”, “Trustworthy” and “Inspiring”. Orkla’s mission is to improve everyday life with healthier and more Your friend in everyday life enjoyable local brands. 4 About Orkla Annual Report 2016 Orkla’s strategy Orkla’s strategy is to strengthen its position as the leading branded consumer goods company in the Nordic and Baltic regions and selected other markets. Through closer cross-group collaboration, as “One Orkla”, Orkla will improve its long-term competitiveness, while continuing to build on its local presence. Activities that drive organic growth and contribute to • Production will be concentrated on fewer, but larger improved profitability will be prioritised in accordance production units, thereby freeing up resources for with the Group’s strategy and financial goals. innovation, growth and competence-building. The primary driver of long-term value • More efforts will be initiated to increase collaboration on creation is organic growth for local brands sales and marketing. • This growth will be generated in part by an ambitious innovation programme based on the Group’s unique local Acquisitions in the Branded Consumer Goods business customer and consumer insight. • In addition to organic growth, acquisitions will help to strengthen Orkla’s position as the leading branded • A growing number of new products will be launched consumer goods company in its home markets. across Orkla’s markets and business areas through increased collaboration as One Orkla . • Orkla will invest primarily in small and medium-sized complementary acquisitions in selected markets, • Measures to further develop and reinforce customer categories or niches where the Group already has relations, with the shared objective of profitable growth, a presence. will be given priority. Clear strategy for capital allocation • Orkla’s international presence will provide a strong Orkla is in the final stages of a transformation from an industrial foundation for a more targeted focus on exports. conglomerate to a leading branded consumer goods company. Orkla continues to reduce its exposure outside the Branded Improved profitability through more Consumer Goods business. Its foremost priority is to transfer efficient operations throughout the value chain excess capital to acquisitions in Branded Consumer Goods. • The Group will exploit economies of scale and extract Alternatively, an extraordinary dividend or share buy-backs cross-group synergies more effectively by collaborating will be considered. more closely as “One Orkla”. The Board of Directors has proposed a dividend policy that • Orkla will leverage its unique local insight and connections entails maintaining a stable dividend of at least NOK 2.50 per to stand out significantly from its competitors share. • Profitability will be improved by increasing operational The Group’s goal is to remain an “investment grade” company. efficiency in every part of Orkla’s value chain and through Its target is therefore to ensure that its net interest-bearing the successful integration of acquisitions. liabilities/EBITDA ratio does not exceed 2.5-3.0 over time. Financial goals 2016-2018 • Organic growth at least in line with market growth • Annual adjusted EBIT growth of 6-9 per cent1 in the Branded Consumer Goods business 1Including minor acquisitions, excluding currency effects and major acquisitions and divestments 5 About Orkla Annual Report 2016 Consumer trends Based on unique customer and consumer insight into local markets, Orkla develops strong local branded products. Orkla prioritises six consumer trends: Health & well-being Indulgence Natural – free-from Ethics & environment Organic/eco Convenience 6 Message from the CEO Annual Report 2016 Creating growth as “One Orkla” In 2016 we strengthened Orkla’s position as the Nordic region’s leading branded consumer goods company by means of a number of strategic acquisitions and strong product launches. We also made a good deal of progress in our efforts to build a culture focused on working more as “One Orkla” and realising more synergies in our existing operations. Healthier foods are high on the agenda at Orkla. Our companies work actively to adapt their product portfolio to health-related consumer trends, and to develop products that our customers can be proud to have on their shelves. It is gratifying to see the collaboration that we as an industry have established with the Norwegian health authorities. In 2016, we signed a historic agreement in support of healthier food. Orkla also participates in industry initiatives to promote healthy food and sustainable production in Sweden. Partnerships are essential to resolving the global sustainability challenges. By signing the Businessworthy Pledge, I wanted to clearly express Orkla’s commitment to contributing to the achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Orkla’s sustainability strategy defining goals up to 2020 was launched three years ago. Sustainable growth is the new norm for business and industry. As a large Nordic company, we have a responsibility for leading the way in our industry. In 2016, Orkla In the course of the year we made several acquisitions. We gave making products with a smaller environmental footprint strengthened our position in the painting tool category by a prominent place on its agenda. We have developed a model acquiring Harris in the UK. Through the purchase of Hamé, for sustainable packaging, continued the important work of we doubled our turnover in Central Europe and have become a ensuring deforestation-free supply chains, and launched several leading food company in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. products that are good environmental choices. We also improved our existing positions in selected categories through several smaller acquisitions. Combined with organic We believe in our strategy of being a leading branded growth, acquisitions will continue to be an important part of consumer goods company, with the Nordics and Baltics Orkla’s growth strategy. Acquisitions also contribute cost as our main markets, along with selected geographies in synergies. Orkla made several structural changes during which we have a presence. Our results for 2016 show that the year. By streamlining our manufacturing footprint and the measures that we have initiated have paid off. Acquisitions exploiting economies of scale, we are strengthening our are contributing to value creation, and we will continue long-term competitiveness. to rationalise our supply chain and exploit economies of scale. Among the most important priorities that we must Orkla is well known for its strong local brands and insight into successfully pursue in future are maintaining our focus on local consumer needs. At the same time, we are focusing on innovations and making products that are healthier, easier to working as “One Orkla” and applying our consumer insight, like and make life simpler. By working as “One Orkla”, over brand understanding and product development strength 18,000 employees contribute every single day to ensuring across the Group. The launch of Waffle Cut chips under the that tomorrow’s favourites will still be made by Orkla. Taffel, Ádazu, OLW and KiMs brands is an example of the way we roll out major innovations in several different countries, marketing the same product under a number of Orkla’s big local brands. Paulúns, initially launched in Sweden and then in Denmark and Finland, is another example. The year Peter A. Ruzicka 2016 was one of many strong innovations that meet the President and CEO demand for healthier food products, vegetarian products and organic alternatives in the major categories. Taste, indulgence and convenience are also key factors. 7 Business areas Annual Report 2016 Orkla’s business areas Operating Organic growth1 EBIT (adj.)2 EBIT (adj.) EBIT (adj.) Number of revenues margin growth employees Orkla Foods 15.5 NOK billion 2.3% 2.0 NOK billion 12.7% 16% 8 393 Orkla Confectionery & Snacks 6.2 NOK billion 4.9% 0.9 NOK billion 15.0% 11% 3 084 Orkla Care 6.7 NOK billion 0.6% 1.0 NOK billion 14.2% 9% 3 309 Orkla Food Ingredients 8.2 NOK billion -0.5% 0.4 NOK billion 5.4% 6% 2 880 Branded Consumer Goods in total 36.4 NOK billion 1.8% 4.3 NOK billion 11.8% 12% 17 666 Orkla Investments Sapa (50%)3 Jotun (42.5%)3 Hydro Power Financial Investments 2.2 NOK billion 1.8 NOK billion 0.2 NOK billion 1.3 NOK billion Underlying EBIT EBIT EBIT (adj.) Book value real estate 1Adjusted for currency translation effects and structural changes. 0.1 NOK billion 2 Operating profit before other income and expenses. Book value 3 The figures from associates and joint ventures are on a 100% basis. financial assets 8 Business areas Annual Report 2016 Orkla Foods Orkla Foods is the largest business area, with 42% of Orkla’s total operating revenues from its Branded Consumer Goods business. Orkla Foods supplies well-known local brands to consumers in the Nordics, Baltics, Central Europe and India. The business area holds leading market positions in a number of categories, including frozen pizza, ketchup, soups, sauces, toppings and ready-to-eat dishes. Orkla Foods chiefly sells its products through grocery retailers, but also holds strong positions in the out-of-home, convenience store and petrol station sectors. Norway and Sweden are Orkla Foods’ two largest markets, accounting for 60% of the business area’s turnover in 2016. In 2016, Orkla Foods substantially strengthened its position in Central Europe through the acquisition of Hamé, a leading branded food company based in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. Orkla’s expanded distribution agreement with PepsiCo covers the sale of Tropicana and Quaker products in Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Finland, thereby strengthening Orkla Foods’ position in the breakfast segment. • Orkla Foods’ many well-known brands include Grandiosa, TORO, Stabburet, Felix, Paulúns, Abba, Kalles, Beauvais, Pastella, Spilva, Vitana and MTR. • Companies in the business area: Orkla Foods Norge, Orkla Foods Sverige, Orkla Foods Danmark, Orkla Foods Finland, Põltsamaa Felix in Estland, Orkla Foods Latvija, Orkla Foods Lietuva, Felix Austria, Hamé and Vitana Group in the Czech Republic and MTR Foods in India. Project : MTR Date : 29 March 2016 Item name : MTR Logo Colours Used : Black Pantone Pantone 485 C 2293 C CMYK MAGENTA, YELLOW, SVART med skugga Responding to the health trend with Paulúns Paulúns is Orkla Foods’ natural health brand, offering a wide assortment of products ranging from breakfast cereals, crispbread and porridges to soups and side dishes. The products have been developed in close cooperation with nutritionist Fredrik Paulún. They contain only natural raw materials, have no added sugar and are made exclusively with selected healthy ingredients. The aim is for the brand to be the healthiest alternative in each category. The Paulúns range has been part of Orkla Foods Sverige’s portfolio since 2010, and in 2015 was also launched in Finland and Denmark. Orkla Foods Latvija introduced Paulúns in 2016. Product innovations include Paulúns Chiafrö & Boveteflingor chia seed & buckwheat cereal, Supermix raw rice mix and Superknäcke crispbread. Orkla’s sales of Paulúns products totalled NOK 299 million in 2016. In 2017, Norwegian consumers will also be able to enjoy these tasty, wholesome products, which will be marketed under the Paulúns – with natural raw materials Bare Bra brand from Toro. and healthy ingredients 9 Business areas Annual Report 2016 Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Orkla Confectionery & Snacks’ turnover accounts for 17% of Orkla’s total operating revenues from its Branded Consumer Goods business. Orkla Confectionery & Snacks is market leader in the confectionery, biscuits and snacks categories, offering wellknown local brands and tastes that delight consumers in the Nordic and Baltic regions. A total of 94% of the business area’s turnover is generated in the Nordic and Baltic markets. Norway is its largest single market. Orkla Confectionery & Snacks further strengthened its position in Norway in 2016 through its pick-and-mix sweets agreement with the Coop grocery chain. In 2016, Orkla Confectionery & Snacks consolidated its market position with launches of chocolate products in Denmark and crispbread products in Norway. Additionally, its market position in Estonia was further strengthened by a number of jubilee launches to mark the 210th anniversary of Orkla’s oldest brand, Kalev. The distribution agreement with PepsiCo also entered into effect in 2016. Under the agreement, Orkla Confectionery & Snacks is responsible for the sale of Lay’s snack foods in Norway, Sweden and Finland. • The business area’s many popular brands include KiMs, Nidar, Göteborgs Kex, Sætre, OLW, Panda, Laima, Selga, Adazu and Kalev. • Companies in the business area: Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Norge, Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Sverige, Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Danmark, Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Finland, Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Latvija and Kalev in Estonia. TM 100% Svart PANTONE® 485 C Snack innovation from Toten a new popular favourite More consumers are looking for locally produced, genuinely natural products. In 2016, Orkla responded to this trend with the launch of Totenflak potato chips. The thicker, slow-cooked kettle chips are made from potatoes from local farms in the Toten district and produced at Orkla’s factory at Skreia. Each bag of chips features the name of the farm that supplied the potatoes for the chips in that particular bag. Totenflak became an overnight success, with store sales totalling more than 2.5 million bags in the first 25 weeks. With record-high testing and repeat purchase rates, Totenflak achieved a market share of 21% in the second largest chips segment in 2016. A total of 4 million bags of Totenflak chips, for a value of NOK 100 million, were sold in 2016. Totenflak potato chips made with patience! 10 Business areas Annual Report 2016 Orkla Care Orkla Care accounts for 19% of the Branded Consumer Goods business’s operating revenues and is organised in six business units. The two largest business units are Orkla Home & Personal Care, which holds leading positions in personal hygiene and laundry detergents, and Orkla Health, which has leading positions in the dietary supplements, sports nutrition and weight control segments. Orkla Care also has leading positions in the painting tool (Orkla House Care), wound care (Orkla Wound Care), basic textiles sold through the grocery channel (Pierre Robert Group) and professional cleaning segments (Lilleborg). The Nordic region accounts for 78% of the business area’s turnover, and Norway is its largest single market, generating 47% of turnover. In 2016, Orkla Care strengthened its position through acquisitions in selected categories and markets. Orkla House Care doubled the size of its operations through the purchase of Harris, a leading painting tool manufacturer in the UK. Orkla Wound Care was established in 2016 as a separate business unit in Orkla Care. Wound Care comprises wellknown brands such as Salvequick and Cederroth First Aid and holds good market positions in the Nordic region and Europe. •  idely known brands include Möller’s, Collett, Nutrilett, Maxim, Define, W Sunsilk, Blenda, Jif, Sun, Zalo, Jordan and Pierre Robert. • Companies in the business area: Orkla Home & Personal Care, Orkla Health, Lilleborg, Pierre Robert Group, Orkla House Care and Orkla Wound Care. CYAN MAGENTA YELLOW BLACK Body care range from Dr Greve designed for the Nordic climate Dr Greve is Orkla’s oldest personal hygiene brand, which started out with Dr Greve children’s soap around 1890. In 2000, Dr Greve Sensitiv Intimvask intimate cleanser was launched with great success, and 15 years later is still the biggest product in the shower category. In 2016, Dr Greve made a quantum leap, launching a complete range of body care products specifically formulated for the Nordic climate. The product assortment has been expanded to include four new categories in addition to shower products: body lotion, hand cream, deodorants and hand soap. The launch resulted in good sales and the products are widely distributed in grocery chains, and Dr Greve quickly became market leader in body lotion and hand creams in Norway. The body care range is paraben-free, and includes products with Dr Greve paraben-free body no perfume or colorants. care range 11 Business areas Annual Report 2016 Orkla Food Ingredients Orkla Food Ingredients accounts for 22% of the Branded Consumer Goods business’s operating revenues. Orkla Food Ingredients is the leading supplier of bakery ingredients in the Nordic region, in addition to holding growing positions in selected countries in Europe. Its biggest product categories are margarine and butter blends, yeast, bread and cake improvers and mixes, marzipan and ice cream ingredients. The business area has sales and distribution companies in 22 countries. Around 70% of sales are made to artisanal and industrial bakeries. Some 20% are sales directly to the consumer through well-known brands such as Mors Hjemmebakte, Kronjäst, Odense and Bakkedal. The remaining 10% of turnover is generated by sales of ice cream ingredients and accessories. Orkla Food Ingredients is one of Europe’s leading suppliers of ice cream ingredients and accessories, with a presence in the Nordics, Germany, the Netherlands and the UK. Acquisitions in 2016 have further strengthened this position. A large share of Orkla Food Ingredients’ sales derives from distribution agreements. Because of this, and because a substantial share of its sales consist of raw materials, the business area’s operating margin is lower than that of Branded Consumer Goods’ other business areas. However, its return on capital is more comparable to that of the other areas. • T  he companies in the Orkla Food Ingredients business area include Odense Marcipan, KåKå, Idun Industri, Credin, Sonneveld and Dragsbæk. The vegan Naturli' range a success More and more consumers want to have plant-based, meat-free alternatives one and more days a week. Through the company Naturli' Foods, Orkla Food Ingredients has established itself as a leading supplier of vegan food and drinks in Denmark. With a broad assortment and a market share of 70%*, Naturli’ products are well known to Danish consumers. The portfolio comprises a wide diversity of products ranging from drinks based on rice, soya, coconut or almonds, spreadable toppings and plant-based toppings to meat-free dinners, ready-to-eat dishes and ice cream. All the products are 100% plant-based and organic, and all raw materials are GMO-free. In 2016 Naturli' Foods launched 14 innovations. The company’s sales of vegan products totalled around DKK 86.6 million in 2016. Naturli’100% plant-based *Volume for drinks, yoghurt and cream and organic 12 Business areas Annual Report 2016 Orkla Investments Orkla has a number of investments in addition to its Branded Consumer Goods business, which are organised under Orkla Investments. The business area comprises the associates and joint ventures Sapa (50% interest) and Jotun (42.5%). Associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method and presented on a separate line of the consolidated financial statements. The consolidated businesses Hydro Power and Financial Investments are also part of Orkla Investments. Overview of Orkla Investments Sapa Jotun Hydro Power Financial Investments The world’s leading Jotun is one of the A power plant in manufacturer of world’s leading Sarpsfoss and an Orkla’s real estate extrusion-based alumanufacturers of 85% interest in investments and minium solutions paint and powder Saudefaldene share portfolio coatings Sapa Jotun Sapa is the world’s leading manufacturer of extrusionJotun is one of the leading global manufacturers of paint and based aluminium solutions for the building and construction powder coatings. Jotun’s worldwide activities consist of the market and the transportation and automotive industry, development, production, marketing and sale of a variety primarily in Europe and North America. Sapa is a global of paint systems, and are organised in the four segments player with 22,400 employees in 40 countries. At the end Decorative Paints, Marine Coatings, Protective Coatings of 2016, Sapa had a market share of 22% in Europe and 24% and Powder Coatings. The company’s main markets are the in North America. Middle East, India and Africa, Northeast Asia, Southeast Asia and Scandinavia. 60 3.0 17 2.5 50 2.5 14 2.0 2.0 40 11 1.5 1.5 30 1.0 8 20 1.0 0.5 5 10 0 0.5 2 0 -0.5 13 14 15 16 13 14 15 16 NOK NOK billion billion Operating revenues Ownership: Employees: Operating revenues Ownership: Employees: Underlying EBIT 50% 22 400 EBIT 42.5% 9 800 13 Business areas Annual Report 2016 Hydro Power Financial Investments Hydro Power consists of a power plant in Sarpsfoss and Financial Investments consists of shares and financial assets Orkla’s 85% interest in Saudefaldene. The power operations and Orkla Eiendom (real estate) with a total book value of generate and supply power to the Nordic power market approximately NOK 1.4 billion as at 31 December. As at 31 and produce a total normal annual volume of 2.4 TWh, of December 2016, Orkla’s share portfolio had a market value which around 1 TWh is a fixed delivery commitment with a of NOK 0.1 billion. net effect of zero on profit. The Sauda power operations are regulated by a leasing agreement with Statkraft that will run As at 31 December 2016, Orkla’s real estate investments until 31 December 2030. had a book value of NOK 1.3 billion. One third of these assets are industrial properties that are gradually being sold. The other two thirds consists of three real estate development projects, the largest of which is the construction of Orkla’s new head office. 3.0 300 5.0 2.5 250 4.0 2.0 200 3.0 1.5 150 2.0 1.0 100 0.5 50 1.0 0.0 0 0.0 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 TWh NOK million NOK billion TWh Sarpsfoss Saudefaldene Real estate Book value Book value EBIT (adj.) normal annual normal annual Financial real estate financial assets production production assets 1.3 NOK billion 0.1 NOK billion 0.6 TWh 1.8 TWh 14 Report of the Board of Directors Annual Report 2016 Fredrik and Ferdinand part of the Orkla family Report of the Board of Directors In 2016 the Board of Directors continued its efforts to further develop Orkla as a leading branded consumer goods group, with the Nordic and Baltic regions as its main markets, while also targeting growth in and strengthening selected geographies. To further secure its future competitiveness, the Group maintained its focus on rationalising and improving its supply chain. A solid foundation has thus been laid for exploiting economies of scale over time, while preserving Orkla’s local ties, thereby increasing the potential for future value creation in the Branded Consumer Goods business. 15 Report of the Board of Directors Annual Report 2016 Since 2013, significant structural changes have been made innovations that have been rolled out in several countries, to define Orkla as a branded consumer goods group. In the with the same concept and recipe but under more of Orkla’s course of 2016, Orkla further consolidated its position as a big local brands. In 2016, the new business unit Wound branded consumer goods company through agreements Care was established following the acquisition of Cederroth, to acquire a number of companies. These transactions boosting growth with launches of the next generation of are described under the section “Further description of First Aid Kits and the launch of Salvequick in Norway. structural changes”. The Group’s exposure outside the Branded Consumer Goods business has been reduced The year 2016 has also seen a large number of innovations through the sale of its entire remaining shareholding in under the headings Health & Nutrition, Organic and VegeGränges and the continued sell-off of assets in the real tarian. Examples of Health & Nutrition launches were Taffel estate and share portfolio. In 2016, capital totalling Wholegrain crisps, Paulúns Glutenfri Supermüsli and Vitana around NOK 1.8 billion was freed up from businesses and Farmers` Soup. All these launches show that Orkla is far out ownership interests outside the Group’s core business. in front in offering consumers increasingly healthy, better tasting products. Numerous organic products were develOrkla has also continued its efforts to develop an optimised oped in 2016, with launches such as FELIX Ekologisk Mustig business model, where Orkla seeks to balance the local Soppa organic soup, RisiFrutti Ekologisk organic rice-and-fruit model with higher realisation of synergies and economies pudding, Beauvais Økologisk Agurker organic gherkins, Brago of scale across companies and business areas. This includes Original EKO biscuits, Idun and Beauvais Økologisk Tomatoptimising its factory footprint and is essential to ensuring ketchup organic ketchup and Göteborgs Utvalda selection of both a competitive supply chain and efficient use of capital biscuits with KRAV organic certification. Orkla has responded to invest in new innovations, thereby laying the groundwork to increased consumer demand for vegetarian products with for future growth. Structural measures were initiated within a multitude of new products under the Anamma and Naturli’ the Group’s existing factory footprint and in the companies brands, as well as FELIX Veggie and MTR. This shows that Orkla acquired and integrated in 2016. During the year, Orkla also is a clear forerunner in offering consumers good organic prepared new improvement projects to be able to maintain alternatives in major, well-known categories, and in seizing momentum in 2017 and continue developing its supply the opportunities inherent in growing consumer demand for chain structure. In addition, greater focus on collaboration vegetarian and vegan products. has given rise to more innovation projects and launches across companies and countries. EBIT (adj.)1 for Branded Consumer Goods increased in 2016. The growth in profit was largely driven by organic3 In sum, market growth in Orkla’s categories was positive in improvement in sales, comprehensive cost improvement 2016. Orkla’s performance varied from one category and programmes, the realisation of synergies from acquisitions market to another, but overall growth for Branded Consumer and positive currency translation effects. The EBIT (adj.)1 Goods is estimated to have been slightly lower than market margin was negatively affected by the dilutive effects of growth. the inclusion of acquired companies with lower margins, substantially higher purchasing costs due to the weaker Orkla increased its turnover in 2016 by 14% through Norwegian krone, and slightly higher raw material and packcontributions from acquisitions, organic3 growth and positive aging costs. The EBIT (adj.)1 margin was 11.8%, currency translation effects related to the weaker Norwegian equivalent to a decline of 0.2 percentage points. krone. Branded Consumer Goods delivered organic3 turnover growth of 1.8%, with a combination of volume/mix and price At the end of 2016, the Group’s financial position was sound, increases. All business areas, except for Orkla Food Ingredients, ensuring financial flexibility to support the Group’s strategy. posted organic3 growth. Net interest-bearing liabilities totalled NOK 8.1 billion as at 31 December 2016, while the equity ratio was 60.9%. Innovations based on strong local brands in both new and established categories have generated good category Based on both underlying3 operations and the capital freed up growth for both Orkla and Orkla’s customers. Among the by the sale of businesses, the Board of Directors proposes to numerous strong innovations, the Grandiosa Vår Take Away pay an ordinary dividend of NOK 2.60 per share for the 2016 pizza and the new potato chip brand Totenflak were examples financial year. of brave launches in well-known categories, where extensive focus on taste and product quality have helped to increase The annual financial statements have been prepared and consumer loyalty and repeat purchases. Another example is presented in accordance with the International Financial the Dr Greve brand, which in just a short time was expanded Reporting Standards (IFRS), as approved by the EU. The into a strong, broad-based skin care brand sold by Norwegian Board of Directors confirms that use of the going-concern grocery retailers, and put Orkla in the number one-position assumption is appropriate. in the skin care segment. This shows the potential in Orkla’s strategy of continuing to build on strong local brands in more Further description of structural changes categories. Moreover the launch of waffle-cut chips under the Throughout 2016, Orkla continued its work to transform the Taffel, Ádazu, OLW and KiMs brands are examples of major Group in accordance with its business strategy. To further 16 Report of the Board of Directors Annual Report 2016 secure its future competitiveness, Orkla has made several incorporated into the Orkla Care business area with accounting structural changes in the course of the year to rationalise its effect as from 1 September 2016. factory footprint and exploit economies of scale. In addition to ongoing efficiency optimisation measures, Orkla carried By means of an asset transaction in October 2016, Orkla out new acquisitions. signed and completed an agreement through its whollyowned subsidiary Orkla Health Poland to purchase the Colon-C In December 2015, Orkla entered into an agreement to brand. With this acquisition Orkla has strengthened its foothold purchase Hamé, a leading Central European branded food in the rapidly growing gut health category. Colon-C is a leading company based in the Czech Republic. Hamé holds strong brand in the constipation category and a market leader in positions in countries such as the Czech Republic, Slovakia the fibre segment in Poland. The brand was consolidated and Romania in a range of categories that are a good fit with into Orkla’s financial statements as from 1 October 2016. Orkla’s current portfolio. With the acquisition of Hamé, Orkla has doubled its turnover in Central Europe. The agreement In the first half of 2016, Orkla Investments sold its remaining was approved by the relevant competition authorities, and 16% shareholding in Gränges and effected several sales in the company was consolidated into the financial statements the share portfolio in 2016, including the sale of Enterfondet as from 1 April 2016. In connection with the integration and the sell-off of shares in Solsten Nordic Equities Fund. of Hamé, Orkla Foods established a new organisation in Other shares and financial assets totalling NOK 1,194 million Central Europe, Orkla Foods Central Europe, consisting were sold off in 2016. The market value of the remaining of Felix Austria, Vitana and Hamé. share portfolio including funds was NOK 107 million at year end. In January 2016, Orkla Foods Danmark signed an agreement with Kavli Holding AS to purchase O. Kavli A/S, a major In 2016 Orkla Eiendom sold its subsidiary Mortensrud Næring, supplier to Danish grocery retailers. The purchase includes its interest in Raufoss Næringspark and Åsane Utvikling and lots well-known brands such as FUN, Grønnegården, Scoop from a former industrial property (Attisholz) in Switzerland. and Blomberg's Glögg. Orkla already owned the FUN brand in the other Nordic countries, and through this agreement For more information on the purchase and sale of companies, acquired full ownership of FUN in the Nordic region. The see Notes 5 and 24. company was consolidated into Orkla’s financial statements as from 1 March 2016. Further comments on the Group’s results Orkla’s operating revenues in 2016 totalled NOK 37,758 In March 2016, Orkla Food Ingredients (OFI) purchased The million (NOK 33,198 million)2. The 14% increase was driven Waverley Bakery Limited through its wholly-owned subsidby organic3 growth in sales in Branded Consumer Goods, iary Idun Industri. Waverley Bakery is a leading supplier of in addition to positive currency translation effects and ice cream cones and wafers, ingredients and accessories in contributions from acquired companies. Branded Consumer the UK, with deliveries to wholesalers, ice cream parlours Goods reported organic3 sales growth of 1.8% in 2016. and small-scale ice cream manufacturers. The company was consolidated into Orkla’s financial statements as from Group EBIT (adj.)1 amounted to NOK 4,298 million (NOK 1 March 2016. Furthermore, in September 2016, through its 3,609 million)2, equivalent to growth of 19%. Growth was wholly-owned subsidiary Sonneveld Group B.V., OFI signed primarily driven by acquisitions, broad-based improvement and completed an agreement to purchase 70% of the shares in profit for Branded Consumer Goods, improved results in Broer Bakkerijgrondstoffen B.V., a leading manufacturer for Financial Investments and lower Group costs. Branded of almond paste, bakery ingredients and ice cream powder Consumer Goods posted 12% growth in EBIT (adj.)1. in the Netherlands. The company was consolidated into the financial statements as from 1 September 2016. Orkla Foods delivered improved profit related to turnover growth, the positive effects of cost improvements and conIn March 2016, Pierre Robert Group signed an agreement tributions from acquired companies. The improvement in with the Finnish branded goods supplier Nanso Group for Orkla Confectionery & Snacks was chiefly driven by broadthe purchase of four socks, tights and underwear brands. based improvement in sales. Profit growth in Orkla Care was The agreement concerns the purchase of the Norlyn, Amar, mainly driven by contributions from Cederroth and Harris, Black Horse and Finnwear brands, which hold strong positions and realised synergies from acquisitions. The loss of the disin the Finnish grocery trade. The company was consolidated tribution agreement with Unilever had a negative impact on into the financial statements as from 1 May 2016. profit. Orkla Food Ingredients delivered profit improvement, driven by structural growth. In May 2016, through its wholly-owned subsidiary Orkla House Care Norge, Orkla entered into an agreement to purchase L.G. In terms of profit, Hydro Power had a stronger year in 2016 Harris & Co. Limited (Harris), a leading UK supplier of “do-itthan in 2015, chiefly due to higher power prices that were yourself” painting tools. With this acquisition Orkla House only partly offset by lower production. Financial Investments Care doubled the size of its operations. The agreement was saw a rise in profit from the sale of properties. Furthermore, approved by the UK competition authorities, and Harris was Group costs were lower in 2016 due to cost improvement 17 Report of the Board of Directors Annual Report 2016 measures at the head office, reduced costs in connection profit (dividends included) of NOK 248 million (NOK 135 with incentive programmes and slightly lower IT costs. million)2 from shares and financial assets. Pre-tax profit amounted to NOK 5,182 million (NOK 4,090 million)2. Overall, the international commodity prices to which Orkla is exposed have increased somewhat in the recent past. Orkla is subject to ordinary company tax in the countries Moreover, the weaker Norwegian krone, as an average for in which the Group operates. The accounting tax charge the year compared with 2015, brought a significant increase amounted to NOK 807 million (NOK 722 million)2. However, in purchasing costs for the Norwegian companies. The realised capital gains and dividends from companies resident degree to which the different business areas are exposed in the EEA are largely tax-exempt. The tax charge (adjusted to currency risk varies. Many of Orkla’s Norwegian companies for profit from associates and joint ventures) for the 2016 do a substantial share of their purchasing in Norwegian financial year was 21% (24%)2. The reduction in the tax charge kroner, thereby reducing the overall effect of fluctuations can largely be explained by tax-free revenues from the sale in the exchange rate of the Norwegian krone against other of real estate, and the fact that a power contract was taxed currencies. on the basis of contract price instead of spot price. See Note 16 for further comments. The results of foreign entities are translated into Norwegian kroner on the basis of average monthly exchange rates. In Profit for the year amounted to NOK 4,375 million 2016, due to currency market fluctuations, the Group ben(NOK 3,351 million)2, and diluted earnings per share were efited from positive currency translation effects of NOK 591 NOK 4.22 kroner (NOK 3.24)2. million on operating revenues and NOK 45 million on EBIT (adj.)1. Financial situation and capital structure Cash flow (see Note 40) Orkla continued its extensive improvement and integration The comments below are based on the cash flow statement processes in 2016, and the Group’s other income and expenses as presented in Orkla’s internal format. amounted to NOK -382 million (NOK -502 million)2. These chiefly consisted of acquisition and integration costs resulting from the numerous structural acquisitions, and a number of improvement processes in the Group, particularly related to closures and changes in the factory footprint. After other income and expenses, the Group’s operating profit amounted to NOK 3,916 million in 2016, compared with NOK 3,107 million in 2015. Operating revenues by business area Profit from associates and joint ventures totalled NOK 1,378 million (NOK 1,111 million)2, and are chiefly related to Orkla’s 42.5% interest in Jotun and 50% interest in Sapa. The investments are presented using the equity method on the line for “Associates and joint ventures”. Jotun achieved good results for 2016, even though turnover and operating profit fell slightly compared to the record results in 2015. Jotun’s contribution to profit amounted to NOK 471 million (NOK 569 million)2. Sapa delivered a solid contribution to profit of NOK 890 million (NOK 123 million)2. As a result of the introduction of an air passenger tax as of 1 June 2016 and Ryanair’s decision to close its operations base at Rygge, activity at Moss Airport Rygge was discontinued on 1 November 2016. Consequently, Orkla wrote down the statement of financial position assets related to Moss Orkla Foods 15,476 41% Airport Rygge by a total of NOK 171 million. The carrying Orkla Confectionery & Snacks 6,230 16% value of Orkla’s equity interest has been written down by Orkla Care 6,740 18% NOK 71 million and is presented on the line for “Profit/loss Orkla Food Ingredients 8,161 22% from associates and joint ventures”. Loans totalling NOK 100 Orkla Investments 1,302 3% million to the company have been written down on the line for “Other financial items, net”. The write-downs were taken in the second quarter of 2016. Net interest costs totalled NOK Total operating revenues (NOK billion) 37,758 100% 177 million (NOK 192 million)2. Other financial items amounted to a net NOK 65 million (NOK 64 million)2, including net 18 Report of the Board of Directors Annual Report 2016 Cash flow from operations (excluding Financial Investments) amounted to NOK 3,368 million (NOK 3,641 million)2. There was a seasonal freeing-up of NOK 364 million in working Conversion of profit to cash flow capital in the fourth quarter. For the full year, there was a temporary build-up of working capital of NOK 228 million, strongly driven by restructuring projects at Orkla Foods factories, combined with an inventory build-up of PepsiCo products. Compared with 2015, the decrease in working capital in 2016 was mainly due to the receipt of payment of 5 4.3 4.2 a claim for a one-off contractual termination fee from the renegotiation of the Unilever agreement. 4 3.4 3.4 3 Net replacement investments totalled NOK 1,327 million (NOK 930 million)2. The increase was chiefly related to higher 2 investment in Orkla Foods as a result of ongoing factory improvement and restructuring programmes. Cash flow 1 from operations from Financial Investments amounted to NOK 45 million (NOK 94 million)2. 0 Branded Consumer Orkla (excl. Financial NOK billion An ordinary dividend of NOK 2.50 was paid out for the 2015 financial year. Dividends paid totalled NOK 2,599 million. Goods Investments) To fulfil the remaining option programme, net purchases of Orkla shares were made with a cash flow effect of NOK -77 million (NOK -31 million)2. Expansion investments totalled NOK 163 million (NOK 388 million)2 in 2016. Sold businesses amounted to NOK 415 million in 2016 and EBIT. (adj.)1 O  perating profit before other 1 consisted mainly of real estate portfolio sales and the sale of income and expenses Cash flow from the Asan brand. Acquisitions totalled NOK 2,651 million and operations consisted of acquisitions in Branded Consumer Goods, where Hamé and Harris accounted for the majority of the amount. In 2016, net sales of shares and financial assets, including the disposal of Gränges shares, totalled NOK 1,194 million. Cash flow from operations1 Net cash flow for the Group amounted to NOK -956 million (NOK -1,561 million)2 in 2016. The Group’s interest-bearing liabilities had an average borrowing rate of 1.8%, mainly denominated in SEK, EUR and DKK. Positive translation effects 4 3.6 of NOK 705 million as a result of exchange rate fluctuations 3.3 3.4 helped to reduce net interest-bearing liabilities, which totalled NOK 8,056 million. The Group’s liabilities are denominated 3 2.8 2.8 in different currencies depending on its net investments in countries other than Norway, and liabilities will therefore fluc2 tuate in step with currency rate changes. Contracts and financial hedge instruments 1 Orkla generally has few long-term purchasing and sale contracts. In Hydro Power, AS Saudefaldene has certain long-term power contracts. Further details regarding power 0 contracts may be found in Note 35. 12 13 14 15 16 NOK billion Capital structure In 2016, the consolidated statement of financial position increased by NOK 1.4 billion to NOK 55.6 billion at year end. This was largely a result of the acquisitions of Harris and Hamé. Net interest-bearing liabilities increased by NOK 0.3 billion, 1Cash flow from operations (excl. Financial Investments). also due to the acquisition of companies. The strengthening of the Norwegian krone in 2016 resulted in positive 19 Report of the Board of Directors Annual Report 2016 translation effects of NOK 705 million on net interestbearing liabilities at the end of 2016. Net gearing4 was 0.24 (0.23)2. Orkla’s financial position is robust, with cash reserves Equity, liabilities and net gearing1 and credit lines that exceed known capital expenditures in the coming year. The average remaining life of liabilities and unutilised credit lines is 3.3 years (3.2)2. 50 0.30 After the dividend payment in 2016, Group equity totalled 0.25 40 NOK 34 billion at year end, with an equity ratio of 60.9% 0.20 (62.2%)2. At the start of 2017, the Group has solid financial 30 resources and the flexibility to support its business priorities. 0.15 20 The Orkla share 0.10 As of 31 December 2016, there were 1,017,717,835 shares 10 outstanding, and Orkla owned 1,213,135 treasury shares. 0.05 The number of shareholders decreased from 38,853 to 38,796, and the proportion of shares held by foreign investors 0 0.00 12 13 14 15 16 decreased by 3 percentage points to 52% at the end of 2016. NOK billion Net gearing1 The Orkla share price was NOK 70.10 on the last trading day of 2015. At year end 2016, the share price was NOK 78.20. Taking into account the dividend, the return on the Orkla share was 15.6% in 2016, while the return on the Oslo Stock Exchange Benchmark Index (OSEBX) was 12.1%. Orkla shares were traded on the Oslo Stock Exchange for a total of NOK 33.5 billion. Further information on shares and shareholders Equity ( Net interest-bearing 1 may be found on page 152. liabilities)/Equity. Net interest-bearing liabilities Net gearing1 Risk management The Board of Directors attaches importance to ensuring that risk is managed systematically in all parts of the Group, and considers this a prerequisite for long-term value creation for Ordinary dividend per share shareholders, employees and society at large. Orkla’s Branded Consumer Goods business has a diversified company and product portfolio, which reduces risk. In the course of 2016, Orkla further strengthened its position as leading branded consumer goods group, through both organic3 growth and 3.0 2.00 2.25 the acquisition of businesses. According to the Group’s 2.25 2.25 2.50 guidelines, a special risk assessment must be carried out as 2.5 2.50 2.50 2.50 part of the assessment of all growth opportunities. 2.50 2.50 2.60 2.0 Orkla has adopted a structured approach to identifying risk 1.50 factors and implementing risk-mitigating measures in its 1.5 0.27 operations. According to the Group’s Risk Management 0.32 0.39 Instructions, risk assessments must be carried out routinely in 1.0 0.41 0.50 0.60 all units, including major projects, and thereafter be reported 0.65 0.68 0.5 0.80 to the next organisational level. The risk pictures of the 0.90 different units are presented to and discussed by the various 0 internal boards of directors as part of the budget process. 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 031 042 05 06 07 08 09 103 11 12 13 14 15 164 When important decisions are to be made on matters such as NOK acquisitions, disposals or major investments, the same requirement applies to risk analysis as to routine risk management. Orkla’s consolidated risk picture and an assessment of more long-term, systematic risk are reviewed with the Group Executive Board. If unacceptable factors are identified, 1Additional dividend NOK 5.00 per share. riskreducing measures are implemented. The Group’s over2Additional dividend NOK 1.00 per share. 3Additional dividend NOK 5.00 per share. all risk picture is also presented to the Board of Directors and 4Proposed dividend. reviewed at each meeting of the Board’s Audit Committee. 20 Report of the Board of Directors Annual Report 2016 Development in operating revenues and EBIT (adj.)1,2 Purchase of Hamé, Harris and several smaller acquisitions, sale of remaining Gränges shares Acquisition of Cederroth and NP Foods, and agreement to purchase Hamé Stock exchange listing of Gränges. Agreements to acquire NP Foods and Condite. Sale of Delecta and Orkla Brands Russia Purchase of Rieber & Søn Sale of Borregaard, acquisition of Jordan, Sapa (part of future JV) reclassified as discontinued operations Sale of Elkem Silicon-related Sale of Borregaard Skoger Acquisition of Indalex and sale of power assets 100% ownership of Sapa Profiles Purchase of additional shares in REC and establishment of the world's largest aluminium profiles company Sale of Orkla Media Acquisition of Elkem and Sapa Sale of interest in Carlsberg Breweries Establishment of Carlsberg Breweries Acquisition of Berlingske 70 Acquisition of remaining shares in Pripps Ringnes 5 Acquisition of Abba Seafood, Procordia Food and 60 establishment of Pripps Ringnes with Volvo 4 50 Merger with Nora Industrier 3 40 30 2 20 Merger with Borregaard 1 10 0 0 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 NOK billion NOK billion EBIT (adj.)1 (right axis) 1 Operating profit before other income and expenses. Operating revenues (left axis) 2 Excl. Financial Investments. 2004-2016 are stated under IFRS, while figures from 1982-2003 are stated under NGAAP 21 Report of the Board of Directors Annual Report 2016 Comments on the individual business areas Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Orkla is a leading supplier of branded consumer goods and Orkla Confectionery & Snacks comprises the product concept solutions to the grocery, out-of-home and bakery categories confectionery, snacks and biscuits, and consists sectors, with the Nordic and Baltic regions as its main of six branded consumer goods businesses which serve their markets. The Group also holds good positions in selected home markets in the Nordics and Baltics. The companies in product categories in Central Europe and India. The Branded this business area are Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Norge Consumer Goods business consists of four business areas: (confectionery, snacks and biscuits), Orkla Confectionery & Orkla Foods, Orkla Confectionery & Snacks, Orkla Care and Snacks Sverige (snacks and biscuits), Orkla Confectionery & Orkla Food Ingredients. The Orkla Investments business Snacks Finland (confectionery, snacks and biscuits), Orkla area consists of the Hydro Power and Financial Investments Confectionery & Snacks Danmark (snacks and confectionery), segments. Associates and joint ventures consist primarily of Kalev in Estonia (confectionery, snacks and biscuits) and Jotun (42.5% interest) and Sapa (50% interest). Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Latvija (confectionery, snacks, biscuits, cakes and ready meals). Besides all head office activities, the financial statements of the holding company Orkla ASA cover the remainder of the Group’s Operating revenues for Orkla Confectionery & Snacks share portfolio and some real estate activities. Activities at head totalled NOK 6,230 million in 2016 (NOK 5,813 million)2, office include the Group’s executive management and the equivalent to 7% growth in sales. Organic3 turnover growth corporate and shared functions Communications, Legal was 4.9%. The improvement in sales was broad-based and Affairs, Sales & Business Development, Marketing & Innovation, was boosted by a strong programme of launches, the good Operations, Mergers & Acquisitions, Human Resources, performance of the core portfolio, an agreement to sell Accounting/Finance, Risk Management, Compliance and pick-and-mix sweets to Coop in Norway and the distribution Internal Audits. In addition to governance-related tasks, agreement with PepsiCo on the sale of Lay’s snack products the departments largely carry out assignments and provide in Norway, Sweden and Finland. support for the Group’s other companies and charge them for these services. Orkla Confectionery & Snacks delivered broad-based profit improvement, largely driven by the growth in sales. EBIT Branded Consumer Goods (adj.)1 amounted to NOK 937 million (NOK 843 million)2. Orkla Foods The EBIT (adj.)1 margin was 15.0% (14.5%)2. Orkla Foods comprises Orkla’s food businesses which serve home markets in the Nordics, Baltics, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Orkla Care Austria and India. The companies in the business area are Orkla Care comprises six branded consumer goods businesses Orkla Foods Norge, Orkla Foods Sverige, Orkla Foods Danmark which serve their home markets in the Nordics, Baltics, UK, Poand Orkla Foods Finland in the Nordics, Põltsamaa Felix, Orkla land and Spain. From the start of 2016, Cederroth’s businesses Foods Latvija and Orkla Foods Lietuva in the Baltics, Felix were integrated with Orkla’s own companies in all the Nordic Austria, Vitana Group and Hamé in Central Europe, and MTR countries. The integration has been successful, with extensive Foods in India. Orkla Foods’ operations are concentrated on realisation of synergies and solid turnover growth. After the strong brands that largely hold number one positions in their integration, Orkla Care comprises the businesses Orkla Home home markets. & Personal Care (household detergents, toothbrushes and personal hygiene products), Lilleborg* (full-range supplier of Operating revenues for Orkla Foods in 2016 totalled NOK hygiene and cleaning solutions to the professional market), 15,476 million (NOK 13,250 million)2, equivalent to 17% growth Orkla Health (dietary supplements and health products), Pierre in sales. The substantial increase in sales is chiefly attributable to Robert Group (basic textiles sold through the grocery channel), the acquisition of the Czech company Hamé with accounting Orkla House Care (painting tools and cleaning products) and effect from the second quarter. Organic3 growth was 2.3%. Orkla Wound Care (wound care products). The distribution agreement with PepsiCo, which was entered into in 2015 and expanded in 2016, made a significant contriSignificant structural changes were made in 2016 with the bution to organic3 growth. EBIT (adj.)1 in 2016 amounted to acquisition of Harris, the agreement with Nanso Group on NOK 1,968 million (NOK 1,701 million)2. The increase is largely the purchase of four Finnish textile brands and the purchase due to the growth in turnover, but also to the positive effects of the Colon-C brand. of cost improvements. However, results were somewhat negatively affected by higher purchasing costs, a negative Operating revenues for Orkla Care totalled NOK 6,740 million product mix and delivery challenges in the Nordics, the (NOK 5,534 million)2, equivalent to reported sales growth of last factor partly a result of ongoing changes in production 22%. Organic3 growth was 0.6%. Growth in sales in Lilleborg*, structure. The EBIT (adj.)1 margin was 12.7% (12.8%)2. Both Orkla House Care and Orkla Wound Care was offset to the acquisition of Hamé and the distribution agreement with some extent by a decline for Orkla Home & Personal Care PepsiCo had a dilutive effect on margin. and Pierre Robert Group. Lilleborg* achieved broad-based *Lilleborg Profesjonell changed its company name to Lilleborg on 11 January 2017. 22 Report of the Board of Directors Annual Report 2016 growth, while Orkla House Care saw good growth in the financial compensation. Approximately 1 TWh of AS SaudeScandinavian markets. For Orkla Home & Personal Care, the faldene’s production is subject to special contract conditions. decline was chiefly driven by lower sales in Norway, partly offset by growth in most of the international markets. Pierre Operating revenues totalled NOK 721 million (NOK 690 Robert Group experienced a volume-driven decline in both million)2 and EBIT (adj.)1 amounted to NOK 192 million (NOK Norway and Sweden, partly as a result of fewer campaign 154 million)2. The increase was mainly due to higher power programmes in both countries. prices which were only partly offset by lower production volume. Production in 2016 totalled 2,396 GWh, compared EBIT (adj.)1 was NOK 956 million (NOK 881 million)2. Profit with the record-high 2,849 GWh in 2015, primarily due to growth was driven by contributions from Cederroth and lower precipitation and inflow. At year end, the reservoir levHarris, combined with the realisation of synergies from the el in Sauda was higher than normal, while the reservoir level integration of Cederroth into Orkla Health and Orkla Home in Glomma was slightly lower than normal. & Personal Care. The loss of the distribution agreement for five Unilever brands had a negative impact on profit. The Financial Investments EBIT (adj.)1 margin was 14.2% (15,9%)2. Much of the decline Financial Investments consist of shares and financial assets in profit is due to the dilutive effect of the inclusion of and Orkla Eiendom. EBIT (adj.)1 for Financial Investments Cederroth and Harris. Moreover, the weak exchange rate amounted to NOK 131 million in 2016 (NOK 57 million)2 and of the Norwegian krone had a significant negative effect was largely related to the sale of lots from a former industrial on product profitability in the businesses. property (Attisholz) in Switzerland. Orkla Food Ingredients Shares and financial assets consist of Orkla’s remaining share Orkla Food Ingredients is the leading player in the bakery portfolio, and the Russian nut company Chaka. The share and ice cream ingredients sectors in the Nordics and Baltics, portfolio had a market value of NOK 107 million at the end in addition to holding growing market positions in selected of 2016, with capitalised unrealised gains totalling NOK 53 countries in Europe. The business area maintains proximity to million. Assets consisted mainly of the investment in the its customer market through sales and distribution companies Solsten Nordic Equities Fund (NOK 87 million). Net sales in 22 countries. Its biggest product categories are margarine totalled NOK 1,194 million in 2016. Orkla sold its remaining and butter blends, yeast, bread and cake improvers and mixinterest in Gränges in the course of the year. Net gains and es, marzipan and ice cream ingredients. dividends from shares and financial assets amounted to NOK 248 million in 2016 (NOK 135 million)2. Operating revenues for Orkla Food Ingredients totalled NOK 8,161 million (NOK 7,598 million)2 in 2016, equivalent Orkla Eiendom meets the Group’s need for specialised real esto reported growth of 7%. Orkla Food Ingredients saw an tate expertise and assistance, and is responsible for the adminisorganic3 decline of 0.5%. The decline was mainly due to a tration, development and sale of properties that are not utilised fall in the prices of butter blends and almonds, and the loss in Orkla’s industrial operations. Orkla also has a historical portof parts of an industrial contract in Norway. folio of real estate-related investments, which are being realised in accordance with the Group’s current strategy. The most EBIT (adj.)1 amounted to NOK 439 million (NOK 414 million)2. important development projects in the portfolio are the conProfit growth was driven by structural growth from a number struction of a new headquarters for Orkla at Skøyen, and two of small acquisitions in the ice cream ingredient and bakery housing projects at Torshov in Oslo. As of 31 December 2016, ingredients sectors in the Netherlands, the UK and Iceland. Orkla’s real estate investments had a carrying value of NOK 1.3 Positive currency translation effects resulting from the weaker billion, of which around NOK 860 million was related to the Norwegian krone also contributed. On the other hand, the three largest development projects. The focus in future will be improvement in profit was negatively affected, mainly by the on realising the potential value of the development projects, substantially lower profitability of butter blends from Dragsbæk and on securing assets and freeing up capital through the sale due to increased competition. Butter blend prices have fallen of properties and projects that are not to be further developed. significantly following the elimination of milk quotas in the Current development projects require investments during the EU, which has resulted in a milk surplus. The EBIT (adj.)1 construction period, while gains are primarily expected to be margin was 5.4% (5.4%)2. realised in the period 2018–2020. Orkla Investments Sapa (50% interest) Hydro Power Sapa is the world’s leading supplier of extrusion-based Hydro Power consists of the power plant at Sarpsfoss aluminium solutions. Market shares at the end of 2016 were and Orkla’s 85% ownership interest in AS Saudefaldene. 22.2% (22.0%)2 in Europe and 24.0% (24.9%)2 in North America. The energy business produces and supplies power to the Sapa is also present in emerging markets, with production in Nordic power market, and has a total normal production South America and in Asia. Sapa supplies aluminium profiles volume of 2.4 TWh. The Sauda hydropower operations are to a diverse customer base within the automotive, transporleased from Statkraft until 31 December 2030, after which tation, building & construction, electrical and engineering the power plants will be returned in return for an agreed markets. As supplier of extrusion-based aluminium solutions, 23 Report of the Board of Directors Annual Report 2016 Sapa operates within the areas extruded profiles, building Jotun (42.5% interest) systems and precision tubing. The majority of the Building Jotun is one of the leading global manufacturers of paint Systems’ operations are located in Europe, while Precision and powder coatings, with 53 subsidiaries, three joint ventures Tubing is a global business. and six associates. Jotun has 37 production plants, located across all the continents. Its activities consist of the developUnderlying EBIT* totalled NOK 2,197 million in 2016, comment, manufacture, marketing and sale of paint systems for pared with NOK 1,407 million in 2015. The improvement the home, shipping and industrial sectors. Jotun is organised was broad-based across Extrusion Europe, Building Systems in four segments: Decorative Paints, Marine Coatings, and Precision Tubing. Operating result from Extrusion North Protective Coatings and Powder Coatings. America was flat compared to the previous year. Sapa’s improvement was driven mainly by internal factors. Sapa has Jotun’s operating revenues totalled NOK 15,785 million in improved its commercial offering and increased its focus 2016 (NOK 16,282 million)2. EBIT amounted to NOK 1,763 on providing higher-value aluminium solutions, leading to million (NOK 2,064 million)2. Jotun achieved good results better margins. Sapa has also improved its cost position and for 2016, even though turnover and operating profit declined optimisation across units and business areas. compared to the record results in 2015. Lower activity in the shipping and offshore industry resulted in a slight decline in Volumes in 2016 totalled 1,365,000 tonnes (1,363,000 tonnes)2. overall turnover, but sales of decorative paints and powder Market demand for aluminium extrusions was marginally coatings continued to rise. Good margins and active cost positive in Sapa’s key North American and European markets. control helped to maintain good profitability, but slightly Demand from the Automotive and Building & Construction lower turnover, combined with an increase in unforeseen segments was generally strong in North America, whereas costs related to claims, currency losses in Egypt and losses the transportation segment weakened. European demand on receivables, resulted in somewhat lower profit for 2016. was also driven by strong Automotive activity and a stabilising Building & Construction market. An ongoing substitution Research and development (innovation) to aluminium from other materials had a positive impact on Innovation is Orkla’s primary tool for creating organic growth, overall demand. and is therefore pivotal to Orkla’s day-to-day operations. Orkla’s innovation activities are based on an inter-professional focus Extrusion Europe increased sales of higher value-addthat spans from idea to launch. Consumer, customer and ed business to automotive and transportation customers, market insight is combined with technological expertise and which contributed positively. Extrusion North America investments to develop products and solutions that delight benefited from continued strong automotive markets, but consumers and meet their needs even more effectively. a softening of the transportation segment and operational issues weighed on results. Building System delivered strong Orkla has two main sources of growth through innovation: improvements driven by a combination of advances in innovation in the form of new products in new or associated operational efficiency and a stronger commercial offering. categories, or innovation in categories in which Orkla already Precision Tubing showed a continued strong performance, holds strong positions. Creating new growth platforms to with positive contributions from the automotive market in supplement Orkla’s current activities is also a key priority North America in addition to the turnaround of the general area. Orkla works on a broad front to identify innovation extrusion business in Asia and South America. opportunities, across both specialised departments and countries, while also collaborating with suppliers and The restructuring programme initiated in 2013, targeting external innovation and research centres. annual synergies of around NOK one billion by the end of 2016, reached its target already in 2015. Sapa initiated a simplification Orkla’s strength lies in its local connections, which give it project in 2016 with an aim to strengthen collaboration and in-depth insight into local consumer needs and how this improve administrative efficiency by reducing complexity knowledge can be translated into powerful innovations. At throughout the organisation. The initiative did not require any the same time, Orkla seeks to leverage its consumer insight, material restructuring impacting reported earnings in 2016. brand understanding and product development capability across the Group. In the time to come, therefore, there will be The underlying EBIT* growth, combined with positive working increased focus on innovation across companies and councapital development, contributed to an improvement in tries, under the heading “One Orkla”. An example is Taffel pre-tax ROCE** to 15.3% in 2016 compared with 9.5% in Wholegrain snacks, which were initially launched in Norway, 2015. Net interest-bearing liabilities decreased to NOK 0.1 and then in Finland, and Paulúns, which were first launched billion at the end of 2016 (NOK 1.8 billion)2 driven by strong in Sweden, followed by Denmark and Finland. The introduccash flow generation during the year. tion of waffle-cut chips under the Taffel, Ádazu, OLW and *Sapa underlying EBIT = EBIT adjusted for unrealised derivative results and **ROCE (pre-tax) = Underlying EBIT / average capital employed last 12 months material impairment charges, restructuring costs and other special effects 24 Report of the Board of Directors Annual Report 2016 KiMs brands is another example of major innovations being Enterprises. The directive has been adopted by Orkla’s Board rolled out in several countries, but under more of Orkla’s big of Directors and applies to the entire Group, including whollylocal brands. owned subsidiaries. Another example of this thinking is the Orkla Marketing & Orkla’ Human Rights Policy provides detailed guidelines for Innovation Forum. This is an arena where management staff the way the Orkla companies should address the human in product development and marketing at Orkla can present and workers’ rights issues considered most relevant for the and discuss growth opportunities and share insights into companies’ day-to-day operations. These include the prinlocal successes. ciples of the right to human dignity, freedom of opinion and expression, the right to life, liberty and security, competence At the core of all innovation work lies the actual user expedevelopment, privacy, diversity and non-discrimination, rience, ranging from taste and function to how intuitive and consultation and employee involvement, occupational easy a product is to use. Health and environmental aspects health and safety, prevention of child labour and are also important drivers of innovation. Priority areas for protection of marginalised population groups. innovation at Orkla are “Taste & Sensory Experience”, “Health & Nutrition”, “Sustainability & Environment” and “Packaging The Orkla Code of Conduct describes the Group’s standards Innovation”. Good examples of innovation in 2016 are the next and expectations in respect of individual managers, employees generation of First Aid Kits from Cederroth, further development and Board members with regard to important human and of the Dr Greve range and the launches of Grandiosa Vår Take workers’ rights, such as respect and tolerance, gender Away pizza, Paulúns Glutenfri Supermüsli, Vitana Farmers’ Soup, equality and non-discrimination, and environmental and FELIX Veggie and TORO Panna Cotta. anti-corruption standards. High-level expertise and exploitation of synergies across Governance procedures categories and companies are among Orkla’s primary comThe CEO of each Orkla company is responsible for implepetitive advantages. The Orkla Brand Academy is an example menting the Group’s directive on corporate responsibility. of this and has for many years been a driving force in Orkla’s This work must be based on the precautionary principle and brand and innovation work. Orkla’s Academy for Product the principle of continuous improvement, and the companies Development & Innovation also plays a key role as an arena must target the areas in which the need for improvement for sharing and developing innovation tools, know-how and and possibility of exercising influence are greatest. The methodologies across the Group. Examples of the Acadecompanies’ prioritisation of resource use must be based my’s focus areas are technological and culinary expertise, on an assessment of the needs of both the business and its health, environment and packaging. stakeholders. In the coming years, continuous efforts will be made to ensure The governing documents mentioned above are accessible to that Orkla’s local brands are consumers’ first choice by making all the companies through the Group’s web-based governance them a better, simpler and healthier part of everyday life. portal. To ensure that employees are familiar with Orkla’s directive, internal training is provided by both the Group Corporate responsibility and the companies. In 2016, courses were held on food Orkla’s sustainability strategy safety, EHS, anti-corruption efforts and competition law. A Orkla is committed to promoting sustainable developtotal of some 70,000 hours of organised training were provided ment by developing healthy, more environmentally friendly in topics related to corporate responsibility and sustainability, products, maintaining high food safety standards, making equivalent to an average of 3.9 hours per employee. Internal effective use of resources, carrying out supply chain immeetings have also been held in connection with the impleprovements and generally operating responsibly. Orkla’s mentation of Orkla’s sustainability strategy. The training carried Sustainability Strategy up to 2020 was launched in 2014, and out in the past few years has created greater awareness and covers the following main topics: nutrition and health, food knowledge of corporate responsibility and sustainability issues safety, responsible sourcing and environment. In the period in the Group, promoted active engagement and ensured a 2015–2016, each company has drawn up individual plans more uniform approach to efforts. based on Orkla’s strategy, and made extensive efforts to incorporate the strategy. In 2016, Orkla established a compliance function, tasked with reviewing and improving the Group’s procedures for Directive on corporate responsibility training, risk assessment and control relating to important Orkla’s directive on corporate responsibiity describes the issues such as anti-corruption, personal data protection and overarching principles defining how the Group companies data security. In 2017, a risk analysis will be carried out to are to address the issues of human and workers’ rights, identify needs for improvement. Based on this analysis, the environment, health and safety (EHS), anti-corruption and Group will draw up a plan of improvement measures. other important areas of corporate responsibiity. The directive is based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO Orkla monitors the companies’ corporate responsibility Core Conventions and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational and sustainability work by means of annual internal status 25 Report of the Board of Directors Annual Report 2016 reports. These reports are submitted in connection with • “Human resource development and corporate culture”, business area reviews and in connection with Orkla’s page 68 (human rights, equality and non-discrimination, external sustainability reporting. anti-corruption efforts) • “Orkla and society”, page 73 (social conditions) Orkla’s Board of Directors monitors the Group’s efforts by means of an annual assessment of the progress made in In its sustainability reporting for 2016, Orkla has attached corporate responsibility and EHS work, quarterly reviews of importance to applying the Oslo Stock Exchange’s Guidance changes in key EHS indicators and ongoing discussion of on the Reporting of Corporate Responsibility. More inforindividual matters considered to be of material importance mation on the principles on which the reporting is based is for Orkla’s operations. Orkla’s Executive Vice President, Chief provided on page 40. of Group Functions and Legal Affairs, has administrative responsibility for Orkla’s corporate responsibility work, and Personnel and administration determines which matters are to be submitted to the Board As at 31 December 2016, the Group had 18,154 (14,670)2 of Directors. employees. Of these, 3,208 (3,345)2 worked in Norway, 5,293 (5.033)2 in another Nordic country and 9,653 (6,292)2 Orkla has established a whistle-blowing function to enable in countries outside the Nordic region. employees and other stakeholders to alert the Group’s governing bodies to possible breaches of the Orkla Code of Collaboration between management and the employee Conduct. The whistle-blowing function is administered by organisations through the established cooperative and Orkla’s internal audit staff on behalf of Orkla’s Audit Comrepresentative systems functions well, and makes a valuable mittee, and is independent of Orkla’s line management. contribution to finding constructive solutions to the challenges faced by the Group and the individual companies. Endorsement of external principles Orkla has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since At Orkla’s Annual General Meeting in April 2016, Stein Erik 2005, and is a member of Transparency International Norge Hagen, Grace Reksten Skaugen, Ingrid Jonasson Blank, Lisbeth and the Ethical Trading Initiative Norway (IEH). Since 2008, Valther, Lars Dahlgren and Nils Selte were re-elected as sharethe Group has reported environmental information to the holder-elected members of Orkla’s Board of Directors. In investor-initiated Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), which addition, Caroline Hagen Kjos was elected as personal depuhas become the leading global climate and environmental ty for the two Board members nominated by Canica: Stein reporting system. Orkla supports the CDP’s two initiatives, Erik Hagen and Nils Selte. Stein Erik Hagen was re-elected as “Report climate change information in mainstream reports Chairman of the Board and Grace Reksten Skaugen as Depas a fiduciary duty” and “Remove commodity-driven deuty Chair of the Board. All of the shareholder-elected Board forestation from all supply chains”. Orkla has also signed the members were elected for a term of one year, i.e. until the UN’s New York Declaration on Forests. 2017 Annual General Meeting. All members were elected in accordance with the recommendation of the Nomination Through Orkla’s sustainability work, the Group contributes toCommittee. wards achieving several of the global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable DevelopOf a total of six shareholder-elected members of Orkla’s ment, launched in 2015 under the auspices of the United Board of Directors, there are three members of each gender. Nations. In connection with an event organised in 2016 by Among the employee-elected Board members and their the Business for Peace foundation, Orkla President and deputies, both genders are represented. Orkla ASA therefore CEO Peter A. Ruzicka signed the Businessworthy Pledge, fulfils the requirement in section 6-11a of the Public Limited a personal commitment to work to achieve the SDGs. Liability Companies Act regarding representation of both genders on the Board of Directors. Reporting Under sections 3-3a and 3-3c of the Norwegian Accounting No changes were made in the Group Executive Board in 2016. Act, Orkla is required to report on its corporate responsibility and selected related issues. An account of the Group’s The Board of Directors wishes to thank all employees for efforts to address these issues in 2016 is provided in Orkla’s their efforts and for the results achieved in 2016. sustainability report, which is included in this Annual Report, under the sections: Competence Continuously developing the Group’s capabilities is essential to • “Orkla’s sustainability work”, page 37 (corporate responsibility) strengthening its competitive edge. This means building lead• “Responsible sourcing”, page 53 (human rights, workers’ rights, ership and specialist skills, and creating a workday environment social conditions and environment in the supply chain) in which all employees can apply their expertise to optimal • “Environment”, page 60 (environment) benefit. An important factor for employee performance and • “Occupational health and safety”, page 65 (working competence and career development is the performance environment, injuries, accidents, sickness absence, dialogue meetings between manager and employee. The workers’ rights in own company) skills of individual employees are primarily developed in 26 Report of the Board of Directors Annual Report 2016 day-to-day, on-the-job training. Group-wide training proand are largely aligned with applicable international guidegrammes are designed to ensure and underpin learning and lines on good corporate governance. An overall statement training within Orkla’s defined core competency. The aim of policy on corporate governance at Orkla may be found is to develop this core competency in a normative direction, on page 29 of this Annual Report. The statement of policy by systematising and coordinating the various activities. will be an item of business for discussion at the 2017 Annual Activities are organised in the spheres of corporate culture, General Meeting. leadership and specialised value chain expertise. Pay and other remuneration of senior executives Orkla also carries out a systematic, annual evaluation of The Board of Directors has a separate Compensation Comleadership and organisation. The objective is to ensure the mittee, which deals with all material matters related to pay and effective development of leadership and organisation in line other remuneration of senior executives before such matters with Orkla’s business strategy, and to optimise development are formally discussed and decided by the Board of Directors. In of the leadership behaviour, skills and performance that are accordance with Norwegian company legislation, the Board of crucial to achieving growth targets. The evaluation is also Directors has also prepared a separate statement of guidelines intended to serve as a tool in establishing a strong, sustainable on the pay and other remuneration of senior executives, includsuccession plan to fill critical senior executive and other key ed in Note 5 to the financial statements for Orkla ASA, which positions. Priorities for 2016 were to carry out an analysis will be presented and discussed at the 2017 Annual General of the business goals’ impact on leadership, expertise and Meeting. The note also provides details of remuneration and organisation, conduct individual assessments of managecontractual arrangements. ment performance and potential, and plan succession to business-critical roles. Reviews of Orkla’s Supply Chain organiAccounting principles sation were also carried out, with focus on leadership capacity, The consolidated financial statements for 2016 have been successors to central positions and the status of key capabilities. prepared and presented in accordance with the International Development areas were identified, and steps were taken to fill Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), which have been approved any gaps. by the EU. The financial statements for the parent company have been prepared in accordance with section 3-9 of the In the course of the year, a number of measures were Norwegian Accounting Act (simplified IFRS). The explanation introduced to enhance the Group’s overall competence of accounting principles in Notes 1-4 describes important and competitiveness. A strategic leadership development matters relating to accounting treatment under IFRS. programme was carried out. The participants were management teams in the business areas and companies, and selected Orkla ASA key personnel from the Corporate Centre. A total of 220 top Orkla ASA is the parent company in the Orkla Group and management staff participated in the programme, which supplies and performs services for the Group’s other comwas designed to create a common leadership platform, and panies. In 2016, Orkla ASA delivered profit after tax of NOK covered personal leadership, team leadership and the ability to 4,942 million (NOK 3,699 million)2, equivalent to an increase lead change processes and achieve results. Another initiative is of 34%. The rise in profit was driven by dividends from subthe development of a Group-wide leadership programme for sidiaries, higher Group contributions and positive currency leaders who are new to their role. The programme aims at effects on foreign currency liabilities that serve as equity developing leadership in accordance with Orkla’s values and hedging for the Group. As at 31 December 2016, Orkla ASA had leadership principles, and to provide leaders with tools and total assets of NOK 50,036 million (NOK 49,381 million)2, methods to apply in their day-to-day work. The leadership equivalent to growth of 1.3%. The equity ratio programme will be held in the local language by internal HR was 64.9% (61.3%)2. staff. Allocation of comprehensive income A variety of training programmes are run by the Orkla AcadIn 2016, Orkla ASA posted comprehensive income of NOK emies with a view to ensuring crucial expertise in important 4,816 million. The Board of Directors proposes the following specialist fields. In addition to enhancing the participants’ allocation: technical and professional skills, these programmes provide an arena for fostering shared attitudes, working methods and corporate culture across companies. Through its AcadTransferred to equity NOK 2,170 million emies, Orkla has developed employee skills for many years. Proposed dividend NOK 2,646 million Active use is made of educational methods and technology such as “blended learning” in both a price and quality perspective. As of 31 December 2016, Orkla ASA had total equity of NOK 32.5 billion. The Board of Directors has determined that Corporate governance Orkla ASA had adequate equity and liquidity at the end of (statement of policy on corporate governance) 2016. Orkla’s governance systems are based on principles set out in the Norwegian Code of Conduct for Corporate Governance, 27 Report of the Board of Directors Annual Report 2016 The Board of Directors proposes to pay an ordinary dividend varying degrees, and there is uncertainty as to exchange rate of NOK 2.60 per share for the 2016 financial year. trends going forward. Many of Orkla’s Norwegian companies do a substantial share of their purchasing in Norwegian Outlook krone, thereby reducing the overall impact of fluctuations In the markets in which Orkla has a presence, growth is in the exchange rate of the Norwegian krone against other expected to remain moderate in the coming years, varying currencies. somewhat from one market to another. The strategy of being a leading branded consumer goods Orkla continues to face competition from imported intercompany, with the Nordic and Baltic regions as main marnational brands and retailers’ private labels. In addition, the kets along with selected geographies, remains unchanged. competitive picture is affected by changes in trends and Orkla aims to deliver organic3 growth in turnover that at least consumer needs. Orkla must therefore maintain its focus matches market growth and growth in annual adjusted on innovations and portfolio optimisation and on optimising EBIT (adj.)1 of 6–9% in Branded Consumer Goods in the and streamlining the supply chain in order to exploit economies period 2016-2018. of scale and reduce costs. Orkla is well-positioned with strong brands in its home markets Overall, the global commodity prices to which Orkla is and its financial position is robust, with cash reserves and credit exposed have risen somewhat in the recent past. However, lines sufficient to cover known capital expenditures in 2017. prices vary substantially from one commodity group to another, and the uncertainty attached to future commodity price trends is generally high. 1Operating profit before other income and expenses. 2Figures in parentheses are for the corresponding period of the previous year. The different business areas are exposed to currency risk to 3Adjusted for currency translation effects and structural changes. Oslo, 8. February 2017 The Board of Directors of Orkla ASA Stein Erik Hagen Grace Reksten Skaugen Ingrid Jonasson Blank Lars Dahlgren Chairman of the Board Deputy Chair of the Board Lisbeth Valther Nils K. Selte Terje Utstrand Sverre Josvanger Karin Hansson Roger Vangen Peter A. Ruzicka President and CEO (This translation from Norwegian of the Statement from the Board of Directors of Orkla ASA has been made for information purposes only.) 28 Corporate governance Annual Report 2016 Ingrid and Eivind part of the Orkla family Statement of policy on corporate governance Corporate governance Orkla’s principles for good corporate governance aim to lay the foundation for long-term value creation, to the benefit of shareholders, employees and society at large. Openness, transparency, accountability and equal treatment underpin confidence in the Orkla Group, both internally and externally, and constitute key elements in Orkla’s efforts to foster a sound corporate business culture. 29 Corporate governance Annual Report 2016 1. Statement of policy on corporate governance In accordance with its mission statement, Orkla operates Orkla is subject to corporate governance reporting requiin several areas. The Group’s core business is branded consurements under section 3-3b of the Norwegian Accounting mer goods, but the Group still has activities in the aluminium, Act and the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate energy, real estate and financial investments sectors. In 2011, Governance; see section 7 on the continuing obligations of Orkla announced that the Group would in future focus on stock exchange listed companies. The Accounting Act may and allocate its resources to its branded consumer goods be found (in Norwegian) at www.lovdata.no. The Norwegian operations. This means that activities that lie outside the Code of Practice for Corporate Governance, which was last Group’s core business area will gradually be phased out revised on 30 October 2014, may be found at www.nues.no. when market conditions are favourable. This statement of policy will be an item of business at Orkla’s In 2015 the Orkla Compass was launched in the Group. Annual General Meeting on 20 April 2017. The company’s The Orkla Compass comprises Orkla’s vision, goals, strategic auditor has assessed whether the information provided in pillars, core values and business strategy, and defines a clear, this statement with regard to section 3-3b of the Accounting common direction for the Group. Orkla’s vision is to be Act is consistent with the information provided in the annual “Your friend in everyday life”, and Orkla’s mission is Improving financial statements. The auditor’s statement may be found everyday life with healthier and more enjoyable local brands. on page 149. Orkla aims to outperform and create greater value than its competitors and other comparable companies. The Group The Board of Directors at Orkla actively adheres to good will achieve this objective by working purposefully within corporate governance standards and will at all times ensure the framework of five strategic pillars: (1) Consumers, (2) that Orkla complies with the requirements of section 3-3b Customers, (3) People, (4) Operations and (5) Society. of the Accounting Act and the Norwegian Code of Practice Orkla's core values are Brave , Trustworthy and Inspiring . for Corporate Governance. This is done by ensuring that the topic of good governance is an integral part of the decision3. Equity and dividends making process in matters dealt with by the Board. Moreover, As at 31 December 2016, Group equity totalled NOK 33.9 billion. Orkla’s corporate governance principles are subject to annual An ordinary dividend of NOK 2.50 per share was paid out for the assessment and discussion by the Board, which has also 2015 financial year. Over time, Orkla shareholders shall receive considered this statement at a Board meeting. a competitive return on their investment through a combination of dividends and an increase in the share price. Orkla The following statement of policy is structured in the same has pursued a consistent shareholder and dividend policy for way as the Code of Practice, covers each point of the many years. On Orkla’s Capital Markets Day in September Code and describes Orkla’s compliance efforts. Orkla is 2015, it was announced that Orkla aims to maintain an committed to promoting sustainable social development by ordinary dividend at at least the current level. operating in compliance with responsible business principles, systematically improving its operations in relation to The Board of Directors has proposed that a dividend of the external environment, climate and energy resources and NOK 2.60 per share be paid for the 2016 financial year. investing in profitable business projects that can generate The dividend will be paid out on 3 May 2017 to shareholders positive ripple effects for society. The Group’s attitudes towards of record on the date of the Annual General Meeting. Authocorporate responsibility have been defined in the Orkla Code risations empowering the Board of Directors to undertake of Conduct and the Group directive on corporate responshare buybacks are limited to specific purposes and are sibility. The documents may be found on Orkla’s website granted for a period no longer than until the next general under “Sustainability”, and are described in further detail in a meeting. The General Meeting is given the opportunity to separate statement on Orkla’s Corporate Responsibility (see vote on every purpose covered by the authorisation. section 3-3c of the Accounting Act). The statement also gives an account of the Group’s efforts to address important At the Annual General Meeting in 2016, the Board of Directors corporate responsibility issues in 2016. was granted authorisation to buy back up to 100,000,000 Orkla shares so that the company can acquire and hold up to 2. Activities 10% of its share capital. The authorisation is limited to specific Orkla’s objectives, as defined in its Articles of Association, purposes, and applies until the Annual General Meeting in 2017. are as follows: “The objectives of the company are to engage Shares acquired under this authorisation are to be cancelled in activities comprising industry, commerce, forestry, or used in connection with employee incentive programmes, transport, finance, the acquisition and sale of securities and including the Group’s employee share purchase programme. other investments, the purchase, sale, development and Each purpose was discussed as a separate item of business management of real estate, the publication of newspapers, at the Annual General Meeting. A similar authorisation has magazines and other media, services and any other activity been granted each year since 1998. As at 31 December connected with the aforementioned objectives. The activities 2016, Orkla had not acquired any of its own shares under are conducted by the company itself or by its subsidiaries in the current authorisation. As at 31 December 2016, Orkla held Norway and abroad.” 1,213,135 treasury shares. Questions concerning increases in share capital must be submitted to the General Meeting 30 Corporate governance Annual Report 2016 for decision. The company’s transactions in its own shares Chair. According to the Orkla Code of Conduct, employees are effected on the market at market price, in accordance must on their own initiative inform their superior if they should with good stock exchange practice in Norway. There are recuse themselves from dealing with or if they have a conflict of otherwise no provisions in Orkla’s Articles of Association that interest in connection with a matter, and consequently should regulate the buyback or issue of shares. not take part in considering such matters. 4. Equal treatment of shareholders 5. Freely negotiable shares and transactions with related parties All Orkla shares carry equal rights and are freely negotiable. Orkla has one class of share and each share entitles the No special limitations on transactions have been laid down in holder to one vote. Each share has a nominal value of NOK Orkla’s Articles of Association. Article 3, second paragraph, of 1.25. Further information on voting rights at general meetings the Articles of Association states that “The Board of Directors is provided under point 6, General Meetings. The company’s may entirely or partly refuse to approve the transfer of shares policy is not to dilute the shareholdings of existing shareif the company pursuant to statute or to regulations laid holders. In accordance with this policy, there have been no down pursuant to statute is given the discretionary right to real share capital increases in the company in recent years. refuse such approval or to apply other restrictions on sales”. Should the Board of Directors wish to propose to the General In this connection, it should be noted that the provisions of Meeting that a departure be made from the pre-emptive right the Industrial Licensing Act requiring Board consent for acof existing shareholders in the event of a capital increase, quisitions of shares representing more than 20% of all shares such a proposal will be justified by the common interests in the company are applicable, due to Orkla’s ownership of the company and the shareholders, and the grounds for interests in waterfalls. Transactions in the Orkla share are the proposal will be presented in the notice of the general described in further detail on Orkla’s website under “Investor meeting. Relations”. To avoid any detriment to the Group’s reputation, the Board 6. General meetings considers it important to pursue a policy of transparency Orkla seeks to ensure that as many shareholders as possible and caution in connection with investments that could be are able to exercise their rights by participating in general perceived as an unfortunately close involvement, or close remeetings, and that the general meeting is an effective meelationship, between the company and a member of the Board, ting place for shareholders and the Board of Directors. The executive management or parties related thereto. Procedural Annual General Meeting is held every year before the end rules for such transactions have therefore been drawn up in of May. Notices of general meetings and related documents the Rules of Procedure for the Board of Directors, which may are made available on Orkla’s website no later than 21 days be found under “Investor Relations”. According to the Rules prior to the date of the meeting. The final date for giving notice of Procedure, the Board Chair must be informed of such of attendance is three working days prior to the general transactions and must decide how the matter should be meeting. Shareholders are given the opportunity to vote dealt with. If the matter concerns the Board Chair, this duty on the election of every single candidate to an office in is incumbent upon the Deputy Chair of the Board. In the the Nomination Committee and on the Board of Directors. event of non-immaterial transactions between the company The auditor and members of the Board of Directors and and shareholders, a shareholder’s parent company, Board Nomination Committee are present at general meetings. members, executive management or parties related thereto, the Board of Directors will ensure that a valuation is carried The voting right for a transferred share may be exercised out by an independent third party. The Board will similarly when the transfer has been recorded by the Norwegian arrange for a valuation by an independent third party in the Central Securities Depository (VPS) within the time limit for event of non-immaterial transactions between companies giving notice of attendance at the general meeting, or if the within the Group where there are minority shareholders. share acquisition has been notified to the VPS and proof of Further information on transactions between related parties the acquisition is presented at the general meeting. Under is provided in Note 37 to the consolidated financial statements. Norwegian law, only shares that are registered in the name of the shareholder may be voted. Shares that are registered The Rules of Procedure further establish that a Board member in a nominee account must be reregistered in the VPS in must not take part in the consideration of or a decision on order for the shareholder to be able to vote the shares. Further an issue that is of such importance to himself or herself or information may be found in the notice of the general meeting to any related party that the member must be considered to and on Orkla’s website. have an obvious personal or financial interest in the matter. It is incumbent upon each Board member to consider on Shareholders who are unable to attend the general meeting an ongoing basis whether there are matters which, from an may vote by proxy. Orkla will appoint the Board Chair or objective point of view, are liable to undermine the genemeeting chair to vote for the shareholders. The proxy form ral confidence in that Board member’s independence and is designed in such a way that voting instructions may be impartiality, or which could give rise to conflicts of interest given for each item of business that is to be considered. in connection with the Board of Directors’ consideration of Shareholders who were unable to attend the Annual General the matter. Such matters must be taken up with the Board Meeting in 2016 could, in addition to voting by proxy, cast a 31 Corporate governance Annual Report 2016 direct advance vote on the company’s website or through Recommendation to the body that elects the Chair of the VPS Investor Services. The Board of Directors has decided Board of Directors: that shareholders may cast such direct advance votes again • Election of the Chair and Deputy Chair of the Board of in 2017. Further information regarding use of proxies, advance Directors. (For this purpose, the Nomination Committee voting and shareholders’ right to submit items of business is supplemented by a representative appointed by the for consideration at general meetings is provided in both the employee-elected members of the Board of Directors.) notice of the general meeting and on Orkla’s website. The Rules of Procedure for the Nomination Committee contain Under Article 12, second paragraph, of the Articles of Assofurther guidelines for the preparation and implementation ciation, the Board of Directors may decide that documents of elections to the Nomination Committee and the Board of concerning items of business to be considered at the general Directors, as well as criteria for eligibility, general requirements meeting are not to be sent to shareholders when the regarding recommendations, the number of members in the documents are made available on the company’s website. Committee and their term of service, and detailed proceThis also applies to documents which by law must be dural rules for the work of the Nomination Committee. included in or attached to the notice of the general meeting. Information regarding the composition of the Nomination A shareholder may nonetheless request that documents Committee, which members are up for election and how pertaining to items of business to be considered at the general input and proposals may be submitted to the Committee is meeting be sent to him or her. The provision in the Articles posted on Orkla’s website under “Investor Relations”. of Association departs from the general rule in Chapter 5 of the Public Limited Liability Companies Act which prescribes The composition of the Nomination Committee is intended that the annual financial statements, the report of the Board to ensure that the interests of all the shareholders are served, of Directors, the auditor’s report and the Board of Directors’ and meets the requirement of the Norwegian Code of statement of guidelines for the remuneration of the executive Practice for Corporate Governance as regards independence management pursuant to section 6-16a must be sent to of the company’s management and Board of Directors. all shareholders no later than one week before the general None of the members of the Nomination Committee are a meeting. member of the Board of Directors of Orkla ASA. Neither the general manager nor other senior executives are members The general meeting is led by an independent chair proposed of the Nomination Committee. Information regarding the by the Board of Directors; this person will normally be the composition of the Nomination Committee and the number Chair of the Nomination Committee. of Orkla ASA shares owned by each Committee member as at 31 December 2016 may be found on page 164. Members of the Board of Directors are present at general meetings, but normally not the entire Board has attended. 8. The Corporate Assembly and the No items of business at general meetings have made this Board of Directors, Composition and Independence necessary to date. The Board Chair, the general manager Orkla’s Corporate Assembly was discontinued in 2013 in and the heads of the various business areas are always present accordance with the agreement entered into with the in order to reply to any questions that may be raised. employee unions. Consequently, the General Meeting elects shareholder-elected members to the Board directly. 7. The Nomination Committee The Board Chair is elected by the General Meeting. Under the Articles of Association, Orkla has a Nomination Committee that is elected by the General Meeting. The The composition of the Board of Directors is intended to Rules of Procedure for the Nomination Committee may be serve the interests of all the shareholders and meet the found on Orkla’s website under “Investor Relations”. The company’s need for competence, capacity and diversity. Nomination Committee consists of two to five members, The Board’s composition meets the requirements of the who are elected for a term of up to two years. The General Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance as Meeting elects the Chair and members of the Nomination regards Board members’ independence of the company’s Committee and determines its remuneration. The Committee executive management, main shareholders and material is tasked with submitting the following reasoned recommenbusiness relationships. Two of the Board members are dations: defined as non-independent of the company’s main shareholders. All the Board members are defined as independent Recommendation to the General Meeting: of the company’s executive management or material business • Election of shareholder-elected members and deputy relationships. There are few instances in which Board members members to the company’s Board of Directors are disqualified from considering Board matters. Representa• Election of members and the Chair of the Nomination tives of the executive management are not members of the Committee company’s Board of Directors. • Remuneration of the Board of Directors and the Nomination Committee Under Article 4 of Orkla’s Articles of Association, the Chair, the Deputy Chair and the other shareholder-elected members of the Board may be elected for a term of up 32 Corporate governance Annual Report 2016 to two years. Since 2007, however, a term of one year for disqualification, joint investments and parallel investments. shareholder-elected members and deputy members has This is described in further detail under point 4 “Equal treatbeen adopted, on the grounds that an annual assessment ment of shareholders and transactions with related parties”. of the overall composition of the Board will ensure greater The Board of Directors has established two permanent Board flexibility. There are no other provisions in the Articles of Committees, which are described in further detail below. These Association governing the appointment and replacement of committees do not make decisions, but supervise the work of Board members. the company management on behalf of the Board and prepare matters for Board consideration within their specialised areas. Further pursuant to Article 4 of Orkla’s Articles of Association, In this preparatory process, the committees have the opporthe shareholder-elected members of the Board of Directors tunity to draw on company resources, and to seek advice and are required to own shares in the company with a view to recommendations from sources outside the company. strengthening the shared financial interests of shareholders and Board members. A more detailed description of The Compensation Committee the number of Orkla shares owned by each member of the The Compensation Committee is chaired by the Deputy Board, the members’ background, qualifications, term of Chair of the Board of Directors, Grace Reksten Skaugen, and service and independence, how long they have been an its other members are Stein Erik Hagen and Terje Utstrand. Orkla Board member and any material functions in other The Group Director HR is the committee secretary. The companies and organisations is provided on page 156, along composition of the committee meets the requirements of with information regarding each Board member’s attendance the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance at Board meetings. as regards independence, and all the committee members are considered to be independent of executive management. Under Norwegian law and in accordance with Orkla’s current The mandate of the committee is set out in the Rules of system of corporate democracy, Group employees have the Procedure for the Board of Directors and in brief is as follows: right to elect four members of the Board of Directors of Orkla ASA. The composition of the company’s governing • prepare for consideration matters relating to the salary and bodies is described on page 164. terms of employment of the President and CEO to enable the entire Board, once a year, to participate in an evaluation 9. The work of the Board of Directors of the President and CEO and in decisions concerning the Tasks of the Board of Directors latter’s terms of employment The tasks of the Board of Directors are laid down in the • prepare for consideration matters of principle relating to Rules of Procedure for the Board of Directors, which govern levels of pay, bonus systems, pension conditions, employthe Board’s responsibilities and duties and the administrament contracts and the like for senior Orkla executives tive procedures of the Board, including which matters are subject to Board consideration and rules for convening and The committee will otherwise deal with special questions holding meetings. The Board’s Rules of Procedures also relating to compensation for Group employees insofar as contain rules regarding the general manager’s duty to inthe committee finds that these questions concern matters of form the Board about important matters, and to ensure that particular importance for the Group’s competitive position, Board decisions are implemented. There are also provisions corporate identity, recruitment ability, etc. intended to ensure that company employees and other parties involved are adequately informed of Board decisions, and see The Audit Committee to it that the guidelines for preparing matters for Board The Audit Committee is chaired by Nils K. Selte, and the other consideration are followed. Other instructions to the Board members are Ingrid Jonasson Blank and Sverre Josvanger. The and clarification of its duties, authorisations and responsiChief Internal Auditor is the secretary of the Audit Committee. bilities in respect of the general management are provided The composition of the committee meets the requirements of through routine communication. the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance as regards independence and competence. The Nomination The Board of Directors adopts an annual meeting and activity Committee’s recommendation of candidates for election plan that covers strategic planning, business issues and overto the Board also contains information as to which Board sight activities. In 2016, 7 meetings were held in accordance members satisfy the requirements as regards independence with the Board’s activity plan, including a two-day meeting and competence to sit on the Audit Committee. The to address strategic issues. In addition, 2 items were dealt committee’s mandate is set out in the Board’s Rules with in writing. The Board dealt with a total of 70 items. The of Procedure and in brief is as follows: content of the Board’s work is discussed in further detail in the Directors’ Report. • ascertain that internal and external accounting reporting processes are organised appropriately and carried out Board matters are prepared by the general manager and the efficiently, and are of high professional quality Corporate Secretariat in consultation with the Board Chair. • keep under review the effectiveness and relevance of the The Rules of Procedure for the Board of Directors contain work of the internal audit staff and of the company’s risk provisions regarding procedural rules in connection with management systems 33 Corporate governance Annual Report 2016 • monitor and assess the quality of the statutory audit of Risk management at Orkla Group companies and the Group’s financial statements The Group’s risk management lies within the remit of the • help to ensure the independence of the external auditor, finance functions and is intended to ensure that all risk of and ensure compliance with applicable rules and guidesignificance for Orkla’s goals is identified, analysed and lines regarding the provision of additional services by the effectively dealt with by business areas and specialised staffs. auditor to the Group or Group companies This entails, among other things: • initiate investigations, if necessary, and propose measures relating to the above-mentioned points • continuously monitoring important risk indicators in order • annually review and, if necessary, update its mandate, and to reassess the Group’s level of risk and associated risk submit its recommendations concerning its mandate to mitigation measures, if necessary the Board of Directors • maintaining instructions and guidelines for risk management, emergency preparedness and business continuity The Board of Directors’ self-evaluation • assisting in the implementation of coherent risk manageEach year, the Board of Directors carries out an evaluation of its ment in routine operations and in connection with projects own activities and competence, and discusses improvements in and major decisions the organisation and implementation of its work, both at indivi• presenting Orkla’s consolidated risk profile to the Group dual level and as a group, in relation to the goals that were set Executive Board, the Board of Directors and the Board’s for its work. The results are made available to the Nomination Audit Committee Committee. An external partner is engaged at regular intervals • facilitating the transfer of best risk management practices to carry out the Board evaluation. throughout the Group • ensuring that formal risk assessments are uniformly carried 10. Risk management and internal control out, presented, discussed and implemented by the Boards A prerequisite for Orkla’s system of decentralised responsibility of the respective Group companies is that the activities in every part of the Group meet general • carrying out detailed risk analyses in certain specialised financial and non-financial requirements, and are carried out fields in accordance with the Group’s common norms and values. • ensuring that Orkla’s risk management is in compliance The executive management of each company is responsible with relevant regulatory requirements and reasonably for risk management and internal control in the company satisfactory to Orkla’s stakeholders with a view to ensuring: • being responsible for selected measures to mitigate risk at Group level. • exploitation of business opportunities • goal-oriented, safe, high-quality and cost-effective operations The Group’s risk management programme is reviewed on a • reliable financial reporting regular basis. • compliance with applicable legislation and regulations and • operations in accordance with Orkla’s governing documents, EHS including ethical and corporate responsibility standards Risk identification is also an important tool in preventive environment, health and safety (EHS) efforts, and the Senior Orkla’s risk management system is fundamental to the Vice President EHS ensures the systematic, continuous achievement of these goals. To ensure ongoing risk monitoring follow-up of this work. All companies and businesses must in individual companies, all boards of operational subsidiaries prepare risk analyses and regularly update them. Orkla follows are required to carry out a thorough analysis of the company’s up on the risk analyses by means of internal EHS audits. risk picture and internal control function at least once a year, in addition to the risk analysis that is an integral part of the The internal audit function company’s decision-making processes. As part of the Group’s internal control system, Orkla has an Internal Audit Department. The responsibilities of the Great importance is attached in Orkla’s governing documents, Group’s Internal Audit Department are as follows: which are available to all employees through The Orkla Way web portal, to clarifying the standards that apply to Orkla’s • Verify that internal control procedures for reducing risk have businesses, and who is responsible for monitoring compliance actually been established and are functioning as intended with the various standards. • Assist the Board of Directors, the Group Executive Board and the business areas by providing auditing expertise and A dedicated compliance function was established in Orkla capacity, which includes monitoring and control of selected in 2016. The compliance staff have a special responsibility for companies in the Group; ensuring follow-up and compliance in the fields of personal • Be the recipient of and follow up on reports submitted data protection, data security and anti-corruption and business under the Group’s whistle-blowing system on possible ethics. The staff are also tasked with helping to coordinate breaches of the Group’s Code of Conduct. Information on and prioritise other compliance-related work in collaboration this system may be found on posters and notices at all with compliance officers in the various companies and central Orkla businesses, on the Orkla intranet and on Orkla’s Group functions. website under “Sustainability”/”Whistle-blowing” 34 Corporate governance Annual Report 2016 • Coordinate the choice of and monitor external auditors in Management (HFM). Every month, each company reports the Group companies in accordance with the instructions figures in HFM, based on output from its own Enterprise of the Audit Committee Resource Planning (ERP) system. HFM has a general chart • Act as secretary to the Audit Committee. The Chief Auditor of accounts and built-in control systems in the form of data reports to the Board’s Audit Committee and is thus indecheck accounts and check reports designed to ensure that pendent of line management the information is consistent. The reporting is expanded in the year-end reporting process to meet various requireBusiness ethics and corporate responsibility ments for supplementary information. The process of conThere is systematic focus on business ethics and corporate solidating and checking financial data takes place at several responsibility at Orkla. Reference is made to the separate levels in the business areas. statement on Corporate Responsibility at Orkla. 11. Remuneration of the Board of Directors The financial reporting process All remuneration of the Board of Directors is disclosed in The Orkla Group prepares and presents its financial stateNote 5 to Orkla ASA’s financial statements. The note shows ments in accordance with current IAS/IFRS rules.The Group’s that remuneration of the Board of Directors is not linked to governing documents are collected in The Orkla Way, and the Group’s performance and that no options have been contain requirements and procedures for the preparation issued to Board members. and presentation of interim reports and year-end reports. A set of Orkla Accounting Standards has also been drawn 12. Remuneration of the Executive Management up, in which Orkla’s ten main principles for financial reporThe Board’s Compensation Committee presents a ting are set out. Financial information is reported through recommendation concerning the terms and conditions the Group’s common reporting system, Hyperion Financial for the President and CEO to the Board of Directors and 35 Corporate governance Annual Report 2016 monitors the general terms and conditions for other senior event of a takeover bid. The Group has not found it appropriate executives in the Group. The Board assesses the President to draw up any explicit basic principles for Orkla’s conduct in and CEO and his terms and conditions once a year. A desthe event of a takeover bid, other than the actions described cription of the remuneration of the executive management above. The Board of Directors otherwise concurs with what and the Group’s compensation and benefits policy, includiis stated in the Code of Practice regarding this issue. ng the scope and design of bonus and share-price-related programmes, is given in the Board of Directors’ statement of 15. Auditor guidelines for the remuneration of executive management; The Board of Directors has determined the procedure for see Note 5 to Orkla ASA’s financial statements. A ceiling has the external auditor’s regular reporting to the Board. Each been set for performance-related remuneration. The Board autumn, the external auditor presents to the Board his asof Directors’ statement of guidelines is made available to sessment of risk, internal control and the quality of financial shareholders in a separate document pertaining to this item reporting at Orkla, at the same time presenting his audit plan of business, together with the notice of the Annual General for the following year. The external auditor also takes part in Meeting. the Board’s discussions on the annual financial statements. On both occasions, the Board of Directors ensures that it 13. Information and communications is able to discuss relevant matters with the external auditor Orkla seeks to ensure that its accounting and financial without the presence of the management. reporting inspires investor confidence. Orkla’s accounting procedures are highly transparent, and since 2005 Orkla has The external auditor and the President and CEO attend all prepared and presented its financial statements in accormeetings of the Board’s Audit Committee. For information dance with the International Financial Reporting Standards regarding the work of the internal auditor, reference is made (IFRS). The Board of Directors’ Audit Committee monitors to the section above on risk management and internal company reporting on behalf of the Board. control. Orkla has established guidelines for the right of the general management to use the external auditor for services Orkla strives to communicate actively and openly with other than auditing. Responsibility for monitoring such use the market. The company’s annual and quarterly reports in detail has been delegated to the secretary of the Audit contain extensive information on the various aspects of the Committee, who is the Chief Internal Auditor. The secretary company’s activities. The company’s quarterly presentations of the Audit Committee approves all material assignments in are webcast directly and may be found on Orkla’s website, advance and receives an annual summary from the external along with the quarterly and annual reports, under “Investor auditor of services other than auditing that have been provided Relations”. In 2016, the company’s Annual General Meeting to Orkla, and comments specifically on these services in was webcast and simultaneously interpreted to English. his annual report to the Audit Committee and the Board of Orkla normally holds a Capital Markets Day every other year, Directors. Details of the company’s use and remuneration of on which occasion the market is given an in-depth review the external auditor are disclosed in Note 5 to the financial of the Group’s strategic direction and operational developstatements of Orkla ASA. ment. The Capital Markets Day presentations are webcast directly on the company’s website. The General Meeting is informed about the Group’s overall remuneration of the auditor, broken down in accordance All shareholders and other financial market players are with statutory requirements into remuneration for statutory treated equally as regards access to financial information. auditing and remuneration for other services. In connection The Group’s Investor Relations Department maintains regular with the auditor’s participation in the Audit Committee and contact with company shareholders, potential investors, the Board of Directors’ consideration of the annual financial analysts and other financial market stakeholders. The Board statements, the auditor also confirms his independence. is regularly informed of the company’s investor relations activities. The financial calendar for 2017 may be found on Orkla’s website under “Investor Relations”. 14. Takeovers The Board of Directors will not seek to hinder or obstruct any takeover bid for the company’s operations or shares. In the event of such a bid as discussed in section 14 of the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance, the Board of Directors will, in addition to complying with relevant legislation and regulations, seek to comply with the recommendations in the Code of Practice. This includes obtaining a valuation from an independent expert. On this basis, the Board will make a recommendation as to whether or not the shareholders should accept the bid. There are no other written guidelines for procedures to be followed in the 36 Orkla’s sustainability work Annual Report 2016 Ferdinand part of the Orkla family 01 Orkla’s sustainability work Orkla mobilises to achieve its sustainability goals As a leading manufacturer of food and other grocery products, Orkla is committed to promoting a healthier diet and sustainable value chains. 37 Orkla’s sustainability work Annual Report 2016 One third of the world’s population is overweight, and region, while its use of energy and water and purchases of lifestyle diseases are spreading. At the same time, the food packaging and transport services impact on the environvalue chain – from farm to fork – generates one fourth of ment. Furthermore, Orkla is involved in certain global raw global greenhouse gas emissions and is one of the main material chains that present complex economic, social and sources of water consumption. The combination of climate environmental challenges. By using resources efficiently, changes and population growth is putting pressure on food reducing food waste and making targeted efforts to achieve raw materials and natural resources. sustainable raw material production, Orkla can contribute to a sustainable food value chain. These are global challenges that call for collaboration and a concerted effort on the part of business and industry, the Orkla is a major employer, with its own extensive production public authorities and other key stakeholders. Orkla wishes to operations and activities in many countries. By investing in contribute to sustainable development by offering healthier competence development and a sound corporate culture, more environmentally friendly products, maintaining high and working systematically to ensure occupational health food safety standards, using resources efficiently, making and safety, Orkla makes a positive contribution to its employees’ supply chain improvements and in general operating rejob satisfaction, health and personal development. sponsibly. Orkla’s sustainability strategy covers four areas in which the Group’s efforts will be significant for both society The Orkla companies create economic ripple effects for at large and Orkla’s long-term value creation: nutrition and local communities in the form of jobs, tax revenues and health, food safety, responsible sourcing and the environment. sourcing from local suppliers. Orkla considers openness By making targeted efforts in these areas, Orkla is helping to and a good stakeholder dialogue important for the Group’s achieve the global sustainable development goals. long-term development and building trust. Orkla’s footprint Sustainable growth Orkla’s grocery products are purchased regularly by several The global health and sustainability challenges entail million consumers, and affect their diet, health and wellcommercial risks and opportunities for Orkla due to gradual being. Even small changes in product content can have a changes in consumer preferences, the supply and cost of raw positive effect on the population’s diet, and through the materials, political framework conditions and the general development of new products Orkla can make important competitive climate. For Orkla, developing products that contributions to improving public health. promote a healthy lifestyle represents a significant opportunity for revenue growth, and is a key priority in the companies’ Orkla’s food production makes the Group one of the largest innovation work. At the same time, efforts to ensure sustainable purchasers of agricultural and fish raw materials in the Nordic raw material chains and reduce environmental impacts are Reporting on corporate Corporate responsibility at Orkla responsibility Orkla defines corporate responsibility as operating Under sections 3-3a and 3-3c of the Norwegian Acresponsibly with respect for people and the environcounting Act, Orkla is subject to reporting requirements ment. Orkla’s directive on corporate responsibility with regard to corporate responsibility and selected describes the general principles governing the way responsibility topics. An account of the Group’s efforts the Group companies are to address the issues of to address the relevant topics in 2016 may be found in human and workers’ rights, environment, health the following chapters on Orkla’s sustainability work: and safety (EHS), anti-corruption and other important areas of responsibility. The directive is based • «Orkla’s sustainability work», page 37 on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the (corporate responsibility) ILO’s Core Conventions and the OECD Guidelines •«  Responsible sourcing», page 53 (human rights, for Multinational Enterprises. It has been adopted by workers’ rights, social conditions and environment in Orkla’s Board of Directors and applies to the entire the supply chain) Group, including wholly-owned subsidiaries. Orkla’s • «Environment», page 60 (environment) corporate responsibility management procedures are •«  Occupational health and safety», page 65 (working described in the Report of the Board of Directors on environment, injuries, accidents, sickness absence, page 25 of this report. workers’ rights in Orkla’s operations) •«  Human resource development and corporate culture», page 68 (human rights, equality and nondiscrimination, anti-corruption) • «Orkla and society», page 73 (social conditions) 38 Orkla’s sustainability work Annual Report 2016 crucial to building trust in Orkla’s branded consumer goods, The status of Orkla’s sustainability work ensuring long-term access to raw materials and achieving Orkla has made progress with respect to all its main topics cost-effective operations. Systematic focus on improving in the past few years. The companies work purposefully occupational health and safety has great commercial sigto develop healthier foods and other products beneficial nificance as it promotes stable operations and lower to health, and in 2016 all the business areas successfully sickness absence costs. launched products of this type. The Group has also continued its constructive dialogue with politicians and the public Orkla’s sustainability strategy was drawn up in 2014 and administration on diet-related challenges, among other defines the direction that the Group’s efforts will take in things helping to set new targets for reducing salt, sugar and the period up to 2020. It covers the four topics considered saturated fat in Norwegian food products. Orkla maintains particularly important for Orkla based on a combined good control of food safety in its own operations, and the sustainability and business perspective: food safety, nutrition food safety standard in the Group’s factories that produce and health, responsible sourcing and the environment. food and drink is high. Orkla’s production facilities monitor The strategy is mainly implemented by the companies and environmental conditions closely and are making progress in Orkla’s production facilities, with the support of the Group their efforts to reduce energy use, water consumption and functions. In 2015-2016, the Corporate Centre has supported food production waste. Orkla is also making good headway the efforts of the business areas and individual companies to in monitoring suppliers to ensure that raw materials are translate Orkla’s sustainability strategy into goals and action produced in a safe, responsible way. The Group seeks to plans. Moreover, several initiatives have been taken at central achieve continuous improvement in key areas such as skills level to share lessons learned and best practices, establish upgrading, occupational health and safety and anti-corruption. common approaches and systems and optimise use of available The results for 2016 and further objectives are described in resources. greater detail in separate chapters on each main topic. 39 Orkla’s sustainability work Annual Report 2016 Materiality The choice of topics and indicators for reporting Orkla’s sustainability work is based on a materiality analysis prepared in The UN Global Compact and 2015, which itself is based on Orkla’s sustainability strategy the UN’s Sustainable Developand the main topics for Orkla’s corporate responsibility ment Goals work. For each main topic, an assessment has been made to define the sub-topics that are relevant to Orkla’s operations, Orkla has been affiliated with the UN Global Compact including an assessment of the aspects covered by the GRI since 2005 and actively supports the initiative’s ten G4 reporting standard. In this process, emphasis has been principles in the areas of human and workers’ rights, placed on the long-term commercial and social impact of the environment and anti-corruption. Through Orkla’s efforts and of the topics’ significance for stakeholders’ Orkla’s sustainability work, the Group contributes to assessments and decisions. The stakeholder groups considered the achievement of several of the global Sustainable most crucial to Orkla’s chances of succeeding, and to which Development Goals up to 2030 that were launched most importance has therefore been attached, are investors, under UN auspices in 2015. In 2016, Orkla President authorities, consumers, customers and employees. As sources and CEO Peter A. Ruzicka signed the Businessworthy of input for understanding stakeholder priorities, Orkla has Pledge, a personal commitment to work towards used analyses carried out by external sustainability analysts, achieving the global Sustainable Development Goals: relevant laws and regulations, international corporate responsibility norms, and in-depth interviews on sustainability trends conducted with selected stakeholders in the autumn «The United Nations Sustainable Developof 2014. In addition, Orkla’s specialised experts have made ment Goals represent a once-in-a-lifetime a discretionary assessment based on past experience and earlier stakeholder dialogues. The materiality analysis is still opportunity to end poverty, combat climate considered relevant, and only minor adjustments were made change and fight injustice and inequality. in 2016. By applying innovation, resources and Orkla’s sustainability reporting covers all the topics defined expertise, I will pursue the business opporas important and material, but greatest importance has been tunities inherent in building a greener, attached to the material topics. The main topics and the more equitable and inclusive society. I am a reporting structure are the same as in 2015. Orkla reports in accordance with the GRI G4 Core reporting standard. business leader who knows that business An overview of the indicators covered may be found at cannot succeed in societies that fail. I will do www.orkla.com/Sustainability/Results-and-reporting. my utmost to be businessworthy in all my In preparing the report, Orkla also applied the Oslo Stock Exchange’s guidance on the reporting of corporate efforts, and to tune my business to support responsibility. Unless otherwise stated, the key figures in the United Nations Sustainable Development Orkla’s sustainability reporting cover all businesses in which Goals. I call on my peers to do the same.» Orkla owned more than a 50% interest as at 31 December 2016. The key figures for emissions and energy and water consumption will be verified by the independent company CO2 focus. For information on the sustainability work carried out in Orkla’s subsidiaries Sapa and Jotun, reference is made to the companies’ own reports. Peter A. Ruzicka President and CEO 40 Orkla’s sustainability work Annual Report 2016 Materiality analysis HIGH IMPORTANT MATERIAL Food safety Significance for stakeholders’ assessments and decisions Safe products (non-food) Sustainable raw materials Integrity Development of healthy lifestyle products Transparency and stakeholder dialogue Responsible marketing and product labelling Occupational health and safety Management and employee consultation Climate impacts Effective resource utilisation Products with environmental benefits Driving force for industry cooperation Responsible sourcing Competence-building and human procedures resource development Pollution and emissions Responsible, attractive workplace Diversity and equality Financial ripple effects Environmentally efficient transport and logistics Collaboration to improve public health Local purchasing MEDIUM MEDIUM Long-term effect of Orkla’s efforts HIGH Nutrition and health Responsible sourcing Human resource development Occupational health and safety and corporate culture Food and product safety Environment Community engagement 41 Nutrition and health Annual Report 2016 Marcus, Ole Jørgen and Ingrid part of the Orkla family 02 Nutrition and health Healthier everyday living The global challenges posed by overweight and lifestyle diseases call for a concerted effort by all sectors of society. Orkla wants to be part of the solution and help to promote a good, healthy diet among the population at large. 42 Nutrition and health Annual Report 2016 Around one third of the global population is now overweight. productive dialogue with them at both EU level and in several Lifestyle diseases caused by an unhealthy diet are spreading. of the countries in which the Group operates. In Norway, Orkla Tackling health challenges requires dialogue and a joint mobiliis a member of the Minister of Health and Care Services’ sation by the food industry, the retail sector, specialised experts working group for food businesses, where reducing the and public authorities. We have a shared responsibility for content of salt, sugar and saturated fat is an important issue. making it easier for consumers to make healthier choices. In 2016, Orkla helped to draw up an agreement of intent between the food industry and the Norwegian authorities Developing healthier products is therefore high on the agenda aimed at making it easier for consumers to make healthy at Orkla. All the business areas focus on nutrition and consumer choices. Orkla was the only company in Norway to be invited health, and the companies work actively to adapt their to participate in a committee that is preparing a report on product portfolios to health-related consumer trends research and innovation related to food, nutrition and and changes in official requirements. health. The report will be completed in the spring of 2017. Orkla Foods Sverige has been actively involved in the “Hållbar Orkla’s primary nutrition and health objectives up Livsmedelskedja” (Sustainable Food Chain) project, a unique to 2020: collaboration between food chain participants who work to • Develop products containing less salt, sugar and saturated fat promote healthy food and sustainable food production and • Launch concepts and innovations that promote a healthier life consumption. Orkla Foods Sverige has also provided input • Help to increase consumption of fish for the Swedish government’s action plan to improve dietary • Make it easier for consumers to choose healthy products habits and physical activity, and contributed to the debate on • Avoid marketing to children the topic. In Denmark, the Orkla companies Credin and CBP are members of the Danish Whole Grain Partnership, which Orkla’s nutrition and health work supports the achievement seeks to increase consumption of whole grain products. of the UN Sustainable Development Goal: SDG 3 GOOD CBP has developed a solution that makes it easy for bakery HEALTH AND WELL-BEING. customers to calculate recipes to ensure that the end bakery product meets the requirements of the Whole Grain Label Orkla’s approach and the Green Keyhole healthier products label. Orkla is a leading producer of food and drink, and by making small improvements to a large number of products can help to improve public health. Orkla companies also develop new products that make it easier to maintain a balanced diet. Product development and innovation work are based Orkla seeks to promote better public on local needs and taste preferences. Our philosophy is that healthy food must taste good. The companies have made health by developing healthier systematic efforts over a long period of time to improve products, using clear labelling, their products’ nutritional profile and reduce the content of salt, saturated fat and sugar. Several Orkla companies have adhering to responsible marketing defined targets, and their efforts are monitored by Orkla practices and implementing meacentrally by means of internal reporting and procedures for business area reviews. The results are reported regularly to sures to increase physical activity Orkla’s Board of Directors. among the population. Collaboration on improving public health Sustainability pledge, Orkla Orkla is an active partner for the authorities, and pursues a Agreement of intention for healthier food In December 2016, Orkla signed a cooperation agreement with the Norwegian health authorities aimed at making it easier for consumers to make healthier choices. Orkla is one of several players who will be collaborating with the health authorities on this objective. Under the agreement, the parties commit to specific targets for reducing the content of salt, added sugar and saturated fat in food and drink. Developing new products that make it easier for consumers to make healthy choices and promoting greater awareness of health and diet are also a key focus. This historic agreement places Norway clearly in the forefront of efforts to improve public health. 43 Nutrition and health Annual Report 2016 Healthier popular favourites Developing healthier products with less salt, sugar and saturated fat is high on Orkla’s agenda. In 2016 the companies continued to make good progress in this work. In several countries, the population’s intake of salt, sugar and reduced the sugar content of its popular Badam drink mix. By saturated fat is far higher than recommended by the health developing sugar-free and low-sugar products, Orkla has authorities. As a consequence, more people are experiencing helped to increase the annual reduction in sugar intake by poorer health and quality of life due to diseases such as type an amount equivalent to 640 tonnes in 2016. In total, Orkla’s 2 diabetes, overweight and cardiovascular diseases. portfolio of sugar-free and low-sugar products help to reduce sugar intake by around 14,000 tonnes. If you eat healthily and are physically active every day, you reduce the risk of lifestyle diseases. In a public health perspective, Less saturated fat small changes in the daily diet of a large number of people The health authorities recommend that we limit the percentage have a greater impact than big changes for individuals. Orkla of saturated fat in our diet to no more than 10% of our energy therefore works actively to make its most popular products intake. Orkla helps to reduce people’s intake of saturated healthier with a lower salt, sugar and saturated fat content. fat by replacing palm oil with alternatives that have a more The companies made substantial advances in this work in beneficial composition of fatty acids. This work continued to 2016. show effective results in 2016. In addition to replacing palm oil, Orkla Foods Sverige, for example, has launched several Less salt vegetarian products and switched from animal to vegetable The population’s salt intake is nearly twice the recommendprotein in parts of its ready-meal assortment, while Hamé ed level. In Norway, Orkla has signed the Salt Partnership has launched a new range of spreadable toppings with less agreement, aimed at reducing Norwegians’ average daily salt fat. intake from ten to eight grams by 2021. In 2016, Orkla Foods Sverige set clearly defined targets for reducing salt in its By developing products with a healthier fat composition, products, based on the Green Keyhole healthy food labelling Orkla contributed to an annual reduction in consumption scheme and the Norwegian Salt Partnership. Orkla Confecof saturated fat of around 370 tonnes in 2016. Pizza, soups, tionery & Snacks Norge works systematically to reduce the sauces, casseroles, ready-to-eat dishes, toppings, biscuits salt content in its biscuits and snacks products by 21 tonnes and snacks are examples of product categories in which by 2020. In 2016, Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Sverige the saturated fat content was lowered in 2016. Since 2008, initiated a project to reduce the amount of salt in its sweet saturated fat has been reduced by an amount equivalent to and salty biscuits. Reducing salt is also on the agenda outan annual reduction in consumption of 7,500 tonnes. side the Nordic region. Good examples are Vitana, a company that has achieved a significant effect by cutting down on salt in its bouillon products, and MTR Foods in India, which has a Healthier popular favourites comprehensive salt reduction programme. Salt Result in 2016: By developing products containing less salt, Orkla contributed to an annual reduction in salt consumption of around 90 tonnes 90 tonnes less salt in 2016. Ketchup, soups, porridges, liver paté, fish roe spreads, ham and bread and Indian ready-to-eat dishes, breakfast mixes and snacks are examples of categories of products in which the salt content was reduced in 2016. In the past five years, the amount of salt has been reduced by the equivalent of an annual Sugar Result in 2016: reduction in consumption of 716 tonnes. 640 tonnes less sugar Less sugar Sugar intake is still higher than recommended by the health authorities. In 2016, Orkla continued to develop more low-sugar and sugar-free products in the drink, sauce, rice porridge, gherkin, toppings, jams and ketchup categories. Saturated fat Result in 2016: Several of the companies in the Nordics and Baltics launched Around 370 tonnes less new products with less sugar in 2016, such as breakfast cereals saturated fat and crispbread, naturally sweetened yoghurt and chocolate with a higher cocoa content, and have extensive launch plans for 2017 as well. The Indian company MTR Foods has 44 Nutrition and health Annual Report 2016 Healthier popular favourites In 2016, Orkla Foods Sverige and Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Norge set specific targets for reducing salt, sugar and saturated fat, and similar targets will be defined for more companies in 2017. Salt Targets: All Orkla’s food companies aim to identify relevant measures for reducing salt. All Orkla Foods Sverige’s products aim to meet the salt targets defined in the Green Keyhole rules and the Norwegian Salt Partnership by 2020. Orkla aims to eliminate 80 tonnes of salt from its Norwegian products in the period 20142018, including 21 tonnes from snacks and biscuits. Sugar Targets: All Orkla’s food companies aim to identify relevant measures for reducing sugar. Orkla Foods Sverige aims to reduce the amount of added sugar and the total sugar content by 1,300 tonnes by 2020 (compared with 2015). Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Norge aims to substantially increase the number of confectionery and biscuit launches with less added sugar or that are sugar-free by the end of 2018. Saturated fat Targets: All Orkla’s food companies aim to identify relevant measures for reducing saturated fat. Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Norge aims to lower the content of saturated fat by 1,100 tonnes in the period 2008-2018, and eliminate palm oil in its own manufactured products by 2017. Orkla supports The Green Keyhole Label The Green Keyhole healthy food labelling scheme is well known and highly trusted by consumers in the Nordic countries. In 2016 Orkla Foods Sverige saw a rise of around 37% in sales of Keyhole-labelled products. Orkla Foods Norge more than doubled its Keyhole products in 2016. Several different types of Stabbur-Makrell mackerel and TORO products were awarded the green label in 2016, in addition to the new Stabburet Glutenfri Leverpostei gluten-free liver paté. Grandiosa Fullkorn whole grain pizza was launched as the healthiest pizza in the freezer compartment and the only one bearing the Green Keyhole label. The pizza contains a maximum of 600 calories, and has a thin whole-grain crust. Orkla Foods Norge will continue to focus on Keyhole-labelled products in 2017. 45 Nutrition and health Annual Report 2016 Innovations that promote healthier living By combining consumer insight and new knowledge in the field of health and diet, Orkla is developing tasty, innovative products with a beneficial nutritional profile. Health and Nutrition is one of four priority areas for innovation Responding to the health trend at Orkla. The companies collaborate closely with external with healthy food that tastes good centres of expertise and are involved in around 20 research Orkla Foods Sverige’s health brand Paulúns has been very projects, eight of which are related to health and diet. successful, and was also launched in Finland and the Baltics in 2016. The products have been developed in close collaboration Research projects with nutritionist Fredrik Paulún, and contain natural ingredients, • Orkla Foods Norge is participating in the Packing a Healthier are free of additives and have no added sugar. Under the motto Lunch research project, due to run until the end of 2017. “Bare Bra Mat” (Just Good Food), Paulúns launched several new The goal is to develop products with a lower content of products in Sweden in 2016, including Chiafrö & Bovete Supersalt and saturated fat. flingor (chia seed and buckwheat cereals), Paulúns Supermix • Through their partnership with the Igelösa Life Science rice and Superknäcke, a crispbread made of sourdough with Community in Sweden, the Orkla companies have access 26% seeds. Porridges and oven-baked muesli were launched to experts who have long experience of researching and in Finland, and Paulúns Granola in Lithuania. Orkla’s sales of developing products and meal solutions that have a beneficial Paulúns products totalled NOK 299 million in 2016. effect on health. • The Netherlands company Sonneveld works closely with Meeting the demand for vegetarian food Wageningen University & Research on developing food More and more consumers want meat-free alternatives one or products that can improve the diet of the elderly and ill. more days a week, for both health and environmental reasons. • Several Orkla companies are collaborating with the AntiIn the past few years, Orkla has strengthened its position in the diabetic Food Centre in Lund, Sweden on developing foods vegetarian food sector in Sweden and Denmark. Moreover, one that can help reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, obesity of Orkla’s very biggest brands, MTR in India, is 100% vegetarian. and age-related diabetes. The vegan brand Anamma, which is part of Orkla Foods New knowledge in the field of health and diet is being used Sverige’s portfolio, has more than doubled in turnover in the to develop flavourful, healthy products in response to key past three years. New products rolled out in 2016 include consumer trends. Anamma Vegofärs (minced vegetables) og Falafel, Felix VegIncreased focus on organic and natural food gie, frozen vegetarian dishes and Felix Veggie Bowls, a range In the past few years, Orkla has intensified its focus on natural, of chilled casserole dishes. In Denmark, the company Naturli’ additive-free food and products for persons with allergies. Foods has established a position as a leading supplier of veSeveral new products meet the increased demand for glutengan food, offering a broad range of products and holding free products. Examples of launches in 2016 are Paulúns a market share of 70% in the drink, yoghurt and cream segGlutenfri Supermüsli uten tilsatt sukker (gluten-free muesli ments. A total of 14 new products were launched in 2016, with no added sugar) and Stabburet Glutenfri Leverpostei all made of organic ingredients and 100% plant-based. (gluten-free liver paté). TORO has a special range of glutenfree products, in addition to launching a gluten-free version of several of its popular products. Growth in sales of «Better for you» organics Orkla Confectionery & Snacks In Sweden, Orkla Foods Norge has had several suclaunched a number of products cessful launches of healthier in response to the natural, organic biscuits and chips in the past two trend, including Felix Ekologiska Risgröt years. In 2016 this work was further strengthened (organic rice porridge) made from natural ingredients, through the development of the Småsulten “betterFelix Ekologiska Hummus (organic hummus) and Felix for-you” snack products. The range was introduced in Mustig Soppa, a range of organic soups made from early 2017, and includes nut bars with less sugar and natural ingredients. Sales of foods bearing the EU saturated fat and popcorn with a better nutritional certified organic food label rose significantly in 2016. profile. Through its acquisition of Bioquelle in Austria, Orkla is expanding its offerings of organic foods. 46 Nutrition and health Annual Report 2016 Products to meet different health needs Orkla Health offers products that meet specific health needs and are adapted to different stages of life. Examples include omega-3 for pregnant women, vitamin supplements for the elderly or fibre products for good gut health. Orkla Health has a team of nutritionists and product developers who develop a wide variety of health products based on their own studies and other research. The company works closely with external centres of expertise in the Nordic region on health research in fields such as omega-3, sports nutrition and the challenges posed by stiff and painful joints. Despite a growing focus on health, people in the European countries still eat too little fish. Under the Möller’s and Triomar brands, Orkla Health continuously develops new products in new delivery formats or tastes designed to make it even easier to take a daily dose of omega-3. One such offering is Möller’s God Start, a product for pregnant women and women who are planning to become pregnant. In 2016 Möller’s cod liver oil was sold in over 20 countries, and interest in cod liver oil from Norway is rapidly rising. Healthy bakery products The Orkla Food Ingredients companies offer a range of products and ingredients that make it easier for professional bakers to offer healthy bread products. The two brands Whole & Pure and Fit4Life comprise a variety of bread mixes with a high fibre content and other wholesome nutritional properties. Examples of products launched by Idun Industri in 2016 are Fit4Life Havrebase (oat base), Havrefiber (oat fibre) and Hjertebrød (heart-friendly bread) rich in fibre and beta-glucans. Smart meals from Nutrilett Obesity and overweight are one of the biggest health challenges we face. Orkla’s Nutrilett range offers a variety of products and solutions for losing weight. To make it easier for the consumer to understand when and how the different Nutrilett products should be used, the range was divided into three different categories in 2016: Get Started, Smart Meals and Snack Smart. One of the new products launched is the Smooth Caramel Biscuit and Quinoa Bar, a meal replacement that is free of gluten and lactose. The products have been improved by using more natural ingredients and reducing the caloric and sugar content. For those who need a little extra nudge and advice, Nutrilett established Willpower in 2016, a closed Facebook group for people who want guidance, inspiration and tips to help them on the road to a healthier lifestyle. This service was introduced in all the Nordic countries. 47 Nutrition and health Annual Report 2016 Labelling that makes it easier to make healthy The Abba Fish Patrol makes choices it easier to eat fish Labelling foods with clear and honest product information makes it easy for customers and Surveys show that consumers to see what Orkla products contain. Swedes do not eat enough fish. Many of Good, easily accessible information on what food contains them would like to eat fish is essential to enable consumers to make healthy choices more often, but think that preparing a fish dish is in stores. Orkla has therefore drawn up a strategy for nutrition timeconsuming and difficult. Orkla Foods Sverige labelling that applies to all its companies and product wanted to do something about that misconception, categories. These guidelines were introduced in 2014, and therefore established the Abba Fish Patrol in and in 2016 had been fully implemented in almost all the autumn 2016. Based on tips from family members companies. In some areas, Orkla’s nutrition labelling strategy and friends, the patrol travelled around visiting Swedish goes further than the official food labelling requirements. families, where it checked how much fish was being Consumers can find information on nutrition and health eaten in the household, and demonstrated how and the nutritional content of individual products on the simple it is to prepare good, healthy, everyday fish company websites. The Orkla companies also have dedicated dishes. With the Abba Fish Patrol, Orkla Foods Sverige consumer service departments who respond to inquiries by wanted to dispel some of the myths about cooking telephone, e-mail, websites and Facebook. In 2016, Orkla fish and inspire people to increase their consumption established shared consumer services for all the Norwegian of fish. companies to improve accessibility on all platforms where consumers expect to be able to communicate with Orkla about its branded consumer goods. Good, responsible marketing of food Orkla is committed to responsible marketing to children and adolescents, and has therefore adopted a restrictive policy in this area. Orkla is actively involved in the Food and Drink Industry Professional Practices Committee (MFU) and was invited to a meeting hosted by the EU Commission’s Directorate General Health and Food Safety (DG Sante) in Luxembourg in 2016 to present Norway’s work to ensure responsible marketing to children and young people. These efforts have attracted favourable attention in the EU Commission, and Orkla was commended for the work that has been done in Norway and for its role in establishing the voluntary industry association MFU. Orkla has been a member of the MFU since its establishment and sits on the Board of the Committee. Responsible marketing 2016 In 2016, the Orkla companies had no cases relating to the marketing of food and drink to children and young people. One case was reported regarding the use of claims in marketing Orkla products in 2016 and two cases concerning non-conformance with product labelling rules. The Orkla companies maintain a dialogue with the public authorities, and have made appropriate changes. 48 Food and product safety Annual Report 2016 Marcus and Olivia part of the Orkla family 03 Food and product safety Safe food means safe consumers Ensuring that food is safe at every stage of the value chain is crucial if consumers are to trust the food they eat. That is why Orkla’s ambition is to match the performance of the best companies in the world when it comes to food safety. 49 Food and product safety Annual Report 2016 Consumers attach growing importance to what they eat, nies have acquired increased expertise in this area. In 2016 the where their food comes from and how it is produced. It is OFSS was introduced in the new companies that have joined a basic prerequisite that the food is safe. As a leading food the Group, and special projects were established to ensure that supplier, Orkla emphasises the need for good food safety necessary improvements were made in several of these comprocedures throughout the value chain. Orkla applies strict panies. A new shared document management system has been standards for the way raw materials are cultivated, produced developed and implemented in several companies, making and transported. In the production process where raw mateit easier to work as “One Orkla” in this area as well. There are rials are transformed into finished goods, the food is prepared plans to develop common systems for handling non-conformusing controlled procedures, at the right temperature and in ances and complaints. accordance with stringent quality assurance requirements, right up until the end product reaches store shelves. In 2016 Orkla´s food safety auditors visited 57 factories – from the Grandiosa factory at Stranda to the newly acquired BioOrkla’s main objectives for its food safety work up to quelle production facilities, which manufacture breakfast cereals 2020 are to: and health products in Austria. Somewhat fewer audits were • Ensure a strong food safety culture in all Orkla companies carried out than in 2015, partly due to the smaller number of and factories. factories, but primarily because there is less need for follow-up • Ensure that all factories meet the requirements of the Orkla audits and the level of food safety at the factories is increasingly Food Safety Standard. high. Orkla is very close to its goal of all factories meeting the • Ensure that all suppliers comply with Orkla’s stringent food Group’s highest food safety requirements, with the exception safety requirements. of a few factories that are monitored closely to ensure that the • Intensify its efforts to ensure safe, healthy raw materials necessary improvements are made. in every part of its value chain by working closely with farmers and adopting effective traceability systems. Safe deliveries of raw materials • Strengthen its ability to deal with new risk factors in its value Orkla has a large number of raw material suppliers all over chain through collaboration with external centres of expertise. the world. The Group’s partnership with these suppliers is conditional on their compliance with the Orkla Supplier Code of Conduct and the Group’s rigorous food safety standards. Through a Group-wide supplier approval and monitoring system, Orkla ensures that its companies have the requisite Orkla applies the same product tools and guidelines for carrying out risk assessments and quality standards regardless of approving and following up on suppliers of raw materials, packaging and finished goods manufactured under contract. the country in which the product The monitoring of suppliers by means of self-assessment forms is manufactured or sold. and inspections performed by Orkla’s audit team ensures a high level of awareness of the importance of good food safety Sustainability pledge, Orkla standards. New risk factors in the supply chain Food fraud is a growing global challenge. As part of the efforts Orkla’s approach to deal with new risk factors in the value chain, Orkla included The Orkla Food Safety Standard (OFSS) forms the basis for food food fraud as a special topic in OFSS in 2015, in line with the insafety work at Orkla, and ensures a high uniform level of quality ternational food safety standards. Orkla companies are required at all the Group’s production facilities. The standard is based on to carry out a risk assessment of all raw materials that arrive at the internationally recognised food safety standard established the factory. In 2016, to facilitate the companies’ work in this by the British Retail Consortium (BRC), and has been further respect, Orkla developed a risk assessment model with tools developed by Orkla’s central Food Safety Department to cover for each raw material category, which has been made available every risk factor of special relevance for Orkla’s food producto the companies. tion. All the food products that Orkla launches have undergone a thorough risk assessment during the development process Effective contingency management to identify and control potential health hazards associated with Orkla has drawn up a contingency plan to deal effectively with packaging, ingredients and use. A special standard has been unforeseen and undesirable incidents. In 2016, contingency exintroduced for Orkla’s sales and distribution companies. The ercises were held for the management teams of four selected companies are monitored through special audits carried out companies, with focus on the importance of a good underby Orkla’s food safety team. In addition, Orkla insists that all standing of contingency preparedness, procedures for dealing suppliers comply with the Group’s stringent guidelines for safe with a contingency situation and media training. In addition, raw material production. each factory holds annual contingency drills. A common food safety culture ensures safe products Orkla continuously measures changes in the number and type Orkla has effective control of food safety in its own operations. of contingencies. The trend has been positive in the past year, In step with the growing stringency of the OFSS, the compawith fewer, less serious incidents reported in 2016. 50 Food and product safety Annual Report 2016 Safe food from farm to fork Orkla´s food safety value chain Raw materials Raw material specification, risk assessment, supplier approval and monitoring. NÆRKJØP Transport Receiving inspection Checking of cleanliness, odour, Inspection, labelling, packaging maintenance and, if relevant, and certification of raw materials. temperature. NÆRKJØP NÆRKJØP NÆRKJØP Warehousing Production In compliance with requirements In compliance with the Orkla for hygiene, safe storage and, if Food Safety Standard and HACCP. relevant, temperature. NÆRKJØP Transport to customers In compliance with requirements relating to cleanliness, odour, maintenance and, if relevant, temperature. 51 Food and product safety Annual Report 2016 Results in 2016 Safe food production Unit 2016 2015 2014 Audits of Orkla factories Number of factories 57 76 83 Food safety training Number of employees 12 17 21 Participation in the Orkla Food Safety Training Course Safe deliveries of raw materials Supplier monitoring by means of self-assessment forms Number of forms 1 783 1 555 1 456 Risk assessments conducted by Orkla companies Number of risk assessments 1 172 1 089 1 183 Supplier audits Number of physical audits 306 307 216 Training in supplier auditing Number of employees 23 20 17 Training was also provided in HACCP, allergen handling, contigency preparedness and safe packaging. Safe quality products Ensuring that consumers are safe is a main priority for Orkla. That is why stringent quality and product safety standards are applied when developing cleaning products, textiles, painting tools and other household products. In the same way as in Orkla’s food production, the Orkla cause allergies and reducing use of controversial preservatives. Care companies adhere to strict product safety guidelines in every part of their value chain, from innovation and product Safe plasters and first-aid products development to the manufacturing processes of Orkla’s Orkla Wound Care develops technical medical products suppliers or Orkla’s own factories, right up until the product under brands such as Salvequick, Cederroth First Aid and reaches the consumer. The companies carry out an assessDr San for use at workplaces and in households. The products ment of health and safety aspects related to each product as are preservative-free and contain no known allergens, and part of the product development process. Consumer safety are tested to ensure that they are safe to use on skin. Latex, work is based on the precautionary principle, and compawhich can cause an allergic reaction in some individuals, nies seek to replace ingredients that could potentially have a is used in the adhesive in a small number of products. For negative effect on health or the environment. these products Orkla Wound Care has started a project to replace the latex adhesive with an alternative adhesive. All Pierre Robert textile products have undergone a health All the company’s products are manufactured in welland safety assessment. The same applies to detergents and controlled processes that ensure that the products that household cleaning and personal care products manufacare sold are safe to use. tured by Orkla Home & Personal Care, wound care products from Orkla Wound Care and health products from Orkla Safe health products Health. The companies keep close track of research on Orkla Health develops dietary supplements and various health hazards linked to raw materials that may be relevant, health products. To ensure that the products are safe to use and have restrictive guidelines for the use of chemicals. and have well-documented effects, the company has a staff of around 30 persons who work with quality and regulatory Well-documented ingredients issues. Weight reduction products are developed in comIn its development of detergents and personal care products, pliance with a stringent European regulatory framework, Orkla Home & Personal Care uses only well-documented based on a carefully formulated composition that enables ingredients that have been approved under strict European consumers on a calorie-restricted diet to feel confident that laws and regulations. The company continuously strives to they are receiving adequate nutrition. Sports products are further develop and improve its products from a health and developed in accordance with international standards for environmentaI standpoint. In the period 2015-2016, the what the body requires during training and competitions. company has focused on replacing perfumes that could 52 Responsible sourcing Annual Report 2016 Photo: Pierre Robert Group 04 Responsible sourcing Partnering for sustainable value chains Orkla is committed to using raw materials that are produced with the best interests of people, animals and the environment in mind, and collaborates actively with its suppliers on solving sustainability challenges in the value chain. 53 Responsible sourcing Annual Report 2016 Population growth and increasingly noticeable climate environment and anti-corruption. The tool was improved changes are putting growing pressure on natural resources. in 2016. The more detailed assessment of at-risk suppliers is Farming, fishing and trapping methods that are not sustainable based on a standardised method developed by the Supplier give rise to major social and environmental challenges. This Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex). can in turn affect the price, availability and quality of key raw materials. There is growing awareness of the importance Orkla is also engaged in efforts to address sustainability of sustainable raw material production because the consechallenges related to raw material production. In 2015-2016, quences of climate change are increasingly evident. Many Orkla established cross-disciplinary raw material teams to carry consumers want to use their personal consumer power to out this work. In collaboration with the companies, the teams promote sustainable development, a point of view that is implement monitoring and development measures tailored reflected in increased demand for ethical products. to the challenges specific to each raw material. Responsible sourcing is also a topic covered in purchasing and sales training Orkla has long been actively engaged in collaboration with programmes. its suppliers on solving sustainability challenges in its value chain. The goal is to ensure that all important agricultural A management team has been established to oversee the reproducts and packaging used by the Group are sustainably sponsible sourcing work to ensure satisfactory progress. Orkla’s produced – without causing deforestation – by 2020. Group Executive Board also carries out an annual evaluation of the progress made in this work, and decides which activities are Orkla’s main objectives for its responsible sourcing to have priority in the coming year. efforts up to 2020 are to: • Ensure that all suppliers comply with Orkla’s Supplier Code A total of 85% of Orkla’s sourcing is from suppliers assessed as of Conduct. constituting a low risk of serious breaches of Orkla’s Supplier • Ensure that important agricultural products, animal products, Code of Conduct. At the end of 2016, 282 of Orkla’s suppliers marine raw materials and packaging are produced sustainably. were registered in Sedex. Audits conducted in 2016 identified • Contribute to long-term improvement in conditions for non-conformances related to inadequate fire safety proce10,000 farmers. dures, pay and overtime compensation and a lack of management systems. No matters were found that resulted in Orkla’s responsible sourcing work supports the achievethe termination of partnerships with suppliers. In 2017, Orkla ment of the UN Sustainable Development Goals, SDG 2 will intensify its efforts to monitor suppliers found to have ZERO HUNGER, SDG 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC non-conformances and other at-risk suppliers. GROWTH, SDG 14 LIFE BELOW WATER, SDG 15 LIFE ON LAND and SDG 17 PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS Sourcing at Orkla The total value of Orkla’s sourcing in 2016 was NOK 22,000 million. Around 61% of purchases come from local suppliers in the countries in which Orkla operates. A total of 61% of purchases are made in the Nordics and Baltics, Orkla’s main Orkla will strive to develop markets. Orkla’s branded consumer goods companies buy sustainable value chains. In 2020, raw materials, other materials and services from around 27,000 suppliers. Of these, 3,500 are significant in terms all sourcing will be carried out in of purchasing volume. compliance with Orkla’s sustainable production principles. Sustainability pledge, Orkla Orkla’s approach Orkla collaborates with suppliers all over the world. Irrespective Sourcing by of country, all its suppliers are required to comply with the geographical area Group’s Supplier Code of Conduct and ensure that production is carried out in accordance with internationally recognised standards for human rights, working conditions, environment Nordics 57% and anti-corruption efforts. The Group’s central purchasing Baltics 4% function conducts an annual risk screening of all direct suppliers Rest of Europe 31% and a risk assessment of all new suppliers. Potentially risky Rest of the world 8% suppliers are monitored by setting requirements and engaging in dialogue, and in some cases a business ethics audit is performed. The risk screening is carried out using a proprietary tool comprising criteria related to working conditions, 54 Responsible sourcing Annual Report 2016 Results in 2016 Unit 2016 2015 Business ethics audits Number 56 83 Non-conformances, total Number of non-conformances 200 184 Influence on working conditions Number of non-conformances 184 162 Influence on human rights Number of non-conformances 4 3 Other non-conformances Number of non-conformances 12 19 Remedied non-conformances Number of non-conformances 30 41 Internal capability-building Training Number of hours 653 540 Participation in training Number of employees 325 198 Sustainable raw materials The production of raw materials like fish and seafood, palm oil and cocoa can entail significant social and environmental challenges. Orkla therefore works actively to achieve improvements in the value chain for these raw materials. For Orkla, good food starts with good, sustainably produced raw materials. However, some raw material chains are associated with risk relating to child labour and other serious human Supports certification systems rights and environmental breaches. Orkla has therefore long engaged in dialogue and cooperation with suppliers who are Orkla is convinced that labelling systems are an effecinvolved in improvement projects. Risky raw materials include tive tool for protecting workers’ rights and minimising cocoa, palm oil, fish and seafood, animal raw materials, nuts negative environmental impacts. The various certificaand seeds, fruits and berries, vegetables and packaging. tion labels also make it easier for consumers to choose products that promote sustainable development. Orkla The primary focus of Orkla’s sustainability work in 2017 will therefore supports a number of labelling schemes. be on ensuring that the Group’s different raw material teams The labels used on several Orkla products include: are well established and on continuing to implement plans for sustainable raw material production. As part of its efforts to reduce its environmental impact, Orkla will draw up principles for sustainable agricultural production. Orkla will continue to implement its policy for deforestation-free supply chains and to draw up and implement a new animal welfare policy. Orkla supports a variety of certification systems and participates actively in industry initiatives involving companies, public authorities and specialised organisations. Through this work Orkla seeks to help establish good responsible sourcing practices in the industry. Among the organisations with which Orkla collaborates are the Ethical Trading Initiative Norway (IEH), AIM-Progress, Sedex and the Round Table on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). 55 Responsible sourcing Annual Report 2016 Sustainable fish and seafood The ocean covers 71% of the Earth’s surface and is home to far more species than those living on land. Managing marine resources in a sustainable way that ensures viable species diversity is a responsibility that we all share. According to the UN’s Group of Experts on the Scientific Aspects of Marine Environmental Protection, overfishing and the destruction of habitats for marine species are among the Results in 2016 primary threats to marine life. Moreover, man-made climate change is expected to affect fish stocks and cause major The share of Orkla Foods’ marine raw materials supplied changes in the ocean’s ecosystems. by fisheries certified by the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) increased from 75% in 2015 to 81% in 2016. A Orkla has long been engaged in initiatives to protect the total of 192 products are MSC-certified. Brands that use marine environment, and collaborates with global environ100% MSC-certified marine raw materials include Abba, mental regimes to ensure that the raw materials in its fish Kalles (its entire cod roe range) and Boy, and Ahti and products are sustainably fished. A number of Orkla companies Vesta (herring products). manufacture products that originate in the ocean. Well-known brands include Stabbur-Makrell, Abba, Kalles and Möller´s Tran. Orkla has established a central team for marine raw Targets materials that assists companies in developing plans to promote sustainable fishing. In addition to buying certified raw materials, the team carries out an annual assessment of In 2017, Abba’s whole range of tuna products will be fish stocks and monitors Orkla’s suppliers. MSC-certified. Orkla Foods Sverige’s aim is to ensure that all fish and seafood sold under the company’s In 2016, Orkla Foods Sverige established a system that brands are MSCand/or ASC-certified by 2020 at the ensures that tuna can be traced back to the fishing vessel, latest. and conducted audits of Thai tuna suppliers. Abba offers full traceability for tuna As from January 2017, Swedish consumers who buy tinned tuna from Abba can trace where the tuna comes from and learn more about the fish and how it is caught. They can even learn the name of the captain of the vessel that fished it. Starting in 2017, Orkla Foods Sverige can offer fully traceable tuna thanks to a unique partnership with Pacifical, an organisation that works to promote sustainable tuna fishing. Using a code printed on the lid of each tin of Abba tuna, consumers can trace the tuna from the fishing vessel captain all the way to the store shelf with just a few quick clicks on the abba.se website. This collaboration also means that Abba’s entire range of tuna products will be MSC-certifiied. By choosing MSC, Orkla Foods Sverige is helping to ensure a sustainable future for the ocean and the fishing industry. 56 Responsible sourcing Annual Report 2016 The entire Kalles Kaviar product range is environmentally labelled By certifying the entire Kalles Kaviar product range for the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) label, Orkla Foods Sverige aims to contribute to sustainable fishing and make it easy for consumers to make choices that are good for the environment. Kalles Kaviar Original fish roe spread has been MSC-labelled since 2013. Through three years of close collaboration with its suppliers and sub-contractors, Orkla Foods Sverige has now succeeded in MSC-labelling all eight varieties of Kalles Kaviar. The MSC label means that every part of the food chain is certified. The fish ingredients used in the products stem from environmentally-certified fish stocks that are fished from a certified vessel and processed in a way that does not harm the marine environment. Read more about MSC at www.msc.org Committed to preventing deforestation Deforestation accounts for 10-15% of global greenhouse gas emissions. By actively engaging in its own supply chains, Orkla can make an important difference. To help protect rainforests and combat climate change, Orkla Palm-oil free branded consumer goods adopted a zero deforestation policy in 2015. Orkla aims to The Nordic companies in Orkla Foods and Orkla Confectionery ensure that all key agricultural products and packaging used & Snacks have largely replaced palm oil with a healthier alterby the Group are sustainably produced – without causing native that does not contribute to tropical deforestation. In deforestation – by 2020. the period from 2008 to 2016, they reduced their use of palm oil by around 90%. Several of the companies have reduced In the Forest 500 assessment, published in December 2016, their use by close to 100%. the UK think tank The Global Canopy Programme highlighted Orkla’s policy of zero deforestation. The assessment comIn 2016, Orkla Confectionery & Snacks eliminated palm oil in prised 500 companies, financial institutions and countries that most of its biscuit products, including Ballerina, Singoalla and have the power to stop global deforestation, and ranked their Brago. Orkla Foods Sverige replaced palm oil with rapeseed efforts. Orkla was one of the companies that scored highest oil in Paulùns Granola. Palm oil has also been removed from in the assessment. Ekströms Vaniljsås vanilla sauce and Frödinge Kladdkaka cream cakes and Morotskaka carrot cakes. The vast majority Orkla engaged in an active dialogue in 2016 with its stakeof Orkla’s foods, biscuits, snacks and confectionery in the holders, including Greenpeace. This has provided good input Nordic grocery market are now palm oil-free. Orkla’s total for anti-deforestation work. Orkla and Greenpeace made a purchases of palm oil have been reduced by around 20,600 joint presentation at the Global Compact’s Nordic network tonnes since 2008, including 900 tonnes in 2016. conference, hoping to inspire more companies to introduce a deforestation prevention policy, with clearly defined goals. Sustainable palm oil production For Orkla Food Ingredients, Orkla Home & Personal Care and Intensifed efforts to reduce use of palm oil branded consumer goods companies outside the Nordic In 2016, Orkla took several steps to reduce the risk of deregion, palm oil and palm-based derivatives are still imporforestation in connection with the production of cocoa, soya, tant raw materials. The companies have mobilised efforts on cardboard and paper. However, the raw material used by Orkla a broad front to increase the percentage of oil certified by that represents the greatest risk of deforestation is palm oil, and the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil in the palm oil they efforts have therefore been concentrated on this commodity. use. Certification reduces the risk of deforestation and other undesirable practices. Orkla’s main suppliers have also initiated Orkla pursues a two-pronged strategy in its palm oil work. a range of measures to monitor their sub-contractors, prevent Orkla companies focus actively on reducing their use of palm and put out fires and promote sustainable cultivation. As a result oil and ensuring that the palm oil that is used is traceable and of these measures, Orkla is well on its way to achieving its goal sustainably produced, at the latest by the end of 2017. of 100% sustainably produced palm oil by the end of 2017. 57 Responsible sourcing Annual Report 2016 Sustainable cocoa farming Child labour is one of several challenges in cocoa production. Orkla works to promote sustainable cocoa cultivation in partnership with UTZ Certified. Small cocoa farms in West Africa produce close to 70% of the world’s cocoa. This cultivation poses several challenges, Results in 2016 including the risk of child labour, potential health and safety hazards for workers and the risk of deforestation. In 2016, 59% of Orkla’s sourced cocoa was UTZcertified, compared to 42% in 2015. Around 400 Orkla Cocoa is an important raw material in Orkla’s chocolate products feature the UTZ Certified label. Brands that production. Orkla manufactures chocolate in the Nordic and use 100% UTZ-certified cocoa include Nidar’s chocoBaltic regions and aims to ensure that all the cocoa purlate brands (Stratos, Troika, Smash! and several others), chased by the Group is sustainably produced by 2020. Nugatti and Sjokade spreads, chocolate from the Finnish company Panda and all chocolate from Estonian Kalev. Orkla wishes to reduce the risk of child labour and other unacceptable practices, and to help improve the earning potential and living conditions of cocoa farmers. The Group Targets companies are committed to promoting sustainable cocoa cultivation, for instance by purchasing certified cocoa through The entire TORO portfolio of baking mixes and UTZ Certified, which is the world’s largest independent, cerchocolate drinks will switch to UTZ-certified cocoa tified cocoa programme. Through this certification scheme, in 2017. Sonneveld, an Orkla Food Ingredients comthe aim is to ensure that cocoa farmers learn profitable work pany, aims to buy only UTZ-certified cocoa products methods, and children have the opportunity to attend school. in 2017. 58 Responsible sourcing Annual Report 2016 Making organic cotton available to the public at large The textile industry is a sector of complex challenges, but also has considerable potential for improvement. As Norway’s leading supplier of underwear, the Orkla company Pierre Robert Group wants to lead the way in setting a good example. Pierre Robert Group (PRG) has worked for years to promote on the basis of which it carried out a number of measures responsible sourcing, and has been a member of the Ethical in 2016. One of its focus areas is making the transition to Trading Initiative since 2005. Good long-term relationships more sustainable textile fibres. In 2016, PRG switched to with suppliers have laid a strong basis for collaboration and using organic cotton certified under the Global Organic improvement, and PRG has worked with more than one Textile Standard (GOTS) in its best-selling Cotton Boxer for third of its suppliers for 11 years or longer. All the suppliers women, as well as in its Cotton High Waist underpants. As are screened in relation to ethical, social and environmental a result, organic cotton underwear became available in all criteria, and monitored by means of reporting, external Norwegian grocery stores from 2017. Given a sales volume audits and personal visits. All Pierre Robert garments are of over 400,000 panties per year, the effect this creates is labelled to show their country of origin, and the company is significant. PRG chose to stay with its existing suppliers and open about where the garments are manufactured and by help them complete the GOTS certification process, thereby whom, among other things by posting an interactive map on contributing to further improvements in the industry. pierrerobert.no and open supplier lists. All Pierre Robert garments in organic cotton are labelled with a In 2015, the company drew up an overall sustainability strategy GOTS licence number that is traceable at global-standard.org. GOTS – Global Organic Textile Standard GOTS stands for Global Organic Textile Standard and is an internationally recognised certification programme for organic textiles. GOTS is unique in that it sets both social and environmental requirements for every part of the value chain, including sub-contractors. The GOTS label guarantees that: • At least 70% of the textile consists of organic fibres; Pierre Robert textiles have a 92% organic fibre content • The cotton is cultivated without the use of chemical sprays or fertilisers, and has not been genetically modified. • Water consumption has been reduced by up to 90% compared with conventional cotton, and stringent requirements have been imposed with regard to waste water treatment and waste disposal • The garment has been bleached with oxygen and not chlorine • Hazardous chemicals, heavy metals and the like are prohibited • The packaging contains no PVC, and the cardboard or paper is either made of recycled cardboard or is FSC/PEFC-certified • Social criteria have been imposed to protect farmers and workers • Every processor has been inspected by a neutral third party • The garment is traceable to each processor Read more at www.global-standard.org 59 Environment Annual Report 2016 Oliviapart of the Orkla family 05 Environment Shared responsibility for the environment Addressing the challenges posed by global climate change is a shared social responsibility. Orkla is committed to shouldering its share of responsibility and works actively to minimise its environmental footprint in every part of its value chain. 60 Environment Annual Report 2016 Global climate change is without a doubt the greatest environOrkla takes a systematic approach to its environmental work mental challenge faced by the world today. Production and and prepares annual environmental accounts that show the consumption of food generate one fourth of greenhouse changes in its companies’ environmental impacts. Since gas emissions and are a main source of water consumption. 2008, Orkla has reported environmental data to the investorThe combination of climate change, population growth initiated CDP-programme. and unsustainable production methods puts pressure on many food commodities and natural resources. This calls for Orkla made progress in its environmental work in 2016, efficient use of resources and the development of products and there were no critical formal complaints or matters with a smaller environmental footprint. related to environmental laws and regulations. Orkla’s ambition is to contribute to achieving the two-degree Climate change impacts climate change target by doing its share of reducing greenThe greenhouse gas emissions generated by Orkla’s own house gas emissions. By curtailing energy and water confood production are limited. The biggest impact occurs in sumption in its own operations, increasing the percentage of the production of raw materials and at the consumption renewable energy, preventing food waste, helping to resolve stage. Other sources are packaging production and transenvironmental challenges in the supply chain and developing port. Emissions from Orkla’s factories are primarily to air, products and packaging that have a lower environmental from fossil energy used to produce electric power and heat. impact, Orkla can make a substantial difference. This is important for both the environment and Orkla’s profitability. In order to share best practices aimed at increasing energy efficiency and reducing water consumption, Orkla introduced a Orkla’s primary environmental objectives up to 2020: central energy initiative in 2015 as part of its Improved Resource • Develop more environmentally friendly packaging and and Energy Efficiency programme. In 2016, several Orkla products with a smaller environmental footprint factories carried out a survey of energy-saving potential. • Reduce greenhouse gas emissions and energy and water Around 80% of the companies have implemented energy consumption by 20% improvement measures in the form of equipment improve• Reduce waste by 30% ments, redesign of processes, behavioural changes and • Zero production waste to landfills operational changes. Many of the companies have reduced • More effective transport solutions energy consumption by switching to LED lighting. Other important measures in 2016 were the optimisation of energy-intenOrkla’s environmental work supports the achievement of the sive processes and investments in new, more energy-efficient UN Sustainable Development Goals: SDG 12 RESPONSIBLE production equipment. By buying Guarantees of Origin*, CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION and SDG 13 CLIMATE Orkla Foods Sverige has now ensured that it is using 100% ACTION renewable electricity in its factories, thereby reducing its CO2 emissions by 20%. Orkla will minimise its environmen*Guarantees of Origin are a certification system for electricity that proves that tal footprint by ensuring that the a given quantity of electricity has been produced from a specified renewable energy source. The system was introduced in 2001 by the European Union’s Group’s activities and products are first directive on the promotion of electricity produced from renewable energy sources (Directive 2001/77/EC) to give consumers a choice between not harmful to the environment. renewable and non-renewable electricity. Sustainability pledge, Orkla Orkla’s approach Less food wastage Orkla has adopted a common environment, health and safety (EHS) standard with guidelines that apply to all business areas in production and companies, and provides training on implementing the Orkla is committed to standard. The awareness and engagement of Orkla’s own ensuring that its products employees are a crucial prerequisite for successful environare always of top quality. In mental measures. Environmental work related to sourcing, the case of Grandiosa, this means logistics and production is run by Orkla’s central operational that the crust must be the right shape and size, and that organisation, Orkla Operations. Efforts to reduce environmental the right amount of sauce and topping is spread in just impacts through product development and by influencing conthe right way on the pizza. During the production of sumer behaviour are organised by the individual companies, Grandiosa pizzas, cheese and pizza crusts can therefore which also have overall responsibility for their own environgo to waste. By improving production procedures and mental work. The companies have prepared action plans for machinery settings, and increasing the awareness of the achieving Orkla’s environmental objectives. Key environmental factory team of the importance of reducing waste, food indicators are reported regularly and monitored by managewastage was reduced by 40 tonnes in 2016. ment at all levels. Orkla’s central EHS function conducts regular internal environmental audits, and evaluates the Group’s systems and procedures. 61 Environment Annual Report 2016 By replacing fossil fuel oil with environmentally friendly bio-oil. equipment for purifying and recycling waste water for use in the the Orkla company Jästbolaget cut its CO2 emissions from production of steam. This has reduced daily water consumption production by approximately 96%. Through Orkla’s power by 20,000 litres, and is an important step towards realising the business Hydro Power, Orkla produced 2.4 TWh energy from company’s ambition of achieving water self-sufficiency. hydropower in 2016. In the case of some of the raw materials bought by the Group, Orkla’s greenhouse gas emissions showed a positive trend in drought can lead to smaller harvests and higher raw material 2016, decreasing despite both a higher level of activity and costs. Orkla keeps close track of the raw material situation, and new factories. Measures to improve energy efficiency have works systematically to reduce its commercial exposure to such been initiated at many factories, and the emissions from fossil risk. Among other things, Orkla has several alternative suppliers fuel were reduced due to lower consumption. Moreover, of important raw materials. Orkla requires all its suppliers to switching to the use of more renewable energy to produce have effective procedures for preventing emissions and unnecelectricity in the Nordic region and Europe had a positive essary water consumption. In future, the Group will increase its effect in 2016. efforts to monitor water consumption and follow up on other key environmental topics with its suppliers. Efficient use of resources Around 25-30% of all food that is produced is not eaten, and Products with environmental benefits food wastage is one of the major contributors to global enOrkla can help to reduce the environmental impact of vironmental challenges. Orkla wants to help ensure that less its products by making good choices when it comes to food is thrown away, and focuses continuously on improving packaging, raw materials and product design. The launch raw material use, increasing production yield and reducing of Jordan Ren Universalklut, an environmentally friendly, comfood waste. The objective is for the Group factories to reduce postable, all-round cleaning cloth based on 100% regenerated food wastage by 30% by 2020. In 2017, Orkla will prepare an cellulose, and highly concentrated Milo detergent for wool overall plan for reducing food waste in the value chain. are examples of this focus. Fresh water scarcity creates significant and growing challenges Pierre Robert Group considers it important to use sustainable in many parts of the world. Apart from the Indian company materials, and has replaced viscose with the natural material MTR Foods, Orkla’s businesses are located in areas where Tencel® in several products. Tencel is extracted from wood there is low-to-medium risk of water scarcity. Nonetheless, pulp from sustainable forests, and is considered to be one of reducing water consumption is also a way of cutting costs. the most environmentally friendly textiles. For instance, the To help ensure that the Group reaches its objective of 20% amount of water used to produce Tencel is 10-20 times less reduction in water consumption by 2020, the issue of water than for viscose. Lilleborg develops professional cleaning is covered in the internal programme «Improved Resource products that enable customers to reduce their use of water. and Energy Efficiency». Activities in 2016-2107 will primarily Economising on water is another important topic covered in be focused on awareness-raising within the Group and the Lilleborgs`s training programmes. introduction of systematic measurement and monitoring of internal water consumption. In 2016, MTR Foods invested in Leftover bread becomes new bakery products The Netherlands company Sonneveld had previously developed a product concept that enabled bakers to reuse old bread in new sourdough. Through a new joint study initiated by Orkla Food Ingredients’ innovation centre, Sonneveld and several other players in the bakery industry have investigated whether bread returned by supermarkets can be used to make new bakery products. The results show that one third of all bread that is returned can be used to bake new bread through fermentation. BakeFive Bakeries, Wageningen University and Retailer Jumbo were among the participants in the project, which was called “Bread Sin”. Environmental measures for detergents In the past few years, Orkla Home and Personal Care have introduced a new generation of concentrated laundry detergents that have produced substantial environmental savings. Concentrated liquid OMO and Blenda were launched in 2015, and in 2016 Milo was also introduced in a concentrated form. In the two years since the products have been on the market, use of chemicals in the detergents has been reduced by around 400 tonnes as a result of the lower dosage. Use of plastic packaging has been cut by 435 tonnes by using smaller bottles, equivalent to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of 1000 – 1500 tonnes of CO2 equivalents. 62 Environment Annual Report 2016 Packaging with a reduced environmental footprint Many consumers want the products they buy to have environmentally friendly packaging. In 2016, Orkla developed a model for its sustainable packaging work. One of Orkla’s sustainability objectives is to develop more Reuse is about developing smart refill solutions, exploring environmentally friendly packaging and products with a new ways of using them and reusing secondary packaging. smaller environmental footprint. In 2016, Orkla developed a This can also mean introducing packaging that the consumer model for its sustainable packaging work, which defines five can reuse for other purposes. important dimensions: Rethink, Reduce, Replace, Recycle and Reuse. These dimensions reflect the activities that Orkla Recycle is about choosing packaging solutions that make considers important in its categories with a view to achieving it easier for the consumer to recycle them, and using the more sustainable packaging. highest possible percentage of recycled materials when this is practical based on food safety and environmental consiRethink is about developing new and innovative packaging derations. solutions, and engaging the consumer in new ways to ensure that the used packaging is sustainably handled. Examples are Replace is about not using packaging that is associated with new materials, shapes and formats that contribute to a subtropical deforestation or other unacceptable production stantial reduction in the packaging’s environmental footprint. practices. It can also entail replacing materials based on fossil sources with renewable alternatives. Reduce is about reducing the amount of materials that is used, examining possibilities of eliminating parts of the The importance of each dimension varies according to the packaging, and designing it in a way that results in less type of packaging, category and country. product waste and less packaging. New packaging design can also lead to more efficient transport with an associated reduction in carbon footprint. NK RE THI DU C RE A circular economy E Increased recycling and reuse are the essence of a circular economy. In a circular economy, material reApproach sources remain in the economic cycle through recycling, reuse, repair and to sustainable packaging REUS improvement. This offers new busiCE ness opportunities where developPL A ments are driven by the profitability E inherent in more efficient resource use. RE R E C YC L E 63 Environment Annual Report 2016 Results* GRI ref. Unit 2016 2015 2014 Resource consumption Materials G4-EN1 Raw materials Tonnes 977 250 928 800 975 300 G4-EN1 Packaging Tonnes 99 000 92 000 107 350 G4-EN1 Packaging made of renewable materials % 46% G4-EN2 Percentage of recycled packaging % 53% Energy and water G4-EN3 Internally generated, renewable energy sold GWh 2 490 2 250 2 570 Total energy usage GWh 869 848 841 G4-EN3 Energy usage – fossil fuel GWh 430 442 417 G4-EN3 Energy usage – purchased GWh 421 391 397 G4-EN3 -E nergy usage from renewable fuel GWh 22 13 27 resources (scope 1) G4-EN5 Energy usage per FTE MWh/FTE 49 58 56 G4-EN5 Energy consumption per revenue turnover MWh/NOK million 23 26 28 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal Million m3 6.8 6.0 6.4 G4-EN10 Water – recycled Million m3 1 1 1 G4-EN10 Water – recycled % 14.1 15.1 14.2 Emissions Emissions to air G4-EN15 Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) scope 1 tCO2e 89 940 106 880 94 320 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) tCO2e 54 050 52 750 61 990 scope 2 G4-EN18 GHG (S1+S2) per FTE tCO2e/FTE 8 11 10.4 G4-EN18 GHG (S1+S2) per revenue tCO2e/NOK million 3.8 4.8 5.3 G4-EN21 Sulphur dioxide Tonnes 90 104 101 G4-EN21 Nitrogen oxide Tonnes 16 34 40 Water discharge G4-EN22a Internal treatment Million m3 0.8 0.9 1.6 G4-EN22A External treatment Million m3 2.5 2.6 2.9 G4-EN22a Direct to environment (water) Million m3 2.2 2.0 2.0 Emissions to water G4-EN22b BOD Tonnes 4 250 4 350 4 380 G4-EN22b COD Tonnes 3 070 2 820 5 110 Waste G4-EN23 Organic Tonnes 82 820 77 530 84 000 G4-EN23 Non-hazardous waste – sorted Tonnes 11 600 11 310 11 530 G4-EN23 Non-hazardous waste – mixed Tonnes 8 960 8 020 8 390 G4-EN23 Hazardous waste Tonnes 160 160 240 *The figures for 2014 and 2015 have been adjusted due to information received after the reporting date. The figures for 2016 are provisional and will be verified during the spring of 2017 by CO2focus, and the final figures will be reported to the CDP in June 2017. 64 Occupational health and safety Annual report 2016 Benny and Heidi part of the Orkla family 06 Occupational health and safety Safe working conditions for all A secure, safe working environment is a fundamental right of all workers. Orkla’s ambition is to conduct its operations with zero injuries. 65 Occupational health and safety Annual Report 2016 As an employer, Orkla is responsible for providing a good Safety working environment where employees’ health and safety In 2016, there were few occupational accidents in Orkla’s are safeguarded. operations that caused very serious injury. Most of the injuries consisted of cuts, machinery-related crushing injuries or injuries due to a fall from a low height. The matters are followed up by the respective companies. Recording and following up on all Orkla sets the same requirements types of injuries and undesirable incidents are an important part of the Group’s improvement work, as it promotes a with regard to occupational health greater understanding and awareness of risk throughout the and safety in every country in which organisation. All companies and factories carry out risk analyses that include assessing processes and new procedures, safe the Group operates. use of machinery and working conditions. Sustainability pledge, Orkla Both accident and near-miss statistics reported in 2016 show that the Group must continue to maintain full focus on injury prevention in every part of the organisation. Orkla Orkla’s approach achieved a Lost Work Day Rate (LWDR) (number of injuries Orkla’s ambition is to conduct its operations with zero injuries. leading to absence per million hours worked) of 5.4 in 2016 This objective will be achieved through effective risk manageand a Total Recordable Rate (TRR) (number of injuries leading ment, systematic efforts to prevent injuries and work-related to absence, need for medical treatment or restricted work diseases and the active involvement of all employees. per million hours) of 10.8. The number of injuries declined compared with 2015. Although the number of occupational Under Orkla’s management structure, each company has an accidents at Orkla is not satisfactory, many companies saw independent responsibility for its own environmental, health a positive trend in 2016. Several companies recorded no and safety (EHS) work. The general requirements that must injuries leading to absence during the year. The results show be met by the companies are set out in Orkla’s EHS policy. that improvements can be achieved by applying key EHS Orkla has adopted a common EHS standard and detailed principles such as good order and cleanliness, engagement, guidelines for the Group’s occupational health and safety skills upgrading and the willingness to learn from others. efforts. These apply to all business areas and companies, Orkla will therefore continue to focus on and emphasise and are intended to ensure controls and continuous imthe application of these important principles throughout the provement. Each business must draw up targets and activity organisation, while also introducing new measures to ensure plans, establish systems and control procedures, implement that further progress is made towards the goal of zero injuries. measures and report on its EHS activities. The principle of This work will continue in 2017. preventive action is fundamental to the Group’s EHS efforts. Risk assessments are therefore a key element, and every Orkla Working environment and health unit must carry out such assessments. The risk assessment A health-promoting workplace is important for every single determines the action that must be taken, and helps businesses employee. Healthy employees have a positive impact on to optimise their improvement work by prioritising the most their working environment and are crucial to achieving good important measures and establishing effective action plans. financial results. Orkla wants all its companies to establish principles for fostering health-promoting workplaces, adapting Orkla has an internal network of EHS experts. Collaboration these principles to conditions in the respective countries. and the transfer of best practices are key components of Systematic improvement efforts are carried out with particular the improvement process, and the network helps to ensure emphasis on preventive action and rehabilitation. effective implementation of the EHS standard. All management staff are expected to be strongly engaged in EHS The sickness absence rate for Orkla globally was 4.3% in work, and all employees are to receive relevant training and 2016, slightly lower than in 2015. There have been minor be involved in EHS activities at their workplace. In 2016, the changes in sickness absence in Orkla in the past few years, Group and its companies provided around 21,200 hours of with the variations remaining constant throughout the year. organised EHS training for some 6,500 employees. The absence rate is highest in the winter months and lowest in the third quarter. On the other hand, sickness absence Orkla factories are monitored by means of internal EHS rates vary significantly from one country and company to reviews designed to facilitate learning through systematic another. In 2016, the sickness absence rate in the companies observation and feedback. In the period 2015-2017, an EHS in Norway was 5.6%, on a par with the rate in 2015. The rules review of this type was carried out at all Orkla factories. for recording sickness absence and following up persons EHS work is monitored at company and business area level on sick leave vary from country to country, but it is nonethrough the submission of status reports to the managetheless obvious that sickness absence, especially in some of ment teams and the Group Executive Board and Orkla’s the Norwegian and Swedish companies, is too high. There is Board of Directors. continuous focus on improvement measures, where important principles are active follow-up of persons on sick leave 66 Occupational health and safety Annual Report 2016 and preventive action. In practice, this means that individual management staff, with focus on sickness absence follow-up companies must put in place good processes in which manand health-promoting measures. There has been particular agement and employees participate actively in establishing emphasis on following up on employees with frequent short measures adapted to their workplace. absences and employees with functional impairments to ensure their return to work. These activities will continue in EHS training for management and employee representatives 2017. is now based on a combination of e-learning and group sessions. In 2016, special training was also provided for Results 2016 GRI ref. Sickness absence 2016 2015 2014 G4-LA6 % sickness absence in Norway 5.6 5.8 6.1 G4-LA6 % sickness absence in Nordics (excl. Norway) and Baltics 4.5 4.6 4.0 G4-LA6 % sickness absence in rest of the world 3.1 2.7 3.1 Injuries G4-LA6 H1 in Norway 3.5 3.4 5.3 G4-LA6 H1 in Norway (excl. Norway) and Baltics 7.7 7.4 8.7 G4-LA6 H1 in rest of the world 3.7 4.9 7.0 G4-LA6 H2 in Norway 9.1 6.0 11.8 G4-LA6 H2 in Norway (excl. Norway) and Baltics 15.4 19.4 20.2 G4-LA6 H2 in rest of the world 5.6 6.9 7.8 G4-LA6 Work-related fatalities 0 0 0 67 Human resource development and corporate culture Annual Report 2016 Birgitte and Astrid part of the Orkla family 07 Human resource development and corporate culture A strong corporate culture Orkla strives to create a strong corporate culture characterised by respect, diversity, equality and human resource development. 68 Human resource development and corporate culture Annual Report 2016 As employer, Orkla has a responsibility to respect important conditions. At a minimum, employees must have conditions human rights such as freedom of opinion, freedom of that meet their basic needs, employment contracts must organisation and the right to fair working conditions. Being be in writing, and employees’ working hours must be in a responsible employer is also pivotal to its success as an compliance with laws and regulations, industry standards organisation. and management-union agreements. Orkla uses external benchmarking tools for pay and conditions, and companies have procedures to ensure that statutory requirements are met. In 2016, Orkla had two cases relating to working envirOrkla will create workplaces onment and workers’ rights in Sweden. The Swedish labour where employees are treated with inspectorate required Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Sverige to improve its overtime procedures and procedures for respect, and will help to ensure involving employees in occupational health and safety work. that its employees develop and The company has carried out improvements to ensure that its internal procedures in these areas are in compliance with perform to their full potential. applicable rules. Orkla had no other cases related to human and workers’ rights in 2016. Sustainability pledge, Orkla Companies in the Group engage in a variety of activities to promote collaboration and job satisfaction. In 2016, these Orkla’s approach activities ranged from meetings focused on Orkla’s vision Orkla’s general strategy and basic values are described in and values to events such as a football championship for the Orkla Compass. In 2015–2016, meetings were held the companies in Orkla Foods Ingredients, the celebration for around 10,000 employees to discuss what the vision of the Netherlands company Sonneveld’s 60th anniversary and values mean in practice. Orkla’s human rights policy and an event marking International Women’s Day at the Indian describes the overarching principles governing the way company MTR Foods. In 2016, Orkla was named the best in the Group companies must handle human rights that are its industry in Universum’s ranking of Norway’s most attractive important to their daily operations. Orkla has also established employers. guidelines and systems for key topics such as capabilitybuilding, corporate democracy, personal data protection Capability and human resource development and anti-corruption. Continuous capability development is essential to strengthen the Group’s competitiveness. Orkla attaches importance to Activities related to human resource development and developing both specialised and management skills, and corporate culture are run by the management of the individual to creating an everyday work environment in which every companies in accordance with Orkla’s guidelines and national employee is able to make optimal use of his or her expertise. regulatory frameworks, with the support of HR staffs at central and local level. Orkla monitors the companies’ work by Orkla is well-known for the quality of its training and developconducting regular reviews with the senior management ment programmes. In 2015-2016, a central competence of each business area. board and a board of experts were appointed for each of Orkla’s academies. Several of the academies have improved In 2016, Orkla carried out a survey of the companies’ both their specialised programme content and use of digital procedures for addressing important human rights topics. tools. In 2016, a leadership development programme was The results of the survey will be used in 2017 to improve carried out for the Group’s 220 most senior executives, in Orkla’s internal guidelines and procedures for protecting cooperation with the business school IMD. The purpose of employee rights. To ensure that Orkla’s principles and guidethe programme was to establish a common leadership platlines are properly introduced in new companies that join the form and create optimal conditions for realising Orkla’s busiGroup, a toolkit was prepared in 2016 for HR work ness strategy. A new leadership development programme in connection with acquisitions. was also established for managers who are new to their role. The aim is to foster leadership based on Orkla’s leadership A responsible, attractive workplace principles and provide participants with tools and methods to At the end of 2016, Orkla had 18,154 employees in 235 comenable them to exercise their leadership role. panies in 26 countries. Almost all of them were permanently employed. A total of 39.4% are administrative employees and The employee performance assessment interview between 60.6% are blue-collar workers. Compared with 2015, there manager and employee is an important means of enhancing was a net increase of 3,484 in the number of employees, due the performance of each employee and his or her capability to a combination of company acquisitions and restructuring. and career development. Orkla aims to ensure that all its The largest new companies in 2016 were the Czech food comemployees receive regular feedback on their work and that pany Hamé and the English paintbrush manufacturer Harris. individual performance targets are linked to general business goals. The percentage of employees who took part in formal Orkla wants to be an attractive employer that offers good development interviews in 2016 declined from the previous working conditions and fair and competitive employment year, largely because the new companies that joined the 69 Human resource development and corporate culture Annual Report 2016 Group did not have this type of procedure. The percentage of blue-collar workers who had interviews rose. Some of the Employees by geographical area factories do not conduct employee performance assessment interviews with individual blue-collar workers, but follow up on their development through a combination of an ongoing dialogue with the employee and regular group meetings. Orkla has developed a harmonised process for employee evaluation and follow-up, which includes an IT-based support tool. In 2016, this tool was used for some 6,000 management staff and key personnel. The efforts to ensure close, uniform follow-up of employees will continue in 2017. Leadership and employee consultation Good formal arrangements for dialogue between management and employee representatives are important to ensure collaboration on business strategy and appropriate handling of matters affecting employee interests. Employees are represented on Orkla’s Board of Directors. A corporate agreement has also been established between Orkla and employee unions aimed at ensuring a constructive dialogue Norway 3 208 18% and collaboration and fulfilling the obligations laid down Sweden 2 970 16% in statutory and contractual frameworks. Further details Denmark 1 503 8% regarding the corporate democracy system may be found Finland and Iceland 820 4% in the Annual Report, under “Governing Bodies and Elected Baltics 2 096 12% Representatives”. Moreover, most of the Group companies have Rest of Europe 5 569 31% established working environment committees or other formal Rest of the world 1 988 11% management-employee liaison committees. In the light of Orkla’s collaborative arrangements, the risk of breaches of the right of organisation and collective bargaining is considered low. Total 18 154 100% Organisational changes that might affect employees’ employment situation are discussed with employee representatives. In 2016, Orkla’s management and the employee representatives agreed on new, common principles for how the dialogue on restructuring projects is to be conducted, and internal guidelines were drawn up. In 2017 Orkla, in collaboration with the employee representatives, will carry out a survey of the way the co-determination right is dealt with in the companies outside Scandinavia. In connection with its efforts to develop a long-term, competitive manufacturing footprint, Orkla announced the closure of eight factories in 2016. Management at Group and company level involved the employee representatives in implementing these changes through regular consultation meetings. The employees who lost their jobs in connection with the factory closures have been assisted in seeking new employment or enrolling in training programmes. In connection with the management-employee dialogue on the structural changes, the processes are being evaluated with emphasis on learning and improvement. Diversity and equality Orkla has a corporate culture characterised by respect and equality. These values are important in order to compete successfully for manpower, and to utilise employees’ full potential in the best interests of the Group and the individual. Orkla’s stance on diversity, equality and non-discrimination is described in the Group directive on corporate responsibility and Orkla’s human rights policy. 70 Human resource development and corporate culture Annual Report 2016 When determining employee pay, Orkla attaches importance also provide special training in these fields, and training in to the individual’s skills, the complexity of the position, his anti-corruption and competition law is included in several of or her job performance and competitiveness in the market, Orkla’s central competence-building programmes for senior regardless of gender, background or functional capability. executives and key personnel. In 2015 Orkla adopted a tool for job classification and determination of compensation, and in 2016 implemented In its Supplier Code of Conduct, Orkla requires suppliers to measures to harmonise the procedures for determining have zero tolerance for corruption. Suppliers are monitored compensation across the Group companies. In 2016, Orkla on the basis of a risk assessment, and it is a long-term goal also began work on implementing a common database for that all Orkla’s suppliers sign the Group’s Code of Conduct. recording pay data that will make it easier to identify undesirable As part of the Group’s due diligence procedures in connection compensation disparities. with acquisitions and major investments, Orkla assesses the risk of becoming involved in breaches of anti-corruption Orkla strives to attain a good gender balance at all levels and competition law. Orkla companies must take necessary of the organisation, and attaches importance to this aspect risk-mitigating action to prevent independent business partners, when recruiting and developing employees. Measures that including customers and joint venture partners, from parmake it easier to combine a career and family life are an ticipating in corruption or other illegal or unethical activities important factor in promoting gender equality. The Group in connection with their business dealings with Orkla. requires that a minimum of one female candidate is nominated when recruiting candidates to management team positions at In 2016, Orkla has worked to reinforce internal controls company or business area level. related to the collection, processing and storage of personal data. This work will continue in 2017, and includes a revision Ensuring gender equality and promoting diversity are a of the Group’s policies and establishment of an internal netmanagement responsibility and part of management’s daywork designed to ensure uniform procedures for personal to-day activities. Diversity and equality are topics covered data protection, in compliance with the requirements in the in Orkla’s leadership training and training in the Orkla Code EU’s personal data protection regulation. of Conduct. In 2016, activities were carried out to provide training in and raise awareness of this issue in MTR Foods, Orkla Foods Lietuva, Orkla Foods Finland, Kalev, Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Sverige, Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Finland, Pierre Robert Group and Credin in Denmark. There has been a positive change in the percentage of women in Orkla’s management in the past three years, particularly among the top executives at company and business area level. This improvement is attributable to strong awareness of the importance of diversity and equality when recruiting candidates for management team positions and the high percentage of women in some of the companies that joined the Group in 2016. Efforts to promote diversity and equality will continue in 2017. Integrity Value creation at Orkla must be achieved in compliance with the Group’s Code of Conduct and applicable legislation. The Group’s overarching goal is to develop a corporate culture characterised by good judgement and the ability to deal with difficult situations. Orkla has zero tolerance for corruption, price-fixing agreements, market sharing or other practices that hamper free competition. Orkla’s anti-corruption manual, competition law manual, human rights policy and Code of Conduct describe the Group’s standards and guidelines relating to key integrity issues. The management of each company is responsible for communicating the Orkla Code of Conduct to every employee and making all employees who may be exposed to risk aware of the requirements in the anti-corruption and competition law manuals. Orkla routinely conducts e-learning programmes on anticorruption and competition law for management and employees considered to be exposed to risk. The companies 71 Human resource development and corporate culture Annual report 2016 Results 2016 GRI ref. 2016 2015 2014 Number of employees 18 154 14 670 12 921 Capability and human resource development G4-LA9 Average number of hours of organised training per employee2 8.2 4.8 4.0 G4-LA11 Number of employees receiving regular performance assessment interviews1,2 Total 63% 71% Management 93% 99% Administrative employees 83% 95% Sales personnel 81% 91% Blue-collar employees 49% 42% Diversity and equality G4-LA12 Percentage of women employees: Total 48.5% 45.6% 44.8% Administrative employees 48.6% 46.7% 48.8% Blue-collar employees 48.4% 44.7% 41.5% G4-LA12 Percentage of women in management positions Orkla’s Group Executive Board 9% 9% 0% -M anagement teams at Group, business area and company level 35.1% 32% 27.3% -T otal managers at all levels (manager defined as employees with personnel 37.5% 36.1% 35.6% responsibility) G4-HR3 -F ormal complaints or cases related to breaches of anti0 0 0 discrimination rules Integrity G4-SO4 Training in anti-corruption2 Number of employees who have undergone training during the year 671 3 600 808 Percentage of employees who have undergone training during the year 3.7% 24.5% 13.9% G4-SO5 Cases related to breaches of anti-corruption rules 0 0 0 G4-SO7 Cases related to breaches of competition law 0 0 0 G4-HR2 Training in human rights issues2 Total number of hours of training 22 800 14 500 19 185 Percentage of employees who have undergone training during the year 39% 34% 27% 1Reporting procedures adopted in 2015 2Estimate based on figures reported by Orkla companies in November 2016 72 Orkla and society Annual Report 2016 Sebastian and Jeanette part of the Orkla family 08 Orkla and society A good stakeholder dialogue Orkla wants to contribute to a sustainable value chain and can by collaborating with others make a difference. 73 Orkla and society Annual Report 2016 Engaging in a close dialogue with stakeholders helps Orkla Dialogue with stakeholders in 2016 to understand others’ views, build trust and adapt to changes Orkla is engaged in dialogue with authorities and politicians in society. Joining forces with other companies, customers, at national level and in the EU on trade policy framework authorities, research communities and interest organisations conditions and other matters relating to its operations. also makes it possible to seek bigger solutions and make Important issues in 2016 were collaboration to promote more progress than the individual stakeholders would be able better public health, good labelling to show the contents of to achieve on their own. food products, responsible marketing of food and drink and framework conditions for food production. Orkla’s dialogue and cooperation with external and internal stakeholders support the achievement of the UN’s SustainaIn 2016, Orkla met with the retail industry, investors and ble Development Goals: SDG #17 PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE voluntary organisations to discuss the Group’s sustainability GOALS work. Several of the companies also pursued a dialogue with grocery chains, other customers and external centres of expertise to obtain input for the further development of their own sustainability work. Through dialogue and collaboration Important topics addressed in Orkla’s dialogue with stakewith important stakeholders, Orkla holders in 2016 are summarised in a separate illustration and will promote good public health and discussed in the respective topical chapters. sustainable value chains. A driving force in industry collaboration Sustainability pledge, Orkla In order to resolve the global challenges posed by climate change, raw material scarcity and lifestyle diseases, changes must be made to achieve more sustainable production and consumption. This requires the will and ability of business Orkla’s approach and industry, public authorities and specialised experts to Orkla seeks to maintain an active dialogue with stakeholders work together to find new solutions and establish favourable who are affected by the Group’s products and activities, or framework conditions. Orkla and its companies take part in who in other ways are significant for Orkla’s development. a number of collaborative projects in the fields of nutrition The most important stakeholders are employees, customers and health, environment and responsible sourcing. These and consumers, investors, authorities, local communities, projects are described in separate chapters. interest organisations, research communities and suppliers. The dialogue is conducted at both Group and company level Economic ripple effects at meetings and in other forums for direct communication, Many of the Orkla companies are major employers, and both through consumer and customer surveys, participation in employees and management staff are largely recruited from networks and industry organisations and in joint projects. the country in which the business is located. By developing profitable companies, Orkla creates positive ripple effects The Orkla Food Barometer Orkla wishes to take part in the debate on diet and be able to bring new insights to this important issue. It therefore established the Orkla Food Barometer in 2016, as an annual Nordic diet survey. The survey was conducted in November 2016 by the data analysis agency Kantar TNS Norge. A nationally representative sample of the population of Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Finland was interviewed about their attitudes towards and knowledge of food and diet. Topics included industrial food, eating habits, healthiness, ecology and sustainability. The Orkla Food Barometer will enable Orkla to make comparisons between countries and monitor developments and trends over several years. The survey findings were presented at an external breakfast seminar in Oslo in January 2017. 74 Orkla and society Annual Report 2016 for society in the form of skills-building, new jobs at supplier In connection with its efforts to develop a long-term, companies and in the public sector, and payment of taxes competitive manufacturing footprint, Orkla announced the and charges. closure of eight factories in 2016. In these processes, Orkla has emphasised the importance of openness and dialogue At the end of 2016, the capital employed in Orkla’s operawith key stakeholders, such as employees, authorities and tions totalled NOK 43 577 million, an increase of 5.7% from local communities. the previous year. The geographical breakdown of capital employed is shown in the diagram below. More than half of Orkla received NOK 17.9 million in government support in 2016, the capital was employed in Norway, in part through Orkla’s in the form of subsidies for research and development and investments in Sapa, Jotun and Hydro Power. Due to a labour and environmental initiatives. The Group also received number of company acquisitions outside the Nordic region, NOK 173.6 million in raw material price compensation, under the share of capital employed in the rest of Europe increased an arrangement that enables Orkla’s Norwegian businesses to in 2016. compete with foreign competitors on equal terms. Capital employed by geographical area Value creation at Orkla 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 14 15 16 Norway 24 289 56% NOK billion Sweden 5 969 14% Denmark 4 185 10% Finland and Iceland 2 371 5% Baltics 1 754 4% Rest of Europe 4 282 10% Rest of the world 727 1% Employee wages (payroll expense) To society in the form of taxes (cash flow) Total 43 577 100% To Orkla shareholders in the form of dividends and buyback/sale of treasury shares 75 Orkla and society Annual Report 2016 Strong social engagement The Orkla Friends Fund was introduced in connection with the launch of Orkla’s vision “Your friend in everyday life”. In 2016, several Orkla companies donated grants from the Fund for causes within the categories of Nutrition and Health and Corporate Responsibility. In 2016 Orkla Friends Fund grants were awarded to the Through the Orkla Friends Fund TORO provided a grant of following projects: NOK 100,000 to the Salvation Army that was earmarked for cinema tickets for children. • Collaboration  with JA Norway (Ungt Entreprenørskap) Orkla wants to support the creativity of young people and • Contributing to a more active daily life for children has entered into a partnership with JA Norway. Under the and young people partnership agreement, Orkla will be represented on the Through the Orkla Friends Fund, Orkla House Care supjury for and will present the Orkla Innovation Award at the ports the Bankeryd handball association and the Hagaboda 2017 Norwegian championship for youth enterprises. parasport association, which work to give children and young people with disabilities a more active daily life. • The Young Sustainability Influence insight project Orkla and The Innovation Effect jointly established the • Equipping street teams with football shoes Young Sustainability Influence insight project, through For several years Orkla Foods Norge has been engaged in which Orkla looks to young people for new, forwardcooperation with the football club organisation Norsk Topplooking sustainability solutions. fotball targeting serious substance abusers, and has now made an additional contribution through the Orkla Friends • TORO provides funding for the Salvation Army for Fund. The organisation has received a donation of NOK cinema tickets for children 100,000 earmarked for shoes for the football players, who TORO has established a long-term partnership with the often do not have proper shoes, either for playing football Salvation Army through the Soup to the People project. or for other recreational use. Hunting for sustainability ideas among young people In the autumn of 2016 Orkla, in partnership with The Innovation Effect, established the Young Sustainability Influence project. The Innovation Effect is a company that connects students to companies with innovative projects and the Skills2Grow innovation programme. Through this project Orkla hoped to gain ideas for new, forward-looking sustainability solutions. Over a period of eight weeks, a dedicated team of four students conducted a survey of the views of students, entrepreneurs and various start-up companies regarding Orkla’s future scenario. The survey findings were presented live on stage on 23 October during Oslo Innovation Week. Based on the insights they gained, the students drew up various proposals for how a focus on sustainability can make Orkla more attractive to the new generation of consumers. 76 Orkla and society Annual Report 2016 Local engagement Many of the Orkla companies are actively engaged in their local communities. Through collaboration with local authorities, schools and organisations, Orkla helps to support projects that benefit the community. Several of the companies support sports events for children • MTR Foods in India partners with the Akshaya Patra Founand teenagers, ranging from the Kalles Kaviar Football Cup dation in providing school lunches for children in Karnataka. in Sweden, street handball in Denmark and ice hockey for By ensuring that children have nutritious food, the project disadvantaged Finnish families to Hamé’s Children’s Day in the aims to promote education and learning, thereby reducing Czech Republic. Many companies also participate in a variety of child illiteracy. initiatives to promote good food and a proper, nutritious diet. •T hrough the Clean Milk, Healthy Cows campaign, MTR Projects supported by the companies include: Foods provides disadvantaged Indian dairy farmers with five-litre stainless steel milk pails. The campaign is carried • Orkla Foods Sverige supports the work of Håll Sverige out in cooperation with the Karnataka Milk Federation. Rent (Keep Sweden Clean) for a cleaner environment. The ocean is the first focus area for the three-year partnership. In 2016, several of the companies conducted joint campaigns with the retail industry, where part of the profit has • Orkla Foods Norge has supported street football teams for gone to charitable causes. Examples are TORO’s Soup to several years, an initiative aimed at bringing drug addicts the People campaign, and CBP’s joint campaign with local and other substance abusers back to society. The company Danish bakeries to raise funds for the Children’s Cancer provides good, nutritious food in connection with football Foundation in Denmark. matches and gatherings. In 2016, Orkla and the Group companies contributed a total • Orkla Foods Norge has teamed up with the Salvation Army of around NOK 14 million in support for community projects, on the Soup to the People project, in which it helps to including about NOK 4 million in the form of products and provide soup for the many individuals that the Salvation other non-financial support. Moreover, the Orkla companies Army assists every day. contributed around NOK 6.5 million to external research projects related to nutrition and health. • Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Sverige supports the Swedish Prostate Cancer Association and its work to prevent testicular cancer. Less food wastage Reducing food wastage is high on the agenda at Orkla. Through a joint programme with the Food Bank Norway and the Matmissionen social supermarket in Sweden, Orkla companies give surplus food to those who need it, instead of throwing the food away. In 2016, Orkla Foods Norge was one of the biggest contributors to the Food Bank Norway, which gives food and other grocery products to voluntary organisations that help the disadvantaged. Orkla Foods Sverige supports Matmission, a grocery store where impoverished individuals can pay a reduced price for goods with a sell-by date that will soon expire. Matmissionen is a collaborative project between Stockholm City Mission and Axfood, and Orkla Foods Sverige is one of several financial donors. 77 Orkla and society Annual Report 2016 Important topics addressed in Orkla’s dialogue with stakeholders in 2016 Suppliers • Compliance with Orkla’s Supplier Code of Conduct • Sustainable palm oil production • Sustainable fish and seafood • Improving conditions in the cocoa sector in the Ivory Coast • Working conditions for berry pickers in Sweden • Quality certification of fish oil Employees • Restructuring of businesses • Orkla’s vision and values Interest organisations • Sustainable palm oil production • Deforestation-free supply chains • Reduction of food waste • Red-listing of fish species • Animal welfare • Green value creation Research communities • Analysis of the environmental footprint of key raw materials • Development of healthy, sustainably produced food • Reduction of salt, sugar and saturated fat in food products • Healthy bread mixes with a good nutritional profile • Omega-3 and fish 78 Orkla and society Annual Report 2016 Important topics addressed in Orkla’s dialogue with stakeholders in 2016 Customers and Authorities consumers • Partnership to promote better public health • Reduction of salt, sugar and saturated fat in food products • Sustainable raw materials • Product labelling rules • Orkla’s Sustainability • Keyhole healthy food labelling Strategy up to 2020 • Deforestation-free supply chains • Reduction of food waste • Sustainable food production • Nutritional labelling • The UN Sustainable Development Goals • Allergies • The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights • Animal welfare • Marketing of food and drink to children and adolescents • Product safety • Framework conditions for food production • Contingencies • Ongoing dialogue with supervisory authorities • Product issues Local communities Investors • Environmental initiatives •O  rkla’s Sustainability • Restructuring of businesses Strategy up to 2020 • Collaboration on vocational training • Risk management • Municipal development projects • Orkla’s approach to corporate responsibility NÆRKJØP 79 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 Bjørn Arild, Ingvild and Victoriapart of the Orkla family Annual Financial Statements 2016 80 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 INCOME STATEMENT, EARNINGS PER SHARE AND STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME The Income Statement presents revenues and expenses for the companies consolidated in the Group and measures the results for the accounting period in accordance with current International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). All internal matters have been eliminated. The income statement distinguishes between what is deemed to be the Group’s operations and what is deemed to be of a more financial nature. Special matters related to operating activities are presented on a separate line as “Other income and expenses”. The notes explain the contents of the different lines of the statement. Earnings per Share are calculated on the basis of profit (loss) for the year attributable to owners of the parent divided by the average number of shares outstanding. The Statement of Comprehensive Income shows the result of all income and expenses that are credited/charged to equity, but are not included in profit/loss for the year and are not transactions with owners. INCOME STATEMENT Amounts in NOK million Note 2016 2015 2014 Sales revenues 7, 9 37 092 32 610 29 202 Other operating revenues 7, 9 666 588 397 Operating revenues 7, 9 37 758 33 198 29 599 Cost of materials 7, 10 (18 712) (16 345) (14 406) Payroll expenses 7, 11, 12 (7 259) (6 432) (5 779) Other operating expenses 7, 13 (6 343) (5 755) (5 242) Depreciation, amortisation and write-downs 7, 19, 20 (1 146) (1 057) (958) Operating profit before other income and expenses (EBIT adj.) 7 4 298 3 609 3 214 Other income and expenses 7, 14 (382) (502) (100) Operating profit 7 3 916 3 107 3 114 Profit/loss from associates and joint ventures 6, 7 1 378 1 111 121 Interest income 15 83 91 38 Interest costs 15 (260) (283) (401) Other financial income 15 270 137 107 Other financial costs 15 (205) (73) (107) Profit/loss before taxes 5 182 4 090 2 872 Taxes 16 (807) (722) (688) Profit/loss after taxes from continuing operations 4 375 3 368 2 184 Gains/loss/profit discontinued operations 38 0 (17) (485) Profit/loss for the year 4 375 3 351 1 699 Profit/loss attributable to non-controlling interests 7, 33 82 56 40 Profit/loss attributable to owners of the parent 4 293 3 295 1 659 EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings per share (NOK) 17 4.22 3.24 1.63 Earnings per share, diluted (NOK) 17 4.22 3.24 1.63 Earnings per share for continuing operations, diluted (NOK) 17 4.22 3.25 2.11 STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Profit/loss for the year 4 375 3 351 1 699 Items after tax not to be reclassified to profit/loss in subsequent periods Actuarial gains and losses pensions 12, 16 (53) (15) (148) Items after tax to be reclassified to profit/loss in subsequent periods Change in unrealised gains on shares 16, 24 (234) 6 (21) Change in hedging reserve 16, 31 46 31 (150) Items charged to equity in associates and joint ventures 6 (611) 685 906 Translation effects (1 141) 1 335 1 115 Hedging of net investment in foreign operations 31 493 (454) (402) Comprehensive income 2 875 4 939 2 999 Comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests 76 71 54 Comprehensive income attributable to owners of the parent 2 799 4 868 2 945 81 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION The Statement of Financial Position presents the Group’s assets, broken down into non-current and current items, and shows how they have been financed, broken down into equity and non-current and current liabilities. All internal matters between companies in the Group have been eliminated. IFRS-based financial statements are oriented towards the statement of financial position and only items that satisfy the criteria for definition as assets and liabilities may be recognised in the statement of financial position. Equity is a residual. The different standards determine how the items in the statement of financial position are to be treated. The statement of financial position items are explained in the notes to the financial statements. Amounts in NOK million Note 2016 2015 ASSETS Property, plant and equipment 7, 18, 20 11 038 10 523 Intangible assets 7, 18, 19 18 241 17 611 Deferred tax assets 16 102 65 Investments in associates and joint ventures 6, 7 12 508 12 149 Other assets 21 640 880 Total non-current assets 42 529 41 228 Assets held for sale 182 Inventories 7, 22 5 195 4 623 Inventory of development property 7, 22 70 216 Trade receivables 23 5 597 5 267 Other receivables 23 902 625 Shares and financial assets 24 107 1 376 Cash and cash equivalents 25 1 204 721 Total current assets 13 075 13 010 Total assets 55 604 54 238 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Paid-in equity 32 1 994 1 994 Retained earnings 31 480 31 335 Non-controlling interests 33 402 417 Total equity 33 876 33 746 Interest-bearing liabilities 28, 29 7 172 8 722 Deferred tax 16 1 591 1 479 Provisions and other liabilities 26 2 555 2 712 Total non-current liabilities 11 318 12 913 Interest-bearing liabilities 28, 29 2 496 399 Income tax payable 16 647 185 Trade payables 27 4 329 3 846 Other liabilities 27 2 938 3 149 Total current liabilities 10 410 7 579 Total equity and liabilities 55 604 54 238 82 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS The Statement of Cash Flows in accordance with IFRS shows how the Group’s cash flows are broken down into cash flow from operating, investing and financing activities, according to the indirect method. The cash flow statement explains the general changes in the Group’s liquidity since the previous accounting period. Orkla also prepares a separate cash flow statement that is used for internal management purposes and is part of the basis for the comments in the Report of the Board of Directors and the presentation in the segment information (see Note 40). Amounts in NOK million Note 2016 2015 Profit before taxes 5 182 4 090 Amortisation, depreciation and write-downs 1 161 1 153 Changes in net working capital, etc. (460) 314 Profit from associates and joint ventures, no cash flow effect 6 (1 378) (1 111) Dividends received from associates 6 222 254 Gains, losses and write-downs shares and financial assets, moved to investing activities 15 (187) (107) Financial items without cash flow effect 15 84 (22) Taxes paid (506) (727) CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 4 118 3 844 Sale of property, plant and equipment 8 282 183 Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 8 (1 649) (1 410) Sold companies 5, 6 264 783 Acquired companies 5, 6 (2 151) (1 562) Sale of shares and financial assets 24 1 194 298 Other capital transactions 11 158 CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES (2 049) (1 550) Dividends paid (2 599) (2 563) Sale of treasury shares 67 223 Buy-back of treasury shares (144) (254) Net paid to shareholders 32 (2 676) (2 594) Change in interest-bearing liabilities 29 912 (1 856) Change in interest-bearing receivables 188 239 Change in net interest-bearing liabilities1 40 1 100 (1 617) CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES (1 576) (4 211) Currency effect on cash and cash equivalents (10) 23 Change in cash and cash equivalents 483 (1 894) Cash and cash equivalents 1 January 721 2 615 Cash and cash equivalents 31 December 25 1 204 721 Change in cash and cash equivalents 483 (1 894) 1Reported excl. interest-bearing liabilities and receivables that are part of the transaction when companies are bought and sold; see the reconciliation in Note 40. The change in net interest-bearing liabilities is presented as a net figure in accordance with the way in which financing activities are managed (Note 28). Thus, a presentation of the gross increase in and repayment of loans is not a reliable indicator as such cash flows take place frequently within the bilateral borrowing facilities. In practice, day-to-day changes in cash flow in the Group will generate increases in/repayments of loans under the long-term facilities, resulting in correspondingly high gross figures. 83 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Equity changes from one period to the next in accordance with the Group’s comprehensive income. Furthermore, transactions with owners will be presented as separate items. This applies to matters such as dividends to shareholders, share issues, the Group’s purchase and sale of treasury shares and costs relating to options. Equity cannot be distributed to shareholders in its entirety. The equity in Orkla ASA (see page 141) constitutes the basis of calculation for and the limitation on the dividend paid by the Group. Items Uncharged to NonTreasPreTotal realised equity in Net Other conShare ury mium paid-in gains Hedging associates translation retained Total trolling Total Amounts in NOK million capital shares fund equity shares1 reserve2 and JV3 effects equity Group interests equity Equity 31 December 2014 1 274 (2) 721 1 993 281 (380) 1 008 425 27 732 31 059 245 31 304 Profit/loss for the year 3 295 3 295 56 3 351 Items in comprehensive income 6 31 685 866 (15) 1 573 15 1 588 Group comprehensive income 6 31 685 866 3 280 4 868 71 4 939 Dividends from 2014 (2 544) (2 544) (19) (2 563) Net purchase of treasury shares 1 1 (32) (31) (31) Change in non-controlling interests (see Note 33) (23) (23) 120 97 Equity 31 December 2015 1 274 (1) 721 1 994 287 (349) 1 693 1 291 28 413 33 329 417 33 746 Profit/loss for the year 4 293 4 293 82 4 375 Items in comprehensive income (234) 46 (611) (642) (53) (1 494) (6) (1 500) Group comprehensive income (234) 46 (611) (642) 4 240 2 799 76 2 875 Dividends from 2015 (2 545) (2 545) (54) (2 599) Net sale/purchase of treasury shares (77) (77) (77) Change in non-controlling interests (see Note 33) (32) (32) (37) (69) Equity 31 December 2016 1 274 (1) 721 1 994 53 (303) 1 0824 649 29 999 33 474 402 33 876 1 See Note 24 for unrealised gains before tax. 2 See Note 31 for the hedging reserve before tax. 3 Items charged to equity in associates and joint ventures (JV). 4 Including NOK -47 million in actuarial gains and losses relating to pensions (NOK 1 million in 2015). Oslo, 8 February 2017 The Board of Directors of Orkla ASA Stein Erik Hagen Grace Reksten Skaugen Ingrid Jonasson Blank Lars Dahlgren Chairman of the Board Deputy Chair of the Board Lisbeth Valther Nils K. Selte Terje Utstrand Sverre Josvanger Karin Hansson Roger Vangen Peter A. Ruzicka President and CEO (This translation from Norwegian of the Annual Financial Statements has been made for information purposes only.) 84 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTES GROUP GENERAL INFORMATION Note 1 General information 86 Note 2 Basis for preparing the consolidated financial statements 87 Note 3 Presentation of the financial statements and future developments 88 Note 4 Accounting matters, use of estimates and assumptions in preparing the consolidated financial statements 89 CHANGES IN THE GROUP AND DEVELOPMENTS RELATING TO PARTLY OWNED COMPANIES Note 5 Divestments and acquisitions 90 Note 6 Investments accounted for using the equity method 93 SEGMENT INFORMATION Note 7 Segments 96 Note 8 Geographical breakdown of capital employed, investments and number of man-years 100 INFORMATION ON INCOME STATEMENT ITEMS Note 9 Revenue recognition 100 Note 10 Cost of materials 101 Note 11 Payroll expenses 102 Note 12 Pensions 103 Note 13 Other operating expenses 105 Note 14 Other income and expenses 106 Note 15 Interest and other financial items 107 Note 16 Taxes 108 Note 17 Earnings per share 110 INFORMATION ON STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION ITEMS Note 18 Impairment assessments 111 Note 19 Intangible assets 115 Note 20 Property, plant and equipment 117 Note 21 Other assets (non-current) 119 Note 22 Inventories and development property 119 Note 23 Current receivables 120 Note 24 Shares and financial assets 121 Note 25 Cash and cash equivalents 122 Note 26 Provisions and other non-current liabilities 122 Note 27 Current liabilities 123 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Note 28 Capital management and funding 124 Note 29 Interest-bearing liabilities 125 Note 30 Financial risk 126 Note 31 Derivatives and hedging relationships 130 EQUITY INFORMATION Note 32 Share capital 132 Note 33 Non-controlling interests 133 OTHER MATTERS Note 34 Leasing 134 Note 35 Power and power guarantees 135 Note 36 Pledges and guarantees 136 Note 37 Related parties 136 Note 38 Discontinued operations 137 Note 39 Other matters 138 Note 40 Cash flow Orkla-format 139 Note 41 Events after the balance sheet date 139 85 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 1 GENERAL INFORMATION This general information provides an overview of the financial statements presented, who approves them and where the company is listed. Any changes in accounting principles are disclosed, together with individual events that are unusual in this year’s financial statements, including in relation to previously presented financial statements. General In the income statement, “Depreciation and write-downs property, plant The consolidated financial statements for Orkla ASA, including notes, and equipment” and “Amortisation intangible assets” are presented on for the year 2016 were approved by the Board of Directors of Orkla ASA one line as from 2016. The main reasons for this are both a materiality on 8 February 2017. Orkla ASA is a public limited company and its offices consideration and the fact that the Group now presents EBIT (adj.) and are located in Nedre Skøyen vei 26, Oslo in Norway. The company’s thus no longer reports amortisation separately. The comparative figures shares are traded on the Oslo Stock Exchange. The Orkla Group operates have been changed accordingly. primarily in the branded consumer goods, renewable energy and real estate sectors, as well as in aluminium solutions through its ownership The Group has not made any other changes in presentation or interest in Sapa (50%). The business areas are described in the segment accounting principles or applied any new standards that materially information in Note 7. affect its financial reporting or comparisons with previous periods. The financial statements for 2016 have been prepared and presented Changes in the composition of the Group in 2016 in full compliance with the International Financial Reporting Standards There were no disposals of material entities in the Group in 2016 (IFRS), as adopted by the EU. The valuation and recognition of the items (see Note 5). in the financial statements have been carried out in accordance with applicable IFRS standards. The Group has acquired new businesses. The biggest acquisitions in 2016 were Hamé (Orkla Foods) and Harris (Orkla Care). Acquisitions No changes have been made in IFRS framework conditions that have made in 2016 are presented in Note 5. a material effect on this year’s financial statements. For information regarding future changes in financial standards (see Note 3). Other income and expenses Special matters relating to operations are presented on a separate line as Orkla has maintained its presentation of the notes, whereby accounting “Other income and expenses” because they only to a limited degree are principles and estimate uncertainty are largely incorporated into the reliable as a measurement of the Group’s ongoing earnings. The most individual notes. The principles have been highlighted with a P ( P ) and important matters are disclosed according to their nature in Note 14. estimate uncertainty is marked with an E ( E ). Estimate uncertainty will vary, and the areas in which estimates will be most significant will be Other matters specified in both Note 4 and in the relevant notes, with cross-referencOrkla has no loan agreements containing financial covenants. es. In addition, certain sustainability elements have been presented in relevant notes and marked with a “S” ( S ). Impairment tests that have been carried out confirm that the capitalised value as at 31 December 2016 of the Group’s most exposed assets is Guidelines on “Alternative Performance Measures in Financial Reporting” intact (see Note 18). issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) came into force from 3 July 2016. The guidelines concern the presentation The Norwegian krone strengthened during 2016. This reduces the value of adjusted results (non-GAAP measures) or alternative performance of foreign investments, and consequently a net total of NOK 642 million measures as part of financial reporting. in negative translation differences has been recognised in equity. Orkla uses EBIT (Adj.) in both the income statement and in its presentation of segment results. EBIT (adj.) is defined as “Operating profit/loss S SUSTAINABILITY before other income and expenses”. “Other income and expenses” are disclosed below in both Note 4 and Note 14. A good dialogue with stakeholders is essential to fulfilling Orkla’s responsibility towards various stakeholder groups, adapting to Orkla uses the term “Organic growth” to explain changes in operating changes in society and building trust in Orkla’s operations. Orkla is revenues. “Organic growth” is not an accounting term, but is used in engaged in an active dialogue with customers, suppliers, employees, the Report of the Board of Directors and elsewhere. “Organic growth” is shareholders, authorities and civil society actors, and attaches defined as turnover growth adjusted for currency translation effects and importance to understanding their views. The companies in the structural changes. Group seek to ensure that complaints and enquiries are dealt with efficiently and effectively. By collaborating with others, Orkla can The term “expansion investments” is defined in Note 40 “Orkla-format make greater progress in its efforts to promote a sustainable value cash flow presentation”. The term is also used in the segment information chain. in Note 7. 86 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 2 BASIS FOR PREPARING THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS It is crucial to understanding these financial statements that the user is informed of the fundamental principles for both the recognition of items and the consolidation of the Group. Similarly, the use of parentheses and the currency in which the financial statements are presented will be significant. The assets in the statement of financial position are recognised on the Furthermore, profit or loss from joint ventures and associates will be basis of the purchase cost, and this will largely determine their further presented on an ongoing basis as part of the Group’s profit or loss. These accounting treatment. Normally, the purchase cost will be the highest are both presented using the equity method. This applies to interests value at which an asset may be recognised. However, this does not apply in companies in which the Group together with others has controlling to the treatment of financial assets and accounting hedges, which are interest (joint ventures) and interests in companies where the Group has reported at fair value on an ongoing basis. Assets that no longer justify significant influence (associates). Both these categories are disclosed in their value are written down to the recoverable amount, which is the Note 6. higher of value in use and fair value minus selling costs. Smaller ownership interests in other companies are disclosed in Note The financial statements are prepared on the basis of the underlying 24. These financial investments are largely treated as available for sale assumptions of the accrual accounting principle and the going concern and recognised in the statement of financial position at fair value with assumption. In general, the latter can be justified by Orkla’s financial changes in value taken to comprehensive income. strength with an equity ratio of 61% as at 31 December 2016 and good liquidity that more than covers the Group’s liabilities in the next 12 Principles for translating foreign currency months (see Note 29). Revenues and expenses in subsidiaries with a different functional currency from that of the parent company are translated monthly at the average An asset or liability is classified as current when it is part of a normal exchange rate for the month and accumulated. Statement of financial operating cycle, when it is held primarily for trading purposes, when it position items in subsidiaries with a different functional currency are falls due within 12 months or when it consists of cash or cash equivalents translated at the exchange rate on the statement of financial position date. on the statement of financial position date. Other items are non-current. Translation differences are reported in comprehensive income. Translation A dividend does not become a liability until it has been formally differences arise from two different situations. The first is when an income approved by the General Meeting. Discontinued operations and assets statement with a different functional currency than that of the parent held for sale are presented on separate lines as current items. company is translated at the average monthly exchange rate, while the statement of changes in equity is translated at the closing rate. The All amounts are in NOK million unless otherwise stated. Figures in second is when the opening and closing rates of the statement of changes parentheses are expenses or disbursements (cash flow). The functional in equity differ. When the average exchange rate in the income statement currency of the parent company (Orkla ASA) is NOK and the Group’s and the opening rate in the statement of changes in equity differ from the reporting currency is NOK. closing rate, the changes in equity will necessarily be explained in part by translation differences. Translation differences related to borrowing and The information in italics preceding the income statement, statement of lending in another functional currency, identified as net investment, are financial position, statement of cash flows and notes is provided to give a also reported in comprehensive income. This is shown as a separate item more detailed explanation of the various presentations. in comprehensive income. All exchange rates have been obtained from Norges Bank. Consolidation principles The consolidated financial statements show the overall financial results Main exchange rates on consolidation against NOK and the overall financial position when the parent company Orkla ASA Average of monthly Closing rate and its controlling interests in other companies are presented as a single exchange rates 31 December economic entity. All the companies have applied consistent principles 2016 2015 2016 2015 and all intercompany matters have been eliminated. EUR 9.29 8.94 9.09 9.62 SEK 0.98 0.96 0.95 1.05 Interests in companies in which the Group alone has controlling interest DKK 1.25 1.20 1.22 1.29 (subsidiaries) have been fully consolidated, line by line, in the consoliUSD 8.40 8.06 8.62 8.81 dated financial statements from the date the Group has control and are consolidated until the date that such control ends. The Group will have Transactions in foreign currencies are recognised at the exchange rate control if it has the power to govern the subsidiary, has exposure or rights on the date of the transaction. Financial receivables and liabilities in to variable returns from the subsidiary and has the ability to use its power foreign currencies are presented at the exchange rate on the statement over the subsidiary to affect the amount of its returns. If the Group has of financial position date, and any gain/loss is reported in the income control, but owns less than 100% of the subsidiaries, the companies are statement as a financial item. Other monetary items (e.g. accounts still consolidated, line by line, on a 100% basis, while the non-controlling receivable and accounts payable) in a foreign currency are presented at interests’ share of profit or loss after tax and their share of equity are the exchange rate on the statement of financial position date, and any presented on separate lines. As at 31 December 2016, no companies were gain/loss is reported in the income statement as an operating item. The consolidated in the Group based on the rules regarding de facto control. USD is primarily important in relation to the development of Orkla’s 50% interest in Sapa (joint venture). 87 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 3 PRESENTATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS Key accounting principles elaborate on the basic principles and describe how individual items in the financial statements have been treated. All the principles are consistent with current IFRS, but choices, interpretations and adaptations must nonetheless be made which affect the preparation and presentation of financial statements to varying degrees. Accounting is constantly evolving and changes in rules can give rise to significant changes in accounting practices. As stated by way of introduction, the disclosure of accounting principles The statement of changes in equity presents all the items reported in has been presented in the relevant notes. This has been done so as to equity, including items from the comprehensive income statement. give financial statement users as clear an overview as possible when they Other items in addition to the latter consist of transactions relating to consult the various notes. shareholders, such as dividends, the purchase and sale of treasury shares and transactions relating to non-controlling interests. Structure of the financial statements The complete set of financial statements consists of an income statement, Future changes in standards statement of comprehensive income, a statement of financial position, a The consolidated financial statements will be affected by future changes statement of cash flows and a statement of changes in equity. in IFRS. The IASB has both published standards and is working on projects that will affect the Orkla Group’s financial statements to varying Orkla has chosen to present its income statement based on a traditional degrees. The most important standards that could entail changes are classification of expenses by nature. The income statement shows the the new IFRS 15 Recognition of Income (published in May 2014), IFRS 9 Group’s ordinary profit or loss, is divided into lines for various income Financial Instruments (published in July 2014) and IFRS 16 Leases and expense items and culminates in the Group’s profit or loss for the (published in January 2016). Work is also in progress on changes in the year. The income statement presents three comparative years. IFRS Conceptual Framework and a new standard for Insurance Contracts. The statement of comprehensive income is based on the Group’s The new standards will not come into force until 2018/2019. Generally results for the year and presents items that are recognised in equity, but speaking, the Leases standard seems likely to have the greatest impact not included in ordinary profit or loss for the period. The items in the on the Orkla Group. It will impose a requirement to capitalise all statement are actuarial gains and losses on pensions, changes in hedging non-immaterial leases and the demarcation between them and service reserves in hedging transactions, changes in unrealised gains or losses contracts subject to a capitalisation requirement may be vague. This will on investments in shares, and currency translation effects. Actuarial gains result in changes in the cost picture with reductions in other operating and losses on pensions are recognised in equity with permanent effect, costs, higher depreciation and financial costs due to capitalisation and while the other items are recognised in equity temporarily and reversed the effects of the discounting of liabilities that arise. In the statement when the related assets/items are sold or settled. Corresponding items in of financial position, the value of property, plant and equipment will be associates and joint ventures are reported in the same way. higher, liabilities will be correspondingly higher, and the equity ratio will fall. The analysis and outcome of the change will depend on the leasing The statement of financial position is also traditionally structured, the portfolio remaining virtually unchanged until the standard comes into assets section starting out with non-current assets and ending with force. New rules may lead to new stances on and changed assessments cash and cash equivalents. Interest-bearing receivables except for cash of the benefit of leasing. More detailed calculations of this effect are and cash equivalents are not presented on separate lines, based on presented in Note 34. materiality considerations. The interest-bearing items are disclosed in notes. In the equity and liabilities section, a distinction is made between As far as the Income Recognition standard is concerned, it looks as equity, interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing items. though the effects will be limited for the type of sales the Orkla Group primarily has. Further details regarding effects are disclosed in Note 9. The statement of cash flows is structured using the indirect method, presenting cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, On the whole, the changes in IFRS 9 Financial Instruments do not appear and explains changes in “Cash and cash equivalents“ in the reporting to affect the Group significantly. Since the Group has sold off the bulk of period. its former share portfolio, whether potential gains or losses are presented in the ordinary income statement or in the comprehensive income Orkla also presents an Orkla-format cash flow statement. The bottom statement will probably have no material effect. On the other hand, the line of the statement, which is presented in Note 40, shows the change liberalisation of hedge accounting rules will make it easier to hedge in net interest-bearing liabilities. Segment information and information future cash flows, for example. As a result, the Group may make greater provided in the Report of the Board of Directors refer extensively to this use of this possibility than before. statement, as the Group’s cash flows are reported and managed in this way. Cash flow from operating activities is an important management parameter at Orkla (see Note 7). 88 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 4 ACCOUNTING MATTERS, USE OF ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS IN PREPARING THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The preparation of financial statements entails that the executive management must make decisions on the closing date on the basis of the information and discretionary assessments available on the date in question. This may apply to estimates and assumptions relating to financial statement items or other matters that may also have a material influence on the valuation of the company. It is important that the financial statement user is aware of these different items and the valuation techniques used to determine the values in the financial statements. Any material change in value up until the time the Board of Directors presents its report will be reflected in either the financial statements or in the notes. Areas of greatest estimate uncertainty annual bonuses, chain discounts and joint marketing. Discounts for The management has made use of estimates and assumptions in which provisions are made are reported as a current liability as at preparing the consolidated financial statements. This applies to assets, 31 December and amount to NOK 1.4 billion. Discounts for which liabilities, revenues, expenses and supplementary information related to provisions are made are related to contractual arrangements that are contingent liabilities. largely based on reported sales. The discount structure is complex and discounts are calculated on the basis of various discount matrices and Fair value assessments are affected by estimates of required rates of agreements, and entail an inherent risk of estimate variance. No material return. The required rate of return is determined by using the capital variance has been identified between estimated and paid discounts in asset pricing model and is affected by estimates of risk-free interest and recent years. risk premium. Other sales revenue reductions such as returns of seasonal goods, etc. Most statement of financial position items will be affected to some must be estimated, due to the fact that externally-sourced data will not degree by estimate uncertainty. This is disclosed in the respective notes. be available until after the financial statements have been prepared and Some areas are substantially affected by estimate uncertainty, and the presented. These will also contribute to reducing the Group’s sales areas where estimates will have the greatest significance will be: revenues. The systems also entail an inherent risk of estimate variance. There have been no material variances between provisions for and Amounts in NOK million Carrying actually reported reductions in the last years. Accounting item Note Estimate/assumptions value Net present value Other estimates and assumptions are disclosed in various notes, and any Goodwill 18, 19 12 741 information that is not logically included in other notes is presented in future cash flows/NSV1 Trademarks with Net present value Note 39. 18, 19 4 985 indefinite life future cash flows/NSV1 Looking ahead Property, plant and Net present value Future events and changes in operating parameters may make it necessary 18, 20 11 038 equipment future cash flows/NSV1 to change estimates and assumptions. Orkla’s partnership agreements Net present value with customers are mainly entered into for limited periods of time, as is Joint ventures 6 8 883 future cash flows/NSV1 the case for the rest of the industry. The parameters for the partnership are thus normally renegotiated at regular intervals. These negotiations 1 NSV: Net sales value can result in changes in both the conditions and positions covered by the The areas where there is the greatest risk of material changes are capitalindividual partnership agreement. Agreements with individual customers ised goodwill and trademarks with an indefinite useful life. This is because are normally entered into by the Orkla companies (business units). the amounts involved are substantial and the value of the asset is based on recognition principles from purchase price allocations. Valuations relating New interpretations of standards may result in changes in the choice of to these long-term assets are described extensively in Note 18. accounting principles and presentation. Such changes will be recognised in the financial statements when new estimates are prepared and The valuation of and estimated useful life of property, plant and whenever new requirements regarding presentation are introduced. These equipment are based on future information and will always involve a matters are disclosed in both the description of principles and in notes. degree of uncertainty. Especially in a situation where the Group is planning major changes in its manufacturing structure and number of production sites, there will be extra focus on the assessments made of different production facilities. The various production sites are routinely S SUSTAINABILITY assessed based on a going concern approach, and in a situation where a change in organisation could mean that some plants will be closed or The global challenges related to climate change, resource scarcity, reorganised, these assessments will have to be changed on an ongoing nutrition and health affect Orkla’s activities in the form of a risk of basis and could lead to the identification of both excess and deficit values. changes in raw material availability, costs, consumer preferences and political framework conditions. The Group monitors developThe value of joint ventures consists of the Group’s 50% ownership ments closely through an active dialogue with stakeholders interest in Sapa. The value is based on the contribution in kind at the and ongoing analyses. Orkla’s sustainability strategy covers the time the subsidiary became a joint venture in 2013 (see Note 6). topics considered particularly important for the Group based on a combined sustainability and business perspective. Through In Branded Consumer Goods, discounts amount to a substantial total. its sustainability work, Orkla’s ambition is to contribute towards The discounts do not appear directly in the financial statements. It is net achieving the global sustainability goals, ensure effective risk turnover after discounts that is presented as the Group’s operating management and exploit sustainability-related opportunities to revenues. The majority of the discounts are netted in the invoices. create growth, trust and long-term profitability. Provisions are made for the share of discounts that are not recognised directly in the invoice. This will chiefly apply to matters such as accrued Note 4 cont. 89 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 Exercise of judgement The financial statements may also be affected by the form of presentation, down by segment. Orkla has also chosen to present profit or loss from choice of accounting principles and the judgement exercised in applying associates and joint ventures after operating profit. them. This applies, for instance, to the assessment of whether a “Discontinued operation” should be presented on a separate line and It is important to note that use of a different set of assumptions for the the date on which this should be done. Material non-recurring items and presentation of the financial statements could have resulted in significant items substantially relating to other periods will be presented as “Other changes in the different lines of the income statement presented. The income and expenses” on a separate line of the income statement. These bottom line would have been the same. are included in the Group’s operating profit, but not in EBIT (adj.) broken NOTE 5 DIVESTMENTS AND ACQUISITIONS The sale and acquisition of companies affect the comparison with the previous year’s figures, and the changes in the various notes must be seen in the light of this factor. Acquired companies are presented in the financial statements from the date on which control transfers to the Group. Sold companies, which are not covered by the rules regarding “Discontinued operations”, cease to be included in the financial statements from the date the Group no longer has control. P PRINCIPLES Sale of companies Business combinations When a business is divested, the gain is measured as the difference Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. between the selling price and book equity, minus any remaining When a subsidiary is acquired, a purchase price allocation is carried excess value related to the business. Any sales expenses incurred will out. Assets and liabilities are valued at their fair value at the time of also reduce the gain/increase the loss. Accumulated translation acquisition. The residual value in the acquisition will be goodwill. The differences related to the divested business will be recognised in acquisition is reported in the financial statements from the date the profit or loss as part of the gain, with a corresponding contra entry Group has control. The date of control is normally the date on which in comprehensive income, and any hedging reserves are recognised the acquisition agreement takes effect and has been approved by all in profit or loss. Sales expenses incurred will be reported as “Other the relevant authorities, and will normally be after the contract date. If income and expenses” (M&A) in the period prior to the agreement date there are non-controlling interests in the acquired company, these will and will be recognised as a part of the gain upon completion of the receive their share of allocated assets and liabilities. Transactions with agreement. The gain will be reported before tax and the business’s the non-controlling interests will be recognised in equity. In companies associated tax will be recognised on the tax line of the income where the Group already owned interests prior to the business combistatement. The real gain is reflected in the sum total of the gain and nation, any change in the value of earlier interests will be recognised in the tax. If the sold business qualifies for recognition as “Discontinued the income statement. The Group’s equity will therefore be affected by operations”, all the effects associated with the gain will be reported on the fact that the assets are repriced as if the entire acquisition had been the line for “Discontinued operations” in the income statement made at this time. The same procedure will in principle be carried out in (see Note 38). connection with the establishment of a joint venture and with the acquisition of an associate. However, these are not considered to be business combinations because the Group does not obtain control. M&A costs are recognised as “Other income and expenses”. Sale of companies Approval of the acquisition of Cederroth in 2015 was conditional on the All the disposals are presented on the line for sold companies in the sale of the Allevo and Asan brands. Payment for the sale of Asan was statement of cash flows. received in the first quarter of 2016 and totalled NOK 115 million. The disposal of Asan had no effect on profit. Orkla Eiendom also sold lots from a former industrial property (Attizholz) in Switzerland (see Note 20). In the fourth quarter of 2016, Orkla Food Ingredients sold the Polish company Poznan Onion at a gain of NOK 16 million. The gain is Acquisition of companies presented on the line “Other income and expenses”. Orkla Foods purchased Hamé, a leading branded food company in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. The transaction was completed on In the fourth quarter, Orkla Eiendom sold its associate Åsane Utvikling. 31 March 2016. In the Czech Republic and Slovakia, Hamé holds leading The gain of NOK 38 million is presented on the line for “Associates and positions in the categories liver patés, ready meals, ketchup, conserved joint ventures” in the income statement. vegetables, jams and baby food. Its product portfolio includes brands like Hamé, Hamánek, Znojmia and Otma. Hamé also holds strong positions In the second quarter of 2016, Orkla Eiendom sold its subsidiary in the paté market in Hungary, Romania and Russia. Hamé has around Mortensrud Næring at a book gain of NOK 28 million, which is included 2,400 employees and ten factories. A total of 70% of Hamé’s sales in EBIT (adj.) In the first quarter of 2016 Orkla Eiendom sold its interest in revenues come from the Czech Republic and Slovakia. Hamé was Raufoss Næringpark. The gain of NOK 57 million is presented on the line consolidated into Orkla’s financial statements from 1 April 2016. for “Associates and joint ventures” in the income statement. Note 5 cont. 90 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 Orkla House Care Norge AS purchased L.G. Harris & Co. Limited (Harris), Orkla Food Ingredients (OFI) purchased 70% of the shares in Broer a leading UK supplier of “do-it-yourself” painting tools with well-known Bakkerijgrondstoffen B.V. (Broer). Broer is a leading manufacturer of brands such as Harris, Lynwood, Harris Victory and T-Class. With this almond paste, bakery ingredients and ice cream powder in the acquisition Orkla House Care has doubled the size of its operations. Netherlands. The purchase of Broer, which has its own production of Harris owns two factories, one of which is located in Stoke Prior, ready mixes for soft-serve ice cream, further strengthens OFI’s position Bromsgrove, outside Birmingham in the UK and the other in Zhaoqing in the Netherlands ice cream market. Broer has a total of 32 employees, City in Guangdong Province, China. In total, Harris has almost 1,000 emand is located in Waddinxveen, the Netherlands. In 2015, the company ployees. The company’s head office is located in Bromsgrove. Harris also recorded a turnover of EUR 17 millIion (approx. NOK 158 million) and owns 50% of a joint venture with a local partner in India in order to serve EBIT (adj.) of EUR 0.7 million (approx. NOK 6.5 million). Minority the Indian market. Furthermore, the company has a non-­controlling shareholders will continue to own a total of 30% of the company’s interest in a painting tool manufacturer in Sri Lanka. Harris was shares. Broer was consolidated into the financial statements as from consolidated into the financial statements as from 1 September 2016. 1 September 2016. Pierre Robert purchased four well-known socks, tights and underwear Orkla Food Ingredients has also bought up the remaining ownership brands from the Finnish branded goods supplier Nanso Group. The interests in Call Caterlink and Marcantonio Foods, and purchased four agreement concerned the purchase of the Norlyn, Amar, Black Horse small companies, three of which are in Iceland and one in Sweden. and Finnwear brands, which hold strong positions in the Finnish grocery trade. The products are a good fit with Pierre Robert’s current product Other matters relating to purchase price allocations portfolio which, in addition to underwear, socks and tights, comprises None of the purchase price allocations for the acquisitions made in 2016 workout wear and wool undergarments. A total of 22 employees will be had been finalised as at 31 December 2016, due to uncertainty attached transferred to Pierre Robert as a result of the transaction. The acquisition to certain valuation factors. was consolidated into Orkla’s financial statements as from 1 May 2016. The purchase price allocations for all companies acquired in 2015 were Orkla Food Ingredients (OFI) purchased The Waverley Bakery Limited, a completed in 2016. No material changes have been made in the leading supplier of ice cream cones and accessories in the UK. Waverley purchase price allocations except in the case of Cederroth where an exprimarily sells ice cream cones and wafers to the UK grocery sector. The cess value of NOK 39 million has been assigned to a factory in Falun, and company also offers ice cream cones, ingredients and accessories to ice the value of acquired brands has been reduced by NOK 15 million. Some cream parlours and small-scale ice cream manufacturers. Waverley additional provisions totalling NOK 16 million were also made, bringing Bakery has been a well-known name in the Scottish ice cream industry goodwill to the same level as in the original acquisition analysis. for over 100 years. The company has around 45 employees. Waverley Bakery was consolidated into Orkla’s financial statements as from Operating revenues and EBIT (adj.) for the largest acquired companies, 1 March 2016. before and after the acquisition, are presented in the table on the next page. Orkla Health Poland acquired the Colon-C brand in an asset transaction. With this acquisition Orkla has strengthened its foothold in the rapidly See Note 39 for information on agreements entered into for the purchase growing gut health category. The Colon-C brand is an approved of companies. European brand with growth potential also outside the Polish market. The brand was consolidated into Orkla’s statement of financial position A total of NOK 83 million was expensed in acquisition costs in 2016. as from 30 September 2016 and will be consolidated into the income statement as from 1 October 2016. The transaction does not entail the transfer of employees or factories. E ESTIMATE UNCERTAINTY Other acquisitions Orkla Foods Danmark acquired 100% of the shares in O. Kavli A/S. The In company acquisitions, the assets taken over are valued at fair company is a major supplier to the Danish grocery trade, with wellvalue at the time of purchase. The various assets are valued on the known brands such as Fun, Grønnegården, Kavli, Scoop and Blomberg's basis of different models, and goodwill is the residual in this type of Glögg. Orkla already owned the Fun brand in the other Nordic countries, purchase price allocation. Errors in estimates and assumptions can and through this agreement acquired full ownership of Fun in the Nordic lead to an error in the split of the value between the various assets, region. O. Kavli had a turnover of DKK 170 million in 2014. The company but the sum of the total excess values will always be consistent with has 70 employees. The takeover took place with effect from 1 March the purchase price paid. 2016, and badwill was calculated at the time of takeover (see Note 19). Note 5 cont. 91 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 OperOperating Operating Operrevating revating enues profit enues profit Interest Other after after before before acAcquiExcess/ intanDeacquiacquiacquiacquiDate of quired sition deficit Tradegible ferred Goodsition sition sition sition Amounts in NOK million control (%) cost value1 marks assets Other tax will date date date date 2016 Hamé, Orkla Foods April 100 1 623 838 497 50 55 (158) 394 1 363 136 410 27 L.G. Harris & Co. Ltd., Orkla Care September 100 562 173 80 31 (53) (33) 148 184 13 519 50 Net asset from Nanso Group, Orkla Care2 May 100 157 157 30 34 93 na na na na The Waverly Bakery, Orkla Food Ingredients March 100 64 50 2 48 67 9 6 (2) Trademark Colon-C, Orkla Care October 100 61 61 61 na na na na Other acquisitions 181 79 61 (4) 10 (6) 18 Acquisitions at enterprise value 2 648 1 358 729 77 48 (197) 701 Investments in associates 3 Acquisitions in segments, enterprise value (see Note 40) 2 651 Interest-bearing liabilities acquisitions (500) Cash flow effect acquisitions3, 4 2 151 2015 Cederroth, Orkla Care September 100 1 836 1 526 503 (1) 41 (181) 1 164 527 28 1 116 94 NP Foods, Orkla Confectionery & Snacks April 100 862 618 187 21 (33) 443 559 14 142 (5) Condite, Orkla Food Ingredients January 67 101 9 15 (4) (3) 1 288 4 na na W. Ratje Frøskaller, Orkla Care February 100 88 77 33 (7) 51 54 20 5 2 EISUNION GmbH, Orkla Food Ingredients April 100 67 26 3 (1) 24 149 5 45 2 Anamma, Orkla Foods June 100 59 41 12 (3) 32 30 4 22 1 Other acquisitions 157 77 4 (1) (1) 75 Acquisitions at enterprise value 3 170 2 374 739 34 40 (229) 1 790 Investments in associates 3 Acquisitions in segments, enterprise value (see Note 40) 3 173 Interest-bearing liabilities acquisitions (1 611) Cash flow effect acquisitions3, 4 1 562 2014 Minor acquisitions of assets in Branded Consumer Goods 49 na na na na Real estate Sofienlund, Financial Investments August 100 38 20 20 1 Acquisitions at enterprise value 87 20 20 Investments in associates Acquisitions in segments, enterprise value (see Note 40) 87 Interest-bearing liabilities acquisitions (28) Cash flow effect acquisitions3, 4 59 Excess/deficit value is the difference between the purchase price of the shares and the Group’s share of equity in the acquired company. 1 2 Associated operating revenues and operating profit may not be separated from the rest of the business as assets were purchased net. 3 This includes cash and cash equivalents of NOK 206 million in 2016, NOK 261 million in 2015 and NOK 0 million in 2014. 4 Equivalent to compensation for equity adjusted for cash and cash equivalents. Note 5 cont. 92 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 Acquired companies statement of financial position Total 2016 2016 2016 Total 2015 Amounts in NOK million Fair value Hamé Harris Fair value Property, plant and equipment 674 516 131 534 Intangible assets 730 499 79 747 Deferred tax assets 4 60 Other long-term assets 160 54 106 60 Inventories 589 403 84 422 Receivables 897 515 280 662 Shares in other companies 2 2 0 Assets 3 056 1 987 682 2 485 Provisions 225 178 53 481 Non-current liabilities, non interest-bearing 13 13 53 Current liabilities, non interest-bearing 881 567 215 594 Non-controlling interests (10) (23) Net assets 1 947 1 229 414 1 380 Goodwill 701 394 148 1 790 Acquisition cost at enterprise value 2 648 1 623 562 3 170 S SUSTAINABILITY Several of the companies purchased by Orkla in 2015-2016 have acquisition of Bioquelle enables the Group to offer more organic increased the Group’s capability to offer healthier, more sustainable foods and the acquisition of Cederroth has strengthened Orkla’s products. Through the acquisition of Anamma Orkla has strengthened position in the wound care segment. its position in the vegetarian and vegan product market, the NOTE 6 INVESTMENTS ACCOUNTED FOR USING THE EQUITY METHOD Investments in associates are investments in companies in which the Orkla Group has significant influence by virtue of its ownership interest. Joint ventures are investments in companies where the Group, together with others, has controlling interest. Both of these types of investment are consolidated on a single line using the equity method. P PRINCIPLES The equity method Investments in associates are investments in companies in which the excess value that is to be amortised is deducted from profit according Orkla Group has significant influence by virtue of its ownership interest. to the same principles as for consolidated companies. Goodwill is not These are usually companies in which Orkla owns a 20-50% stake. amortised. Dividends received from associates and joint ventures are Joint ventures are investments in companies where the Group, reported against the ownership interest in the statement of financial together with others, has controlling interest. This applies to companies position and are regarded as repayment of capital. The value of where the Group has entered into an agreement with another party to associates and joint ventures presented in the statement of financial operate and develop a joint company in which neither of the parties position thus represents the original cost price plus profit/loss alone has control. Both these types of investment are accounted for accumulated up to the present date, minus any amortisation of excess using the equity method by the Group presenting its share of the value and accumulated dividends received. Account is also taken of the companies’ results after tax and non-controlling interests on a separate share of any translation differences and the like in the associate or joint line in the income statement and accumulating the results reported for venture. Any write-downs of the value of the ownership interest are the share on a single line in the statement of financial position. Any presented on the same line. Associates and joint ventures i­nterest has been written down by NOK 71 million and is presented Orkla’s 42.5% ownership interest in Jotun is presented as an associate on the line for “Profit/loss from associates and joint ventures”. Loans using the equity method. In addition, Orkla has some smaller associates totalling NOK 100 million to the company have been written down on which derive from the acquisition of Jordan and from Capto Eiendom. the line for “Other financial items, net”. The write-downs were taken in the second quarter of 2016. Orkla’s 50% ownership interest in Sapa AS is based on an agreement with Norsk Hydro and is considered to be a joint venture. The Group also No significant capital contributions are required in joint ventures in had a 40% interest in Rygge sivile lufthavn AS (RSL), which was also a which Orkla is a participant. Figures for associates and joint ventures joint venture. As a result of the introduction of an air passenger tax as of which do not report in accordance with IFRS are restated prior to 1 June 2016 and Ryanair’s decision to close its operations base at Rygge, inclusion in the consolidated financial statements. Orkla has no activity at RSL was discontinued on 1 November 2016. Consequently, contingent liabilities, either on its own or jointly with other investors, Orkla wrote down the statement of financial position assets related to in associates or joint ventures. RSL by a total of NOK 171 million. The carrying value of Orkla’s equity Note 6 cont. 93 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 Material associates and joint ventures Amounts in NOK million Jotun Sapa Gränges Other Total Book value 1 January 2014 2 221 7 641 515 10 377 Additions/disposals 923 (24) 899 Share of profit/loss 384 (313) 26 24 121 Final settlement/dividends (218) (36) (16) (270) Items charged to equity 414 468 45 927 Book value 31 December 2014 2 801 7 760 994 499 12 054 Additions/disposals (1 432) (15) (1 447) Share of profit/loss 569 123 32 37 7611 Gain on disposal 425 4251 Write-downs (75) (75)1 Dividends (218) (31) (5) (254) Items charged to equity 132 538 12 3 685 Book value 31 December 2015 3 284 8 421 0 444 12 149 Additions/disposals (186) (186) Share of profit/loss 471 890 (1) 1 3601 Gain on disposal 89 891 Write-downs (71) (71)1 Dividends (218) (4) (222) Items charged to equity (183) (428) 0 (611) Book value 31 December 2016 3 354 8 883 0 271 12 508 Cost price 31 December 2016 175 7 709 Ownership interest (%) 42.5 50.0 1 The sum of the items make up the profit from associates and joint ventures, amounting to NOK 1,378 million in 2016 (NOK 1,111 million in 2015). 2 The Group has 38.3% of the voting rights in Jotun. Jotun The following tables show 100% figures for Jotun. Jotun is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of paints and powder coatings, with 53 subsidiaries, three joint ventures and six associates. Items in the income statement and Jotun has 37 production plants distributed across all of the world’s statement of financial position Jotun continents. Jotun’s activities consist of the development, manufacture, Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 marketing and sale of paint systems for the residential, shipping and Operating revenues 15 785 16 282 industrial sectors. Jotun is divided into four segments: Decorative Paints, Operating profit 1 763 2 064 Marine Coatings, Protective Coatings and Powder Coatings. Profit/loss after tax and non-controlling interests 1 108 1 338 Orkla’s 42.5% ownership interest in Jotun is presented as an associate and Other comprehensive income Orkla has been an active minority shareholder in Jotun for approximately after non-controlling interests 676 1 648 40 years. The cost price for Jotun is NOK 175 million, while the carrying Current assets 8 132 8 476 value using the equity method is NOK 3,354 million. Orkla’s 42.5% owner­ Non-current assets 7 026 6 710 ship interest in Jotun serves as the basis for recognition using the equity Total assets 15 158 15 186 method, while Orkla has 38.3% of the voting rights. Orkla owns 42,014 A Current liabilities 4 445 4 606 shares and 103,446 B shares in the company. An A share carries 10 times Non-current liabilities 2 679 2 648 as many votes as a B share. Total liabilities 7 124 7 254 Reconcilation of equity Jotun against Orkla’s share Equity in Jotun 8 034 7 932 E ESTIMATE UNCERTAINTY Non-controlling interests 149 210 Owners of the parent’s equity 7 885 7 722 Jotun is a family-controlled group and Orkla, with its 42.5% Orkla's share of equity (42.5%) 3 354 3 284 ownership interest, is to be considered a minority shareholder. The value of Orkla’s interest in Jotun must be seen in the light of this situation. A valuation of Jotun substantiates that there is considerable excess value in Orkla’s investment in Jotun in relation to its carrying value. Note 6 cont. 94 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 Sapa Sapa became part of the Orkla Group through the acquisition of Elkem The following tables show 100% figures for Sapa. in 2005 and was reported as a subsidiary until the agreement with Sapa Norsk Hydro was entered into in 2012. At that time, the operations in Sapa Profiles, Sapa Building System and parts of Heat Transfer (Precision Income statement 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. Tubing) were identified as a separate item as Sapa (part of future JV) and Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 presented on one line as “Discontinued operations”. Historical figures Operating revenues 53 430 55 397 were restated. The agreement with Norsk Hydro became effective from Operating expenses (49 932) (52 669) September 2013, from which time Orkla’s 50% ownership interest in Sapa Depreciation (1 301) (1 321) was presented using the equity method. The Heat Transfer business was Other income and expenses 223 (879) split off from the future joint venture between Norsk Hydro and Orkla Operating profit 2 420 528 and retained in Orkla. The company changed its name to Gränges in Financial items (52) (281) 2013, and was listed on Nasdaq Stockholm in October 2014. Orkla sold Profit/loss before tax 2 368 247 the remainder of its shares in Gränges in the first quarter of 2016 and Taxes (583) 4 the gain of NOK 26 million is presented on the line for “Other financial Profit/loss after tax 1 785 251 income”. Non-controlling interests (6) (5) Net profit/loss (100%) 1 779 246 Sapa is the leading global manufacturer of extruded aluminium profiles, Of this Orkla’s share (50%) 890 123 with a market share of 22.2% in Europe and 24.0% in North America at Items recognised in other the end of 2016, as well as operations in South America and Asia. The comprehensive income (100%) (856) 1 076 Group supplies extrusions to customers in most sectors, including the Other comprehensive income (100%-basis) 923 1 322 automotive, transport, electronics, building and construction industries. The parent company Sapa AS is a Norwegian limited company and its Statement of financial position 31.12. 31.12. registered office is in Oslo, Norway. The company is a holding company Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 with interests in a number of Norwegian and foreign companies. The Cash and cash equivalents 670 2 512 Orkla Group’s 50% ownership interest in Sapa AS is owned through Current assets 12 527 12 799 Industriinvesteringer AS. Hydro Aluminium AS, a subsidiary of Norsk Non-current assets 12 722 13 529 Hydro ASA, owns the remaining 50% of the shares in Sapa AS. Orkla and Total assets 25 919 28 840 Norsk Hydro have entered into a shareholder agreement which, suppleCurrent liabilities non interest-bearing 9 186 9 334 mented by Norwegian company legislation, regulates the parties’ rights Current liabilities interest-bearing 712 1 191 and obligations in this connection. The agreement contains provisions Non-current liabilities 2 221 5 442 whereby either party may initiate a process for stock exchange listing Total liabilities 12 119 15 967 after around three years from the date of completion of the agreement (1 September 2013), and whereby either party may decide to retain a 34% ownership interest. Reconcilation of equity Sapa against Orkla’s share Equity in Sapa 13 800 12 873 The Board of Directors in Sapa proposes to pay a dividend of NOK 3 billion for the financial year 2016, NOK 1.5 billion to each owner. Non-controlling interests 53 49 Owners of the parent’s equity 13 747 12 824 Orkla's share of equity (50%) 6 873 6 411 Goodwill at Orkla level 2 010 2 010 E ESTIMATE UNCERTAINTY Capitalised share 8 883 8 421 The value of assets in Sapa was tested for impairment in 2016. This was done both by means of discounted cash flow, a multiple approach and a sum of the parts valuation. In all three models, the result clearly indicates that the value may be deemed to have been maintained. Sapa Profiles, Inc. (SPI), a Portland, Oregon based subsidiary of Sapa AS (owned 50 percent by Orkla), is under investigation by the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) Civil and Criminal Divisions regarding certain aluminium extrusions that SPI manufactured from 1996 to 2015, including extrusions that were delivered to a supplier to NASA. SPI is cooperating fully in these investigations. The investigations are currently ongoing, and, at this point, the outcome of the investigations and of any identified quality issues, including financial consequences on Sapa, is uncertain. SPI also has been temporarily suspended as a federal ­government contractor. Based on the information known to Orkla at this stage, Orkla does not expect any resulting liabilities to have a material adverse effect on its consolidated results of operations, liquidity or financial position. 95 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 7 SEGMENTS In the segment information, sales revenues, profit and loss, cash flows and capital employed, together with operating margin and the number of man-years, are broken down between the different business areas, thereby giving those using the financial statements a better basis for understanding the Group’s underlying operations. P PRINCIPLES Orkla has business areas as operating segments. The operating reporting is based are the same as for the rest of the consolidated segments correspond to the way in which the business areas report financial statements. figures to the Group Executive Board (chief operating decision maker), but are limited to an expedient number. Transactions between business areas are priced on market terms. Orkla ASA provides services to the companies in the Orkla Group Sales revenues are broken down by geographical market based on and charges them for these services based on the aforementioned the customer’s location. The accounting principles on which segment principles. Segment information HQ/Other business primarily consists of activities at the Group’s head office The operating profit/loss in the segment information is identical to the and is presented as a separate segment. Figures showing the geographical information presented in the income statement for the Group. There is breakdown of capital employed, investments in property, plant and equiptherefore no need for further reconciliation of these income statement ment and the number of man-years are also presented (see Note 8). items. The segment information also contains a breakdown of profit/loss from companies reported using the equity method. The Orkla Group has Orkla’s four branded consumer goods business areas must be described a central finance function and the financing of the various segments does as aggregated segments. A further breakdown of selected KPIs is presented not necessarily reflect the real financial strength of the individual segments. in reporting to the Group Executive Board and the Board of Directors. Financial items are therefore presented only for the Group as a whole. The The characteristics of the different segments vary. Orkla Foods and Orkla same applies to tax expense. Cash flow figures were taken from the cash Confectionery & Snacks are mainly aggregated from homogeneous operflow in Orkla-format (see Note 40). ations in countries with a relatively similar risk profile. Orkla Care is more differentiated, but largely operates in homogeneous markets with approxiThe segment information tables show sales broken down by market, based mately the same risk profile. Orkla Food Ingredients also has relatively simion the customers’ location. The table below shows the revenues generated lar operations, on the whole, in the ingredients segment in many European by various products and services. Orkla has four customers who individually countries, with sales primarily to industrial customers and wholesalers. account for around 10% of turnover in Branded Consumer Goods. Further information on the individual business areas (see also Note 18): Branded Consumer Goods Orkla Food Ingredients is the leading player in the bakery and ice cream Orkla Foods comprises Orkla’s food businesses which serve home markets ingredients sectors in the Nordics and Baltics, in addition to holding in the Nordics, Baltics, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Austria and India. The growing market positions in selected countries in Europe. The ­business companies in the business area are Orkla Foods Norge, Orkla Foods Sverige, area maintains proximity to its customer market through sales and Orkla Foods Danmark and Orkla Foods Finland in the Nordics, Põltsamaa distribution companies in 22 countries. Its biggest product categories are Felix, Orkla Foods Latvija and Orkla Foods Lietuva in the Baltics, Felix Austria, margarine and butter blends, yeast, bread and cake improvers and mixes, Vitana Group and Hamé in Central Europe, and MTR Foods in India. marzipan and ice cream ingredients. Orkla Confectionery & Snacks comprises the product categories Orkla Investments ­confectionery, snacks and biscuits, and consists of six branded consumer Hydro Power consists primarily of the power operations at Sarpsfoss and goods businesses which serve their home markets in the Nordics and Orkla’s 85% ownership interest in AS Saudefaldene. The energy business Baltics. The companies in this business area are Orkla Confectionery & produces and supplies power to the Nordic power market, and has a total Snacks Norge (confectionery, snacks and biscuits), Orkla Confectionery & normal production volume of 2.4 TWh. The Sauda hydropower operations Snacks Sverige (snacks and biscuits), Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Finland are leased from Statkraft until 31 December 2030, after which the power (confectionery, snacks and biscuits), Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Danmark plants will be returned in return for an agreed financial compensation. (snacks and confectionery), Kalev in Estonia (confectionery, snacks and Approximately 1 TWh of AS Saudefaldene’s production is subject to special biscuits) and Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Latvija (confectionery, snacks, contract conditions. biscuits, cakes and ready meals). Financial Investments consists of Orkla Eiendom, the remainder of the Orkla Care comprises six branded consumer goods businesses which share portfolio, Chaka and the investments in Sapa and Jotun (see Note 6). serve their home markets in the Nordics, but also hold good positions in Orkla Eiendom Group meets the Group’s need for specialised real estate the Baltics, the UK, Poland and Spain. From the start of 2016, Cederroth’s expertise and assistance, and is responsible for the administration, businesses were integrated with Orkla’s own companies in all the Nordic development and sale of properties that are not utilised in Orkla’s industrial countries. The integration has been successful, with extensive realisation operations. Orkla also has a historical portfolio of real estate-related of synergies and solid turnover growth. After the integration, Orkla Care investments, which are being divested in accordance with the Group’s comprises the businesses Orkla Home & Personal Care (household detercurrent strategy. The most important development projects are Orkla’s new gents, toothbrushes and personal hygiene ­products), ­Lilleborg (full-range headquarters at Skøyen and two housing projects at Torshov in Oslo. supplier of hygiene and cleaning solutions to the professional market), Orkla Health (dietary supplements and health products), Pierre Robert Group (basic textiles sold through the grocery channel), Orkla House Care (painting tools and cleaning products) and Orkla Wound Care (wound care products). Note 7 cont. 96 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 SEGMENTS 2016 Orkla Branded ConfecOrkla ConFinan­cial HQ/ Orkla tionery & Orkla Food Elim­insumer Hydro InvestOther Elimin­ Orkla Amounts in NOK million Foods Snacks Care Ingredients ations Goods Power ments Business ations Group REVENUES/PROFIT/LOSS Norway 4 798 2 139 3 110 960 11 007 670 16 11 693 Sweden 4 372 1 253 1 054 1 314 7 993 7 993 Denmark 1 229 591 532 1 528 3 880 3 880 Finland and Iceland 874 838 492 638 2 842 2 842 The Baltics 444 1 028 59 297 1 828 1 828 Nordic region and the Baltics 11 717 5 849 5 247 4 737 27 550 670 16 28 236 Rest of Europe 2 756 299 1 125 3 254 7 434 48 7 482 Rest of the world 926 54 316 74 1 370 4 1 374 Sales revenues 15 399 6 202 6 688 8 065 36 354 670 48 20 37 092 Other operating revenues 13 14 26 6 59 51 524 32 666 Intercompany sales 64 14 26 90 (185) 9 9 600 (618) 0 Operating revenues 15 476 6 230 6 740 8 161 (185) 36 422 721 581 652 (618) 37 758 Cost of materials (7 592) (2 563) (2 956) (5 247) 182 (18 176) (300) (235) (5) 4 (18 712) Payroll expenses (2 916) (1 240) (1 250) (1 248) (6 654) (39) (59) (507) (7 259) Other operating expenses (2 517) (1 252) (1 457) (1 062) 3 (6 285) (130) (134) (408) 614 (6 343) Depreciation and amortisation (483) (238) (121) (165) (1 007) (60) (22) (57) (1 146) Operating profit before other income and expenses EBIT (adj.) 1 968 937 956 439 4 300 192 131 (325) 4 298 Other income and expenses (81) (14) (149) (86) (330) (52) (382) Operating profit/loss 1 887 923 807 353 3 970 192 131 (377) 3 916 Profit/loss from associates and joint ventures 1 1 1 377 1 378 Non-controlling interests’ share of profit/loss (48) (48) (15) (19) (82) CASH FLOW (SEE NOTE 40) Cash flow from operations before net replacement expenditures 1 912 1 283 873 601 4 669 268 (78) (242) 4 617 Net replacement expenditures (717) (205) (146) (186) (1 254) (14) 123 (59) (1 204) Cash flow from operations 1 195 1 078 727 415 3 415 254 45 (301) 3 413 Expansion investments (145) (4) (14) (163) (163) Acquired companies (enterprise value) (1 675) (1) (784) (188) (2 648) (3) (2 651) CAPITAL EMPLOYED Segment assets Trade receivables 2 321 962 1 220 1 088 (22) 5 569 9 52 95 (128) 5 597 Other current receivables 164 34 72 71 341 51 252 168 812 Inventories and development property 2 494 601 1 207 882 5 184 80 1 5 265 Pension plan assets 14 1 105 9 129 129 Investments in associates and joint ventures 202 5 207 12 301 12 508 Intangible assets 8 129 4 791 4 218 1 079 18 217 19 5 18 241 Property, plant and equipment 4 103 1 677 911 1 042 7 733 2 029 1 027 249 11 038 Total segment assets 17 225 8 066 7 935 4 176 (22) 37 380 2 108 13 717 513 (128) 53 590 Segment liabilities Trade payables (1 915) (833) (891) (676) 22 (4 293) (20) (40) (104) 128 (4 329) Value added tax, employee taxes (296) (120) (140) (77) (633) (8) (3) (24) (668) Other current liabilities (501) (295) (332) (274) (1 402) (8) (81) (624) (2 115) Pension liabilities (711) (175) (266) (176) (1 328) (20) (4) (520) (1 872) Deferred tax, excess values (457) (379) (184) (12) (1 032) 3 (1 029) Total segment liabilities (3 880) (1 802) (1 813) (1 215) 22 (8 688) (56) (125) (1 272) 128 (10 013) Capital employed1 13 345 6 264 6 122 2 961 28 692 2 052 13 592 (759) 43 577 KEY FIGURES Operating margin EBIT (adj.) (%) 12.7 15.0 14.2 5.4 11.8 26.6 na na na 11.4 Total man-years 31 December 8 501 3 001 3 222 2 820 17 544 45 110 339 18 038 Most of the lines under “Segment assets” and “Segment liabilities” can be matched directly with the notes and the statement of financial position. The difference between “Other 1 current receivables” in Note 23 and “Other current liabilities” in Note 27 is ascribable to the fact that other current receivables and liabilities also comprise items not included in capital employed, such as accrued interest, while some of the derivatives are included in capital employed. Deferred tax related to excess value is included in deferred tax. See the reconciliation of segment assets and segment liabilities with total assets and total liabilities on page 100. Note 7 cont. 97 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 SEGMENTINFORMASJON 2015 Orkla Branded ConfecOrkla ConFinan­cial HQ/ Orkla tionery & Orkla Food Elim­insumer Hydro InvestOther Elimin­ Orkla Amounts in NOK million Foods Snacks Care Ingredients ations Goods Power ments Business ations Group REVENUES/PROFIT/LOSS Norway 4 749 1 993 3 159 981 10 882 629 4 11 515 Sweden 4 115 1 138 706 1 313 7 272 7 272 Denmark 944 558 429 1 470 3 401 3 401 Finland and Iceland 858 792 272 488 2 410 2 410 The Baltics 398 902 56 258 1 614 1 614 Nordic region and the Baltics 11 064 5 383 4 622 4 510 25 579 629 4 26 212 Rest of Europe 1 272 326 565 2 932 5 095 29 5 124 Rest of the world 853 55 300 58 1 266 8 1 274 Sales revenues 13 189 5 764 5 487 7 500 31 940 629 29 12 32 610 Other operating revenues 8 13 25 8 54 61 438 35 588 Intercompany sales 53 36 22 90 (193) 8 9 428 (445) 0 Operating revenues 13 250 5 813 5 534 7 598 (193) 32 002 690 476 475 (445) 33 198 Cost of materials (6 392) (2 385) (2 285) (4 984) 193 (15 853) (288) (200) (4) (16 345) Payroll expenses (2 527) (1 178) (1 061) (1 070) (5 836) (39) (59) (498) (6 432) Other operating expenses (2 222) (1 173) (1 209) (972) (5 576) (146) (117) (361) 445 (5 755) Depreciation and amortisation (408) (234) (98) (158) (898) (63) (43) (53) (1 057) Operating profit before other income and expenses EBIT (adj.) 1 701 843 881 414 3 839 154 57 (441) 3 609 Other income and expenses (164) (58) (201) (37) (460) (8) (34) (502) Operating profit/loss 1 537 785 680 377 3 379 154 49 (475) 3 107 Profit/loss from associates and joint ventures 1 1 1 110 1 111 Non-controlling interests’ share of profit/loss (53) (53) (2) (1) (56) CASH FLOW (SEE NOTE 40) Cash flow from operations before net replacement expenditures 1 888 962 1 224 553 4 627 205 3 (261) 4 574 Net replacement expenditures (382) (270) (75) (132) (859) (9) 91 (62) (839) Cash flow from operations 1 506 692 1 149 421 3 768 196 94 (323) 3 735 Expansion investments (368) (16) (4) (388) (388) Acquired companies (enterprise value) (103) (891) (1 924) (255) (3 173) (3 173) CAPITAL EMPLOYED Segment assets Trade receivables 1 977 1 049 1 039 1 126 (21) 5 170 28 31 184 (146) 5 267 Other current receivables 170 52 84 74 380 52 13 88 533 Inventories and development property 2 082 617 1 043 872 4 614 224 1 4 839 Pension plan assets 24 2 5 8 39 39 Investments in associates and joint ventures 23 5 28 12 121 12 149 Intangible assets 7 310 5 119 4 044 1 100 17 573 19 4 15 17 611 Property, plant and equipment 3 425 1 784 755 1 062 7 026 2 096 1 162 239 10 523 Total segment assets 14 988 8 623 6 993 4 247 (21) 34 830 2 195 13 555 527 (146) 50 961 Segment liabilities Trade payables (1 678) (768) (724) (645) 21 (3 794) (25) (54) (119) 146 (3 846) Value added tax, employee taxes (288) (127) (139) (81) (635) (13) (4) (31) (683) Other current liabilities (634) (317) (403) (270) (1 624) (6) (56) (607) (2 293) Pension liabilities (765) (187) (247) (185) (1 384) (20) (5) (495) (1 904) Deferred tax, excess values (372) (404) (235) (14) (1 025) 3 (1 022) Total segment liabilities (3 737) (1 803) (1 748) (1 195) 21 (8 462) (64) (116) (1 252) 146 (9 748) Capital employed1 11 251 6 820 5 245 3 052 0 26 368 2 131 13 439 (725) 0 41 213 KEY FIGURES Operating margin EBIT (adj.) (%) 12.8 14.5 15.9 5.4 12.0 22.3 na na na 10.9 Total man-years 31 December 5 977 3 073 2 400 2 594 14 044 46 119 323 14 532 Most of the lines under “Segment assets” and “Segment liabilities” can be matched directly with the notes and the statement of financial position. The difference between “Other current 1 receivables” in Note 23 and “Other current liabilities” in Note 27 is ascribable to the fact that other current receivables and liabilities also comprise items not included in capital employed, such as accrued interest, while some of the derivatives are included in capital employed. Deferred tax related to excess value is included in deferred tax. See the reconciliation of segment assets and segment liabilities with total assets and total liabilities on page 100. Note 7 cont. 98 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 SEGMENTINFORMASJON 2014 Orkla Branded ConfecOrkla ConFinan­cial HQ/ Orkla tionery & Orkla Food Elim­insumer Hydro InvestOther Elimin­ Orkla Amounts in NOK million Foods Snacks Care Ingredients ations Goods Power ments Business ations Group REVENUES/PROFIT/LOSS Norway 4 581 1 887 3 084 924 10 476 682 2 11 160 Sweden 3 731 1 036 449 1 186 6 402 1 6 403 Denmark 857 490 409 1 351 3 107 3 107 Finland and Iceland 765 748 218 228 1 959 1 959 The Baltics 339 433 63 218 1 053 1 053 Nordic region and the Baltics 10 273 4 594 4 223 3 907 22 997 682 1 2 23 682 Rest of Europe 1 281 333 421 2 498 4 533 4 533 Rest of the world 616 32 273 57 978 9 987 Sales revenues 12 170 4 959 4 917 6 462 28 508 682 1 11 29 202 Other operating revenues 6 13 32 14 65 59 230 43 397 Intercompany sales 56 15 11 58 (129) 11 434 (445) Operating revenues 12 232 4 987 4 960 6 534 (129) 28 584 741 231 488 (445) 29 599 Cost of materials (5 837) (2 044) (2 031) (4 261) 126 (14 047) (286) (73) (2) 2 (14 406) Payroll expenses (2 379) (1 061) (910) (922) (5 272) (42) (31) (434) (5 779) Other operating expenses (2 140) (1 004) (1 084) (866) 3 (5 091) (136) (119) (339) 443 (5 242) Depreciation and amortisation (388) (185) (83) (140) (796) (61) (44) (57) (958) Operating profit before other income and expenses EBIT (adj.) 1 488 693 852 345 3 378 216 (36) (344) 3 214 Other income and expenses (176) (59) 228 (4) (11) (31) (58) (100) Operating profit/loss 1 312 634 1 080 341 3 367 216 (67) (402) 3 114 Profit/loss from associates and joint ventures 2 2 119 121 Non-controlling interests’ share of profit/loss (40) (40) 7 (7) (40) CASH FLOW (SEE NOTE 40) Cash flow from operations before net replacement expenditures 1 772 840 709 332 3 653 263 (51) (296) 3 569 Net replacement expenditures (432) (219) (51) (103) (805) (7) (8) (26) (846) Cash flow from operations 1 340 621 658 229 2 848 256 (59) (322) 2 723 Expansion investments (52) (27) (23) (102) (102) Acquired companies (enterprise value) (34) (15) (49) (38) (87) CAPITAL EMPLOYED Segment assets Trade receivables 1 625 861 833 1 009 (20) 4 308 26 30 192 (143) 4 413 Other current receivables 123 31 305 37 496 60 12 413 981 Inventories and development property 1 849 519 783 722 3 873 200 4 073 Pension plan assets 25 4 6 35 7 42 Investments in associates and joint ventures 24 2 26 12 028 12 054 Intangible assets 7 046 4 135 2 356 967 14 504 20 (25) 14 499 Property, plant and equipment 2 826 1 510 534 935 5 805 2 147 1 259 273 9 484 Total segment assets 13 494 7 056 4 839 3 678 (20) 29 047 2 253 13 536 853 (143) 45 546 Segment liabilities Trade payables (1 355) (671) (616) (550) 20 (3 172) (20) (51) (121) 143 (3 221) Value added tax, employee taxes (247) (101) (131) (65) (544) (20) (9) (28) (601) Other current liabilities (458) (248) (160) (224) (1 090) (9) (60) (422) (1 581) Pension liabilities (739) (163) (34) (166) (1 102) (21) (5) (428) (1 556) Deferred tax, excess values (394) (360) (130) (13) (897) (1) (898) Total segment liabilities (3 193) (1 543) (1 071) (1 018) 20 (6 805) (70) (126) (999) 143 (7 857) Capital employed1 10 301 5 513 3 768 2 660 22 242 2 183 13 410 (146) 37 689 Key Figures Operating margin EBIT (adj.) (%) 12.2 13.9 17.2 5.3 11.8 29.1 na na 10.9 Total man-years 31 December 5 974 2 254 1 685 2 414 12 327 46 31 310 12 714 Most of the lines under “Segment assets” and “Segment liabilities” can be matched directly with the notes and the statement of financial position. The difference between “Other 1 current receivables” in Note 23 and “Other current liabilities” in Note 27 is ascribable to the fact that other current receivables and liabilities also comprise items not included in capital employed, such as accrued interest, while some of the derivatives are included in capital employed. Deferred tax related to excess value is included in deferred tax. See the reconciliation of segment assets and segment liabilities with total assets and total liabilities on page 100. Note 7 cont. 99 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 Reconciliation segment assets vs. total assets Reconciliation segment liabilities vs. total liabilities Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 Segment assets 53 590 50 961 Segment liabilities 10 013 9 748 Assets held for sale 182 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 7 172 8 722 Shares and financial assets 107 1 376 Current interest-bearing liabilities 2 496 399 Cash and cash equivalents 1 204 721 Deferred tax, not related to excess values 562 433 Financial assets 511 841 Income tax payable 647 185 Deferred tax assets 102 65 Non-current derivatives 397 478 Interest-bearing receivables etc. 90 92 Other non-current provisions 286 330 Total assets 55 604 54 238 Other current liabilities 155 197 Total liabilities 21 728 20 492 NOTE 8 GEOGRAPHICAL BREAKDOWN OF CAPITAL EMPLOYED, INVESTMENTS AND NUMBER OF MAN-YEARS Capital employed, investments and number of man-years are broken down by geographical markets based on the location of the companies. The note thus shows to what extent and in which countries/areas the Orkla Group has a physical presence. Capital employed Investments1 Number of man-years Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 Norway 24 289 23 680 23 243 606 736 483 3 160 3 314 3 423 Sweden 5 969 6 408 5 489 345 376 274 2 897 2 839 2 559 Denmark 4 185 4 229 3 818 267 125 87 1 544 1 444 1 357 Finland and Iceland 2 371 2 302 2 051 82 49 46 770 710 644 The Baltics 1 754 1 854 839 87 108 47 2 104 2 103 967 Nordic region and the Baltics 38 568 38 473 35 440 1 387 1 394 937 10 475 10 410 8 950 Rest of Europe 4 282 2 130 1 687 133 79 74 5 603 2 725 2 363 Rest of the world 727 610 562 114 29 16 1 960 1 397 1 401 Total 43 577 41 213 37 689 1 634 1 502 1 027 18 038 14 532 12 714 Link between segments and “Investments”: Net replacement expenditures, from segments (see Note 7) 1 204 839 846 Sale of property, plant and equipment (see cash flow statement) 282 183 62 Expansion investments (see Note 7) 163 388 102 Changes in accounts payable investments (15) 92 17 Total 1 634 1 502 1 027 1 Does not apply to property, plant and equipment acquired through purchases of companies. Capital employed is a measure of the enterprise’s net capitalised expenditures and expansion investments. The number of man-years is productive capital and is defined in the segment note as the net of the number of employees adjusted for fractional posts in the current segment assets and liabilities. Goodwill and intangible assets constitute a reporting period. See Note 7 for segment information. large share of capital employed. Investments are the total of replacement NOTE 9 REVENUE RECOGNITION The date on which revenue is recognised and the principles applied will be decisive in determining the profit/loss in the reporting period. In the same way, both the principles applied to and the definition of the term “sales revenue reductions” (discounts, etc.) will play a role in determining the total amount of operating revenues. Generally speaking, the Group’s operating revenues and the point in time P PRINCIPLES at which they are recognised in income will be clear in most cases. Sales of internally manufactured goods and goods for resale by the Revenue is recognised when it is probable that transactions will branded consumer goods area are recognised in income when the generate future economic benefit that will flow to the company and goods have been delivered and the risk has passed to the buyer. Sales the amount of revenue can be measured with reliability. Departures revenues largely consist of sales of consumer goods to wholesalers. from this principle are made for payments related to housing projects in Reductions in sales revenues include various bonus plans, discounts Orkla Eiendom for which the company has profit and loss responsibility. and assistance related to joint marketing with customers, in addition These are recognised in the income statement upon delivery. to special taxes applicable to food production and other government charges and taxes. Sales revenues are presented after deducting discounts, value added tax and other government charges and taxes. The Orkla Group sells goods In Orkla Investments, external sales of electric power are recognised in and services in many different markets, and revenues from the sale of income on the basis of the price agreed with the customer upon delivery. goods or services are recognised in the income statement when the goods have been delivered or the service has been provided. Note 9 cont. 100 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 Electric power is mainly sold by the Saudefaldene and Sarpsfoss plants. New revenue recognition standard In Eiendom (real estate), rental revenues are recognised in income when The new IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers was published they are earned. Payments related to housing projects for which the in May 2014 and will come into force in 2018. The new standard provides company has profit and loss responsibility is recognised in income upon a detailed framework for revenue recognition. The main point in IFRS delivery. This means that a long period of time may elapse between the 15 is that revenue is to be recognised in such a way that the expected start of a building project and the recognition of revenues. In the interconsideration is taken to income according to a pattern that reflects the vening period, incurred project expenses are reported as inventories. transfer of goods or services to the customer. The main challenge has been combined deliveries, on which little guidance is provided in the Interest revenues are recognised when they are earned, while dividends current IAS 18. Combined deliveries means tied sales where it is difficult are taken to income on the date they are approved by the company to distinguish between the purchased product and additional deliveries. paying the dividend. This challenge will be limited for Orkla, but may be relevant for a range of Lilleborg’s products. In some cases, cleaning equipment is supplied under Gains (losses) on the sale of shares from shares and financial assets a contract for the sale of associated cleaning products that covers the sale are presented on the line for “Other financial income” and specified in of both equipment and cleaning product. Under the new IFRS 15, this is a a note. Gains (losses) on shares and interests reported as available for tied sale that will probably have to be recognised in income according to sale are calculated as the difference between the cost price of the share a new pattern. In any event, this is only a small part of Orkla’s turnover and or, if appropriate, the value of the share or interest written down for will not have a material impact. The new standard is not expected to affect accounting purposes, and the sales value. Any excess value or shortfall in the way the Group recognises and treats discounts and bonuses. market value that has temporarily been taken to comprehensive income is reversed at the same time. The effect of portfolio gains/losses will be significantly reduced as the share portfolio is sold off. S SUSTAINABILITY Orkla strives to foster a corporate culture characterised by good E ESTIMATE UNCERTAINTY judgement and the ability to comply with rules and regulations and deal with ethical challenges. The Group has zero tolerance for The estimate uncertainty relating to sales revenue reductions in the corruption, price-fixing agreements, market sharing or other Branded Consumer Goods business is disclosed in Note 4. practices that hamper free competition. NOTE 10 COST OF MATERIALS The cost of materials is by far the largest cost item in the income statement and accounts for close to 50% of operating revenues. The cost of materials consists of the cost of all raw materials, goods for resale, packaging, etc. that are necessary to be able to sell the quantity of goods recognised in the sales revenues. P PRINCIPLES S SUSTAINABILITY The cost of materials is incurred as goods are sold according to The challenges posed by climate change and commodity scarcity the price-related first in, first out inventory method. Changes entail a risk of increased raw material costs, reduced availability in stocks of internally manufactured finished goods will have a of certain raw materials and breaches of Orkla’s Supplier Code virtually ­neutral impact on profit or loss based on the full cost of Conduct. Orkla helps to ensure responsible production of raw pricing ­method. The cost of goods is correlated with the sale of the materials by monitoring suppliers, applying certification systems, goods and accounted for on an accruals basis through changes in participating in industry initiatives and collaborating on projects inventory. This applies to both purchased raw materials and goods with authorities and specialised organisations. The Group’s goal is for resale. Purchased goods are not recognised as a cost until the to ensure that the agricultural products and marine raw materials it goods are in the manufacturing process. uses are sustainably produced by 2020. The cost of goods is mainly estimated and recognised through standard In 2016, the biggest product categories are: cost systems, based on the first in, first out (FIFO)-principle. Goods in inventories are counted at least once a year as a verification of standard 1. Animal products 7. Nuts and seeds costing. Changes in stocks of internally manufactured finished goods 2. Packaging 8. Marine products will affect profit or loss, based on recognition using the full cost method. 3. Food additives 9. Fruits and berries This means that changes in stocks of internally manufactured finished 4. Vegetable oil and margarine 10. Sugar goods will largely have a neutral impact on profit or loss in connection 5. Vegetables 11. Cocoa and chocolate with both the reduction of and increase in inventories of such goods. 6. Grain-based products 12. Chemicals Due to materiality considerations, the change in stocks of i­nternally ­manufactured finished goods is presented on the line for cost of ­materials. 101 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 11 PAYROLL EXPENSES Payroll expenses are the total disbursements relating to remuneration of personnel employed by the Group and of Group officers. These expenses concern only the Group’s own employees, not contract manpower. P PRINCIPLES S SUSTAINABILITY Payroll expenses comprise all types of remuneration to personnel Orkla seeks to promote a strong corporate culture, where employed by the Group and are expensed when earned. Ordinary ­employees develop their capabilities and realise their full potential. pay can be both fixed pay and hourly wages and is earned and This is both a responsibility and a crucial factor for developing the paid periodically. Holiday pay is earned on the basis of ordinary Group’s competitiveness. pay and is normally paid in the holiday months of the following year. B­ onuses are earned and calculated on the basis of various performance targets, and are mainly paid the following year, based Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 2014 on full-year results. The employer’s national insurance contribution Wages (5 909) (5 191) (4 677) is calculated and expensed for all pay-related costs, and is normally Employer’s national paid every other month in arrears. Pensions are earned in insurance contributions (935) (820) (737) accordance with special rules (see Note 12). Other payroll expenses Pension costs1 (376) (352) (292) largely consist of the remuneration of the Board of Directors, which Other remuneration etc. (39) (69) (73) is earned on an ongoing basis in accordance with special Payroll expenses (7259) (6 432) (5 779) agreements approved by the General Meeting. Average number of man-years (continuing operations) 16 552 13 816 12 936 1 Pension costs are disclosed in further detail in Note 12. No shares were sold to employees in 2016. A total of NOK 22 million was expensed for such sales in 2015. Remuneration of the executive management 2016 2015 2014 Fixed salary Fixed salary Fixed salary and annual Benefits Pension and annual Benefits Pension and annual Benefits Pension Amounts in NOK thousand bonus earned in kind costs bonus earned in kind costs bonus earned in kind costs Remuneration to CEO 9 160 242 2 127 9 872 233 1 984 9 960 224 1 752 Remuneration to other members of the Group Executive Board 34 592 1 883 6 100 33 694 1 775 5 746 40 099 3 559 6 612 Number of options to CEO 31 December 0 0 0 Number of options to other members of the Group Executive Board 31 December 125 000 310 000 380 000 In addition, the Group Executive Board earned long-term incentive bonuses in 2016. The bonus for the President and CEO amounts to NOK 3.0 million, and to NOK 8.7 million for other members. For a more detailed description of matters relating to the remuneration of the executive management and members of the Board of Directors, reference is made to Note 5 to the financial statements for Orkla ASA. Share-based incentive programmes P PRINCIPLES The sale of shares to employees at a price lower than the market value The former option plan for executive management was valued on the is accounted for by recognising the difference between the market basis of the fair value of the options at the time the option plan was value of the shares and the purchase price as a payroll expense. adopted (award date), using the Black-Scholes model. The costs of the options were accrued over the period in which the employees earned In a long-term incentive programme (LTI), an amount equivalent to the right to receive them. The option costs were expensed as pay and the annual bonus paid on the basis of the past year’s operations is offset in equity. Provisions were made for the employer’s national deposited in a bonus bank for bonus recipients. The amount is adjusted insurance contribution relating to share option plans, based on the in accordance with the price performance of the Orkla share, based difference between the issue price and the market price of the share on the share price on the day after the Annual General Meeting in the at year end. Until mid-2014, the option costs were broken down by award year and the disbursement year, respectively. The share price operating segment, based on the fair value of the options at the date is adjusted for dividends paid. The LTI bonus falls due for payment in of issue, including employer’s national insurance contribution and two equal halves, two and three years, respectively, after the bonus accrued over the vesting period. This option plan expires in May 2017. was awarded. In order to receive the bonus, the recipient must be ­employed by the Group at the time it is paid out. Note 11 cont. 102 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 Bonus systems Overview of outstanding options at year end: Orkla has a system of annual bonuses, under which a “good performance”, 2016 2015 which is specifically defined for the various elements, can result in an Expiry date No. WAEP1,2 No. WAEP1 annual bonus of approximately 30% of an employee’s fixed pay, while the 10.05.2016 775 000 36.38 maximum bonus is 100% of the employee’s annual pay. This bonus system 09.05.2017 955 000 40.03 1 947 000 42.53 applied to approximately 175 senior executives in 2016. Total 955 000 2 722 000 1 Weighted average exercise price. Amounts in NOK. Share-related programmes 2 As a result of a dividend, all exercise prices were reduced by NOK 2.50 on 15 April 2016. The Group has bonus programmes related to the Orkla share. These consist of employee share purchase programmes, long-term incentive agreements and share options. In the employee share purchase proOrkla has used the Black-Scholes model to estimate the value of the gramme, all permanent employees are offered the opportunity to purchase options. The volatility has been calculated on the basis of the past a certain number of Orkla shares each year at a discount, currently 30%. performance of the Orkla share price during the same period as the In a long-term incentive programme, an amount equivalent to the annual maturity of the options. No new options have been issued since 2011. bonus is deposited in a bonus bank for selected senior executives. The amount is adjusted in accordance with the price performance of the Orkla Effects of the option programme on the financial statements: share and falls due for payment two and three years, respectively, after the bonus was awarded. Share options were also awarded to selected senior Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 executives. The options had a vesting period of three years and could be Option costs in the vesting period exercised in the following three years. No options have been awarded National insurance contributions since 2011, and the option programme has been replaced by the long-term on excercised options (7) (6) incentive programmes. The last options must be exercised by 9 May 2017. Change in provision for See also Note 5 to the financial statements for Orkla ASA. national insurance contributions 8 (2) Net option costs 1 (8) Overview of changes in awarded outstanding options: Liabilities1 (9) (17) 2016 2015 1 Relates only to employer’s national insurance contributions. No. WAEP1 No. WAEP1 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 2 722 000 40.78 7 168 000 41.79 Exercised during the year (1 727 000) 38.88 (4 141 000) 39.77 Forfeited during the year (40 000) 40.03 (305 000) 40.11 Outstanding at year end2 955 000 40.03 2 722 000 40.78 Exercisable options at year end 955 000 40.03 2 722 000 40.78 1 Weighted average exercise price. Amounts in NOK. 2 As a result of a dividend, all exercise prices were reduced by NOK 2.50 on 15 April 2016. NOTE 12 PENSIONS The Group has both defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans. In the defined contribution pension plans, the company pays an agreed annual contribution to the employee’s pension plan, but any risk related to the future pension is borne by the employee. The future pension will be determined by the amount of the regular contributions and the return on the pension savings. In a defined benefit plan, the company is responsible for paying an agreed pension to the employee based on his or her final pay. The cost for the accounting period shows the employees’ pension entitlement of the agreed future pension in the financial year. The majority of Orkla’s pension plans are defined contribution plans. P PRINCIPLES In a defined contribution pension plan, the company is responsible for statement of financial position. making an agreed contribution to the employee’s pension assets. The future pension will be determined by the amount of the contributions The accrued liability is calculated on a straight-line accruals basis, and is and the return on the pension savings. Once the contributions have been measured as the present value of the estimated future pension payments paid, there are no further payment obligations attached to the defined that are vested on the statement of financial position date. The capitalised contribution pension, i.e. there is no liability to record in the statement of net liability is the sum of the accrued pension liability minus the fair value financial position. The pension costs related to defined contribution plans of associated pension fund assets. will be equal to the contributions to employees’ pension savings in the reporting period. Changes in the liability for defined benefit plans due to changes in pension plans are reported in their entirety in the income statement in the case of A defined benefit pension plan is based on a promise by the company changes that give rise to an immediate paid-up policy entitlement. Other to the employees that they will receive a certain level of pension upon variances from estimates are recognised in equity through ­comprehensive retirement, normally defined as a percentage of final pay. The company is income in the period in which they arise. The discount effect of the responsible for the amount of the future pension benefit and the financial ­pension liability and expected return on pension assets are presented net value of this obligation must be reported in the income statement and under “Other financial costs” in the income statement. Note 12 cont. 103 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 Defined contribution plans Employees in the Orkla Group are mainly covered by pension plans The discount rate has decreased slightly in most countries, due to the classified as defined contribution plans. Defined contribution plans also generally lower interest rate level. In Norway, the discount rate varies comprise pension plans that are common to several companies and between 2.0% and 2.6%, depending on the life of the pension. where the pension premium is determined independently of the demographic profile in the individual companies (multi-employer plans). The discount rate in Sweden is based on Swedish covered bonds and was reduced to 2.35% for 2016, from 2.8% in 2015. The higher interest level in Orkla has adjusted the contribution rates for the companies in Norway to the latter part of December affects both the discount rate and expected the new limits laid down in regulations for contribution rates for private inflation, so the net effect on the pension liability will be relatively small. company pension plans, with effect from 1 September 2014. See Note 5 to the financial statements for Orkla ASA. Parameters such as wage growth, increase in the basic amount (G) and inflation are set in accordance with recommendations in the various Defined benefit plans countries. The Group has defined benefit pension plans that are classified as funded and unfunded. A large part of the Group’s defined benefit plans are in The mortality estimate is based on updated mortality tables for the Sweden and Norway. These countries account for around 64% and 36%, various countries. In Norway the K2013 life table was adjusted and in respectively, of the Group’s net carried pension liabilities. Sweden the estimate was updated to DUS14 in 2016. Sweden The actuarial gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive The pension plans in Sweden are “net plans” that do not link the Group’s income (OCI) and are essentially related to changes in the economic liabilities to changes in Swedish social security. The plans are largely assumptions. determined by collective agreements. They are not funded, but provisions are made in the companies’ statement of financial position. To secure Pension plan assets accrued pension rights, companies must take out a credit insurance in the Virtually all the Group’s pension plans with pension plan assets are in the PRI Pensionsgaranti insurance company. PRI Pensionsgaranti records and UK, the Netherlands and Switzerland. Pension plan assets are mainly calculates the companies’ pension liabilities. According to the collective invested in bonds and shares. The estimated return will vary depending agreements, all employees born in 1979 or later must be covered by a on the composition of the various classes of assets. A breakdown of defined contribution plan, which means that the number of defined pension plan assets is presented below. Contributions of pension plan benefit plans will gradually be reduced. assets in 2017 are expected to total NOK 8.9 million. The Group also has some pension plans, primarily related to senior Norway Sweden executives, financed through endowment insurances. The gross amount 2016 2015 2016 2015 of these plans is reported in the financial statements. Discount rate 2.0–2.6% 1.0–2.6% 2.35% 2.80% Future wage adjustment 2.25% 2.25% 2.50% 2.50% Account has been taken of payroll tax on the pension liabilities in G-multiplier1 2.25% 2.25% 2.50% 2.50% Sweden. Adjustment of benefits 0% 0% 1.50% 1.50% Turnover 0–5% 0–5% 3% 3% Norway Expected average Net pension liabilities in Norway mainly consist of unfunded pension remaining vesting plans for former key personnel, early retirement schemes for the Group period (years) 8.0 8.7 13.9 14.3 Executive Board, and book liabilities related to contribution-based plans 1 As at 31 December 2016, 1G was NOK 92,576. for employees who earn more than twelve times the Norwegian basic amount (12G). Breakdown of net pension costs The pension plan for employees in Norway who earn more than 12G Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 2014 is a contribution-based plan, but is treated as a defined benefit plan in Contribution plans (310) (290) (229) accordance with IFRS. Current service cost (incl. national insurance contributions) (66) (70) (63) The AFP contractual pension scheme is a multi-employer defined benefit Curtailments and settlements pension plans 0 8 (30)1 plan, but is recognised as a defined contribution plan, in line with the Pension cost defined as payroll expenses (376) (352) (322) Ministry of Finance’s conclusion. Companies that participate in the AFP Interest on pension obligations (66) (50) (57) scheme are jointly responsible for two-thirds of the payable pension. The Expected return on pension plan assets 15 9 8 majority of Orkla companies in Norway participate in the AFP scheme. Pension cost defined as financial costs (51) (41) (49) In 2016, the AFP premium has been 2.5% of total payments of wages Net pension costs (427) (393) (371) between 1 and 7.1 times the average basic amount. 1 Is presented as ”Other income and expenses” in the income statement. Assumptions relating to defined benefit plans As from the 2012 financial year, the discount rate in Norway has been fixed on the basis of Norwegian covered bonds (OMF). The Norwegian Accounting Standards Board considers the OMF market to be a sufficiently deep market to be used for computing the discount rate. Orkla has chosen a discount rate based on the average life of the pensions in each company and in each pension plan. In cases where the life exceeds 15 years, the OMF yield curve has been extrapolated on the basis of the swap rate. Note 12 cont. 104 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 Breakdown of net pension liabilities as at 31 December Breakdown of pension plan assets (fair value) as of 31 December Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 Present value of funded pension obligations (693) (391) Cash, cash equivalents and Pension plan assets (fair value) 791 391 money market investments 6% 11% Net funded pension liabilities 98 0 Bonds 55% 56% Present value of unfunded pension obligations (1 841) (1 865) Loans 1% 1% Capitalised net pension liabilities (1 743) (1 865) Shares 37% 29% Capitalised pension liabilities (1 872) (1 904) Property 1% 3% Capitalised plan assets 129 39 Total pension plan assets 100% 100% Changes in the present value of pension obligations during the year Summary of net pension liabilities and adjustments in past four years Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 2014 2013 Pension obligations 1 January (2 256) (1 847) Pension obligations (2 534) (2 256) (1 847) (1 687) Current service cost Pension plan assets 791 391 333 291 (incl. national insurance contributions) (66) (70) Net pension liabilities (1 743) (1 865) (1 514) (1 396) Interest on pension obligations (66) (50) Actuarial gains and losses Actuarial gains and losses reported in pension obligations (91) (48) (199) 42 in statement of comprehensive income (91) (48) Actuarial gains and losses Acquisition/sale of companies (304)1 (216)2 in pension plan assets 22 26 12 10 Curtailments and settlements pension plans (4) (13) Benefits paid during the year 94 106 Currency translation effects 159 (118) E ESTIMATE UNCERTAINTY Pension obligations 31 December (2 534) (2 256) 1 Primarily related to the purchase of L.G. Harris & Co. Ltd. Defined benefit plans are calculated on the basis of a set of selected 2 Primarily related to the purchase of Cederroth AB. financial and actuarial assumptions. Changes in parameters such as discount rates, future wage adjustment, etc. could have substantial Changes in pension plan assets during the year impacts on the estimated pension liability. Similarly, changes in the selected assumptions for the return on pension assets could affect Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 the amount of the pension assets. The Group will not be materially Pension plan assets (fair value) 1 January 391 333 affected by a reasonable expected change in key assumptions. Expected return on pension plan assets 15 9 Orkla has determined parameters in line with recommendations in Actuarial gains and losses reported the individual countries. in statement of comprehensive income 22 26 Acquisition/sale of companies 4351 Curtailments and settlements pension plans 1 Contributions and benefits paid during the year (6) Currency translation effects (38) 38 Effect of asset ceiling (28) (16) Pension plan assets (fair value) 31 December 791 391 1 Primarily related to the purchase of L.G. Harris & Co. Ltd. NOTE 13 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES The Orkla Group has chosen to present its income statement based on the nature of the item of income or expense. Operating expenses have been broken down into the following main items: “Cost of materials”, “Payroll expenses”, “Depreciation/Amortisation” and “Other operating expenses”. The most important items in “Other operating expenses” have been grouped into the main items below. Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 2014 External freight costs (745) (625) (562) P PRINCIPLES Energy costs (production and heating) (645) (505) (459) Advertising (1 567) (1 468) (1 344) Other operating expenses are recognised as and when they are Repair and maintenance costs (491) (449) (410) incurred. They represent a broad range of operating expenses Consultants, legal advisors, incurred by the Group in its day-to-day activities. Other operating temporary staff etc. (431) (361) (416) expenses consist of expenses that are not classified on the lines Operating expenses vehicles (132) (129) (120) for cost of materials, payroll expenses or depreciation and Rental/leasing (452) (419) (351) write-downs. Operating expenses, office equipment etc. (87) (80) (85) Other (1 793) (1 719) (1 495) Total other operating expenses (6 343) (5 755) (5 242) 105 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 14 OTHER INCOME AND EXPENSES Other income and expenses will largely consist of material positive and negative non-recurring items, restructuring costs and any substantial write-downs of both tangible and intangible assets. The main purpose of this line is to present material non-recurring items and items substantially relating to other periods separately to ensure that the changes in and comparability of the lines presented in EBIT (adj.) are more relevant to the company. M&A costs relating to acquired companies and special IFRS effects are expensed here as and when they arise. P PRINCIPLES S SUSTAINABILITY “Other income and expenses” are presented after Group profit/ In connection with its efforts to develop a long-term, competitive loss (EBIT adj.), broken down by segment, and include items of a manufacturing footprint, Orkla announced the closure of eight special nature, M&A costs and costs relating to sold companies. factories in 2016. The purpose of these changes is to strengthen ­Characteristics common to these special items are that they are the Group’s long-term competitiveness by making more effective material, non-recurring items substantially relating to other periods use of capacity and investments in production equipment. A total and are not reliable indicators of underlying operations. M&A costs of about 190 employees have lost their jobs due to the factory are costs relating to the acquisition of companies that cannot be closures, and have been helped to seek new employment or capitalised together with the shares. This applies to both completed training programmes. and uncompleted acquisitions. Accrued expenses arising from the sale of companies are also presented on this line, until the sale is finally completed. At that time, the selling costs will be included in Amounts in NOK million 2016 the profit/loss calculation and will be presented together with the M&A and integration costs (245) latter. Final settlement employment relationships etc. (59) Gains relating to coordination projects 24 Write-down related to Orkla Food Ingredients' operations (56) The Group is still carrying out major integration and restructuring Other restructuring costs and special IFRS effects (46) projects. Projects related to the integration of acquired companies and Total (382) merging of factories require extensive resources and give rise to substantial costs, and will continue to do so. Of this: Write-downs property, plant and equipment (4) Write-downs intangible assets (51) Changes in Orkla Foods’ factory footprint entail large-scale projects Badwill recognised as income 41 resulting in adjustments to plants and costs relating to severance packages. A decision was made to move all beverage production from Amounts in NOK million 2015 Gimsøy Kloster in Skien to Kumla, Sweden. Costs are also being incurred M&A and integration costs (248) in connection with the relocation of production, approved in 2015, from Final settlement employment relationships etc. (142) Brumunddal and Larvik to Elverum (Nora and Denja) and from Svinninge Write-downs in connection with coordination projects (51) to Skælskør in Denmark. Write-down related to Natural Food's operations, Orkla Food Ingredients, Italy (23) Costs have also been incurred in connection with the continued Other restructuring costs and special IFRS effects (38) integration of Cederroth, NP Foods and O. Kavli. The integration of Total (502) Cederroth is an especially comprehensive process, but the integration Of this: Write-downs property, plant and equipment (69) of NP Foods also necessitates numerous organisational adjustments that affect the Group’s entire structure in the Baltic region. Work Write-downs intangible assets (27) also began on integrating Harris, but the bulk of the costs will be incurred in 2017. Amounts in NOK million 2014 One-off contractual termination fee related M&A costs have been incurred in connection with the acquisition of to the Unilever agreement 279 Hamé, O. Kavli, brands from Nanso Group, Harris and new companies M&A and integration costs (156) in Orkla Food Ingredients. The purchase of Kavli has resulted in income Final settlement employment relationships etc. (186) related to recognised badwill. Dispute regarding use of trademark (15) Other restructuring costs (22) Information on write-downs may be found in Note 18. Total (100) Of this: Write-downs property, plant and equipment (16) Write-downs intangible assets 106 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 15 INTEREST AND OTHER FINANCIAL ITEMS Financial income and financial costs mainly consist of interest income and interest costs related to the Group’s total funding. They also include other financial items not related to operational activities. P PRINCIPLES Interest income and interest costs on loans and receivables are reported under the item “Shares and financial assets” are also included calculated using the effective interest method. Commitment fees and in financial income and financial costs. Foreign currency gains or costs related to borrowings are reported as “Other financial costs”. losses arising from operational assets and liabilities, and the hedging The financial element of pension costs is included in “Other financial of such, are reported as operating revenues or operating costs. Other costs”, and is disclosed in Note 12. Borrowing costs related to real foreign currency gains or losses are reported net as financial income estate under construction are recognised in the statement of financial and financial costs. The foreign currency gains or losses related to net position together with the asset. Gains or losses on securities not investments in foreign entities are disclosed in Note 31. Interest income and interest costs Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 2014 Interest income 26 35 38 Change in fair value recognised as interest income 57 56 Total interest income 83 91 38 Interest costs (261) (286) (330) Carrying interest costs 1 3 2 Change in fair value recognised as interest costs (73) Total interest costs (260) (283) (401) Net interest (177) (192) (363) Financial income and financial costs Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 2014 Gains, losses and write-downs shares and financial assets 187 107 56 Dividends received 61 28 37 Other financial income 22 2 14 Total other financial income 270 137 107 Net foreign currency losses (4) Net financial element pensions (51) (41) (49) Other financial costs (150)1 (32) (58) Total other financial costs (205) (73) (107) Total other financial items 65 64 1Including NOK 100 million for the write-down of loans to Rygge sivile lufthavn AS. Reconciliation against cash flow Interest, net (177) (192) (363) Other financial items, net 65 64 Total interest and other financial items (A) (112) (128) (363) Items that appear on other lines in the cash flow statement: Gains, losses and write-downs shares and financial assets (187) (107) (56) Dividends received (61) (28) (37) Total items that appear on other lines in the cash flow statement (B) (248) (135) (93) Items without cash flow effect: Change in accrued interest etc. (12) (6) (11) Net interest pensions without cash flow effect 51 41 49 Change in fair value recognised as interest income/interest costs (57) (56) 73 Write-down loan Rygge sivile lufthavn AS 100 Book value of sold shares 20 Foreign currency gains/losses share portfolio 2 (1) (1) Total items without cash flow effect, see cash flow statement (C) 84 (22) 130 Paid financial items in cash flow statement, see Note 40 (A+B+C) (276) (285) (326) 107 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 16 TAXES Taxes refer to the authorities’ taxation of the profits of the different companies in the Group and in different countries. Value added tax, social security contributions and similar indirect taxes are thus not included in “taxes”. Taxes are computed on the basis of accounting profit/loss and broken down into current taxes and change in deferred tax liability. Deferred tax liability is the result of temporary differences between financial accounting and tax accounting. Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 2014 P PRINCIPLES Norwegian tax rate on profit before taxes (1 295) (1 104) (774) Foreign operations with tax rates other than Norwegian tax rate 80 88 117 Current tax liabilities and assets are measured at the amount that is Changes in tax laws 14 28 2 expected to be paid to or recovered from the tax authorities. The tax Associates and joint ventures 344 307 31 rates and tax laws used to calculate the amounts are those that have Changed taxation of a power contract 55 been adopted or substantively adopted by the end of the reporting Tax free income from sale of property Switzerland 24 period in the countries in which the Group operates and generates taxable income. Write-downs of shares, gains/losses and dividends within the tax exemption method1 69 34 43 Non-deductible transaction expenses (17) (24) (14) Deferred tax liabilities and assets are computed for all temporary differences between the tax basis and the carrying amount of an asset Other non-deductible expenses (24) (12) or liability in the consolidated financial statements and the tax basis Tax effect internal sale of assets (12) of tax losses carried forward. For deferred tax assets and liabilities, the Interest on loan to Orkla Brands Russia (29) nominal tax rates expected to apply when the asset is realised or the Deferred tax on undistributed earnings in liability is paid will be used. associates and joint ventures (9) (25) (3) Recognised deferred tax assets this year, Deferred tax assets relating to tax deficits and other tax-reducing previously unrecognised 29 15 15 temporary differences are recognised to the extent that it is probable Unrecognised deferred tax assets, this year and correction previous years (39) (6) (14) that they can be applied against future taxable income. Badwill recognised as income 9 Deferred tax liabilities related to withholding tax and other tax on Write-down of group goodwill (11) (3) dividends are recognised in connection with retained profits in Correction previous years’ taxes (19) 18 (29) associates, joint ventures and foreign subsidiaries when a dividend is Other taxes payable (41) (14) (21) expected to be paid in the foreseeable future. The Group’s total tax expense (807) (722) (688) 1 Includes the share portfolio NOK 55 million in 2016 (NOK 36 million in 2015 and Deferred tax liabilities for temporary differences associated with NOK 36 million in 2014). investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are recognised when it is probable that the temporary difference will Orkla’s tax base in Norway, Sweden and Denmark is substantial. The reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax liabilities/assets are not ordinary tax rate for companies domiciled in Norway was reduced from recognised for the initial recognition of goodwill. 27% to 25%, effective from 2016. The Norwegian company tax rate has been further reduced to 24% with effect from 2017. The effect of the Deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets are only reported net reduced tax rate to 24% on the temporary differences at year end is to the extent that netting is permitted under the tax rules, and the recognition of NOK 14 million in the income statement and a charge of Group intends to make use of the opportunities to consolidate its tax NOK 5 million against comprehensive income. positions by means of Group contributions or other tax consolidation. Orkla’s operations in countries with tax rates other than 25% make a net contribution towards reducing tax expense. In 2016, the effect of this Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 2014 contribution was a reduction of NOK 80 million in tax expense, of which Profit/loss before tax 5 182 4 090 2 872 the Swedish and Finnish subsidiaries account for NOK 29 million and NOK 15 million, respectively. Current tax expense (954) (521) (585) Change in deferred tax 147 (201) (103) Profit from associates and joint ventures is recognised on an after-tax Total tax expense (807) (722) (688) basis and thus does not impact the Group’s tax expense. However, a Tax as % of “Profit/loss before taxes” 16% 18% 24% provision has been made for tax on retained profits in associates and Tax as % of “Profit/loss before taxes” joint ventures, totalling NOK 55 million, of which NOK 9 million was adjusted for associates and joint ventures 21% 24% 25% recognised in the income statement in 2016. Orkla’s effective tax expense adjusted for associates and joint ventures The Group has gains, losses and dividends covered by the tax exemption was reduced by 3 percentage points from 24% in 2015 to 21% in 2016. method which are not subject to normal taxation or deduction, but for This reduction can mainly be explained by the effect of a change in which 3% of net profit or loss is recognised in the income statement. This ­taxation of a power contract and a tax-free gain on the sale of properties. applies, in particular, to shares and financial assets. Shares and financial assets contribute to reducing the effective tax rate. Reconciliation of the Group’s tax rate In the following table, reported taxes are reconciled with the tax expense Unrecognised deferred tax assets mainly relate to tax deficits in based on the Norwegian tax rate of 25% (27% in 2015 and 2014). The Orkla Food Ingredients in Italy and Cederroth in Poland. Recognition main tax components are specified. of previous years’ unrecognised deferred tax assets mainly relate to a former Borregaard company in Switzerland where operations have been Note 16 cont. 108 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 closed down, the Laima Group in the Baltics, and Orkla Foods Romania Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 and the Dragsbæk Group in Denmark. 2016 74 2017 41 23 The Group operates in certain industries that are subject to special 2018 26 12 tax regimes in Norway (hydropower tax regime). 2019 11 12 2020 30 29 Deferred tax liabilities 2021 51 24 Deferred tax liabilities consist of the Group’s tax liabilities that are 2022 8 8 payable in the future. The table below lists deferred tax assets and 2023 or later 23 44 liabilities relating to the temporary differences between the carrying Without expiry date 579 636 amount of an asset or liability and its tax base. Total tax losses carried forward 769 862 The table shows the composition of the Group’s deferred tax, and Deferred tax assets are only capitalised to the extent that it is probable indicates as such when deferred taxes are payable. that there will be sufficient future taxable profit for the tax asset to be used, either because the unit recently reported a profit or because assets Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 with excess value have been identified. If there are not likely to be future Deferred tax on temporary differences profits sufficient to absorb the tax-reducing temporary differences, Hedging reserve in equity (95) (116) deferred tax assets are not recognised. The newly acquired businesses Intangible assets 1 058 1 071 Cederroth (2015), Hamé and Harris have tax-reducing temporary Property, plant and equipment 332 265 differences in Spain, Eastern Europe and the UK that have not been Net pension liabilities (220) (236) recognised. Gain and loss tax deferral 309 355 Other non-current items 334 327 The Norwegian, Swedish and Finnish tax groups have utilised all available tax losses carried forward and were liable to tax in 2016. The Norwegian Total non-current items 1 718 1 666 tax group has obtained a full tax deduction for internal interest expense. Current receivables (8) (11) Inventories (2) 0 A provision of NOK 47 million has been made for tax liability on retained Provisions (114) (109) profit in Estonia, of which NOK 11 million was recognised in 2016. Other current items (77) (73) Total current items (201) (193) Deductible temporary differences with corresponding deferred tax assets Tax losses carried forward (164) (184) Net deferred tax liabilities 1 353 1 289 RecogUnTotal Deferred tax hydropower tax regime1 (20) (23) nised recogdeDeferred tax assets, not recognised 156 148 Deductible deferred nised ferred temporary tax deferred tax Net deferred tax liabilities 1 489 1 414 Amounts in NOK million differences assets tax assets assets Change in deferred tax (75) (352) Tax losses carried Change in deferred tax hedging reserve forward by country taken to comprehensive income 21 24 Spain 163 3 38 41 Change in deferred tax unrealised gains The Baltics 123 14 4 18 taken to comprehensive income 0 0 Italy 89 0 25 25 Change in deferred tax actuarial gains and losses Eastern Europe (excluding pensions taken to comprehensive income (16) (7) Romania and Poland) 67 0 13 13 Acquisitions/sale of companies, currency effects etc. 52 302 Ireland 61 0 8 8 Hedging of net investments in foreign operations 165 (168) Denmark 57 3 10 13 Change in deferred tax income statement 147 (201) Sweden1 50 2 9 11 1  eferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets related to hydropower taxes have D Switzerland 45 0 11 11 been recognised gross for each power plant. Poland 33 0 6 6 UK 22 0 4 4 Net deferred tax presented in statement of financial position Finland2 16 0 3 3 Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 Others 43 8 3 11 Deferred tax liabilities 1 591 1 479 Total 769 30 134 164 Deferred tax assets 102 65 Other deductible Net deferred tax 1 489 1 414 temporary differences 1 736 377 22 399 Total deductible Losses carried forward by expiry date temporary differences 2 505 407 156 563 Tax losses carried forward totalling NOK 769 million constitute a Netted deferred tax (1 329) (305) 0 (305) deferred tax asset of NOK 164 million, of which only NOK 30 million has Net deductible been recognised. Unrecognised tax losses carried forward amount to temporary differences 1 176 102 156 258 NOK 611 million. A total of NOK 447 million of these have no expiry date, 1  oncerns tax losses carried forward blocked for utilisation in the Swedish tax C NOK 10 million expire from 2023 onwards, NOK 89 million expire in the group until 2019 and disputed tax deductions. period 2020-2022 and NOK 65 million expire in the period 2017-2019. 2Concerns partly-owned companies not included in a tax group. Note 16 cont. 109 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 Tax ownership of power plant In 2011, in appeal proceedings instituted by Statkraft, it was claimed that The decision of 7 March 2016 changing the tax assessment upheld Aktieselskapet Saudefaldene, of which Orkla owns 85%, was the owner Saudefaldene’s claim that, where tax on ground rent income is concerned, for tax purposes of the Sønnå Høy power plant. Saudefaldene built this an industrial power contract should be taxed on the basis of contract power plant in the Saudavassdraget river system, and utilises it along with price and not spot price. As a result of the decision, NOK 55 million was other plants and installations in accordance with the lease ­agreement recognised in 2016 in tax refunds for the income years 2008-2011. Tax on with Statkraft. In 2014, an appeal decision was made in relation to ground rent income has been expensed in accordance with the current Saudefaldene as well, with the conclusion that the company is deemed tax assessment decision. As part of the same case, legal proceedings have to be the owner of Sønnå Høy for tax purposes. Saudefaldene submitted been brought against Sauda municipality, Odda municipality and Suldal a writ of summons against the Norwegian government, claiming that municipality (Sønnå Høy consists of installations in three municipalities), in the appeal decision that determined that Saudefaldene is the taxable which Saudefaldene has argued that it cannot be required to pay property owner of Sønnå Høy must be ruled invalid. Saudefaldene lost the case tax for Sønnå Høy. The property tax disputes have been suspended in the district court pursuant to the Haugaland District Court’s judgment pending an unappealable final decision as to who is the owner of Sønnå of 4 September 2015. Saudefaldene appealed the judgment, and by Høy for tax purposes. Approximately NOK 83 million in ground rent income the Gulating Court of Appeal’s judgment of 25 August 2016 the court tax has been expensed and a total of around NOK 88 million in property tax ­unanimously found that Statkraft is to be deemed the owner of Sønnå has been paid for Sønnå Høy for the period up to 2016. Høy for tax purposes. The judgment was appealed by the State and the Supreme Court has agreed to hear the appeal. A final judgment in the case is expected to be handed down in 2017. S SUSTAINABILITY By the administrative decision of 24 April 2014, a number of significant Orkla pays tax on its profit according to local tax rules in the changes were made in Saudefaldenes’ tax assessment for 2005-2013 countries in which the Group has a presence. Where relevant, the concerning the calculation of tax on ground rent income related to Group makes use of arrangements such as Group contributions, Sønnå Høy. Among other things, use of the contract price for power group taxation, etc., so that taxable income is calculated net for agreements with industrial enterprises that were entered into based on each country. Orkla is dependent on dividends from subsidiaries to conditions laid down by the Storting (Norwegian parliament) was not be able to pay out dividends to its shareholders and obtain effective accepted, tax-deductible lease income was reduced, and a number of tax deductions for interest expense in Norway. other deductions were denied. In May 2015, a legal action was brought to contest this decision, as Saudefaldene disputes the departures made from the tax returns it submitted. This legal action has been suspended pending a final decision in the case to determine the owner for tax purposes of Sønnå Høy. NOTE 17 EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings per share are one of several indicators that can be used in financial analyses to assess a company’s performance. This key figure shows how much the profit or loss for the period amounts to per share and is calculated by dividing the profit or loss for the period after non-controlling interests by the average number of shares outstanding. P PRINCIPLES Earnings per share are calculated on the basis of profit for the year in the number of shares outstanding, diluted earnings per share are after non-controlling interests. As a result of the Orkla Group’s option calculated in addition to basic earnings per share. In this calculation, programme (see Note 11), outstanding shares may be diluted when the average number of shares outstanding is adjusted to take into options are exercised. In order to take into account this future increase account the estimated dilutive effect of the option programme. Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 2014 Profit/loss for the year after non-controlling interests for continuing operations 4 293 3 312 2 144 Profit/loss/gains discontinued operations 0 (17) (485) Profit/loss for the year after non-controlling interests 4 293 3 295 1 659 Weighted average of number of shares outstanding 1 017 526 258 1 017 546 189 1 016 375 397 Estimated dilutive effect option programme 442 972 847 480 1 419 517 Weighted average number of shares outstanding, diluted 1 017 969 230 1 018 393 669 1 017 794 914 Earnings per share 4.22 3.24 1.63 Earnings per share, diluted 4.22 3.24 1.63 Earnings per share, diluted for discontinued operations 0 (0.01) (0.48) Earnings per share, diluted for continuing operations 4.22 3.25 2.11 110 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 18 IMPAIRMENT ASSESSMENTS The value of long-term capitalised assets will largely be based on discretionary assessment and estimates. It is important that the financial statement users are familiar with the assumptions that apply to the valuation of these assets and the way the Group assesses future earnings. There will be particular focus on assets that are not initially depreciated or amortised. In the Orkla Group’s financial statements, this will largely concern goodwill and trademarks with an indefinite useful life. Routine monitoring of non-current assets The Orkla Group has material non-current assets in the form of both P PRINCIPLES tangible (property, plant and equipment) and intangible assets. An explanation of the details of and changes in these assets is presented Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are not in Note 19 and Note 20. The Group also has other non-current assets amortised on a regular basis. These assets are therefore tested at least that mainly consist of investments in companies recognised using the annually for impairment. At Orkla, impairment testing is carried out equity method. These are disclosed in Note 6 and are not covered in the in the third quarter. If there are special indications of a reduction in description below. value, impairment testing is carried out more frequently. Cash flows relating to the assets are identified and discounted. Future cash flow The capitalised assets are routinely monitored and if there are indications is based on specified assumptions (see separate table in this note) that the value of an asset is no longer recoverable, an impairment test and the plans adopted by the unit. If the discounted value of future will immediately be carried out to determine whether the asset can still cash flows is lower than the capitalised value of the unit’s capital justify its carrying value. If new estimates conclude that the value is no employed, the assets are written down to the recoverable amount. If longer recoverable, the asset is written down to the recoverable amount, the discounted value is higher than the capital employed, this means i.e. the greater of the net sales value and the value in use (discounted that the value of the intangible asset or goodwill is recoverable. In cash flow). cases where the discounted value exceeds the capital employed by less than 20%, a further sensitivity analysis is carried out to check the Prior to the presentation of financial statements for the third quarter, the calculation. Capital employed is defined through the presentation of Group carried out impairment tests for all intangible assets with an segments in Note 7. Where relevant, assumptions and estimates are indefinite useful life and for all goodwill, in line with its adopted principles. reviewed and the robustness of the investment is measured in relation As a result of these tests, goodwill and other assets mainly related thereto. Alternatively, the sales value of the asset will be calculated to to Bæchs Conditori in Orkla Food Ingredients were written down by determine whether it justifies maintaining the carrying value. NOK 56 million. Bæchs Conditori is a manufacturer of frozen cakes in Denmark. The company’s earnings have not been sufficient to justify Trademarks with an indefinite useful life are tested for impairment by the capital employed and goodwill was written down in its entirety. The discounting estimates of the future sales value of the trademark and value of the remaining capital employed can be justified as a result of measuring them against the trademark’s carrying value. This process production cost savings. is based on a model whereby the trademark’s discounted value is calculated on the basis of a percentage rate that indicates the The valuation of the Sauda power plants was also updated. The case to strength of the trademark. This strength was assumed at the time of determine who is the owner of Sønnå Høy for tax purposes was won in acquisition and is basically maintained in the impairment testing. the Court of Appeal, but was appealed to the Supreme Court. The case is expected to be heard before the summer of 2017 (see Note 16). The valuation of Sønnå Høy is based on future estimates of power prices and The table below shows the most important goodwill and trademarks. contract-based production in the lease period, as well as the value of Capitalised items in foreign currencies mainly decreased from 2015 the plants at the time they are returned to Statkraft. The WACC applied to 2016 due to the strengthening of the Norwegian krone against the reflects lower risk than for the other Group companies. The valuation respective currencies (see Note 19). justifies the Group’s investment in Saudefaldene. Goodwill Trademarks Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 No other deficit values related to property, plant or equipment or Orkla Foods Norge 3 344 3 344 1 260 1 260 intangible assets were identified in the Group. Orkla Foods Sverige 1 410 1 554 54 14 Hamé 373 493 MTR Foods 311 326 116 116 Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Norge 534 534 206 206 Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Sverige 824 907 370 412 Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Danmark 538 568 372 392 Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Finland 538 570 668 702 Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Baltics 432 481 242 257 Orkla Health 1 281 1 383 607 622 Orkla Home & Personal Care 1 108 1 256 229 228 Orkla House Care 376 233 169 90 Orkla Wound Care 131 81 119 Others 1 541 1 452 118 124 Total 12 741 12 608 4 985 4 542 Note 18 cont. 111 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 Cash-generating units Budget assumptions A cash-generating unit (CGU) is the lowest level at which independent The branded consumer goods business is basically relatively stable in cash flows can be measured. The highest level of a CGU will be a terms of market fluctuations. Future cash flows are estimated on the reported segment. None of the reported segments as at 31 December basis of a number of assumptions. This applies both to factors such as 2016 constituted a separate CGU. assumptions concerning economic trends and factors such as the estimated useful life of important trademarks. Cash flow estimates are Some of the operations in Orkla Foods are in companies that have been sensitive to changes in raw material prices and thereby other purchase part of the Group for a very long time. No capitalised intangible assets prices and the associated ability to maintain margin assumptions and are associated with these companies. Rieber & Søn Norge has been fully market shares. Future cash flows are estimated on the basis of the integrated into Orkla Foods Norge, and excess value associated with budget for next year and the following three forecast years. As from the acquisition must be justified by the unit as an aggregate. The same year six a terminal value is calculated. The largest CGUs are shown in a situation applies to the Rieber & Søn businesses that were taken over in separate table, by segment. The main companies in each segment are Sweden (Frødinge integrated into Orkla Foods Sverige) and Denmark presented and the main factors on which the impairment tests are based (Rieber & Søn Danmark integrated into Orkla Foods Danmark). Here, too, are summed up. The CGUs operate in different markets, and the table the excess value must be justified by the aggregate units. Orkla Foods is intended to provide an overview of the primary drivers. See also the Sverige (formerly Procordia and Abba Seafood) was acquired in 1995, separate brand table in Note 19 for an overall picture of trademarks that and goodwill associated with these operations was amortised by 1/20 have been capitalised, capitalised through goodwill or have not been per year in the period from the acquisition to 1 January 2004 when the capitalised. Group switched to reporting under IFRS. This means that the original goodwill from these acquisitions has been approximately halved in Discount rate relation to the acquisition cost. The discount rate applied is based on the Group’s cost of capital, which is estimated to be 7.7% before tax (only changed to reflect changes in the Orkla Confectionery & Snacks’ business operations have been structured tax level from 2015), based on a weighted average of required rates of as one company per country. This means that goodwill impairment return for the Group’s equity and debt (WACC). The required rate of will be tested at that level. NP Foods has been merged with Latfood, return on the Group’s equity is estimated by using the capital asset and these units will have to justify the excess value associated with the pricing model (CAPM). The required rate of return on debt is estimated acquisition. A small part of NP Foods, the drink business Gutta, has been on the basis of a long-term risk-free interest rate to which is added a transferred to and is now part of Spilva (Orkla Foods). credit margin derived from Orkla’s marginal long-term borrowing rate. The discount rate is adjusted for country risk, the level of inflation and In Orkla Care, Orkla Home & Personal Care (OHPC) has been in operational risk, depending on the particular value being calculated. the Group for a long time. Jordan (excl. House Care) has been fully ­integrated into OHPC. Similarly, the part of Cederroth that is to be Sensitivity included in Home Care and Personal Care will be fully integrated into the The largest trademark and goodwill items are related to businesses that OHPC part, and the excess values from these acquisitions will have to be are developing well. In several cases, as mention, goodwill has been justified by the unit as an aggregate. tested at a higher level than originally due to reorganisation processes. This applies in particular to Orkla Confectionery & Snacks. Trademarks Companies that were acquired by Orkla Health in 2005 and 2006 are tested for impairment regardless of the reorganisation. (Collett Pharma and Dansk Droge) have also been fully integrated into the existing operations. It is impossible to identify the different cash A comparison of the book value of capital employed in Branded flows, and the units in Orkla Health are therefore tested for impairment Consumer Goods with an average “sum of the parts” (SOTP) value based on an aggregate basis. The integration with the units that were already on analysts’ valuation of the corresponding area shows substantial excess part of Orkla prior to the acquisition generate an aggregate return that value. The excess value varies from one business area to another, but all well exceeds the required rate. The part of Cederroth that was to become four Branded Consumer Goods business areas show that the SOTP value part of Orkla Health has been fully integrated, and the excess value from is clearly higher than the respective book values. Broken down by CGU, the acquisition will have to be justified by the unit as an aggregate. Orkla there will also be some variations, but all the CGUs pass the test with a Health is part of Orkla Care. good margin. Greater uncertainty is attached to the companies recently acquired. In these cases, plans and assumed growth rates are based on The Orkla Wound Care part of the Cederroth acquisition (SalveQuick trends in markets that are relatively new for the Group. Based on the plasters, etc.) and Orkla House Care (painting tools that were part of the assumptions and expectations applied in both the acquisition cases and Jordan acquisition) are separate CGUs and must justify their value on a further plans, however, these businesses also justify their book value. separate basis. Even a 2% change in either WACC or growth in the terminal value will Orkla Food Ingredients consists of many different units, which are mainly not, all else being equal, result in impairment of the value of material separate CGUs and are tested individually. Around 20 CGUs are tested. trademarks and goodwill items. Trademarks In the case of trademarks, a new organisational structure will normally not change the possibility of measuring the strength of the various ­trademarks. The trademarks continue to exist in the new organisation and will, in most cases, be identifiable in future. The value of a trademark will be dynamic and new products launched under the trademark in question will help to maintain its value. Note 18 cont. 112 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 Key assumptions for estimating future performance Orkla Foods (OF) Orkla Confectionery & Snacks (OC&S) Amounts in NOK million Units Goodwill Trademarks Units Goodwill Trademarks Units in segment OF Norge 3 344 1 260 OC&S Norge 534 206 OF Sverige 1 410 54 OC&S Sverige 824 370 OF Danmark 91 20 OC&S Danmark 538 372 OF Finland 147 42 OC&S Finland 538 668 MTR Foods 311 116 OC&S Baltics 432 242 OF Central Europe 373 493 OF Others 211 Total 5 887 1 985 Total 2 866 1 858 Total capital employed As at 31 Dec. 2016 13 345 As at 31 Dec. 2016 6 264 EBIT (adj.) Full year 2016 1 968 Full year 2016 937 Factors that affect the Operates largely in the Nordic and Baltic markets, Operates largely in the Nordic and Baltic markets, discount rate low industry risk; budget in NOK, SEK, DKK, EUR. Also low industry risk; budget in NOK, SEK, DKK, EUR. has operations in Austria, Czech Republic and India. Raw material prices are Key raw materials: meat and eggs, vegetables, Key raw materials: sugar, potatoes, nuts, cocoa, flour, estimated on the basis of the dairy products, spices and other additives, fruits vegetable oil, spices, milk powder and packaging market situation at the time of and berries, glass and metal packaging calculation Production site Production is carried out in the Nordics, Baltics, Production is largely carried out in the Nordics Austria, Czech Republic, Slovakia and India. and Baltics. Goods manufactured under licence are imported. Contribution margin is based Contribution margin is affected by retail chain price Contribution margin is affected by retail chain price on past performance, adjusted negotiations and raw material prices that on the negotiations and raw material prices that on the whole for future expectations whole are expected to remain stable. are expected to remain stable. Customisation and ability to Orkla Foods follows consumer trends and has a OC&S follows consumer trends and has a high develop products in high innovation rate — growth is expected in innovation rate — growth is expected in existing collaboration with customers existing segments. segments. Economic conditions Markets and turnover are expected to remain Markets and sales are expected to remain normal and market outlook normal — Orkla Foods is generally little affected — OC&S is generally little affected by the economic by the economic situation. situation. Terminal value Growth rate equal to inflation in the countries in which the businesses operate (range 0.5–2%). Note 18 cont. 113 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 Key assumptions for estimating future performance Orkla Care Orkla Food Ingredients (OFI) Amounts in NOK million Units Goodwill Trademarks Units Goodwill Trademarks Units in segment Orkla Home & Personal Care (OHPC) 1 108 229 KåKå 171 Orkla Health 1 281 607 Idun 310 Pierre Robert Group 90 35 Credin 219 Lilleborg 18 Odense 79 Orkla House Care 376 169 Others 267 4 Orkla Wound Care 131 81 Orkla Care Poland 18 Total 3 004 1 139 Total 1 046 4 Total capital employed As at 31 Dec. 2016 6 122 As at 31 Dec. 2016 2 961 EBIT (adj.) Full year 2016 956 Full year 2016 439 Factors that affect the Operates largely in the Nordic markets and the Operates in several countries; moderate industry risk; discount rate Baltics, Poland, Spain and the UK; low industry risk; budgets in local currency budgets in local currency Raw material prices are Key raw materials: plastic packaging, polyester, Key raw materials: vegetable oil, butter, molasses, estimated on the basis of the crude oil, fish oil, soybeans, cotton and wool sugar and flour. market situation at the time of calculation Production site Own production mainly in Norway and the Nordics, Own production mainly in Scandinavia. Other as well as China for Orkla House Care and Malaysia production in the Netherlands and at certain for the part of Jordan included in OHPC. Plasters are production units in Central and Eastern Europe. produced in Spain. Pierre Robert largely purchases its production from Italy and Asia. Orkla Health, OHPC and Lilleborg also primarily purchase goods for resale from Europe. Contribution margin is based Contribution margin is affected by innovations, Contribution margin is affected by companies’ on past performance, adjusted productivity, retain chain price negotiations and raw competitive strength in delivery of products and for future expectations material prices that on the whole are expected to services. This strength is supported by ability to remain stable or rise slightly. develop good “cost in use” products. OFI seeks to offset raw material cost changes in customer markets. Customisation and ability to Orkla Care follows consumer trends and has a high OFI follows consumer trends and collaborates develop products in innovation rate — growth is expected in existing closely with its customers, who are manufacturers collaboration with customers segments. and suppliers. This collaboration will be further strengthened. Economic conditions Markets and turnover are expected to remain Markets and sales are expected to remain normal in and market outlook normal — Orkla Care is generally little affected Scandinavia. However, OFI’s markets in Central and by the economic situation. Eastern Europe are more affected by the economic downturn. Terminal value Growth rate equal to inflation in the countries in which the businesses operate (range 0.5–2%). 114 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 19 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Intangible assets and goodwill are non-physical assets that have largely been capitalised in connection with the acquisition of a company. Intangible assets classified as non-amortisable have an indefinite useful life and it is impossible on the balance sheet date to foresee when the asset will cease to have value. Goodwill is not regularly amortised either. Intangible assets and goodwill will be subject to considerable estimate uncertainty. P PRINCIPLES Research and development (R&D) expenditure is the expenses incurred Intangible assets taken over by the company through acquisitions are by the Group in conducting research and development, studies of capitalised. Trademarks that have existed for a long period of time and existing or new products, production processes, etc. in order to secure have a sound development at the time of acquisition have an indefinite future earnings. Expenditure on research is expensed directly, while useful life and are not amortised. An indefinite useful life means that expenditure on development may be recognised in the statement of it is impossible on the statement of financial position date to estimate financial position. However, there is considerable uncertainty throughout the period during which assets will be available for use. Other identified the decision-making process, and the fact that only a small percentage trademarks will be amortised over their anticipated useful life, which of all projects culminate in commercial products means that no projects is normally 5–10 years. Other intangible assets will be amortised over end in capitalisation. At the same time, the expenses that qualify for their useful life. recognition in the statement of financial position are relatively small. Goodwill is the residual value consisting of the difference between Expenditure on internally generated or customised software the purchase price and the capitalised value of an acquired company. is capitalised and presented as an intangible assets. The concept of goodwill comprises payment for synergy gains, assets related to employees, other intangible assets that do not qualify for Expenditure related to internally generated trademarks, etc. (marketing) capitalisation as a separate item, future superprofit and the fact that is expensed directly since the future economic benefits to the company deferred tax may not be discounted. Capitalised goodwill derives solely cannot be identified and shown to be probable with any degree of from acquisitions (see Note 18). certainty at the time the trademark is launched. Trademarks, not Trademarks, Other intangible Amounts in NOK million amortisable amortisable assets IT Goodwill Total Book value 1 January 2015 3 825 23 143 217 10 291 14 499 Investments 164 164 Reclassifications1 3 3 Reclassifications held for sale (182) (182) Companies acquired2 739 1 5 2 1 790 2 537 Depreciation/amortisation (7) (12) (80) (99) Write-downs (23) (5) (28) Translation differences 160 12 11 2 532 717 Book value 31 December 2015 4 542 29 147 285 12 608 17 611 Investments 5 115 120 Reclassifications1 8 8 Companies acquired2 668 61 0 1 701 1 431 Depreciation/amortisation (3) (5) (12) (90) (110) Write-downs (51) (51) Badwill 41 41 Translation differences (222) (9) (15) (5) (558) (809) Book value 31 December 2016 4 985 76 125 314 12 741 18 241 Initial cost 1 January 2016 4 615 95 1 118 814 14 778 21 420 Accumulated amortisation and write-downs (73) (66) (971) (529) (2 170) (3 809) Book value 1 January 2016 4 542 29 147 285 12 608 17 611 Initial cost 31 December 2016 5 054 143 1 017 735 14 859 21 808 Accumulated amortisation and write-downs (69) (67) (892) (421) (2 118) (3 567) Book value 31 December 2016 4 985 76 125 314 12 741 18 241 Amortisation 10–20% 10–20% 16–33% 1 Net reclassifications relate to figures transferred from Note 20. 2 See Note 5 for information about intangible assets in acquired companies. Note 19 cont. 115 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 E ESTIMATE UNCERTAINTY S SUSTAINABILITY Considerable estimate uncertainty attaches to the value of Orkla expensed NOK 280 million for research and development in intangible assets. These have no direct “cost price”, which is 2016 (NOK 252 million in 2015). This covers internal and external essentially determined by the Group’s own valuations, and are costs related to product development, and includes measures to mainly capitalised in connection with the Group’s acquisition of reduce salt, sugar and saturated fat in foods, develop vegetarian a new business. Goodwill is to be seen as a residual value in the and organic products and replace potentially allergenic ingredients same acquisition. The sum of all excess value including goodwill with alternative raw materials. associated with acquisitions is thus basically to be regarded as the market value (fair value) of the total net assets, and the different types of assets (liabilities) are broken down on the basis of that value (see Note 18). MARKET POSITION IN THE NORDIC AND BALTIC GROCERY MARKET FOR BRANDED CONSUMER GOODS In addition to the items presented in the table for intangible assets, the acquired, or indirectly acquired through purchase price allocations in Group owns several trademarks that have not been capitalised. These the acquisition analysis. They are presented as “C” in the table. The are proprietary trademarks which, under accounting rules, may not be classification in the note is based on management’s discretionary capitalised. These trademarks are presented in the table as “A”. When judgement. the transition was made to IFRS in 2005, goodwill that had already been capitalised could be maintained and part of the goodwill indirectly As at 31 December 2016, the Group also had trademark positions in consists of trademarks. These trademarks are presented as “B” in the India (MTR Foods), Czech Republic/Slovakia (Hamé, Vitana) and table. Capitalised trademarks are trademarks that are either directly Austria (Felix Austria and Bioquelle) and the UK (Harris). NORWAY SWEDEN DENMARK FINLAND BALTICS PRODUCTS Major brands P R Major brands P R Major brands P R Major brands P R Major brands P R Orkla Foods Grandiosa, Frozen pizza BigOne, ● A Grandiosa ◑ B ○ Grandiosa ◑ B ○ Pizzabakeriet Felix, Spilva, B Ketchup Idun ● A Felix ● B Beauvais ◑ B Felix ● B ● Suslavicius C Noras hjemmeFelix, Önos, Den Gamle Põltsamaa, B Jam and marmalade lagede, Noras ● A ● B ● B Ekströms ○ B ◔ BOB Fabrik Spilva C rørte, Nora Põltsamaa, B Preserved vegetables Nora ● A Önos, Felix ● B Beauvais ● B Felix ● B ◑ Spilva C Dressings Idun ● A Felix ● B Bähncke ◑ A Felix ◑ B Spilva, Felix ● B,C Boy, Ahti, B Herring ○ Abba ● B Glyngøre ◔ B ● Abba ◔ B Abba C Cod roe spread ○ Kalles Kaviar ● B ○ Kalles Kaviar ● B Abba ◔ B FUN One, Cordials/soft drinks FUN Light, FUN Light, Gutta, B FUN Light ◔ A ● B Grønnegården, ◑ C ◔ B ◑ (non-carbonated) Ekströms, BOB Ekströms Põltsamaa C Scoop Fresh pasta TORO ◔ C ○ Pastella ● A Pastella ◔ A ○ Dry and wet goods Põltsamaa, Nemfisk and B (casserole, sauce TORO ● C Abba, Felix ● B ◑ A ○ Spilva, ◔ and soup) Bähncke C Suslavicius Orkla Confectionery & Snacks KiMs, Polly, A OLW, Snacks ◑ ● C KiMs ● C Taffel ● C Adazu, Taffel ● A Cheez Doodles C Cheez Doodles Café Bakeriet, Ballerina, Biscuits Bixit, Safari, ● A Brago, ● B ○ Kantolan ◔ A Kalev, Selga ● C Ballerina Singoalla Stratos, Doc, Confectionery Smash!, ◑ A ○ KiMs ◔ C Panda ◔ C Laima, Kalev ● C Nidar Favoritter P = Position: ● STRONG no. 1, clearly stronger than no. 2, ◑ GOOD no. 1 or no. 2, equivalent in size to no. 1, ◔ PRESENT no. 2 or weaker, clearly weaker than no. 1, ○ NOT PRESENT/WEAK POSITION R = Accounting treatment: A Not capitalised, B Capitalised through goodwill, C Capitalised Note 19 cont. 116 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NORWAY SWEDEN DENMARK FINLAND BALTICS PRODUCTS Major brands P R Major brands P R Major brands P R Major brands P R Major brands P R Orkla Care Jif, OMO, Detergents ● A Grumme ◔ C ○ Lumme ◔ C ○ Sun, Zalo Define, Lano, Jordan, L300, A Jordan, Personal care products Jordan, ● LdB, HTH, ◔ C Jordan ◔ C ◔ C ○ C Bliw Dr Greve, HTH Bliw Möller’s, Nutrilett, Samarin, Gerimax, Longo Möller’s, Vitaplex, A A Dietary supplements Nutrilett, ● Pikasol, Pharbio, ● C Vital, Livol, Futura, ● C Nutrilett, SanaSol, ◑ Möller’s ● A C C Collett Litomove, Vitaplex Pikasol, HUSK Samarin Pierre Robert, A Pierre Robert, A Norlyn, Textiles ● ◑ ○ ● C ○ LaMote C LaMote C Black Horse Wound Care Salvequick ● C Salvequick ● C Salvequick ● C Salvequick ● C ○ House Care 1 Jordan ● C Anza ● A Spekter ● A Anza ◑ A ○ Orkla Food Ingredients Yeast Idun Gjær ● A Kronjäst ● B ○ ○ ○ Marzipan Odense ● B Odense ◑ B Odense ● B ○ ○ Margarine ○ ○ AMA Margarine ◔ B ○ ○ Plant based ○ ○ Naturli’ ● B ○ ○ Butter spread ○ ○ Bakkedal ◔ B ○ ○ 1 Painting tools for specialised retailers. P = Position: ●  STRONG no. 1, clearly stronger than no. 2, ◑ GOOD no. 1 or no. 2, equivalent in size to no. 1, ◔ PRESENT no. 2 or weaker, clearly weaker than no. 1, ○ NOT PRESENT/WEAK POSITION R = Accounting treatment: A Not capitalised, B Capitalised through goodwill, C Capitalised NOTE 20 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Property, plant and equipment are various types of assets that are necessary for the Group’s operating activities. Unless there are significant changes in operating parameters, these assets will largely necessitate corresponding reinvestment over time. They consist of items such as land, buildings, plants, machinery, fixtures and fittings, IT equipment and vehicles. Annual ordinary depreciation is an indication of the extent of the need for corresponding reinvestment. P PRINCIPLES E ESTIMATE UNCERTAINTY Property, plant and equipment are tangible items intended for Considerable estimate uncertainty attaches in some cases to the production, delivery of goods or administrative purposes and value of property, plant and equipment. Both the valuation and have a lasting useful life. They are recognised in the statement of estimated useful life are based on future information that always financial position at cost minus any accumulated depreciation and involves a degree of uncertainty. Tangible assets (property, plant write-downs. Routine maintenance of assets is expensed under and equipment) are essentially capitalised at the acquisition cost operating expenses while major periodical maintenance and expenpaid, and if they have a limited useful life, they are systematically diture on replacements or improvements are added to the cost depreciated over that period. Account is taken of their residual price of the assets. Property, plant and equipment with an indefinite value. Useful life and residual value are based on estimates of future useful life (property, etc.) are not depreciated, while other property, performance (see Note 18). plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight line basis over their useful life. Residual value is taken into account (especially in Uncertainty will be particularly high for a period of time to come connection with properties), and the depreciation plan is reviewed during which Orkla plans to reorganise its manufacturing structure annually. If there is any indication that the value of an asset may be (see Note 4). impaired, the asset will be written down to the recoverable amount if the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying value. When carrying out a purchase price allocation in connection with an acquisition, excess or deficit values are allocated to the assets concerned, so that these are capitalised at the Group’s acquisition cost. Financing expenses related to the production of the Group’s own property, plant and equipment are recognised in the statement of financial position (see Note 15). Note 20 cont. 117 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 Fixtures, Land, buildings Machinery Assets under fittings, vehicles, Amounts in NOK million and other property and plants construction IT equipment etc. Total Book value 1 January 2015 5 126 3 367 544 447 9 484 Investments 110 462 682 84 1 338 Disposals/scrapping (61) (11) (4) (76) Reclassifications1 (3) (3) Companies acquired 260 191 45 38 534 Sold companies/Discontinued operations (60) (17) (77) Transferred assets under construction 203 225 (494) 66 0 Write-downs (85) (8) (2) (95) Depreciation (220) (563) (149) (932) Translation differences 156 158 19 17 350 Book value 31 December 2015 5 429 3 804 796 494 10 523 Investments 160 483 759 112 1 514 Disposals/scrapping (105) (11) (3) (119) Reclassifications1 (3) (5) (8) Companies acquired 426 225 3 20 674 Sold companies (143) (4) (147) Transferred assets under construction 359 382 (814) 73 0 Write-downs (4) (4) Depreciation (228) (644) (164) (1 036) Translation differences (148) (177) (16) (18) (359) Book value 31 December 2016 5 746 4 058 725 509 11 038 Initial cost 1 January 2016 8 512 11 479 796 2 220 23 007 Accumulated depreciation and write-downs (3 083) (7 675) (1 726) (12 484) Book value 1 January 2016 5 429 3 804 796 494 10 523 Initial cost 31 December 2016 8 045 9 929 725 1 745 20 444 Accumulated depreciation and write-downs (2 299) (5 871) (1 236) (9 406) Book value 31 December 2016 5 746 4 058 725 509 11 038 Linear depreciation 2–4% 5–15% 15–25% IT equipment: 16–33% 1 Net reclassifications relate to figures transferred to Note 19. Orkla Eiendom has sold lots from a former industrial property (Attisholz) in Switzerland. The gain on the sale was NOK 117 million and is included S SUSTAINABILITY in EBIT (adj.). Many Orkla companies are important employers, and both See Note 36 for disclosures of pledged assets and mortgages related to employees and management are primarily recruited from the the Group’s property, plant and equipment. country in which the company is located. By developing profitable workplaces, Orkla creates positive ripple effects for society in the form of human resource development, jobs working for ­suppliers and in the public sector, and by paying taxes. Orkla invests in improvement programmes and structural changes that help to ensure its long-term competitiveness. In the years to come, this will necessitate the closure of businesses in some places. Orkla’s activities otherwise entail little risk of negative impacts on local communities. 118 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 21 OTHER ASSETS (NON-CURRENT) Other assets (non-current) consist of financial investments of a long-term nature. Shares are presented at fair value with changes in value reported in comprehensive income. Other assets also include net pension assets from companies that have more pension assets than liabilities. Other items are derivatives and receivables with a maturity of more than one year. Measurement Amounts in NOK million level 2016 2015 Share investments 3 29 36 Interest-bearing derivatives 2 249 414 Receivables interest-bearing 3 141 172 Receivables non interest-bearing 3 92 219 Total financial assets 511 841 Pension plan assets 129 39 Total other assets (non-current) 640 880 The principle for valuation of shares is disclosed in Note 24. Non-current and current shares are both treated as “Available for sale”. Receivables are recognised at fair value in accordance with Level 3 valuation, and derivatives according to level 2 valuation. See the measurement hierarchy in Note 31. NOTE 22 INVENTORIES AND DEVELOPMENT PROPERTY Inventories are the Group’s stocks of all types of goods intended for sale. These consist of raw materials ready for production, finished goods and purchased goods for resale. Packaging to be used for sold goods is included. A breakdown of inventories by business area may be found in the segment reporting. Any profit from internal sales has been eliminated. During the period in which buildings built by the Group (Orkla Eiendom) for sale are under development, the value of the projects will be reflected on the line for inventory of development property until the buildings are sold. Inventories Development property Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 Inventories include development properties recognised at NOK Raw materials 1 757 1 666 70 million (NOK 216 million in 2015). The properties are mainly housing Work in progress 375 218 projects under development/construction and primarily consist of the Finished goods and merchandise 3 063 2 739 projects at Sandakerveien 56 and Treschowsgate 16. Total inventories 5 195 4 623 E ESTIMATE UNCERTAINTY P PRINCIPLES Inventories consist of a great many individual lines of goods in Inventories are valued at the lower of acquisition cost and net the form of both raw materials and finished goods. The goods are realisable value for the entire Orkla Group. Purchased goods are counted and valued at the Group’s acquisition cost, and account valued at cost according to the FIFO principle, while internally is taken of obsolescence. The Group has a large number of units manufactured finished goods and work in progress are valued at in stock at all times, but there is not deemed to be any material production cost. Deductions have been made for obsolescence. The form of uncertainty in either the quantity or quality of the Group’s net realisable value is the estimated selling price minus selling costs. inventories. Property under development is valued at the total costs incurred. An assessment of net realisable value was carried out after deducting selling costs. This resulted in a total write-down of inventories as at 31 December 2016 of NOK 84 million (NOK 68 million in 2015). Inventories valued at net realisable value total NOK 58 million (NOK 50 million in 2015). 119 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 23 CURRENT RECEIVABLES Accounts receivable and other trade receivables are directly linked to the operating cycle. Other receivables (current) are various other receivables that can be both interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing. P PRINCIPLES E ESTIMATE UNCERTAINTY Receivables are continuously reviewed and are written down if Accounts receivable constitute a substantial part of the statement there are objective criteria that indicate that an event causing a loss of financial position, and an incorrect assessment of customers’ has occurred, and the amount of the loss can be reliably measured ability to pay could result in the account receivable no longer being and will affect payment of the receivable. recoverable and thus having to be written down in profit or loss. Provisions have been made for losses on accounts receivable, Accounts receivable are recognised and presented at the original which cover uncertain receivables to a reasonable extent. The credit invoice amount and written down if events causing a loss have risk is assessed as acceptable. See also the breakdown of accounts occurred that can be measured reliably and that will affect payment receivable by due date in this note and the disclosure of credit risk of the receivable. Accounts receivable are thus valued at amortised in Note 30. cost using the effective interest rate method. The interest rate element is disregarded if it is immaterial, which is the case for the vast majority of the Group’s accounts receivable. Derivatives are described in Note 31. Accounts receivable and other trade receivables Other receivables (current) Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 Accounts receivable 5 455 5 132 Non-interest-bearing derivatives 10 33 Other trade receivables 142 134 Interest-bearing receivables 18 9 Non-interest-bearing derivatives 0 1 Other current receivables 396 219 Total trade receivables 5 597 5 267 Total financial receivables 424 261 Advance payment to suppliers/earned income 428 328 Change in provisions for bad debts: Tax receivables 50 36 Total current receivables 902 625 Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 Provisions for bad debts 1 January 83 63 Bad debts recognised as expense 20 24 Accounts receivable and other trade receivables, as well as financial Provisions in acquired companies 13 9 receivables, are recognised at fair value in accordance with Level 3 valuation and derivatives in accordance with Level 2 valuation. See the Provisions in sold companies 0 (3) measurement hierarchy in Note 31. Bad debts (22) (13) Translation effects (4) 3 Provisions for bad debts 31 December 90 83 Breakdown of accounts receivable by due date: Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 Accounts receivable not due 4 836 4 676 Overdue receivables 1–30 days 369 334 Overdue receivables 31–60 days 99 57 Overdue receivables 61–90 days 66 26 Overdue receivables over 90 days 175 122 Accounts receivable carrying amount 31 December 5 545 5 215 120 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 24 SHARES AND FINANCIAL ASSETS Orkla has no intention of routinely investing excess liquidity or other funds in any kind of security. The securities in the statement of financial position are either the remainder of the former Share Portfolio (which the Group decided to sell off in 2011) or more incidental residual investments from various disinvestment processes. Measurement Fair value Unrealised Fair value Unrealised Amounts in NOK million level1 31.12.2016 gains 2016 31.12.2015 gains 2015 Securities available for sale Gränges (listed on Nasdaq Stockholm) 1 876 50 Shareholding in Solsten fund 2 87 51 405 222 Unlisted securities 3 20 2 67 15 Total 107 53 1 348 287 Securities, with change in fair value through profit and loss 3 0 0 28 Total shares and financial assets 107 53 1 376 287 Of this owned by Orkla ASA 107 53 473 236 1 See Note 31 for a description of the valuation hierarchy. Change in unrealised gains on shares Sale of shares and financial assets Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 Shares in the Solsten fund were divested as planned. Share sales in 2016 Opening balance unrealised gains before tax 287 281 totalled NOK 325 million, realising a gain of NOK 179 million. Change in unrealised gains before tax (234) 6 Orkla’s remaining 16% interest in Gränges was sold at a gain of NOK Change in deferred tax unrealised gains 0 0 26 million in the first quarter of 2016. The proceeds of the Gränges share Change in unrealised gains taken to disposal totalled NOK 826 million. comprehensive income (234) 6 Closing balance unrealised gains before tax 53 287 Income statement items related to shares and financial assets are Deferred tax unrealised gains 0 0 disclosed in Note 15. Closing balance unrealised gains after tax 53 287 Valuation of securities P PRINCIPLES The fair value of listed securities is routinely measured on the basis of the last bid price. At the time of acquisition, the shares are recognised at their Shares and financial assets are investments of a financial nature value on the trade date, including transaction costs. Several valuation and are recognised as available for sale. Shareholdings defined as methodologies are used to measure the fair value of unlisted investavailable for sale which have a value lower than carrying value are ments. Where there has been a recent arm’s length transaction in the written down in the income statement if the impairment in value security in question, the value is based on the transaction price. If there is prolonged or significant. Any further value impairment will result has been no recent arm’s length transaction, the value of the company in an immediate write-down. The write-down cannot be reversed is deduced from a relative valuation of comparable listed companies, in the income statement until the value is realised. Dividends adjusted for individual characteristics such as differences in size and received are recognised in the income statement at the time they selection between comparable companies. are adopted by the company paying out the dividend, which usually coincides with the date of payment. Purchases and sales of shares The fair value of unlisted fund shares (Solsten) is measured as the share are recognised at trade date. of the fund’s assets as reported by the fund management. The difference between the fair value and acquisition cost of the security is included in the unrealised gain until the security is either sold or E ESTIMATE UNCERTAINTY written down. When the security is sold or written down, the unrealised gain is recognised in the income statement and offset in comprehensive There will always be some uncertainty in connection with the income. When the security is written down, a new “acquisition price” valuation of unlisted shares. is established and subsequent increases in fair value are recognised in comprehensive income as “Changes in unrealised gains”. 121 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 25 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS The Group’s cash and cash equivalents consist of liquid assets necessary for transactions and some current placements. Orkla ASA also has unutilised, long-term, committed credit facilities that may be drawn upon at short notice; see Note 28. Changes in liquid assets in the cash flow statement do not necessarily provide an accurate picture of the Group’s financial position as excess liquidity is routinely used to repay interest-bearing debt. Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 P PRINCIPLES Cash at bank and in hand¹ 687 438 Current deposits 396 169 Restricted deposits 121 114 Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash, bank deposits and current deposits with a maturity of three months or less, and that have an Total cash and cash equivalents 1 204 721 immaterial risk of a change in value. Restricted deposits are assets 1 O  f “Cash at bank or in hand” a total of NOK 127 million is in Orkla companies with that to a limited degree are available to the rest of the Group. minority shareholders and in Orkla Insurance Company (NOK 133 million in 2015). These assets are only available to a limited extent to the rest of the Group. Cash and cash equivalents are held for the purpose of meeting ­short-term fluctuations in liquidity rather than for investment purposes. For Orkla, the level of the Group’s net interest-bearing liabilities is a more important management parameter than the level of cash and cash equivalents. NOTE 26 PROVISIONS AND OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Provisions consist of pension liabilities and other provisions for liabilities. Pension liabilities are disclosed in Note 12. A provision may be reported separately from other liabilities, such as accounts payable, because there is uncertainty as to the settlement date or the amount of the future expenses. Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 P PRINCIPLES Pension liabilities 1 872 1 904 Derivatives 397 478 Other non-current liabilities 13 8 Provisions are recognised in the financial statements in the case of potential lossmaking contracts and adopted restructuring measures. Other provisions 273 322 The provisions will not cover possible future operating losses. In the Total provisions and other non-current liabilities 2 555 2 712 case of restructuring provisions, there must be a detailed plan that identifies which parts of the business are to be restructured, and a Provisions with a maturity of less than 12 months are presented as valid expectation must have been created among those concerned “Other liabilities” (current). that the restructuring will be carried out. In addition, it must be possible to provide a reliable estimate of the amount of the liability. It is a condition that the restructuring materially changes the size E ESTIMATE UNCERTAINTY of the business or the way in which it is operated. The provision is calculated on the basis of the best estimate of anticipated expenses. If the effect is material, anticipated future cash flows will be It is in the nature of a provision that it involves some degree discounted, using a current pre-tax interest rate that reflects the of u­ ncertainty. A provision is made and calculated based on risks specific to the provision. ­assumptions at the time the provision is made and will be routinely updated as and when new information becomes available. Contingent liabilities and contingent assets are a possible obligation or a possible asset whose existence is uncertain and will be confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of a future special event, such as the outcome of legal proceedings or the final settlement of an insurance claim. Contingent liabilities are recognised in the financial statements based on estimated outcome, if there is a more than 50% probability that the liability has arisen. If the probability is lower, the matter is disclosed in notes to the financial statements if material and unless the probability of disbursement is very small. An asset will only be recognised in the statement of financial position if it is highly probable (95%) that the Group will receive the asset. The disclosure requirement applies to other contingent assets. Derivatives are described in Note 31. Note 26 cont. 122 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 Break-down of provisions and other non-current liabilities: Amounts in NOK million Branded Consumer Goods Other provisions Total Provisions 1 January 2015 40 343 383 New provisions 11 11 Utilised (16) (48) (64) Provisions 31 December 2015 24 306 330 New provisions 3 17 20 Utilised (3) (61) (64) Provisions 31 December 2016 24 262 286 Main matters: Main matters: Conclusion: Small personnel-related Compensation to property The provisions cover provisions and commitments owners and demolition costs known matters and there to acquisitions of additional related to Saudefaldene, are no indications of any shares in companies insurance provisions in Third change in estimated Party Writer company. Orkla expenses. self-insures for losses up to NOK 15 million. There are also some provisions related to discontinued operations NOTE 27 CURRENT LIABILITIES Accounts payable and other trade payables are liabilities linked directly to the operating cycle. Other liabilities (current) are other payables, such as unpaid government charges and taxes, unpaid wages and holiday pay and other accruals. Accounts payable and other trade payables Other liabilities (current) Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 Accounts payable 2 835 2 410 Non-interest-bearing derivatives 20 25 Other trade payables 1 494 1 436 Non-interest-bearing current liabilities 155 201 Total trade payables 4 329 3 846 Total financial liabilities non-interest-bearing 175 226 Value added tax, employee taxes 668 683 Accrued wages and holiday pay 1 083 1 087 Other accrued costs 1 012 1 153 E ESTIMATE UNCERTAINTY Total other liabilities (current) 2 938 3 149 All types of accruals/provisions will involve a certain estimate Accounts payable and other trade payables and other current financial uncertainty. Estimate uncertainty associated with customer liabilities are recognised at fair value according to Level 3 valuation bonuses, etc. is disclosed in Note 4. and derivatives according to Level 2 valuation (see the measurement hierarchy in Note 31). 123 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 28 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT AND FUNDING The level of a company’s capital and the way it is managed are important factors in evaluating the company’s risk profile and its capacity to withstand unexpected events. It is therefore important to provide information that enables users of the financial statements to understand the company’s objectives, policy and management of the company’s capital base. Capital management Funding Orkla’s capital management is designed to ensure that the Group has The primary objective of Orkla’s treasury policy is to ensure that the sufficient financial flexibility, short-term and long-term. One main Group has sufficient financial flexibility in the short and long term to objective is to maintain a financial structure that, through solidity and achieve its strategic and operational objectives. cash flow, secures the Group’s strong, long-term creditworthiness, as well as a competitive return for the shareholders through a combination Orkla’s policy with regard to its funding activity is to maintain unutilised, of dividends and an increase in the share price. long-term, committed credit facilities which together with available liquid deposits are sufficient to cover loans that fall due and known capital When allocating capital for acquisitions and other investments, a rate of needs over the next 12 months, as well as a strategic reserve. This means required return on capital is applied, adjusted for project specific risk. that Orkla’s credit facilities are normally refinanced one year before Capital usage and allocation are subject to formalised processes and maturity and that short-term interest-bearing debt is at all times covered forums. External borrowing is centralised at the parent company level, by unutilised long-term credit facilities. Commercial paper and money and capital needs in subsidiaries are mainly covered by internal loans, markets are used as a source of liquidity when conditions in these markets or equity. Capital structure in subsidiaries is adapted to commercial, as are competitive, as an alternative to drawing on unutilised committed well as legal and tax considerations. The short-term liquidity of Group long-term credit facilities. As of 31 December 2016 NOK 1.2 billion was companies is managed at Group level through cash pools. For funding of drawn on these credit facilities (31 December 2015: NOK 0 ). partly owned subsidiaries, Orkla normally either provides loans according to its share of capital jointly with other shareholders, or Orkla’s main funding sources are bilateral loans from Orkla’s relationship external funding is established. banks and loans in the Norwegian bond market. Funds have also been raised in the US Private Placement market. The Group Treasury also Orkla has no official credit rating, but actively monitors quantitative and continuously evaluates other funding sources. The term to maturity for qualitative measures which affect the creditworthiness of the Group. new loans and credit facilities is normally 5–10 years. The Group’s capital consists of net interest-bearing liabilities and equity: In 2016 Orkla repaid loans, repurchased outstanding bonds and cancelled credit facilities totalling NOK 2.4 billion. New bilateral loan Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 agreements totalling NOK 3.8 billion were entered into, new bonds of Non-current interest-bearing liabilities (7 172) (8 722) NOK 0.6 billion were issued, and existing bonds were increased by Current interest-bearing liabilities (2 496) (399) NOK 0.3 billion. The remaining time to maturity of NOK 1.5 billion of the Non-current interest-bearing receivables 390 586 bilateral long-term credit facilities has been extended by one year. Current interest-bearing receivables 18 9 Cash and cash equivalents 1 204 721 Orkla has no loan agreements with financial covenants for the Group Net interest-bearing liabilities (8 056) (7 805) or for Orkla ASA. The loan agreements include some limitations on Group equity1 33 876 33 746 disposals of businesses, creation of security interest on assets, borrowing Net gearing (net interest-bearing liabilities/equity) 0.24 0.23 at subsidiary level, and cross default clauses. Bonds issued in the 1 T he Group’s equity also includes the value of cash flow hedges taken to Norwegian bond market are listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange. comprehensive income, and unrealised gains on shares available for sale are taken to comprehensive income. Orkla’s net interest-bearing liabilities increased by NOK 0.3 billion through 2016, affected by acquisitions totalling NOK 2.7 billion, and sales of companies and financial assets totalling NOK 1.6 billion. Changes in foreign currency rates reduced the liabilities by NOK 0.7 billion. There were no changes in Orkla’s approach and objectives regarding capital management in 2016. As an industrial Group, Orkla is not subject to any external capital requirements. The subsidiary Orkla Insurance Company DAC (Ireland) is subject to solvency requirements under applicable laws and regulations in Ireland. These requirements were met in 2016. 124 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 29 INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES The composition and the level of interest-bearing liabilities plus unutilised credit facilities are managed as part of the Group’s funding activity. Changes in net interest-bearing liabilities result from the cash flow of the Group. P PRINCIPLES Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost. Thus, changes in fair value resulting from changes in market interest rates during the interest rate period are not reported in the income statement, except for loans which are hedged objects in fair value hedges of interest rate risk (see Note 31). Bonds issued by Orkla, held on own books, are carried at amortised cost and recognised as reduced debt. Book value Fair value1 Notional Amounts in NOK million 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 Currency in ccy Coupon3 Term Non-current interest-bearing liabilities Bonds ORK10 (10364920) 702 964 701 960 NOK 1 200 Fixed 5.70% 2007/2017 ORK09 (10364912) 213 519 214 518 NOK 1 300 Nibor +0.42% 2007/2017 ORK80 (10694680) 972 788 989 769 NOK 1 000 Fixed 4.35% 2013/2024 ORK82 (11731730) 757 659 753 631 NOK 1 500 Nibor +0.69% 2015/2022 ORK83 (11774383) 399 399 NOK 1 000 Nibor +0.85% 2016/2023 ORK84 (11774391) 187 192 NOK 1 000 Fixed 2.35% 2016/2026 US Private Placement 1 330 1 423 1 330 1 423 USD 150 Fixed 6.09% 2007/2017 US Private Placement 483 606 483 606 GBP 40 Fixed 6.27% 2007/2019 US Private Placement 670 712 670 712 USD 70 Fixed 6.19% 2007/2019 Other Private Placement 36 27 36 27 Total bonds 5 749 5 698 5 767 5 646 Of this current interest-bearing liabilities (2 266) (2 248) Bank loans 3 566 2 847 3 566 2 847 Other loans 123 177 123 177 Total non-current interest-bearing liabilities 7 172 8 722 7 208 8 670 Current interest-bearing liabilities Bonds, maturity <1 year 2 266 2 248 Bank loans, overdrafts 173 211 173 211 Other loans 29 42 29 42 Interest-bearing derivatives 28 146 28 146 Total current interest-bearing liabilities 2 496 399 2 478 399 Total interest-bearing liabilities 9 668 9 121 9 686 9 069 1 The fair value of exchange-traded bonds is calculated on the basis of official tax values, whereas book values are used for other loans. The book value of US Private Placement loans takes into consideration observed interest rates as of 31 December 2016 as these loans are hedged objects in fair value hedges, but not credit margin, as there is no available observation of this. 2 Of the notional amount the Group holds some of its own bonds. These reduce recognised liabilities. 3 The nominal interest rate is not an expression of the Group’s actual interest cost, as various interest rate swaps have been entered into. Note 30 discloses further details of interest rate level, interest rate risk and a break down of the liabilities portfolio by currency. Maturity profile interest-bearing liabilities and unutilised credit facilities The Group’s unutilised credit facilities are multi-currency loan agreements with floating interest rates and flexible amounts and Interest-bearing liabilities Unutilised credit facilities tenors for drawdown. The facility credit limits are denominated in 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 NOK, EUR and SEK. Maturity <1 year 2 496 399 Maturity 1–3 years 2 137 4 791 6 942 2 971 As at 31 December 2016 the average remaining time to maturity of the Maturity 3–5 years 1 220 1 958 2 033 5 403 Group’s combined interest-bearing liabilities and unutilised credit Maturity 5–7 years 2 247 1 150 facilities was 3.3 years, compared with 3.2 years as at 31 December 2015. Maturity >7 years 1 568 823 9 668 9 121 8 975 8 374 The Group also holds cash pools and bank accounts with short-term credit lines. Unutilised credit lines on these accounts are not included in the table. 125 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 30 FINANCIAL RISK This note discloses the Group’s financial risks within the business areas, and the management of these risks. Market risk related to financial instruments (currency risk, interest rate risk, and price risk for input factors and sold products), liquidity risk and credit risk are described specifically. In addition to loans and receivables, the financial instruments consist of derivatives used for hedging market risk. Derivatives and hedging relationships are described in more detail in Note 31. (I) ORGANISATION OF FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Shares and financial assets Orkla operates internationally and is exposed to financial risks such as Shares and financial assets include shares and investments currency risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk, liquidity risk and (disclosed in Note 24) that are exposed to share price fluctuations. credit risk. Orkla uses derivatives and other financial instruments in order to reduce these risks in accordance with the Group’s treasury policy. The responsibility for managing financial risk in Orkla is divided between (II) CATEGORIES OF FINANCIAL RISK FOR THE GROUP business areas, which manage risk related to business processes, and Group level, which manages risk related to centralised activities such as Currency risk funding, interest rate risk management and currency risk management. As NOK is the presentation currency for the Group, Orkla is exposed to currency translation risk on net investments in foreign entities. Orkla Centralised risk management maintains, as far as possible, a distribution of its net interest-bearing Orkla has a centralised Group Treasury. Its most important tasks are to liabilities across currencies which corresponds to the relative enterprise ensure the Group’s financial flexibility in the short and long term, and to value distribution across the foreign subsidiaries’ home currencies. This monitor and manage financial risk in cooperation with individual ensures approximately the same hedging level in all currencies, where operational entities. The guidelines for the Group Treasury are laid down net interest-bearing liabilities hedge the currency risk in enterprise value. in the Group’s treasury policy. The Group Executive Board monitors The currency distribution of net interest-bearing liabilities is shown in financial risk by means of regular reporting and meetings of the Orkla Table 2b. Treasury Committee. The Group Treasury acts as an internal bank for the Group and is responsible for, and executes, all major external funding In the statement of financial position, translation risk on net investments and hedging transactions related to currency and interest rate hedging. in foreign entities is reduced by the net interest-bearing liabilities in the Each year the Board of Directors grants authorisation for establishing same currency. These liabilities consist of hedges of internal loans from loans and entering into master agreements for financial instruments. Orkla ASA to subsidiaries in their home currency, plus hedges of net Debt and treasury positions are managed in a non-speculative manner, investments according to IAS 39. Orkla primarily uses loans and currency so that all transactions in financial instruments are matched to an underforward contracts to hedge internal loans and net investments in foreign lying business requirement. subsidiaries. Financial risks within each business area At the operational level, transaction risk is hedged against each entity’s This section describes the most important risk factors within each functional currency as described in (I) “Organisation of financial risk business area of the Group and the management thereof. In this context, management”. Orkla applies hedge accounting for most hedges of future financial risk is defined as risk related to financial instruments. These transactions, mainly cash flow hedges. The different types of hedges are may be either instruments hedging underlying risks, or viewed as a described in more detail in Note 31. source of risk in themselves. Market risk that is not hedged with financial ­instruments is also discussed in this section. The Group’s aggregated outstanding currency hedges of future transactions as at 31 December 2016 are shown in Table 1. Branded Consumer Goods Entities within this area are primarily located in the Nordic and Baltic countries, and Central/Eastern Europe. Production and sales mainly take TABLE 1 place in local markets. A significant part of the input factors, as well as Outstanding foreign exchange contracts1 some finished goods are imported. linked to hedging of future revenues and costs Amounts in million The two primary sources of financial risk within this business area are Purchase Amount in Sale Amount in price risk on agricultural products and ingredients in food production, currency currency currency currency Maturity and currency risk on imported goods. Price risk on raw materials is normally dealt with in commercial contracts. The most significant EUR 35 NOK 324 2017 currency risk results from purchasing in EUR by the Norwegian and the EUR 4 SEK 40 2017 Swedish entities. Contracts and committed transactions are hedged with SEK 156 NOK 149 2017 currency forward contracts against the entities' own functional currency. USD 10 DKK 66 2017 Currency risk related to expected, non-contractual cash flows is hedged USD 6 NOK 52 2017 to a limited extent. DKK 35 NOK 43 2017 CZK 98 NOK 33 2017 Hydro Power 1 In currency pairs where the net total of hedges is over NOK 20 million. Hydro Power is a significant producer of hydroelectric power (see Note 35). A substantial part of the production is sold under long-term contracts, whereas the remainder is sold in the spot market. Where contractual commitments exceed available power from own production, this is covered through purchases in the power market. Note 30 cont. 126 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 Interest rate risk The interest risk profile of the debt portfolio is determined by selection Orkla’s interest rate risk is mainly related to the Group’s debt portfolio. of interest periods for the Group’s loans and the use of currency and This risk is managed at Group level. The Group’s policy is that interest interest rate derivatives. As at 31 December 2016, 33% (39% as at costs should mainly follow the general trend in the money market. 31 December 2015) of the Group’s interest-bearing liabilities was at fixed Further, steps are taken to mitigate the effects of short-term fluctuations interest rates for periods exceeding one year, and the average time to in money market rates. Material decisions regarding interest rate hedging next interest rate adjustment was 2.4 years (2.5 years as at 31 December are made by the Orkla Treasury Committee. 2015). The interest rate exposure on interest-bearing liabilities broken down by currency and financial instruments is shown in Table 2a and 2b. TABLE 2a Interest-bearing liabilities by instrument and interest risk profile Next interest rate adjustment Amounts in NOK million 31.12.2016 0–3 months 3–6 months 6–12 months 1–3 years 3–5 years 5–10 years Bonds 5 749 1 191 933 1 331 1 154 1 140 Bank loans 3 626 3 626 Overdrafts 113 113 Other loans 152 29 123 Interest rate swaps (fair value hedge) 0 2 506 900 (1 293) (1 028) (1 085) Interest rate swaps (cash flow hedge) 0 (2 269) (598) 2 867 Interest rate derivatives (other) 0 450 (600) 150 Currency derivatives 28 22 5 1 Interest-bearing liabilities 9 668 5 668 763 39 126 150 2 922 31.12.2015 Bonds 5 698 686 519 2 387 1 318 788 Bank loans 2 928 1 926 1 000 2 Overdrafts 130 130 Other loans 219 55 162 2 Interest rate swaps (fair value hedge) 0 2 239 1 841 (2 235) (1 140) (705) Interest rate swaps (cash flow hedge) 0 (1 740) (609) 805 1 544 Interest rate derivatives (other) 0 (122) (650) 193 92 487 Currency derivatives 146 96 49 1 Interest-bearing liabilities 9 121 3 270 2 312 5 345 1 075 2 114 TABLE 2b Interest-bearing liabilities by instrument and currency Amounts in NOK million 31.12.2016 NOK SEK EUR USD DKK Other Bonds 5 749 3 229 2 001 35 484 Bank loans 3 626 44 951 1 413 1 198 4 16 Overdrafts 113 1 (18) 152 (4) (35) 17 Other loans 152 111 10 3 28 Currency derivatives 28 (3 970) 2 901 1 545 (3 104) 1 573 1 083 Interest-bearing liabilities 9 668 (585) 3 844 3 113 91 1 577 1 628 Interest level borrowing rate (%) 1.7 1.3 1.9 1.8 0.1 2.1 31.12.2015 Bonds 5 698 2 930 2 135 27 606 Bank loans 2 928 266 2 655 5 2 Overdrafts 130 7 1 90 23 9 Other loans 219 180 17 3 6 13 Currency derivatives 146 (2 793) 4 061 (1 748) (1 972) 1 604 994 Interest-bearing liabilities 9 121 590 4 079 1 000 163 1 665 1 624 Interest level borrowing rate (%) 2.0 2.7 1.4 2.2 1.2 0.3 5.2 For currency derivatives the asset and liability components are shown separately per currency, also including those that are recognised as assets. Note 30 cont. 127 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 Liquidity risk Due to the measures mentioned, the Group has limited liquidity risk. In Liquidity risk is the risk that Orkla is not able to meet its payment order to further reduce refinancing risk, Orkla seeks to ensure that the obligations. The management of liquidity risk has high priority as a maturities of loans and credit facilities are well distributed. means of meeting the objective of financial flexibility. Table 3 shows the maturity profile for the Group’s contractual financial Orkla’s policy for funding activities, described in Note 28, implies that liabilities, including liabilities which are not recognised in the financial short-term interest-bearing liabilities and known capital expenditures are position. The amounts represent undiscounted future cash flows, and funded by undrawn long-term credit facilities at least one year prior to may therefore deviate from recognised figures. Derivatives are presented maturity. The cash flow from operations, which among other factors is as split between those with gross settlement (currency derivatives), affected by changes in working capital, is managed operationally by the and those with net settlement (interest rate derivatives). The table also business areas, and is largely stable with the largest net inflow during the includes derivatives recognised as assets on the balance sheet date, as fourth quarter. Group Treasury monitors liquidity flows, shortand longderivatives may include both positive and negative cash flows, and the term, through reporting. Interest-bearing liabilities are managed together fair value fluctuates over time. Forward interest rate curves are applied to with interest-bearing assets at Group level. estimate future interest payments. Similarly, forward prices are used to determine the future settlement amounts for currency derivatives. TABLE 3 Maturity profile financial liabilities 31 December 2016 Contractual Amounts in NOK million Book value cash flow <1 year 1–3 years 3–5 years 5–7 years >7 years Loans 9 640 9 361 2 400 2 005 1 215 2 247 1 494 Interest payable 70 1 174 324 376 249 161 64 Accounts payable and other current financial liabilities 4 413 4 413 4 413 Subscribed, uncalled partnership capital 5 5 Net settled derivatives1 146 Inflow (822) (265) (247) (114) (129) (67) Outflow 934 213 343 179 143 56 Gross settled derivatives1 39 Inflow (8 651) (8 651) Outflow 8 668 8 668 Total 14 308 15 082 7 107 2 477 1 529 2 422 1 547 31 December 2015 Loans 8 975 8 536 252 4 635 1 775 1 101 773 Interest payable 81 1 097 315 424 192 95 71 Accounts payable and other current financial liabilities 3 966 3 966 3 966 Subscribed, uncalled partnership capital 8 8 Net settled derivatives1 74 Inflow (989) (266) (369) (176) (107) (71) Outflow 1 040 216 360 254 126 84 Gross settled derivatives1 127 Inflow (10 114) (10 114) Outflow 10 217 10 217 Total 13 223 13 761 4 594 5 050 2 045 1 215 857 1 Including derivatives recognised as assets (negative figures in brackets). The financial liabilities are serviced by cash flows from operations, liquid assets and interest-bearing receivables, and, when necessary, drawdowns on unutilised credit facilities. Unutilised committed credit facilities, the maturity profile of which is shown in Note 29, totalled NOK 9.0 billion at 31 December 2016 (NOK 8.4 billion at 31 December 2015). Credit risk The management of credit risk related to accounts receivable and other Orkla's credit risk related to financial instruments is managed by Group operating receivables is handled as part of the business risk, and is Treasury. Risk arises from financial hedging transactions, money market continuously monitored by the operating entities. The Nordic grocery trade deposits, and bank accounts. Firstly, Orkla seeks to minimise the liquid markets are characterised by relatively few, but large, participants, resulting assets deposited outside the Group. Secondly, relationship banks that proin a certain concentration of the credit risk exposure towards individual covide long-term funding are the targeted counterparties for bank accounts unterparties. Receivables on each from the four largest customers amount and financial hedging transactions according to policy. Further, limits and to 7-9% of total accounts receivable. When selling in countries with high requirements related to the banks’ credit ratings apply to deposits of excess political risk, trade finance products are used to a certain extent to reduce liquidity. The exposure is continuously monitored by Group Treasury, and is the credit risk. The current credit risk level is considered acceptable. considered to be low. Orkla ASA has International Swap Dealers Association Provisions have been made for losses on accounts receivable, and the (ISDA) agreements with its counterparties for derivative interest rate and recognised amount represents the fair value as of the statement of financial currency transactions, which provide for netting of settlement risk. position date. The provisions and the age distribution of accounts receivable that are overdue are shown in Note 23. Note 30 cont. 128 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 Maximum credit risk In Table 4, Orkla presents a partial analysis of the sensitivity of financial The maximum credit risk exposure for the Group related to financial instruments, where the isolated effect of each type of risk on the income instruments corresponds to total gross receivables. In the hypothetical, statement and equity is estimated. This is done on the basis of a selected unlikely event that no receivables are recovered, this amounts to: hypothetical change in market prices/rates on the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2016. In accordance with IFRS, the analysis Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 covers only financial instruments and is not meant to give a complete Cash and cash equivalents 1 204 721 overview of the Group’s market risk, for instance: Accounts receivable and other trade receivables 5 597 5 266 Other current receivables 414 228 • For currency hedges of contracts entered into, changes in the fair value of Non-current receivables 233 391 the hedging instrument will affect the income statement, while changes Derivatives 259 448 in the fair value of the underlying hedged contract offset by the hedging Total 7 707 7 054 instrument will not be shown as it is not a financial instrument. • If one of the parameters changes, the analysis will not take account of Commodity price risk any correlation with other parameters. The Group is exposed to price risks in respect of a number of raw materials, in particular agricultural products. However, the prices of • Financial instruments denominated in the entities’ functional currencies sold products are also affected by raw material prices, and it is generally do not constitute any currency risk and are therefore not included in Orkla’s policy to reduce the price risk through commercial contracts. this analysis. Nor is the currency exposure on translation of such Commodity price risk is described for the individual business areas in financial instruments to the Group’s presentation currency included. section (I) “Organisation of financial risk management”. Generally, the effect on the income statement and equity of financial Sensitivity analysis instruments in Table 4 is expected to offset the effects of the hedged The financial instruments of the Group are exposed to different types of items where financial instruments are part of a hedging relationship. market risk which can affect the income statement or equity. Financial instruments, in particular derivatives, are applied as a means of hedging both financial and operational exposure. TABLE 4 Sensitivity financial instruments 31 December 2016 Accounting effect on income statement of: Comprehensive income of: Amounts in NOK million increase decrease increase decrease Financial instruments in hedging relationships Interest rate risk: 100 basis points parallel shift in interest curves all currencies (36) 36 206 (212) Currency risk: 10% change in FX-rate USD/NOK 2 (2) 13 (13) Currency risk: 10% change in FX-rate EUR/NOK (2) 2 (302) 302 Currency risk: 10% change in FX-rate SEK/NOK 3 (3) (257) 257 Currency risk: 10% change in FX-rate DKK/NOK (58) 58 Financial instruments not in hedging relationships Sensitivity of share investments: 10% change in share price 9 (9) 31 December 2015 Financial instruments in hedging relationships Interest rate risk: 100 basis points parallel shift in interest curves all currencies 8 (10) 150 (154) Currency risk: 10% change in FX-rate USD/NOK 3 (3) 20 (20) Currency risk: 10% change in FX-rate EUR/NOK 1 (1) (123) 123 Currency risk: 10% change in FX-rate SEK/NOK (2) 2 (541) 541 Currency risk: 10% change in FX-rate DKK/NOK (96) 96 Financial instruments not in hedging relationships Sensitivity of share investments: 10% change in share price 3 (5) 135 (133) Accounting effects of changes in market risk are classified to income statement and comprehensive income in the table according to where the effect of the changes in fair value is recognised initially. Effects recognised in the income statement will also affect equity beyond the figures presented in the table. 129 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 31 DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING RELATIONSHIPS Derivatives are used in risk management to hedge currency and interest rate risk exposure. The value of the derivatives fluctuates in line with the prices of the underlying items, and the note shows the fair value of open derivative contracts as of the statement of financial position date. The derivatives in the table are classified by type of accounting hedge, the purpose of the derivatives, assets or liabilities according to how they are classified in the statement of financial position. P PRINCIPLES Derivatives are valued at fair value at the statement of financial position date and reported as receivables or liabilities. Gains and losses due to realisation or changes in fair value are reported in the income statement in cases where the derivative is not part of a hedging relationship that meets the criteria for hedge accounting. Embedded derivatives in contracts are identified and valued separately. Orkla currently has no embedded derivatives. Purchases and sales of derivatives are recognised at trade date. Gains and losses on currency forward contracts that hedge currency risk in shares and financial assets are reported as “Gains, losses and write-downs shares and financial assets”. Derivatives are classified in the statement of financial position as “non-interest-bearing” receivables or liabilities as the main rule. Classification as interest-bearing is used where the hedged object itself is classified as an interest-bearing item, as well as for net investment hedges. Hedging. The Group uses the following criteria when classifying a derivative or another financial instrument as a hedging instrument: (1) The hedging instrument is expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flow of an identified object – the hedging effectiveness is expected to be between 80-125%, (2) the hedging effectiveness can be measured reliably, (3) satisfactory documentation is established before entering into the hedging instrument, proving among other things that the hedging relationship is effective, (4) in the case of a cash flow hedge, that the future transaction is considered to be highly probable, and (5) the hedging relationship is evaluated regularly and has proved to be effective. Fair value hedges Cash flow hedges Net investment hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives The effective part of changes in the Foreign currency gains or losses on hedging designated as hedging instruments are fair value of a hedging instrument is instruments that can be allocated to the immediately recognised in the income recognised in the comprehensive income effective part of the hedging relationship statement. Changes in the fair value of and reclassified to the income statement are reported in the comprehensive income, the hedged item are recognised in the when the hedged transaction is carried while foreign currency gains or losses in the income statement in the same way. out, and presented on the same line as the ineffective part of the hedge are reported Hedge accounting is discontinued if: hedged transaction. The ineffective part in the income statement. The accumulated of the hedging instrument is immediately foreign currency gains or losses are (a) the hedging instrument has matured, or recognised in the income statement. When recognised in the income statement when is terminated, exercised or sold, a hedging instrument has matured, or is the hedged net investment is disposed of. (b) the hedge no longer meets the above sold, terminated or exercised, or the Group mentioned criteria for hedging, or discontinues the hedging relationship, (c) t he Group for other reasons decides not even though the hedged transaction is still to continue the fair value hedge. expected to occur, the accumulated gains or losses at this point will remain in the Group’s In the case of a discontinued hedging hedging reserve, and will be recognised in relationship, the changes in the fair value the income statement when the transaction of the hedged item recognised in the stateoccurs. If the hedged transaction is no ment of financial position will be amortised longer expected to occur, the accumulated over the remaining life of the item, using the unrealised gains or losses related to the effective interest rate method, in the same hedging instrument will be recognised in way as for the hedging instrument. the income statement immediately. Measurement of financial instruments. The Group uses the following hierarchy when determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments: Level 1: Quoted, unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities Level 2: Other techniques for which all inputs with significant effect on the recorded fair value, are observable, either directly or indirectly Level 3: Other techniques based on inputs with significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data Note 31 cont. 130 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 The Group seeks as far as possible to apply the IFRS rules for hedge accounting. The table below shows the fair value of all outstanding derivative financial instruments grouped according to treatment in the financial statements and hedged risk: Derivatives in the statement of financial position and hedging purpose Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 Purpose of hedging Hedge accounting Classification Assets Noni.b.1 249 414 Interest rate swaps fixed to floating, against Fair value through current fair value changes in the hedged loans Fair value hedge profit and loss Assets Current n.i.b.2 6 2 Total return swap hedging share exposure Fair value through in pension obligations profit and loss Assets Current n.i.b. 0 1 Currency forwards hedging monetary items Fair value through in the statement of financial position profit and loss Assets Current n.i.b. 4 31 Currency forwards hedging future Fair value through transactions Cash flow hedge comprehensive income Liabilities Nonn.i.b. (397) (478) Interest rate swaps floating to fixed, Fair value through current hedging future interest payments Cash flow hedge comprehensive income Liabilities Current i.b. 0 (10) Currency forwards hedging loans/deposits Fair value through profit and loss Liabilities Current i.b. (28) (136) Currency forwards hedging net investments Fair value through in foreign subsidiaries Net investment hedge comprehensive income Liabilities Current n.i.b. (16) (23) Interest rate swaps floating to fixed, Fair value through hedging future interest payments profit and loss Liabilities Current n.i.b. (3) (2) Currency forwards hedging future Fair value through transactions Cash flow hedge comprehensive income Total derivatives (185) (201) 1 i.b. = Interest-bearing asset/liability 2 n.i.b. = Non-interest-bearing asset/liability Calculation of fair value: The change in the equity hedging reserve before tax during 2016 is NOK • Currency forwards and currency swaps are measured at fair value using 67 million (NOK 55 million in 2015), and after tax, recognised in other the observed forward exchange rate for contracts with a corresponding comprehensive income, is NOK 46 million in 2016 (NOK 31million in 2015). term to maturity at the statement of financial position date. • Interest rate swaps are measured at fair value using the present value of A negative hedging reserve means a negative recognition in the income future cash flows calculated from observed market interest rates and statement in the future. Accumulated hedging gains/losses from cash flow exchange rates at the balance sheet date including accrued interest. hedges recognised in the equity hedging reserve as at 31 December 2016 are expected to be recycled to the income statement as follows (before tax): All derivatives are carried at fair value in the statement of financial position, and considered to be at level 2 in the hierarchy for 2017: NOK -114 million measurement of financial instruments. After 2017: NOK -284 million The derivative financial instruments are designated in hedging Hedges of net investments in foreign entities relationships as follows: When hedging the currency risk on foreign net investments, loans or currency derivatives are applied. During 2016 NOK 493 million has been Cash flow hedges recorded in other comprehensive income after tax from net investment • Orkla maintains interest rate swaps for hedging of future interest hedges (During 2015: NOK -454 million). The corresponding numbers payments on liabilities that qualify for hedge accounting. These are before tax are NOK 658 million (2015: NOK -622 million). swaps where Orkla pays a fixed interest rate and receives a floating rate. • In hedges of currency risk on highly probable future cash flows, During 2016, NOK 6 million was recorded in the income statement related currency forward contracts are designated as hedging instruments. to net investment hedges of divested investments (NOK 0 million in 2015). During 2016 no hedging ineffectiveness or hedging instruments which Fair value hedges no longer qualify for hedge accounting have affected the income • Interest rate derivatives designated as hedges of fixed interest rate statement ( the same during 2015). All expected cash flows which have loans (fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps) are accounted for as fair been hedged during 2016 still qualify for hedge accounting. value ­hedges. During 2016 NOK 165 million was recognised as costs in the income statement related to fair value changes in the interest rate swaps, and NOK 165 million was recognised as income related to fair Changes in the equity hedging reserve value changes in the hedged loans. Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 Opening balance hedging reserve before tax (465) (520) Derivatives not included in IFRS hedging relationships Reclassified to profit/loss – operating revenues (2) (2) There are also derivatives not included in hedging relationships according Reclassified to profit/loss – operating costs (29) (4) to IFRS for the following reasons: Reclassified to profit/loss – net financial items 112 95 Fair value change during the year (14) (34) • Derivatives are not designated as formal hedging relationships when changes in the fair value of hedging instruments and hedged objects are Closing balance hedging reserve before tax (398) (465) naturally offset in the income statement, for example currency risk on loans Deferred tax hedging reserve 95 116 and other monetary items. Closing balance hedging reserve after tax (303) (349) • Meeting strict IFRS hedge accounting criteria is not always possible or practical. Some of the currency hedges, forward rate agreements (FRAs) and interest rate swaps where hedge accounting has been discontinued, fall into this category. 131 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 32 SHARE CAPITAL A company’s share capital and the distribution of the number of shares outstanding determine who controls a company and the way formal ownership is held by shareholder groups. In a Norwegian group context, it is the share capital of the parent company that is relevant and it is Orkla ASA’s equity that serves as the basis of calculation and the limit for distribution of dividends from the Group. Number Nominal Type of Amounts Share capital Date/year of shares value (NOK) change (NOK million) Ratio (NOK million) 2007 1 041 430 970 1.25 split 5:1 1 301.8 2007 1 036 430 970 1.25 amortisation (6.3) 1 295.5 31 December 2007 1 036 430 970 1.25 1 295.5 2008 1 028 930 970 1.25 amortisation (9.4) 1 286.2 31 December 2008 1 028 930 970 1.25 1 286.2 31 December 2009 1 028 930 970 1.25 1 286.2 31 December 2010 1 028 930 970 1.25 1 286.2 31 December 2011 1 028 930 970 1.25 1 286.2 2012 1 018 930 970 1.25 amortisation (12.5) 1 273.7 31 December 2012 1 018 930 970 1.25 1 273.7 31 December 2013 1 018 930 970 1.25 1 273.7 31 December 2014 1 018 930 970 1.25 1 273.7 31 December 2015 1 018 930 970 1.25 1 273.7 31 December 2016 1 018 930 970 1.25 1 273.7 The 20 largest shareholders as at 31 December 20161 Number % of Shareholders of shares capital2 1 CANICA AS 193 292 000 18.97% 2 FOLKETRYGDFONDET 79 678 909 7.82% 3 TVIST 5 AS 50 050 000 4.91% 4 STATE STREET BANK AN S/A SSB CLIENT Nominee 41 600 164 4.08% 5 STATE STREET BANK AN A/C CLIENT Nominee 25 093 333 2.46% 6 CLEARSTREAM BANKING Nominee 23 243 893 2.28% 7 THE BANK OF NEW YORK BNYM SA/NV Nominee 18 797 524 1.84% 8 THE BANK OF NEW YORK S/A ADR Nominee 17 497 997 1.72% 9 STATE STREET BANK AN A/C WEST Nominee 17 095 175 1.68% 10 GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO. Nominee 12 359 357 1.21% 11 STATE STREET BANK Nominee 9 859 771 0.97% 12 THE BANK OF NEW YORK BNYM Nominee 9 287 565 0.91% 13 JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, A/C Nominee 9 129 919 0.90% 14 STATE STREET BANK AN A/C CLIENT Nominee 9 017 998 0.89% 15 JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, NORDEA Nominee 8 510 313 0.84% 16 PRUDENTIAL ASSURANCE HSBC 8 128 454 0.80% 17 STATE STREET BANK AN A/C CLIENT Nominee 7 799 904 0.77% 18 INVESCO FUNDS BNY MELLON 7 748 712 0.76% 19 KLP AKSJENORGE INDEK 7 497 766 0.74% 20 JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, S/A Nominee 7 164 763 0.70% Total shares 562 853 517 55.24% The list of shareholders is based on the Norwegian Central Securities Depository’s (VPS) register of members at year end. For a list of grouped shareholders and nominee 1 shareholders, see ”Share information” on page 152. 2 Of total shares issued. Treasury shares as at 31 December 2016 As at 31 December 2016, there were 955,000 options outstanding Nominal Number Fair value (see Note 11). value (NOK) of shares (NOK million) Shares owned by Orkla ASA 1 516 419 1 213 135 95 See the “Corporate governance” section on page 29 regarding the Treasury shares have been deducted from Group equity at cost. authorisations granted by the General Meeting concerning share capital. Dividend Changes in the number of treasury shares The Board of Directors proposes that an ordinary dividend of NOK 2.60 2016 2015 per share be paid, totalling NOK 2,646 million for the 2016 financial year. Total as at 1 January 940 300 1 832 903 External purchases of treasury shares 2 000 000 4 000 000 Under Norwegian law, the equity in Orkla ASA will, where relevant, Redemption of options in treasury shares (1 727 000) (3 951 000) constitute a legal limitation on the distribution of dividends by the Orkla employee share purchase programme (165) (941 603) Orkla Group. Dividends may be distributed insofar as the company has Total as at 31 December 1 213 135 940 300 adequate equity and liquidity. 132 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 33 NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS Non-controlling interests consist of external ownership interests in subsidiaries and their subsidiaries. As shown by the figures, most of the Group’s businesses are wholly-owned. Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 2014 Non-controlling interests’ share of: Depreciation and write-downs 24 23 18 Operating profit 97 90 67 Profit/loss before taxes 94 73 65 Taxes (12) (17) (25) Changes in non-controlling interests: Non-controlling interests 1 January 417 245 301 Non-controlling interests’ share of profit/loss 82 56 40 Increase due to acquisitions and capital increases 10 in companies with non-controlling interests 141 Decrease due to further acquisitions of non-controlling interests (18) (21) Decrease due to sale of companies with non-controlling interests (29) (85) Dividends to non-controlling interests (54) (19) (25) Translation differences (6) 15 14 Non-controlling interests 31 December 402 417 245 Non-controlling interests relating to: Orkla Food Ingredients 199 207 152 Orkla Confectionery & Snacks 0 2 1 Hydro Power 187 174 48 Financial Investments 16 34 44 Total non-controlling interests 402 417 245 Orkla Food Ingredients has several companies with non-controlling P PRINCIPLES interests, the most material of which are related to the Dragsbæk group in Denmark. The group has been family-owned and the former owner still has a substantial equity interest in the parent company. Orkla Food If the Group has control, but owns less than 100% of the Ingredients also has external ownership interests in Condite (Finland) and subsidiaries and their subsidiaries, the non-controlling interests’ Ekvia (Czech Republic). share of profit or loss after tax, their share of comprehensive income and their share of equity are presented on separate lines The non-controlling interests in Hydro Power consist of a 15% ownership in the consolidated financial statements. All internal transactions interest in Saudefaldene AS, which is owned by Sunnhordaland Kraftlag. are eliminated in the same way as for the other Group companies. In addition, Orkla Financial Investments has non-controlling interests If there are non-controlling interests in acquired companies, the relating to the Capto group. non-controlling interests will receive their share of allocated assets and liabilities, except for goodwill which is only calculated on the It is important to be aware that companies with non-controlling interests Group’s share. Transactions with non-controlling interests that do are consolidated on a 100% basis in the income statement, statement of not entail loss of control will be recognised in equity. financial position and statement of cash flows, and the non-­controlling interests’ share of the Group’s annual profit or loss and equity are ­reported on separate lines. 133 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 34 LEASING Leasing shows the Group’s current and non-current commitments arising from leasing contracts for property, plant and equipment. Most leases are regarded as operating leases, and the lease amounts are presented only as operating expenses in the Group’s income statement. Finance leases are capitalised. P PRINCIPLES Leases are classified according to the extent to which the risks and rewards associated with ownership of a leased asset lie with the lessor or the lessee. A lease is classified as a finance lease if it substantially transfers all risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an asset. Finance leases are capitalised and depreciated over the lease period. Other leases are operating leases. Expenses related to such leases are reported as current operating expenses (see Note 13). Reported costs related to operating leases reflect the minimum leasing cost during the period of notice. Lessee Operating leases Rented/leased Machinery/ Land, building, Fixtures, vehicles Other property, plant and equipment plant property etc. assets Total Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Cost current year 23 23 309 290 109 96 11 10 452 419 Cost next year 22 25 259 258 87 88 9 8 377 379 Total costs 2–5 years 22 24 591 640 129 165 15 15 757 844 Total costs after 5 years 2 4 90 265 29 1 1 122 270 Total future leasing costs 46 53 940 1 163 245 254 25 23 1 256 1 493 Lessee Finance leases Rented/leased Machinery/ Land, building, Fixtures, vehicles Other property, plant and equipment plant property etc. assets Total Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Cost current year 3 8 1 14 9 17 18 Cost next year 5 5 1 13 8 18 14 Total costs 2–5 years 4 6 24 22 28 28 Total costs after 5 years Total future leasing costs 9 11 1 37 30 46 42 Discounted effect (1) (1) (1) (1) Net present value leasing costs 9 11 1 36 29 45 41 The Group also leases out real estate under operating leases. Leasing in reported leasing costs. Under the new rules, there is also uncertainty revenues in 2016 totalled NOK 98 million. Total future leasing revenues attached to the general concept of leasing. In many cases, the perceived amount to NOK 216 million: NOK 83 million in 2017 and NOK 133 million advantages of not having to capitalise leased assets have been after 2017. determinant for decisions. In a regime where on the whole everything must be capitalised, the situation may change with the result that leasing New IFRS 16 Leases is not used in the same way as before. This could lead to adjustments The new standard requires that discounted right-of-use leases with being made up until the new regime comes into force and could mean associated payment liabilities be capitalised as an asset. Based on the that the restatement of the current leased assets will not be a reliable new rules, a general calculation based on reported leases indicates a indicator with regard to the situation in 2019. capitalisation of more than NOK 1 billion. In such case, this would reduce the Group’s equity ratio in 2016 from 61% to 60%, or by approximately According to the new rules, the capitalised leases will have to be one percentage point. Under the current IFRS rules, lease amounts are depreciated over the lease term and presented with the Group’s other recognised as operating costs for operating leases. There are a number depreciation. The interest effect of discounting will be presented as a of unclarified issues related to the valuation of service contracts and the financial item. Consequently, the Group’s operating profit will be slightly status that these items will have under the new regime. Service contracts higher, relatively speaking, under the new rules, provided the type and which in actual fact are right-of-use lease must be capitalised. The Group number of leased objects remain unchanged. has a major IT operations contract with Cognizant that is not included 134 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 35 POWER AND POWER CONTRACTS The Group both owns and leases power plants, all located in Norway. The table below shows the type of power plant, annual production, ownership status and key financial terms and conditions. Annual saleable normal Ownership, status and Plant, type, production/ remaining utilisation location/contract contract volume period/contract duration Key financial terms and conditions POWER PLANTS Saudefaldene 1 810 GWh AS Saudefaldene1 has an annual concession Storlivatn power plant Operation started 1970 power commitment of 134 GWh. In addition, Svartkulp power plant Operation started November 2001 the company has an annual delivery Dalvatn power plant Operation started December 2006 commitment of 436 GWh which, following Sønnå Høy power plant Operation started August 2008 the termination of the contract with Eramet, Sønnå Lav power plant Operation started October 2008 is to be sold to Statkraft on the same terms. An Storli mini power plant Operation started February 2009 agreement has been entered into with Elkem AS Kleiva small power plant Operation started November 2009 for the delivery of 501 GWh/year until 31 December 2030 to satisfy the condition Hydropower reservoir Pursuant to lease agreements with regarding use of power in Elkem’s industrial Rogaland Statkraft, AS Saudefaldene1 has the operations. The terms are equivalent to the use of all plants until 2030. See Note terms in the leasing agreement with Statkraft. 16 for further description of the dispute related to tax ownership. On hand-over to Statkraft the plants must be in good working condition. Statkraft SF shall pay AS Saudefaldene1 the residual value for tax as at 1 January 2031 of the expansions carried out by AS Saudefaldene1. Borregaard power plant2 250 GWh 100% ownership, Hydropower run-of-river, infinite licence period. Sarpsfossen in Glomma, Sarpsborg Sarp power plant2 265 GWh 50% ownership, infinite licence period. Hafslund Produksjon has the Hydropower run-of-river, The other ownership interest owned operational responsibility. Sarpsfossen in Glomma, Sarpsborg by Hafslund Produksjon. Trælandsfos power plant2 30 GWh 100% ownership, Hydropower run-of-river, infinite licence period. Kvinesdal, Vest-Agder Mossefossen power plant2 14 GWh 100% ownership, Hydropower run-of-river, partly infinite licence period. Moss, Østfold POWER CONTRACTS SiraKvina replacement power 35 GWh Infinite Replacement for lost production in Trælandsfos. Vest-Agder 1 Orkla owns 85% of AS Saudefaldene. 2 Saleable normal production given average inflow adjusted for expected loss of water, leakages in the power grid and own consumption. 135 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 36 PLEDGES AND GUARANTEES Pledges and guarantees show the book value of Group assets which are accessible to pledgees in the event of a bankruptcy or a winding-up. Claims that have priority by law (taxes and charges, wages etc.) must also be taken into account. The table shows that the book value of pledged assets is considerably higher than outstanding liabilities secured by pledges. Guarantee commitments are undertaken as part of the Group’s day-to-day operations and in connection with participation in general and limited partnerships. Guarantee commitments cover a variety of guarantees such as surety, rent guarantees and guarantees for other payments, but do not cover product or service liability in connection with ordinary sales. Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 Guarantees Liabilities secured by pledges 95 218 Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 Subscribed, uncalled limited partnership capital 5 8 Pledged assets Other guarantee commitments 163 58 Machinery, vehicles etc. 5 1 Total guarantee commitments 168 66 Buildings and plants 49 211 Inventory 2 160 Accounts receivables 29 2 Other assets 82 123 P PRINCIPLES Total book value 167 497 The Group’s most important loan agreements are based on a “Liabilities secured by pledges” and “Pledged assets” are mainly security negative pledge, and the Group can therefore only to a limited for loans in partly-owned companies. “Other guarantee commitments” extent pledge its assets to secure its liabilities. are mainly guarantees in connection with the construction of a new headquarters. NOTE 37 RELATED PARTIES Related parties are in a position to enter into transactions with the company that would not be undertaken between unrelated parties. A company’s profit or loss and financial position could in principle be affected by a related party relationship even if no transactions with related parties have actually taken place. The mere existence of the relationship may be sufficient to affect the way the company’s other transactions are perceived. To ensure full access to all information of this nature, the following related party relationships are disclosed below: Orkla ASA is a parent company and has direct and indirect control of Chairman of the Board of Directors Stein Erik Hagen and related parties around 235 companies in various parts of the world. Directly-owned own 249,142,000 shares in Orkla (equivalent to 24.5% of shares issued) subsidiaries are presented in Note 10 to Orkla ASA’s financial statements, through the Canica system. The Canica system and Orkla both have while other important companies are presented in the Group Directory. equity interests in a real estate investment. The Orkla Group also makes Orkla ASA’s internal relationship with these companies is shown on sales to companies in the Canica system. These sales are agreed on separate lines in the company’s financial statements (see the financial market conditions and amount to a total of NOK 30 million. statements for Orkla ASA). Apart from what is disclosed in this note, there were no material Orkla has ownership interests in associates and joint ventures, which ­transactions with related parties. Information regarding the executive are presented using the equity method. Orkla has outstanding balances management is disclosed in Note 11 to the consolidated financial totalling NOK 41 million with associates within Orkla Eiendom. There statements and Note 5 to the financial statements for Orkla ASA. have been no other special material transactions between associates and joint ventures and the Group. Internal trading within the Group is carried out in accordance with P PRINCIPLES special arm’s length agreements, and joint expenses in Orkla ASA are distributed among the Group companies in accordance with distribution Two parties are deemed to be related if one party can influence formulas, depending on the various types of expense. For further the decisions of the other. Related party relationships are a normal information on intra-Group transactions (see Note 7). feature of commerce and business. 136 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 38 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS In a Group as large as Orkla, the corporate structure will change over time as companies are sold and purchased. In connection with major acquisitions, pro forma figures will normally be prepared for the new business combination, while major divestments will be presented as “Discontinued operations”, extracted from both the figures for the period and comparative figures, and presented on one line in the income statement. This is done in order to make the figures comparable over time and to focus on continuing operations. Where Orkla’s businesses are concerned, it will not be relevant to present discontinued operations until an entire segment, geographical region or significant assets are divested. Profit & loss for “Discontinued operations” P PRINCIPLES Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 2014 Operating revenues 3 767 Discontinued operations/held for sale Operating expenses (3 430) If a material part of the Group’s operations is divested, an Depreciation and write-downs agreement is made to divest it, or if the Group loses its controlling property, plant and equipment (171) interest/significant influence, these operations are presented Other income and expenses (38) as “Discontinued operations” on a separate line in the income Operating profit/loss 128 statement and the statement of financial position. A material part is Profit/loss from associates 1 defined as an individual segment, an individual geographical area or Other financial items (50) a significant asset. Consequently, all other figures are presented Profit/loss before tax 79 exclusive of the “Discontinued operations”. The comparative figures Taxes (69) in the income statement are restated and presented with the Profit/loss after tax 10 “Discontinued operations” grouped on one line. The comparative Net residual settlement related figures for the statement of financial position and the statement to exit Russia (17) of cash flows are not restated correspondingly. If an agreement is Loss/gain on sale after tax (366) entered into to sell operations or assets that constitute less than M&A costs (129) a segment, assets and liabilities are reported on separate lines of Profit/loss for discontinued operations (17) (485) the statement of financial position as “Held for sale”. The income statement and the statement of cash flows are not restated. EBIT (adj.), by segment Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 2014 Orkla had no companies classified as “Discontinued operations” in 2016. Gränges 293 Orkla Brands Russia (127) Orkla Brands Russia Sapa The business in Russia was sold as at 31 December 2014 and is presented Total 166 as “Discontinued operations”. In November 2015, Orkla sold a property in the centre of St. Petersburg Cash flow “Discontinued operations” in Russia. The property was spun off from Orkla Brands Russia prior to Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 2014 the sale. The property was presented on a separate line in the statement Cash flow from operations before of financial position as an “Asset held for sale” as from the fourth quarter net replacement expenditures 547 of 2014. The gain was reported as “Discontinued operations” in 2015. Net replacement expenditures (50) Expansion investments (4) Gränges Total 493 Gränges was listed on the stock exchange on 10 October 2014 and, as a result of this decision, was presented as “Discontinued operations” as from the third quarter of 2014. The loss on the disposal is presented on the same line. The Group’s remaining ownership interest (31%) in Gränges was recognised as an associate as from the fourth quarter of 2014. In the course of 2015 and 2016 the Group sold the remainder of its interest in Gränges (see Note 24). 137 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 39 OTHER MATTERS Several factors that are not strictly accounting matters may be crucial to the way in which the financial statements are understood. For instance, there may be matters relating to time-limited agreements that could have an impact on future earnings. There may be unresolved legal disputes that could have significant effects if the judgment passed is not as expected. The information below is intended to shed light on such matters and, in combination with the financial statements and other notes, to provide a correct overall picture of the Group’s total earnings and financial position. Other matters Agreement with Unilever. Orkla has a long-term cooperation agreement Contracts. The Group has contracts at all times for the sale and purchase with Unilever relating to detergents and personal care products sold of goods and services in connection with the production of potatoes, through Lilleborg AS (OHPC Norge). This agreement was originally vegetables, fish etc. These contracts are regarded as part of the Group’s entered into in 1958, and has since been renewed three times. The ordinary operating activities and are therefore not specified or indicated current agreement was entered into on 1 July 2014, and will run for up in any other way. The contracts are deemed to be strictly commercial to five years, until 30 June 2019. As from 30 June 2016, the agreement contracts with no embedded derivatives. may be terminated by either party by giving 12 months’ notice, which means that the earliest possible expiry date for the current agreement Government grants. Government grants are recognised when it is is 30 June 2018. reasonably certain that they will be received. The grants are presented either as income or as a cost reduction in which case they are matched The Non-Annex 1 raw material price compensation agreement (RÅK). with the costs for which they are meant to compensate. Government Through the EEA Agreement, Norway has regulated trade in processed grants relating to assets are recognised as a reduction in the asset’s agricultural products (Non-Annex 1 products). The agreement ensures acquisition cost. The grant reduces the asset’s depreciation. Orkla free movement of goods, but customs duties and a compensation received only an entirely insignificant amount in government grants. system are used to even out any differences between the raw material prices paid by Norwegian manufacturers who use Norwegian raw Dragsbæk. Under Orkla’s shareholder agreement with its partner in materials and the prices paid by foreign manufacturers who use raw Dragsbæk, Orkla has an obligation to purchase the remaining shares at materials from the EU. Around 86% of Orkla’s sales of food products in the partner’s request. Orkla acquired 50% of the company for approx. Norway are exposed to competition from imports, most of which are NOK 45 million in 1989 and has subsequently purchased an additional non-Annex 1 products. 17%. The potential purchase of the remaining shares will be priced on the basis of the original price adjusted for inflation and earnings in the past Denofa do Brasil. A subsidiary of one of Orkla’s foreign subsidiaries, three years. The adjustment for earnings is limited to +/-25%. Denofa do Brasil Ltda, is involved in several lawsuits, two of which are material. One concerns the denial of exemption from VAT on exports of soybeans to Norway in the years up to 2004. The tax authorities maintain that the company has not substantiated that the soybeans actually were exported. The second lawsuit concerns a claim from the estate of a local bank that declared bankruptcy. The claim is based on Denofa do Brasil’s lending of securities related to soybeans in 2004, in which Denofa do Brasil was swindled. The company has lost both cases at first instance. Orkla’s legal advisers consider the decisions to be erroneous, and are in the process of appealing. Denofa do Brasil has only limited funds to pay the claims if one of the opposite parties should nonetheless win. Orkla is not prepared to inject capital into Denofa do Brasil to cover potential claims if the company should lose one of the cases. 138 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 40 CASH FLOW ORKLA-FORMAT The Orkla-format cash flow statement is presented as a note to Orkla’s quarterly reports and used as a reference in the segment information (Note 7) and in the Report of the Board of Directors. At Group level, the bottom line of the Orkla-format cash flow statement is net interest-bearing liabilities, an important key figure for the Group. The statement is used directly in management of the business areas and is part of the presentation of segment information. For further information see Note 3. The statement shows the Group’s overall financial capacity, generated by operations, to cover the Group’s financial items, taxes and items more subject to Group control such as dividends and treasury share transactions. Cash flow from operations is broken down into “Cash flow from operations” and “Cash flow from operations, Financial Investments”. The last part of the cash flow statement shows the expansion measures that have been carried out in the form of direct expansion investments, acquisition of companies, disposal of companies and changes in the level of investments in shares and financial assets. Direct expansion investments are defined as investments in new geographical markets or new categories or investments that represent substantial increases in capacity. The cash flow statement is presented on the basis of an average monthly exchange rate, while the change in net interest-bearing liabilities is an absolute figure measured at the closing rate. The difference is explained by the currency translation effect related to net interest-bearing liabilities. Orkla Eiendom has had and will have significant fluctuations in cash flow from operations. These are related to the development and sale of real estate projects. Cash flow from operations related to real estate and financial assets is therefore presented on a separate line, independently of cash flow from operations related to industrial activities. Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 2014 Operating profit 3 785 3 058 3 181 Amortisation, depreciation and write-downs 1 138 1 109 930 Change in net working capital, etc. (228) 404 (491) Cash flow from operations before net replacement expenditures 4 695 4 571 3 620 Net replacement expenditures (1 327) (930) (838) Cash flow from operations1 3 368 3 641 2 782 Cash from from operations, Financial Investments 45 94 (59) Financial items, net (276) (285) (326) Taxes paid (506) (727) (492) Received dividends 283 282 271 Discontinued operations and other payments 11 158 302 Cash flow before capital transactions 2 925 3 163 2 478 Paid dividends (2 599) (2 563) (2 565) Net sale/purchase of Orkla shares (77) (31) 105 Cash flow before expansion 249 569 18 Expansion investment in industrial activities (163) (388) (102) Sale of companies (enterprise value) 415 1 133 2 883 Purchase of companies (enterprise value) (2 651) (3 173) (87) Net purchase/sale shares and financial assets 1 194 298 350 Net cash flow (956) (1 561) 3 062 Currency effects of net interest-bearing liabilities 705 (583) (227) Change in net interest-bearing liabilities 251 2 144 (2 835) Net interest-bearing liabilities 8 056 7 805 5 661 1Excluding Financial Investments Reconciliation of operating profit in cash flow statement Reconciliation of change in interest-bearing liabilities against income statement Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 2014 Change in interest-bearing liabilities from Operating profit in the Group 3 916 3 107 3 114 cash flow Orkla-format 251 2 144 EBIT (adj.) Financial Investments 131 57 (36) Of this change cash and cash equivalents 483 (1 894) Other income and expenses Change net interest-bearing liabilities excluding Financial Investments (8) (31) cash and cash equivalents 734 250 Operating profit industrial activities 3 785 3 058 3 181 Net interest-bearing liabilities from acquired and sold companies (349) (1 261) Currency effects net interest-bearing liabilities 705 (583) Currency effects cash and cash equivalents 10 (23) Change net interest-bearing liabilities cash flow statement 1 100 (1 617) NOTE 41 EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE Material events after the balance sheet date that occur before the Board of Directors has approved the financial statements may make it necessary to change the annual financial statements or to disclose the matter in the notes to the financial statements. If new information emerges regarding a matter that existed on the balance sheet date, and the matter is material, the financial statements must be changed. If events concern matters that arose after the balance sheet date, the matters may have to be disclosed in a note. No other events have taken place after the balance sheet date that would have had a material impact on the financial statements or any assessments carried out. 139 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 Ingvild part of the Orkla family Annual Financial Statements for Orkla ASA 2016 140 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 INCOME STATEMENT CASH FLOW Amounts in NOK million Note 2016 2015 Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 Operating revenues 35 32 Profit/loss before tax 5 316 3 730 Operating revenues Group 1 651 667 Depreciation and write-downs 23 20 Total operating revenues 686 699 Changes in net working capital etc. 2 29 Payroll expenses 2 (487) (517) Changes in outstanding Group contributions (110) (245) Other operating expenses 5 (597) (681) Portfolio gains and dividends to Depreciation/write-downs and amortisation 8, 9 (23) (20) investment activities (228) (132) Operating loss (421) (519) Correction against financial items, payable 956 (1 710) Dividends and contributions Taxes paid (8) (147) from Group 5 723 5 045 Cash flow from operating activities 5 951 1 545 Interest income Group 124 140 Sale of property, plant and equipment 6 45 Financial costs Group 6 (789) (312) Replacement expenditures (46) (13) Net foreign exchange gains and losses 12 661 (620) Sale of companies 61 Gains, losses and write-downs Investments in subsidiaries (1 692) (1 732) in the share portfolio 182 116 Net purchase/sale shares, dividends Other financial income 7 64 46 and financial assets 444 315 Other financial costs 7 (228) (166) Cash flow from investing activities (1 227) (1 385) Profit before taxes 5 316 3 730 Dividends paid (2 543) (2 544) Taxes 11 (374) (31) Net sale/purchase of treasury shares (77) (31) Profit after tax 4 942 3 699 Net paid to shareholders (2 620) (2 575) Change in other interest-bearing liabilities (1 523) (1 239) COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Change in interest-bearing receivables (296) 1 968 Change in net interest-bearing liabilities (1 819) 729 Profit after tax 4 942 3 699 Cash flow from financing activities (4 439) (1 846) Change in unrealised gains on shares after tax (184) (43) Change in cash and cash equivalents 285 (1 686) Change in hedging reserve after tax 68 11 Change in actuarial gains and losses pensions (10) (15) Comprehensive income 4 816 3 652 Cash and cash equivalents 1 January 275 1 961 Proposed dividend (not provided for) (2 646) (2 545) Cash and cash equivalents 31 December 560 275 Change in cash and cash equivalents 285 (1 686) STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Assets Equity and liabilities Amounts in NOK million Note 2016 2015 Amounts in NOK million Note 2016 2015 Intangible assets 9 33 29 Paid-in equity 1 994 1 994 Deferred tax asset 11 252 282 Retained earnings 30 497 28 301 Property, plant and equipment 8 223 212 Equity 32 491 30 295 Shares in subsidiaries 10 39 952 39 021 Pension liabilities 2 517 491 Loans to Group companies, interest-bearing 6 897 6 185 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 7 007 8 317 Other financial assets 250 421 Non-current non-interest-bearing liabilities 397 478 Non-current assets 47 607 46 150 Non-current liabilities and provisions 7 921 9 286 Receivables external 168 77 Liabilities to Group, interest-bearing 6 208 8 987 Receivables Group, non-interest-bearing 269 1 191 Liabilities to Group, non-interest-bearing 100 51 Receivables Group contribution 1 325 1 215 Tax payable 374 13 Financial investments See Note 24 Group 107 473 Other current liabilities 2 942 749 Cash and cash equivalents 560 275 Current liabilities 9 624 9 800 Current assets 2 429 3 231 Equity and liabilities 50 036 49 381 Total assets 50 036 49 381 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Share Treasury Premium Total Other Total Amounts in NOK million capital shares fund paid-in equity equity1 Orkla ASA Equity 1 January 2015 1 274 (2) 721 1 993 27 225 29 218 Comprehensive income Orkla ASA 3 652 3 652 Dividends 2014 (2 544) (2 544) Net sale of treasury shares 1 1 (32) (31) Equity 31 December 2015 1 274 (1) 721 1 994 28 301 30 295 Comprehensive income Orkla ASA 4 816 4 816 Dividends 2015 (2 543) (2 543) Net purchase of treasury shares (77) (77) Equity 31 December 2016 1 274 (1) 721 1 994 30 497 32 491 Other equity for Orkla ASA as at 31 December 2016 includes a fund for unrealised gains totalling NOK 53 million (NOK 236 million as at 31 December 2015) and other 1 paid-in equity (options) totalling NOK 388 million (NOK 388 million as at 31 December 2015). 141 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Breakdown of net pension costs Besides all head office activities, the financial statements of the The assumptions on which the calculation of pension costs has been holding company Orkla ASA cover the remainder of the Group’s share based are disclosed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. portfolio and some real estate activities. The latter are part of the business operations of Orkla Eiendom. The financial statements also Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 cover the administration of the Orkla Foods, Orkla Confectionery & Current service cost Snacks, Orkla Care, Orkla Food Ingredients and Orkla Investments (incl. national insurance contribution) (19) (18) business areas, and the Operations and Purchasing functions, in addition Costs contribution plans (15) (16) to the administration of the Purchasing Academy, Sales Academy and Pensions classified as operating costs (34) (34) Brands Academy in Orkla ASA. Pensions classified as financial items (19) (9) Net pension costs (53) (43) Activities at head office include the Group’s executive management and the corporate and common functions Communications, Legal Affairs, Breakdown of net pension liabilities as at 31 December Sales & Business Development, Marketing & Innovation, M&A, HR, Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 Accounting/Finance, Risk Management and Internal Audit. In addition Present value of pension obligations (517) (491) to exercising parent company functions, the departments largely carry Pension plan assets out assignments for the Group’s other companies and charge them for Capitalised net pension liabilities (517) (491) these services. Orkla ASA owns certain trademarks that are utilised by various Group companies. Royalty fees are invoiced for the use of these The remaining net pension liabilities at 31 December 2016 mainly consist trademarks. The revenues from these activities are presented on the of unfunded pension plans for former key personnel and unfunded early line for “Other operating revenues Group”. The Group Treasury acts as retirement plans, and liabilities related to plans for employees who earn an internal bank and is responsible for the Group’s external financing, more than twelve times the Norwegian National Insurance Scheme’s management of the Group’s liquid assets and overall management of basic amount (12G). For other employees, the company primarily has the Group’s currency and interest risks. Interest from the Group’s internal defined contribution pension plans. bank and dividends and contributions to the Group from investments in subsidiaries are presented as financial items and specified in the income The company has a pension plan that meets the requirements of the statement. Compulsory Service Pensions Act. The financial statements for Orkla ASA have been prepared and presented in accordance with simplified IFRS pursuant to section 3-9 of NOTE 3 GUARANTEES AND ASSETS PLEDGED the Norwegian Accounting Act. Internal dividends and contributions Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 to the Group have been accounted for according to good accounting Subscribed, uncalled limited partnership capital 5 8 practice as an exception to IFRS. Provisions have been made for Guarantees to subsidiaries 212 233 ­dividends and contributions. The explanations of the accounting ­principles for the Group also apply to Orkla ASA, and the notes to the consolidated financial statements in some cases cover Orkla ASA. Ownership interests in subsidiaries are presented at cost. NOTE 4 LOANS TO EMPLOYEES Other financial assets include loans to employees. The Board of Directors has deemed that Orkla ASA, after the proposed Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 dividend of NOK 2.60 per share, had adequate equity and liquidity at the Loans to employees 1 4 end of 2016. NOTE 5 REMUNERATION AND CONTRACTUAL ARRANGEMENTS NOTE 2 PAYROLL AND PENSIONS Remuneration of the Group Executive Board The Board of Directors decides the terms and conditions of the President Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 and CEO and makes decisions on fundamental issues relating to the Wages (367) (379) Group’s compensation and benefits policy and compensation arrangeNational insurance contributions (57) (63) ments for other employees. The Board of Directors has a special Remuneration of the Board and Compensation Committee that prepares matters relating to compensation other pay-related costs (29) (41) for decision by the Board. The Committee consists of three Board Pension costs (34) (34) members, one of whom is elected by the employees, and was chaired Payroll expenses (487) (517) by the Deputy Chair of the Board in 2016. The administration prepares Average number of employees 189 190 matters for the Compensation Committee and the Board. The Group Executive Board participated in the Group’s annual bonus system and long-term incentive programme in 2016. Salaries and remuneration to the Group Executive Board and accrued bonuses are presented on the next page. The table also shows accruals and the balance in the bonus bank as at 31 December 2016, based on the Orkla share price as at 31 December 2016 (NOK 78.20). Note 5 cont. 142 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 Remuneration paid in 2016 Total paid Fixed salary Paid salary and Paid bonus Paid from Benefits salary and Amounts in 1,000 NOK 31 Dec. 2016 holiday pay (A) (accrued in 2015) bonus bank in kind (B) allowance Peter A. Ruzicka 5 923 6 199 3 629 242 10 070 Jens Bjørn Staff 2 870 2 980 986 263 4 229 Terje Andersen 2 899 3 524 1 474 1 043 221 6 262 Karl Otto Tveter 2 913 3 183 1 111 892 239 5 425 Atle Vidar Nagel-Johansen 3 570 3 884 1 818 1 419 272 7 393 Ann-Beth Freuchen 2 800 2 969 1 440 381 203 4 993 Pål Eikeland 2 800 3 067 1 390 1 298 235 5 990 Stig Ebert Nilssen 3 140 3 384 666 746 198 4 994 Johan Clarin (salary in SEK) 2 915 2 922 1 175 469 257 4 823 Accrued remuneration, not paid in 2016 Accrued Accrued long-term Accrued Accrued Balance bonus bank Amounts in 1,000 NOK bonus in 20161 incentive programme2,4 pension costs total (C) 31 Dec. 20162,4 Peter A. Ruzicka3 2 961 2 961 2 127 8 049 7 166 Jens Bjørn Staff 881 881 730 2 492 1 929 Terje Andersen 1 197 1 197 907 3 301 3 944 Karl Otto Tveter 953 953 720 2 626 3 248 Atle Vidar Nagel-Johansen 1 250 1 250 978 3 478 3 963 Ann-Beth Freuchen 1 624 1 624 589 3 837 3 588 Pål Eikeland 862 862 682 2 406 5 054 Stig Ebert Nilssen 1 046 1 046 809 2 901 2 631 Johan Clarin (salary in SEK) 943 943 699 2 585 3 488 1Accrued annual bonuses for 2016 are paid in 2017. 2 50% of long-term incentives accrued in 2016 are paid after 24 months and 50% after 36 months, provided that the employee has not given notice of resignation on the payment date. See also point (iii) on the next page and Note 11 in the consolidated financial statements. 3 The accrued salary and remuneration of the President and CEO totalled NOK 14,490,000 (A+B+C) in 2016. 4The bonus bank balance does not include bonuses accrued in 2016. The Group Executive Board participates in the Group’s general employee The other members of the Group Executive Board have a period of share purchase programme. The programme was not implemented in notice of six months, and their retirement age is 65. From the age of 65 2016. No guarantees have been provided for members of the Group until they reach the age of 67, Orkla will pay them 66% of their salary upon Executive Board. retirement, after which their pension will be paid from Orkla’s pension plan. Terje Andersen may retire at the age of 62 with the same benefits. The shareholdings of members of the Group Executive Board are Terje Andersen and Karl Otto Tveter have personal loans on which a presented on page 160. The retirement age of the President and CEO regulated interest rate is charged. The balance as at 31 December 2016 is 62, and the period of notice is six months, with a period of pay of 12 was NOK 472,921 for Mr Andersen and NOK 69,974 for Mr Tveter. No months after termination of employment. From the age of 62 until he other members of the Group Executive Board have personal loans. reaches the age of 67, he will be paid 60% of his salary upon retirement. Options awarded to the Group Executive Board as of 31 December 2016 Award date Strike 1st exercise/exercise date Last exercise Number (dd/mm/yyyy) price (dd/mm/yyyy) (dd/mm/yyyy) Karl Otto Tveter -50 000 10.05.2010 36.38 19.02.2016 Exercised at 70.65 -50 000 09.05.2011 40.03 28.09.2016 Exercised at 82.22 Atle Vidar Nagel-Johansen 35 000 09.05.2011 40.03 09.05.2014 09.05.2017 -35 000 09.05.2011 40.03 05.09.2016 Exercised at 77.88 Ann-Beth Freuchen 40 000 09.05.2011 40.03 09.05.2014 09.05.2017 Stig Ebert Nilssen 50 000 09.05.2011 40.03 09.05.2014 09.05.2017 -50 000 10.05.2010 36.38 17.02.2016 Exercised at 71.44 Note 5 cont. 143 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 The Board of Directors’ statement of guidelines (iii) Special comments on share-based incentive programmes for the remuneration of the executive management Pursuant to section 6-16a of the Public Limited Liability Companies Act, Orkla has a cash-based long-term incentive programme. An amount the Board of Directors must draw up a special statement of guidelines for based on the result of the annual bonus programme will be deposited in the pay and other remuneration of senior executives. Furthermore, under a bonus bank. The bonus is normally awarded in May of each year. The section 5-6 (3) of the same Act, an advisory vote must be held at the balance will be adjusted according to the performance of the Orkla share General Meeting on the Board of Directors’ guidelines for the remuneration until it is paid out. The adjustment is based on the share price recorded of the executive management for the coming financial year (see (ii) below). on the day after the Annual General Meeting, adjusted for dividends in Insofar as the guidelines concern share-related incentive programmes, the period. 50% of the entitlement will be paid out after two years and these must also be approved by the General Meeting (see (iii)). the rest after three years, provided that the employee has not given ­notice of resignation at the time of payment. The annual amount paid (i) Pay and other remuneration of the executive management out from the long-term incentive programme must not exceed one year’s pay at the time of payment. Any excess amount will be added to Information regarding pay and other remuneration of the executive the bank deposit to be paid out the following year. management for the previous financial year has been provided on page 143. (iv) Senior executive pay policy in previous financial years (ii) Guidelines for pay and other remuneration of the executive management The guidelines for the pay and remuneration of senior executives With regard to guidelines for pay and other remuneration of the executive described in (ii), which were considered at the Annual General Meeting in management in the coming financial year, the Board of Directors will 2015, also served as guidelines for the determination of senior executive submit the following guidelines to the General Meeting in 2017 for an remuneration in 2016. advisory vote: Discounted shares for employees The purpose of Orkla’s reward policy is to attract personnel with the For several years the Group has had a programme offering employees competence that the Group requires, develop and retain employees with an opportunity to buy a limited number of shares at a discount of 30% key expertise and promote a long-term perspective and continuous imon the market price. Shares may be purchased for five different amounts: provement supporting achievement of Orkla’s business goals. The geneNOK 28,000, 20,000, 12,000, 4,000 and 1,000 (amounts after discoral approach adopted in Orkla’s policy is to pay fixed salaries in line with unt). In 2016 this programme was not implemented as planned. The market median level while offering variable pay linked to results, share costs related to the share purchase programme in 2015 amounted to price performance etc. (shortand long-term incentives) above market approximately NOK 22 million. The Board of Directors recommends to median level. Compensation may consist of the following elements: the General Meeting that the employee share purchase programme is continued. Further, as a temporary arrangement applicable only in 2017, a) Fixed elements the possibility of purchasing shares for NOK 40,000 and NOK 50,000 Orkla uses internationally recognised job assessment systems to find the (amounts after discount) will be offered, thereby taking into account “right” level for the job and the fixed salary. Jobs are assessed in relation the fact that the programme was not implemented in 2016. The same to their local market (country) and a pay range of the median +/20% conditions as in 2015 otherwise apply. is applied. The employee’s responsibilities, results and performance determine where he or she is placed on the salary scale. Remuneration of the Board of Directors and Board members’ shareholdings Orkla has a defined contribution pension plan in Norway. The As from 17 April 2016, the Board of Directors is remunerated at the ­contribution rates are 5% for salaries between 1G and 7.1G and 23.1% for following rates: salaries over 7.1G (as from 1 May 2015 1G is NOK 92,576). For members of the Group Executive Board as at 1 September 2014, the rate for salaries Board Chair NOK 700 000 per year over 12G is 27%. Employees who have entered into an early retirement Board Deputy Chair NOK 545 000 per year agreement entitling them to retire before the age of 67 receive a pension Board member NOK 410 000 per year (unfunded) that is equivalent to 60 per cent of their annual pay. Other members of the Group Executive Board than the President and CEO have Observer NOK 156 000 per year 66%, all subject to a minimum of 30 qualifying years. In addition to the Deputy member NOK 26 500 per meeting above, the Group provides benefits such as a company car and company telephone and other limited benefits in kind. Compensation Committee Committee Chair NOK 134 000 per year (b) Variable elements – annual bonus Member NOK 100 000 per year Orkla has an annual bonus programme. Under this programme, a “good performance”, which is specifically defined for the various elements, can Audit Committee result in an annual bonus of 30% of an employee’s annual base salary, Committee Chair NOK 168 000 per year while the maximum bonus is 100% of the employee’s annual base salary. Member NOK 112 000 per year Approximately 175 senior executives and key personnel participate in this bonus programme. The bonus programme targets for 2017 will consist of In addition, shareholder-elected Board members residing outside organic growth, EBIT (adj.)-development, capital use and individual Norway receive an additional NOK 16,500 per meeting attended. components. The primary goal is profit growth. Note 5 cont. 144 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 Payments actually received by members of the Board of Directors are as NOTE 7 OTHER FINANCIAL INCOME AND FINANCIAL COSTS follows: Other financial income Director’s fee incl. Number Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 Amounts in NOK committee work of shares1 Interest income 2 13 Dividends received 47 16 Shareholder-elected Board members Other financial income 15 17 Stein Erik Hagen 792 666 249 142 000 Total other financial income 64 46 Grace Reksten Skaugen 673 000 3 000 Ingrid Jonasson Blank 567 166 1 750 Other financial costs Lisbeth Valther 456 166 3 000 Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 Nils K. Selte 573 333 18 000 Interest costs (226) (233) Lars Dahlgren 456 166 2 000 Change in fair value interest element 50 53 Employee-elected Board members Other (52) 14 Terje Utstrand See table below 5 240 Total other financial costs (228) (166) Roger Vangen See table below 7 014 Sverre Josvanger See table below 18 053 Karin Hansson See table below 487 NOTE 8 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Land, Machinery, Assets 1 Total share ownership including related parties buildings fixture and under and other fittings con­ Fixed Director’s Benefits Pension Amounts in NOK million property etc. struction Total Amounts in 1,000 NOK salary fee in kind costs Book value 1 January 2016 100 93 19 212 Employee-elected Board members Investments 1 43 44 Terje Utstrand 554 872 506 000 29 747 26 779 Disposals (8) (8) Roger Vangen 544 869 307 944 36 929 23 561 Reclassifications1 5 (3) (8) (6) Sverre Josvanger 507 708 517 666 113 080 21 901 Depreciation (2) (17) (19) Karin Hansson (salary in SEK) 396 410 307 500 17 155 Book value 31 December 2016 95 74 54 223 No loans have been granted to or guarantees provided for members of Initial cost 1 January 2016 118 199 19 336 the Board of Directors. Accumulated depreciation and write-downs 1 January 2016 (18) (106) (124) Remuneration of the Nomination Committee Book value 1 January 2016 100 93 19 212 As from 17 April 2016, the Nomination Committee is remunerated according to the following rates: Initial cost 31 December 2016 115 197 54 366 Committee Chair NOK 60,000 per year, members NOK 44,000 per year Accumulated depreciation and and employee-elected representatives NOK 5,500 per meeting. write-downs 31 December 2016 (20) (123) (143) Book value 31 December 2016 95 74 54 223 Fees to Group external auditor 1 Net reclassifications relating to the transfer from Note 9. Amounts in NOK million (excl. VAT) 2016 2015 Parent company NOTE 9 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Statutory audit 3.0 2.7 Other attest services 0.2 0.0 Trademarks not Amounts in NOK million amortisable IT Total Tax consultancy services 1.8 2.5 Other non-audit services 6.3 2.8 Book value 1 January 2016 26 3 29 Reclassifications property, plant Group and equipment1 6 6 Statutory audit 26 24 Investments 2 2 Other attest services 1 0 Amortisation (4) (4) Tax consultancy services 5 4 Book value 31 December 2016 26 7 33 Other non-audit services 7 5 Total fees to EY 39 33 Initial cost 1 January 2016 26 56 82 Statutory audit fee to other auditors 2 2 Accumulated amortisation and write-downs 1 January 2016 (53) (53) Book value 1 January 2016 26 3 29 NOTE 6 FINANCIAL COSTS GROUP Initial cost 31 December 2016 26 64 90 Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 Accumulated amortisation and write-downs 31 December 2016 (57) (57) Write-down share investments in subsidiaries1 (763) (258) Gain on sale of Cederroth AS 19 Book value 31 December 2016 26 7 33 Interest income Group (45) (54) 1 Net reclassifications relating to the transfer from Note 8. Total financial costs Group (789) (312) 1 S hares in the subsidiaries Cederroth Intressenter AB and Industriinvestringer AS were written down due to the companies’ pay-out of dividends (2015: Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Finland, Øraveien Industripark and Viking Askim). 145 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 10 SHARES IN SUBSIDIARIES, DIRECTLY OWNED NOTE 11 TAXES Group's share Book value Taxes Beløp i mill. NOK of capital 2016 2015 Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 Orkla Foods Norge AS 100% 9 362 9 362 Profit before taxes 5 316 3 730 Industriinvesteringer AS 100% 9 012 9 290 Change in temporary differences (75) (67) Orkla Foods Sverige AB 100% 5 469 5 469 Of which change in temporary Orkla Conf. & Snacks Finland Ab 100% 3 652 3 652 differences previous years (2) 43 Orkla Food Ingredients AS 100% 2 466 2 466 Correction for change in temporary differences Orkla Energi AS 100% 1 765 1 765 taken to comprehensive income 83 6 Hamé s.r.o. 100% 1 357 Total change in temporary differences 6 (18) SIA Orkla Conf. & Snacks Latvija1 100% 959 1 032 Non-deductible expenses 79 116 Orkla Conf. & Snacks Norge AS 100% 906 906 Tax-free dividends, capital gains (losses) Orkla House Care AS 100% 865 515 and write-downs share portfolio (226) (133) Orkla Health AS 100% 631 590 Impairment of shares in subsidiaries 763 258 Orkla Eiendom AS 100% 574 574 Dividends from subsidiaries (4 398) (3 830) Lilleborg AS 100% 526 502 Options and long-term bonus agreements 0 (14) Swebiscuits AB 100% 512 512 (44) (63) Other permanent differences Viking Askim AS 100% 400 400 Total permanent differences (3 826) (3 666) Sarpsfoss Limited Total taxable income 1 496 46 Ordinary shares 100% 253 253 Preference shares 99.9% 43 43 Calculated current tax expense (374) (12) SIA Orkla Foods Latvija2 100% 246 173 Withholding tax foreign dividends 0 (1) Attisholz AB 100% 187 187 Correction in provisions for previous years’ taxes 4 11 Orkla Foods Romania SA 100% 184 184 Total current tax expense (370) (2) Orkla Foods Danmark A/S 100% 175 175 Change in deferred tax liabilities (4) (29) Orkla Asia Holding AS 100% 166 166 Total tax expense (374) (31) Orkla Insurance Company Ltd. 100% 65 65 UAB Orkla Foods Lietuva3 100% 57 57 Deferred tax liabilities Trælandsfos Holding AS 100% 36 36 Orkla IT AS 100% 34 34 Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 Meraker Eiendom Holding AS 100% 15 15 Financial derivatives (3) (80) Øraveien Industripark AS 100% 15 15 Unrealised gains (losses) on shares outside Orkla Investeringer AS 100% 10 the tax exemption method in equity 0 0 Orkla Design AS 100% 5 Accumulated write-downs outside Orkla Accounting Centre Estonia 100% 2 2 the tax exemption method (11) (11) Cederroth Intressenter AB 100% 1 438 Hedging reserve in equity (397) (493) Orkla France S.A.S. 100% 1 Property, plant and equipment 12 (4) Attisholz Infra AG4 0.4% 1 1 Pension liabilities (425) (383) Cederroth AS 100% 104 Other current liabilities (228) (159) Orkla Invest AB 100% 38 Basis deferred tax (1 052) (1 130) Total 39 952 39 021 Deferred tax asset (252) (282) 1 Formerly NP Foods Group Latvia and JCS Latfood Change in deferred tax (30) (41) 2Formerly SIA Spilva Change in deferred tax taken to 3Formerly UAB Suslavicius-Felix comprehensive income 26 12 4 The remaining shares are owned by Attisholz AB Change in deferred tax in the income statement (4) (29) The table above shows only directly owned subsidiaries. The Group consists of a total of around 235 companies. The most important Reconciliation of total tax expense indirectly-owned subsidiaries are shown in the Group Directory at the Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 end of the Annual Report. 25% of profit before taxes (1 329) (1 007) Effect of change in tax rates (6) (13) Tax-free dividends, capital gains (losses) and write-downs shares and share portfolio 57 36 Dividends from subsidiaries 1 100 1 034 Write-downs shares in subsidiaries (191) (70) Options and long-term bonus agreements 0 4 Other permanent differences 11 17 Non-deductible expenses (20) (31) Withholding tax 0 (1) Correction previous years' taxes 4 0 Total tax expense for Orkla ASA (374) (31) 146 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 NOTE 12 FINANCIAL RISK Equity hedging reserve. Change in equity hedging reserve: The risk associated with financial instruments in Orkla ASA is related to the following activities: Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 Opening balance hedging reserve before tax (492) (521) Shares and financial assets Reclassified to profit/loss – net financial items 112 93 Changes in share prices are sources of financial risk for shares and Fair value change during the year (16) (64) financial assets. This risk is quantified in Note 24 to the consolidated Closing balance hedging reserve before tax (396) (492) financial statements. Deferred tax hedging reserve 95 123 Closing balance hedging reserve after tax (301) (369) The Group’s internal bank The Group Treasury of Orkla ASA manages the interest rate and The hedging reserve is expected to be reclassified to the income currency risk for the Group. The Treasury Department acts as Group statement as follows (before tax): internal bank and executes all external funding and hedging transactions in interest rate and currency derivatives. The subsidiaries mitigate 2017: NOK -113 million their currency risk by entering into internal currency hedging contracts After 2017: NOK -283 million with the internal bank, which in turn hedges this risk through external hedging positions. In addition, the internal bank holds debt in foreign NOTE 13 OTHER MATTERS currencies in order to hedge currency risk on internal loans, book equity PAYE tax guarantee and guarantee for pension liabilities and goodwill. In 2016, NOK 655 million was recognised in the income Orkla ASA has a bank guarantee to cover Pay-As-You-Earn (PAYE) tax statement in connection with these hedges (NOK -622 million in 2015). payable by employees and pension liabilities for employees who earn The internal bank does not actively take on currency risk. Intercompany more than 12G on behalf of its Norwegian subsidiaries. The company has loans and deposits are at floating interest rates, and no intra-group interest no other restricted assets. rate hedging contracts are made. Further details of the management of interest rate and currency risk for Group-external items are disclosed in Material leases Note 30 to the consolidated financial statements. In 2013, Orkla ASA moved to new temporary premises in Nedre Skøyen vei 26, Oslo, along with the companies Orkla Health, Orkla Home & Derivatives and hedge accounting Personal Care, Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Norge, Pierre Robert Currency forward contracts. The internal bank’s internal and external Group, Hydro Power, Orkla IT, Orkla House Care and Orkla Eiendom. The currency forward contracts and cross currency swaps are recognised at building has been leased from Evry until 2018 pending the construction fair value in the statement of financial position with changes in fair value of new permanent premises at Drammensveien 149 and 151. Annual recognised through profit and loss. Foreign currency effects related to leasing costs total NOK 41 million. Orkla ASA subleases premises to the internal and external loans are also accounted for through profit and loss. other companies. Interest rate swaps. External funding for the Group is mainly originated Orkla ASA still leases premises at Karenslyst allé 6, Skøyen, in Oslo, through Orkla ASA. Loans issued at fixed interest rates are normally from Investorprosjekt 93 AS until the year 2020. Annual leasing costs swapped to floating interest rates through interest rate swaps. These total NOK 21 million. At present, a provision of NOK 35 million has been swaps are accounted for as fair value hedges with fair value changes made in the financial statements for 2016, as parts of the building are recognised through profit and loss. As at 31 December 2016, the fair unoccupied. value of these interest rate swaps was NOK 249 million (NOK 414 million in 2015). During the year NOK 165 million was recognised as costs in As a result of the acquisition of Rieber & Søn ASA, Orkla ASA took over the the income statement related to changes in the fair value of the interest lease of Rieber’s head office in Nøstegaten 58, Bergen in 2013. The rate swaps, and NOK 165 million was recognised as income related to contract runs until 2019, and the lessor is AS Inventor Eiendommer. changes in the fair value of the hedged loans. Annual leasing costs total NOK 19 million. The building is subleased, primarily to KnowIt, Kredinor and Bergen Municipality. A provision of When Orkla hedges future interest payments, interest rate swaps, where NOK 12 million has been made in the financial statements for 2016, as Orkla receives floating interest rates and pays fixed interest rates, are parts of the building are unoccupied. used. These interest rate swaps are accounted for as cash flow hedges with changes in fair value recognised through comprehensive income. Matters disclosed in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements As of 31 December 2016, the fair value of these swaps amounted to Share-based payment – Note 11 NOK -397 million (NOK -478 million in 2015). Events after the balance sheet date – Note 41 Shareholders in Orkla ASA A list of the largest shareholders in Orkla ASA is presented in Note 32. 147 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 Statement from the Board of Directors of Orkla ASA We confirm that the financial statements for the period 1 January up to Board of Directors’ report includes a fair review of the development and and including 31 December 2016 have, to the best of our knowledge, performance of the business and the position of the company and the been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and Group as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and uncertainties that they face. profit or loss of the company and the Group as a whole, and that the Oslo, 8 February 2017 The Board of Directors of Orkla ASA Stein Erik Hagen Grace Reksten Skaugen Ingrid Jonasson Blank Lars Dahlgren Chairman of the Board Deputy Chair of the Board Lisbeth Valther Nils K. Selte Terje Utstrand Sverre Josvanger Karin Hansson Roger Vangen Peter A. Ruzicka President and CEO (This translation from Norwegian of the Statement from the Board of Directors of Orkla ASA has been made for information purposes only.) 148 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 Independent auditor's report TO THE GENERAL MEETING OF ORKLA ASA Report on the audit of the financial statements report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures designed to respond to Opinion our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial We have audited the financial statements of Orkla ASA comprising the ­statements. The results of our audit procedures, including the procedures financial statements of the Parent Company and the Group. performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the financial statements. The financial statements of the Parent Company comprise the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2016, the income statement, Revenue recognition – provisions for discounts and bonuses comprehensive income, cash flow and statement of changes in equity Revenue is measured as sales reduced by discounts and bonuses for the year then ended and notes to the financial statements, including a earned by customers. Due to the multitude and variety of agreements summary of significant accounting policies. and ­contractual terms, the determination of discounts and bonuses ­recognized on sales made during the year is considered complex and The consolidated financial statements of the Group comprise the requires management judgement. Revenue recognition including statement of financial position as at 31 December 2016, the income ­provisions for discounts and bonuses is therefore a key audit matter. statement, statement of comprehensive income, statement of cash flows and statement of changes in equity for the year then ended and notes to Our audit procedures included identifying, understanding, evaluating the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting and testing management procedures and controls for determining the policies. reduction in revenues by discounts and bonuses. We performed detailed testing on a sample basis and analytical procedures to test that discounts In our opinion, and bonuses are recognized in the correct period, and accuracy and • the financial statements are prepared in accordance with the law and completeness of the provision and the underlying calculation. These regulations; procedures included testing of the basis for calculating discounts and • the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the bonuses against actual sales and agreed terms. Further, we have tested financial position of the Parent Company as at 31 December 2016, and the accuracy of historical provisions for discounts and bonuses. of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the Norwegian Accounting Act and accounting We refer to the Group’s disclosures in notes 4 and 9 in respect of revenue standards and practices generally accepted in Norway; recognition and provision for discounts and bonuses. • the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects the financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2016 Other information and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then Other information consists of the information included in the Company’s ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards annual report other than the financial statements and our auditor’s report as adopted by the EU. thereon. The Board of Directors and President and CEO (management) is responsible for the other information. Our opinion on the financial Basis for opinion statements does not cover the other information, and we do not express We conducted our audit in accordance with laws, regulations, and any form of assurance conclusion thereon. ­auditing standards and practices generally accepted in Norway, including International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under those In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit is to read the other information, and, in doing so, consider whether the of the financial statements section of our report. We are ­independent other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially relevant to our audit of the financial statements in Norway, and we have misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that fulfilled our ethical responsibilities as required by law and regulations. We there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required have also complied with our other ethical obligations in accordance with to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Responsibilities of management for the financial statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of Key audit matters these financial statements in accordance with the Norwegian Accounting Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, Act and accounting standards and practices generally accepted in Norway were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of for the financial statements of the parent company and International the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU for the financial audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion statements of the Group, and for such internal control as management ­thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. matter is provided in that context. In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, ­responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the 149 Annual Financial Statements Annual Report 2016 going concern basis of accounting, unless management either intends • o btain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic information of the entities or business activities within the Group to alternative but to do so. express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs that we identify during our audit. will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually We also provide those charged with governance with a statement or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial independence, and communicate with them all relationships and other statements. matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. As part of an audit in accordance with law, regulations and generally accepted auditing principles in Norway, including ISAs, we exercise From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the audit. We also: the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless • identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is benefits of such communication. higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements • obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, Opinion on the Board of Directors’ report and in the statements on but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of corporate governance and corporate social responsibility the Company’s internal control Based on our audit of the financial statements as described above, it is • evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the our opinion that the information presented in the Board of Directors’ reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made report concerning the financial statements and in the statements on by management. corporate governance and corporate social responsibility, the going • c onclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern assumption, and proposal for the allocation of the result is concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence consistent with the financial statements and complies with the law and obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or regulations. conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty Opinion on registration and documentation exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the Based on our audit of the financial statements as described above, and related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures control procedures we have considered necessary in accordance with are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. “Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease Financial Information”, it is our opinion that management have fulfilled to continue as a going concern. their duty to ensure that the Company's accounting information is • e valuate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial properly recorded and documented as required by law and bookkeeping statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial standards and practices accepted in Norway. ­statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a ­manner that achieves fair presentation. Oslo, 24 February 2017 ERNST & YOUNG AS Erik Mamelund State Authorised Public Accountant (Norway) (This translation from Norwegian has been made for information purposes only.) 150 Historical key figures Annual Report 2016 Historical key figures Historical key figures are presented for each of the last four years (2012-2015), as they were presented in that year’s annual report. Subsequent accounting restatements (due to changes in accounting principles, items presented as “Discontinued operations”, etc.) are therefore not reflected in the set of figures presented. This is because Orkla wishes to present the Group as reported for the years in question, so as to illustrate the actual level of activity in each year. Definition 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 INCOME STATEMENT Operating revenues (NOK million) 37 758 33 198 29 599 33 045 30 001 EBIT (adj.)* (NOK million) 4 298 3 609 3 214 3 142 3 279 Other income and expenses (NOK million) (382) (502) (100) (860) (433) Operating profit (NOK million) 3 916 3 107 3 114 2 282 2 846 EBIT (adj.)-margin* 1 (%) 11.4 10.9 10.9 9.5 10.9 Profit/loss from associates and joint ventures (NOK million) 1 378 1 111 121 2 414 Ordinary profit/loss before taxes (NOK million) 5 182 4 090 2 872 2 664 3 873 Gains/profit/loss discontinued operations (NOK million) (17) (485) (1 225) (1 583) Profit/loss for the year (NOK million) 4 375 3 351 1 699 747 1 583 CASH FLOW Net cash flow (NOK million) (956) (1 561) 3 062 (2 757) 5 273 CAPITAL AS AT 31 DECEMBER Book value of total assets (NOK million) 55 604 54 238 50 112 52 115 57 686 Market capitalisation 2 (NOK million) 79 586 71 361 52 025 47 981 49 031 Equity ratio 3 (%) 60.9 62.2 62.5 59.1 53.9 Net interest-bearing liabilities 4 (NOK million) 8 056 7 805 5 661 8 496 4 960 Net gearing 5 0.24 0.23 0.18 0.28 0.16 Interest coverage ratio 6 23.1 17.3 10.8 8.1 10.6 Average borrowing rate (%) 1.8 2.8 3.4 3.4 3.7 Share of floating interest-bearing liabilities 7 (%) 67 61 57 54 63 Average time to maturity liabilities 8 (year) 3.3 3.2 3.7 3.6 3.1 SHARES Average number of shares outstanding, diluted (x 1,000) 1 017 969 1 018 394 1 017 795 1 013 312 1 011 770 Average number of shares outstanding (x 1,000) 1 017 526 1 017 546 1 016 375 1 012 284 1 011 723 SHARE-RELATED KEY FIGURES Share price at 31 December (NOK) 78.20 70.10 51.15 47.32 48.50 Earnings per share, diluted 9 (NOK) 4.22 3.24 1.63 0.68 1.56 Ordinary dividend per share (proposed for 2016) (NOK) 2.60 2.50 2.50 2.50 2.50 Payout ratio 10 (%) 61.6 77.2 153.4 357.1 156.3 Price/earnings ratio 11 18.5 21.6 31.4 67.6 30.3 PERSONNEL Number of employees 18 154 14 670 12 921 16 756 15 001 Number of man-years 18 038 14 532 12 714 16 737 15 042 * EBIT (adj.) = Operating result before other income and expenses Definisjon: 1 EBIT (adj.)* / Operating revenues 2 Market capitalisation is calculated on the basis of number of shares outstanding x Average share price at year end 3 Book equity / Total assets 4 Total interest-bearing liabilities Interest-bearing receivables and liquid assets (cash, bank deposits etc.) 5 Net interest-bearing liabilities / Equity 6 (Profit before tax + Net interest expenses) / (Net interest expenses) 7 Liabilities with remaining period of fixed interest of less than one year 8 Average time to maturity for interest-bearing liabilites and unutilised committed credit facilities 9 Profit for the year after non-controlling interests / Average number of shares outstanding, diluted, at year end 10 Ordinary dividend per share / Earnings per share, dilutedt 11 Share price / Earnings per share, diluted 151 Share information Annual Report 2016 Share information Through efficient business operations, Orkla aims to achieve long-term value growth for its shareholders which exceeds that of relevant, competitive investment alternatives. For shareholders, this is reflected in the combination of the long-term price performance of the Orkla share and the dividend that is paid out. Market capitalisation and turnover a steady, stable increase over time in the dividends paid out. The Orkla share is listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange under The goal in future is to pay an annual dividend of at least the ticker code ORK. All shares have equal rights and are NOK 2.50 per share. freely transferable. The Board of Directors proposes to pay a dividend of NOK In terms of market value, Orkla is the sixth largest company 2.60 per share for the 2016 financial year. The dividend will on the Oslo Stock Exchange as at 31 December 2016. At the be paid out on 3 May 2017 to shareholders of record on the end of 2016, its market capitalisation was NOK 79.7 billion, date of the Annual General Meeting. up NOK 8.3 billion from the end of 2015. The average daily volume of Orkla shares traded on the Oslo Stock Exchange Treasury shares was 1.8 million, equivalent to 0.17% of the total number of Orkla supplements its dividends with moderate share buybacks. shares. At the 2016 Annual General Meeting, the Board of Directors was granted authorisation to buy back up to 100,000,000 In 2016, around 70% of Orkla share trades took place on Orkla shares. The authorisation was granted for a limited period marketplaces other than the Orkla Stock Exchange, such as of time, and must be implemented at the latest by the 2017 the LSE, BATS OTC and BOAT. The Orkla share may also be Annual General Meeting. Shares acquired under the authorisatraded through Orkla’s Level-1 ADR programme in the US. tion must be cancelled or used in connection with employee More information on the ADR programme may be found on incentive programmes, including the Group’s employee share Orkla’s website under “Investor Relations”. purchase programme. A total of 2,000,000 Orkla shares were bought back in 2016 for the latter purpose. As at 31 December Return on investment 2016, Orkla owned 1,213,135 treasury shares. The Board of Over time, Orkla shareholders have enjoyed a good return Directors will propose to the General Meeting in 2017 that the on their shares. The table below shows the average annual authorisation to buy back Orkla shares be renewed. return (including the reinvested dividend) on the Orkla share compared with the Oslo Stock Exchange Benchmark Index Voting rights (OSEBX). Orkla has one class of share, and each share carries one vote and has a par value of NOK 1.25. Each shareholder is entitled to vote the number of shares which he or she owns and which are registered in the Norwegian Central Securities Depository (VPS) on the date of the general meeting. If Return including reinvested dividend per 31.12.2016 the shareholder has acquired the shares shortly before the general meeting, voting rights for the transferred shares Orkla OSEBX may only be exercised if the acquisition has been registered Latest year 15.6% 12.1% in the VPS, or if the acquisition has been reported to the Latest 3 years 87.6% 24.6% VPS and proof of the acquisition is presented at the general Latest 5 years 121.4% 77.7% meeting. Latest 10 years 89.2% 55.3% Read more about Orkla’s voting rights and the general meeting on Orkla’s website, under “Investor Relations”. Source: Delivered by Nasdaq with data from Euroland.com. Dividend policy Over time, Orkla's shareholders shall receive a competitive return on their investment through a combination of dividends and an increase in the share price. Orkla has achieved 152 Share information Annual Report 2016 Shareholders by Ordinary dividend per share geographical area* 3.0 2.00 2.25 2.25 2.25 2.50 2.50 2.5 2.50 2.50 2.50 2.50 2.60 2.0 1.50 Norway 48% 1.5 USA 22% 0.27 0.32 UK 10% 1.0 0.39 0.41 0.50 Other 20% 0.60 0.65 0.68 0.5 0.80 0.90 0 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 031 042 05 06 07 08 09 103 11 12 13 14 15 164 NOK Additional dividend NOK 5.00 per share. 3Additional dividend NOK 5.00 per share. 1 *As of 31.12.2016 Additional dividend NOK 1.00 per share. 4Proposed dividend. 2 The 20 largest shareholders as of 31.12.20161 Shareholder No. of shares % of capital 1 Canica2 249 142 000 24.48% 2 Folketrygdfondet 79 878 909 7.85% 3 Artisan Partners Limited Partnership 34 909 100 3.43% 4 Newton Investment Management Ltd. 30 917 034 3.04% 5 BlackRock Institutional Trust Company. N.A. 19 818 658 1.95% 6 Epoch Investment Partners, Inc. 17 995 852 1.77% 7 First Eagle Investment Management, L.L.C. 17 347 381 1.70% 8 The Vanguard Group, Inc. 17 086 453 1.68% 9 KLP Forsikring 12 862 946 1.26% 10 Acadian Asset Management LLC 12 859 940 1.26% 11 MSD Partners, L.P. 12 051 285 1.18% 12 SAFE Investment Company Limited 11 492 883 1.13% 13 M & G Investment Management Ltd. 10 941 818 1.08% 14 Storebrand Kapitalforvaltning AS 10 755 003 1.06% 15 State Street Global Advisors (US) 10 501 933 1.03% 16 Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 8 455 369 0.83% 17 Standard Life Investments Ltd. 8 238 419 0.81% 18 Statoil Kapitalforvaltning ASA 7 525 069 0.74% 19 INVESCO Asset Management Deutschland GmbH 7 483 980 0.74% 20 Arrowstreet Capital, Limited Partnership 7 467 616 0.73% Total 587 731 648 57.75% 1 Source: The shareholder list is delivered by Nasdaq. 2 Canica: Canica AS, Canica Investor AS, Tvist 5 AS, Stein Erik Hagen AS 153 Share information Annual Report 2016 Key figures for the Orkla share 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Share price, high (NOK) 83.55 72.25 59.15 52.75 49.27 Share price, low (NOK) 64.65 48.73 45.82 43.28 39.21 Share price, closing 31.12. (NOK) 78.20 70.10 51.15 47.32 48.50 Diluted earnings per share (NOK) 4.22 3.24 1.63 0.68 1.56 Dividend paid per share1 (NOK) 2.60 2.50 2.50 2.50 2.50 Percentage of foreign shareholders 51.8% 54.5% 53.8% 52.1% 45.9% Number of shares issued as of 31.12. 1,018,930,970 1,018,930,970 1,018,930,970 1,018,930,970 1,018,930,970 Number of shares outstanding 1,017,717,835 1,017,990,670 1,017,098,067 1,013,958,864 1,010,943,856 as of 31.12. 1 Proposed dividend Analysts Brokerage house Contact Telephone Email ABG Sundal Collier Petter Nystrøm +47 22 01 61 35 petter.nystrom@abgsc.no Arctic Securities Magnus Berg +47 21 01 32 09 magnus.berg@arcticsec.no Bernstein Andrew Wood +65 62 30 46 49 andrew.wood@bernstein.com Carnegie Preben Rasch-Olsen +47 22 00 93 59 pro@carnegie.no Danske Market Equities Martin Stenshall +47 85 40 70 73 martin.stenshall@danskebank.com DNB Markets Ole Martin Westgaard +47 24 16 92 00 ole.martin.westgaard@dnb.no Goldman Sachs John Ennis +44 207 552 9608 john.ennis@gs.com Handelsbanken Capital Markets Kjetil Lye +47 22 94 07 00 kjly01@handelsbanken.no Nordea Markets Anders Hagen +47 22 48 79 83 anders.hagen@nordea.com Pareto Securities Jon D. Gjertsen +47 24 13 21 78 jon@paretosec.com SEB Enskilda Kenneth Sivertsen +47 22 82 67 27 kenneth.sivertsen@seb.no SpareBank1 Markets Lars-Daniel Westby +47 24 14 74 16 lars.westby@sb1markets.no Swedbank Securities Marius Gaard +47 91 19 38 05 marius.gaard@swedbank.no UBS Investment Bank David Hallden +46 84 53 73 00 david.hallden@ubs.com Financial Calendar 2017 Date Event 20 April Annual General Meeting 21 April Share traded ex. dividend1 3. May Dividend payment1 9. May 1st quarter 14. July 2nd quarter 25. October 3rd quarter 1 Subject to the approval of the proposed dividend at the General Meeting 154 Additional information for valuation purposes Annual Report 2016 Additional information for valuation purposes One possible model for valuing Orkla is based on distinguishing between the branded consumer goods business, where the value lies in future earnings from continuing operations, and the Group’s negotiable assets, which have identifiable market values and where earnings are not a part of Orkla’s operating profit from the branded consumer goods business. Consolidated operations: investments, which are being realised in accordance with the Hydro Power Group’s current strategy. The most important development proThe power operations have been fully consolidated into Orkla’s jects in the portfolio are the construction of a new headquarters income statement and are reported as Hydro Power. The power for Orkla at Skøyen, and two housing projects at Torshov in operations consist primarily of two assets, a reservoir power Oslo. As of 31 December 2016, Orkla’s real estate investments plant in Sauda (85% interest) and a run-of-the-river plant in had a carrying value of NOK 1.3 billion, of which around NOK Sarpsborg. The Sauda hydropower operations are regulated by 860 million was related to the three largest development proa civil law lease agreement with Statkraft. The lease runs until 31 jects. The focus in future will be on realising the potential value December 2030, after which the power plants will be returned of the development projects, and on securing assets and freeing to Statkraft in return for financial compensation equivalent to up capital through the sale of properties and projects that are the estimated residual value, written down for tax purposes, not to be further developed. Current development projects of the newly built plants (around NOK 1.1 billion). There is an require investments during the construction period, while gains ongoing dispute regarding the tax ownership of one of the are primarily expected to be realised in the period 2018–2020. Sauda power plants. See Note 16 “Taxes”. Read more at www.orklaeiendom.no The Saudefaldene plant’s normal annual production totals 1,810 Associates: GWh. Saudefaldene leases approximately 1 TWh per year from Jotun Statkraft and has corresponding delivery commitments, the net Orkla owns 42.5% of Jotun, which is reported as an associate. effect of which is zero. The rest of the power is sold on the spot Jotun is a well-established global manufacturer of paint and market. Payroll expenses and other operating costs related to powder coatings, and holds strong positions in Scandinavia, these activities amounted to approximately NOK 52 million in Asia and the Middle East. The company is steadily expanding 2016. Major maintenance investments are generally recognised and has achieved good organic growth in the past few years. in the financial statements under operating expenses. SaudeJotun reported operating revenues of NOK 15.8 billion in faldene receives an annual amount from Statkraft in compen2016 and EBIT amounted to NOK 1.8 billion. Net interestsation for major maintenance investments. The net charge in bearing liabilities as at 31 December 2016 totalled 2016 was approximately zero, as in 2015. Depreciation totalled NOK 1.5 billion. NOK 51 million in 2016. Read more at www.jotun.com The power operations in Sarpsborg are based on power rights that are not subject to reversion, and normal annual Sapa production totals 593 GWh. The power is sold on the spot In 2013, Orkla and Hydro merged their respective extrumarket. Payroll expenses and other operating costs related sion, building system and tubing operations to create a to these activities totalled around NOK 41 million in 2016. leading global supplier of aluminium solutions. The merged Depreciation amounted to around NOK 9 million in 2016. company, Sapa is presented on a single line in the income statement (Associates and joint ventures) using the equiFinancial Investments ty method. Sapa’s income statement is presented in Note Financial Investments consist of shares and financial assets, 6 “Investments accounted for using the equity method”. as well as Orkla Eiendom, with a total book value of approxiIn connection with the merger, the company targeted mately NOK 1.4 billion as at 31 December 2016. cost synergies totalling NOK 1 billion in the period up until 2016. These synergies were realised ahead of schedule The market value of shares and financial assets was NOK 0.1 and exceeded the target. The shareholders have an agreebillion as at 31 December 2016. For more information, see ment whereby each party may initiate a process for listing Note 24 “Shares and financial assets”. the company on the stock exchange around three years after the establishment of Sapa JV (1 September 2013), and Orkla Eiendom meets the Group’s needs for specialised whereby each party may decide to retain an interest of up to expertise and assistance in the real estate sector, and is 34%. Net interest-bearing liabilities as at 31 December 2016 responsible for the administration, development and sale of totalled NOK 0.1 billion. properties that are not utilised in Orkla’s industrial operations. Read more at www.sapagroup.com Orkla also has a historical portfolio of real estate-related 155 Orkla Board of Directors Annual Report 2016 Orkla Board of Directors STEIN ERIK HAGEN1 Chairman of the Board / (b. 1956) Degree from the Retail Institute (now the Norwegian School of Retail) Mr Hagen was first elected to the Board in 2004 and is up for election in 2017. Retailer and founder of RIMI in 1977. Co-founder of ICA AB in 1999. Owner of Canica AS and associated family-owned companies together with three of his children. Chairman and member of the Board of various companies in which the Hagen family has direct or indirect ownership interests. Member of the Board of the Stein Erik Hagen Stiftelse for Klinisk Hjerteforskning (Foundation for Clinical Heart Research) and member of the Committee of Shareholders’ Representatives of Stein Erik Hagens Allmennyttige Stiftelse (Charitable Foundation). Founder and General Manager of the Prostate Cancer Foundation of Norway. Member of the Board of the Byrd Hoffman Watermill Foundation. Orkla and Canica and/or Stein Erik Hagen have one common business interest*. The Board of Directors of Orkla has been informed of this interest, and has taken due note of the information. Mr Hagen and related parties own 249,142,000 shares in Orkla ASA2. Mr Hagen attended 6 Board meetings in 2016. *  slo Business Park (Østre Aker vei 90) is owned by Capto Eiendom AS and Winta Eiendom AS on a O 50/50 basis. Canica owns 25% of Winta Eiendom AS. GRACE REKSTEN SKAUGEN Deputy Chair of the Board / (b. 1953) MBA, BI Norwegian Business School, BSc and PhD in Laser Physics, Imperial College of Science and Technology First elected to the Board in 2012 and up for election in 2017. Ms Reksten Skaugen works as an independent consultant. She is Chair of the Board of the Norwegian Institute of Directors. She is also member of the Board of Directors of Lundin Petroleum AB and Euronav Tankers and member of the Board and Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee of Investor AB. She was formerly Director, SEB Enskilda Securities, Corporate Finance. Ms Reksten Skaugen and related parties own 3,000 shares in Orkla ASA2. Ms Reksten Skaugen attended 7 Board meetings in 2016. INGRID JONASSON BLANK Board Member / (b. 1962) BSc in Business Administration and Economics from the University of Gothenburg First elected to the Board in 2013 and up for election in 2017. Ms Jonasson Blank held various positions at ICA from 1986 to 2010, most recently as EVP Functional Market Responsibility, ICA Sverige. She is currently member of the Board of Fiskars Oyj, MATAS A/S, Royal Unibrew A/S, Bilia AB, Ambea Sverige AB, Musti ja Mirri Oy, Matse Holding AB and ZetaDisplay AB. Ms Jonasson Blank and related parties own 1,750 shares in Orkla ASA2. Ms Jonasson Blank attended 7 Board meetings in 2016. 1Not independent 2Shares owned as at 31 December 2016 156 Orkla Board of Directors Annual Report 2016 Orkla Board of Directors LISBETH VALTHER Board Member / (b. 1966) Bachelor in Business Administration and Diploma in Marketing, Handelshøjskolen SYD, Denmark First elected to the Board in 2013 and up for election in 2017. Ms Valther Pallesen is cofounder of Next Step Citizen A/S and has been CEO of the company since 2012. From 1989 to 2012 she held various positions at LEGO, most recently as EVP Consumer, Education & Direct (2006–2012) in charge of the LEGO Group’s direct trade with consumers, digital activities and new business development. Member of the Board of Directors and member of the Audit Committee of Amersports Oy since 2015. Ms Valther and related parties own 3,000 shares in Orkla ASA2. Ms Valther attended 7 Board meetings in 2016. LARS DAHLGREN Board Member / (b. 1970) MSc in Economics and Business Administration from the Stockholm School of Economics First elected to the Board in April 2014 and up for election in 2017. Mr Dahlgren has been CEO of Swedish Match AB since 2008. From 2004 to 2008 he was CFO of Swedish Match AB, and from 2002 to 2004 held the post of VP Group Finance at Swedish Match AB. From 2000 to 2002 he was Financial Director and Director of Business Development at Vasatek Ltd. (JV between Swedish Match and Gumtech Inc.). Prior to that, Mr Dahlgren was Financial Director, Treasurer and Director IT at Swedish Match Philippines Inc., 1998 –2000. From 1996 to 1998 he worked as Assistant Controller at Swedish Match AB, before which he held the post of Financial Analyst at SBC Warburg, 1995–1996. He is member of the Board of Arnold André GmbH & Co. KG. Mr Dahlgren and related parties own 2,000 shares in Orkla ASA2. Mr Dahlgren attended 7 Board meetings in 2016. NILS K. SELTE1 Board Member / (b. 1965) MBA, BI Norwegian Business School First elected in April 2014 and up for election in 2017. Since 2014 Mr Selte has been CEO of Canica AS where he has been employed since 2001, first as CEO from 2001 to 2006 and later as Finance Director from 2006 to 2014. Mr Selte was previously SVP Finance/Group Treasurer at ICA Ahold AB from 1999 to 2001, before which he held the posts of SVP Finance/Group Treasurer and Finance Manager at Hakon Gruppen AS from 1998 to 2001. From 1994 to 1996 he was Finance Manager at LIVI Norge AS and consultant at the Office of the Auditor General of Norway from 1991 to 1994. Nils K. Selte is member of the Board of Komplett AS and Deputy Chair of the Board of Centurie AS and several other Canica companies. Mr. Selte and related parties own 18,000 shares in Orkla ASA2. Mr Selte attended 7 Board meetings in 2016. 1Not independent 2Shares owned as at 31 December 2016 157 Orkla Board of Directors Annual Report 2016 Orkla Board of Directors TERJE UTSTRAND Employee-elected Board member / (b. 1964) First elected to the Board in 2012 and up for election in 2018. Chief trade union representative (2010–), Chair of the Board for LO union members at Orkla, Chair of Orkla’s Committee of Union Representatives and European Works Council. NNN union representative at Nidar AS since 1999 (chief union representative 2002-2010), deputy member of the Board of Nidar AS from 2004 to 2010, member of the Board of Orkla Brands AS from 2008 to 2012. Member of Orkla’s Committee of Union Representatives-Working Committee since 2000. Employed at Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Norge. Mr Utstrand and related parties own 5,240 shares in Orkla ASA2. Mr Utstrand attended 7 Board meetings in 2016. SVERRE JOSVANGER Employee-elected Board member / (b. 1963) First elected to the Board in 2012 and up for election in 2018. Chair of the Executive Committee for Salaried Employees at Orkla and secretary of Orkla’s Committee of Union Representatives and the Working Committee of the Executive Committee since 2012. Member of the European Works Council. Member of Orkla’s Pension and Insurance Council (POFFO) since 2012. Head of the trade union division at Nidar since 1994 and chief union representative for salaried employees at Nidar since 2010. Deputy member of Nidar’s Board of Directors since 2010. Member of the Audit Committee since May 2014. Employed at Orkla Confectionery & Snacks as sales consultant since 1988. Mr Josvanger and related parties own 18,053 shares in Orkla ASA2. Mr Josvanger attended 7 Board meetings in 2016. KARIN HANSSON Employee-elected Board member / (b. 1960) First elected to the Board in 2016 and up for election in 2018. Employed at Orkla Foods Sverige. Elected representative of the Swedish Food Workers’ Union at Orkla Foods Sverige. Member of Orkla’s Committee of Union Representatives, Working Committee of the Executive Committee and the European Works Council. Ms Hansson and related parties own 487 shares in Orkla ASA2. Ms Hansson attended 5 Board meetings in 2016. 1Not independent 2Shares owned as at 31 December 2016 158 Orkla Board of Directors Annual Report 2016 Orkla Board of Directors ROGER VANGEN Employee-elected Board member / (b. 1965) First elected to the Board in 2016 and up for election in 2018. Employed at Orkla Foods Norge and NNN union representative at Orkla Foods Norge. Member of the Committee of Representatives at Orkla Foods Norge. Member of the Liaison Committee’s Working Committee at Orkla Foods. Member of the Board for LO union members at Orkla. Member of Orkla’s Committee of Union Representatives, Working Committee of the Executive Committee and the European Works Council. Mr Vangen and related parties own 7,014 shares in Orkla ASA2. Mr Vangen attended 5 Board meetings in 2016. CAROLINE MARIE HAGEN KJOS1 Personal deputy member for Stein Erik Hagen and Nils K. Selte / (b. 1984) Bachelor of Business Administration from Parsons The New School for Design, New York First elected to the Board in 2016 and up for election in 2017. Ms Hagen Kjos works as Project Manager in Canica International AG, Switzerland, where she shares responsibility for investments and strategy with the Managing Director. She has previously been employed as Project Manager in marketing and purchasing in Jernia Gruppen. Ms Hagen Kjos is Chair of the Board of Directors of Canica AS and member of the Board of Komplett Group. Ms Hagen Kjos and related parties own no shares in Orkla ASA3. Ms Hagen Kjos attended 5 Board meetings in 2016. 1Not independent 2Shares owned as at 31 December 2016 3Hagen Kjos has a substantial ownership interest in the Canica companies, but she is not able to exercise a decisive influence on them. 159 The Group Executive Board Annual Report 2016 The Group Executive Board PETER A. RUZICKA President and CEO / (b. 1964) MBA and degree in Business Economics, Oslo Business School President and CEO since February 2014. Mr Ruzicka has 25 years of experience in the retail sector. He was CEO of Hakon Gruppen AS, 1995–2000. During the same period, he was in charge of establishing ICA in the Baltics. Deputy CEO of ICA AB, 1998– 2000. From 2000, he headed Ahold’s operations in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. CEO of Jernia ASA, 2003–2006, and CEO of Canica AS, 2006–2014. In addition to serving as Chairman of the Board of Jernia ASA from 2007 to 2014, he has been Chairman of the Board of Komplett ASA, member of the Board of REC ASA, and member of the Board of Orkla ASA, first from 2003 to 2005 and then from 2008 to 2014. Member of the Board of AIM – European Brands Association. Mr Ruzicka and related parties own 683,086 shares in Orkla ASA1. JENS BJØRN STAFF Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer / (b. 1967) MBA, Norwegian School of Economics (NHH), BA, BI Norwegian Business School, Economics, University of Oslo Member of Orkla’s Group Executive Board since June 2014. Executive Vice President and CFO at Statkraft AS, 2011–2014. In the period 2005–2011 Mr Staff held various positions as Finance Director in the Statoil Group, including Statoil Detaljhandel AS and Energy & Retail Europe. From 2002 to 2005, he was Financial Director at Posten Norge AS, before which he was employed at PwC, 1998–2002. Operations Manager at IKEA Slependen AS, 1995–1998. Mr Staff and related parties own 1,336 shares in Orkla ASA1. KARL OTTO TVETER Chief of Group Functions and Group Director Legal / (b. 1964) Degree in Law, University of Oslo Member of Orkla’s Group Executive Board since February 2012. Mr Tveter has been Senior Vice President Legal Affairs at Orkla since 2000. Before that he served as deputy counsel/ counsel at Orkla from 1992. Mr Tveter also has prior experience from the Ministry of Finance, Tax Law Department. Mr Tveter and related parties own 46,668 shares in Orkla ASA1. 1Shares and options owned as at 31 December 2016. 160 The Group Executive Board Annual Report 2016 The Group Executive Board JOHAN CLARIN Executive Vice President Operations / (b. 1971) Master of Science, Business Administration, University of Gothenburg, Stockholm School of Economics Member of Orkla’s Group Executive Board since September 2013. From 2007 to 2013 Mr Clarin held several senior executive positions at Sony Mobile Communications AB, most recently as Global Head of Manufacturing and Logistics and President & CEO of Beijing Mobile Communications Ltd. He was also member of the Board of Directors of Sony Mobile’s Chinese joint venture, 2011-2013. Prior to that, Mr Clarin held the post of Senior Manager at Accenture AB from 1997 to 2006, with focus on supply chain management. Mr Clarin and related parties own 2,172 shares in Orkla ASA1. ATLE VIDAR NAGEL JOHANSEN Executive Vice President, CEO Orkla Foods / (b. 1963) Authorised Financial Analyst, Norwegian School of Economics (NHH), MSc in Business (siviløkonom), BI Norwegian Business School Member of Orkla’s Group Executive Board since June 2012. CEO, Orkla Foods, since 2012. CEO, Orkla Foods Nordic, 2008–2012. CEO, Orkla Foods, 2005–2008. Marketing Director, Orkla Foods International, 2003–2005. Finance Director, Orkla Foods, 2001–2003. Chief Financial Officer, Tandberg Data ASA, 1999–2000. Finance Director, Sætre AS/Orkla Snacks, 1996–1999. Head of Economic Planning & Analysis, Orkla ASA, 1993–1996. Financial analyst, Carl Kierulf & Co, 1989–1992. Financial analyst, Jøtun Fonds, 1987–1989. Mr Nagel Johansen and related parties own 21,681 shares and 35,000 options in Orkla ASA1. ANN-BETH FREUCHEN Executive Vice President, CEO Orkla Confectionery & Snacks / (b. 1971) MSc in Business (siviløkonom), BI Norwegian Business School Member of Orkla’s Group Executive Board since July 2015. Prior to that, Ms Freuchen was CEO of Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Norge from 2013. From 2010 to 2013, she held the post of CEO of KiMs Norge. Has previously held various management positions in sales and marketing at Nidar and KiMs Norge. Ms Freuchen began her career at Orkla as Brand Manager at Lilleborg in 1996. Ms Freuchen and related parties own 7,776 shares and 40,000 options in Orkla ASA1. 1Shares and options owned as at 31 December 2016. 161 The Group Executive Board Annual Report 2016 The Group Executive Board STIG EBERT NILSSEN Executive Vice President, CEO Orkla Care / (b. 1964) Major in Finance and International Marketing, Oslo Business School Member of Orkla’s Group Executive Board since April 2013. CEO Axellus AS, 2005–2013. Managing Director Collett Pharma A/S, 2004–2005. Vice President, Nycomed Pharma, Nordic Consumer Health, 2000–2004. Director, Profit Center, Consumer in Norway, Nycomed Pharma A/S, 1999–2000. Marketing Director and Marketing Manager Herman Lepsøe A/S, 1994–1999. Nordic Product Group Manager, SC Johnsen, 1991–1993. Trainee, Product Manager, Marketing Manager, Scandinavian Press (part of IMP Group), 1988–1991. Mr Nilssen and related parties own 49,046 shares and 50,000 options in Orkla ASA1. PÅL EIKELAND Executive Vice President, CEO Orkla Food Ingredients / (b. 1959) MSc in Business (siviløkonom), BI Norwegian Business School Member of Orkla’s Group Executive Board since June 2012, CEO Orkla Food Ingredients since 2010. Senior Vice President Corporate Development Purchasing, Orkla, 2005–2010, Purchasing Director, Orkla/Orkla Foods, 2001–2005. Director, Lilleborg Profesjonell, 1994–2001. CEO, Phillips Lys A/S, 1992–1994. Various managerial positions in sales and marketing, Lilleborg, 1983–1992. Mr Eikeland and related parties own 22,836 shares in Orkla ASA1. TERJE ANDERSEN CEO and Head of Orkla Investments / (b. 1958) Degree in Economics and Business Administration (siviløkonom), Norwegian School of Economics (NHH) Member of Orkla’s Group Executive Board since November 2005. Head of Orkla Investments since 2013. Senior Vice President Corporate Finance at Orkla since 2000 and Chief Financial Officer of Orkla ASA since 2003. Prior to that, Finance Director at Orkla Brands and Lilleborg, and managerial positions at Deloitte Consulting and Nevi Finans. Mr Andersen and related parties own 55,976 shares in Orkla ASA1. 1Shares and options owned as at 31 December 2016. 162 The Group Executive Board Annual Report 2016 Members of Orkla’s expanded Group Executive Board: CHRISTER GRÖNBERG Group Director, HR / (b. 1961) College degree in Human Resources Member of Orkla’s Group Executive Board since June 2014. From 2010 to 2014, Mr Grönberg was HR Director at Orkla Foods, prior to which he held the position of HR Director at Stabburet from 2008 to 2010. He was employed at Procordia Food from 1998 to 2008, including eight years as HR Director. From 1982 to 1998, Mr Grönberg pursued a career in the Swedish Armed Forces. Mr Grönberg and related parties own 6,401 shares and 40,000 options in Orkla ASA1. HÅKON MAGELI Group Director, Corporate Communications & Corporate Affairs / (b. 1964) MSc in Business (siviløkonom), BI Norwegian Business School, The Executive Programme (Darden, USA) Member of Orkla’s Group Executive Board since June 2012. Director Corporate Affairs Orkla Brands, 2008–2012. Prior to that, Mr Mageli was Information Director at Orkla Foods, 1995–2008. From 1993 to 1995, he was Director, Public Affairs, Orkla Foods, in Brussels, and Company Secretary, Nora Foods, 1991 –1993. Mr Mageli worked as a journalist at Dagens Næringsliv, 1985–1990. He is Chairman of the Confederation of Norwegian Enterprise’s Trade Policy Committee, member of the Board of the Federation of Norwegian Food and Drink Industry and Chair of the Board of Matmerk – The Norwegian Food Branding Foundation. Mr Mageli and related parties own 76,001 shares and 50,000 options in Orkla ASA1. 1Shares and options owned as at 31 December 2016. 163 Governing bodies and elected representatives Annual Report 2016 Governing bodies and elected representatives Nomination Committee companies in the Orkla Group. This arrangement ensures broad representation for Group employees, based on comNomination Committee elected by the General Meeting pany, union and country. In Norway, there are also separate (see Article 13 of the Articles of Association) committees of representatives for LO union members and for salaried employees. The Committees meet regularly Anders Christian Stray Ryssdal (1,315)1 with the Group’s executive management to discuss matters Leiv Askvig (0) relevant to the Group. Nils-Henrik Pettersson (42,080) Karin Bing Orgland (0) A European Works Council (EWC) has been established at Orkla, and liaison committees have been established in the Board of Directors Orkla Foods, Orkla Confectionery & Snacks, Orkla Food Ingredients and Orkla Care business areas. In addition to the Stein Erik Hagen (249,142,000) corporate arrangements described above, the employees Grace Reksten Skaugen (3,000) are represented on the Board of Directors and works council Ingrid Jonasson Blank (1,750) of major companies in the Orkla Group. Lisbeth Valther (3,000) Lars Dahlgren (2,000) The list below shows the members of Orkla’s Committee of Nils K. Selte (18,000) Union Representatives and Committee of Representatives as at 31 December 2016: Employee-elected Board members Orkla Committee of Union Representatives Working Committee Terje Utstrand (5,240) Sverre Josvanger (18,053) Terje Utstrand, Chair, Roger Vangen (7,014) Peer Sørensen, 1st Deputy Chair Karin Hansson (487) Karin Hansson, 2nd Deputy Chair Sverre Josvanger, Secretary Shareholder-elected Deputy Board member Roger Vangen, member Janne Halvorsen, member Caroline Hagen Kjos (0)2 Susanne Pedersen, member Auditor Committee of Representatives (in addition to the Working Committee) Ernst & Young AS (0) Erik Mamelund (0), State authorised public accountant Sven-Erik Videén Dorota Galik Figures in brackets indicate the number of shares owned Christer Florin as at 31 December 2016, including those owned by related Robert Kollevåg parties. Perny Emdal Mette Novak Corporate democracy at Orkla ASA Ingrid S. Nielsen Morgan Andersson Active employee participation in the governing bodies, both Morten Gilberg at Group level and in the individual Group companies, is an Geir F. Engelbrethsen important element of decision-making processes at Orkla. An aim has been to evolve representational arrangements that adequately ensure broad-based involvement and genuine 1Owned by related parties. influence. Orkla’s current corporate democracy system was 2Hagen Kjos has a substantial ownership interest in the Canica companies, established in an agreement signed in 2015 between union but she is not able to exercise a decisive influence on them. representatives and the company’s executive management. The employees are represented by four of the 10 members of Orkla’s Board of Directors. A Committee of Union Representatives has been established for employees of the Norwegian, Swedish and Danish 164 Group Directory Annual Report 2016 Group Directory PARENT COMPANY • Orkla Foods Danmark A/S, Skælskør, Denmark • Orkla Foods Danmark A/S, Ringkøbing, Denmark ORKLA ASA Nedre Skøyen vei 26, NO-0276 Oslo, Norway Orkla Foods Fenno-Baltic P.O. Box 423 Skøyen, NO-0213 Oslo, Norway Orkla Foods Finland Oy Tel.: +47 22 54 40 00 P.O. Box 683, FI-20361 Turku, Finland www.orkla.com Tel.: +358 20 785 4000 www.orklafoods.fi BRANDED CONSUMER GOODS • Orkla Foods Finland Oy, Turku, Finland ORKLA FOODS • AS Põltsamaa Felix, Põltsamaa, Estonia P.O. Box 423 Skøyen, NO-0213 Oslo, Norway • Orkla Foods Lietuva, Kaunas, Lithuania Tel.: +47 22 54 40 00 • Orkla Foods Latvija, Riga, Latvia Orkla Foods Norge AS Orkla Foods Central Europe P.O. Box 711, NO-1411 Kolbotn, Norway P.O. Box 423 Skøyen, NO-0213 Oslo, Norway Tel.: +47 66 81 61 00 Tel.: +47 22 54 40 00 www.orklafoods.no Felix Austria GmbH Orkla Foods Norge Branches: Felixstrasse 24, AT-7210 Mattersburg, Austria • Gimsøy Kloster, Skien Tel.: +43 2626 610-0 • Idun, Rygge www.felix.at • Nora, Rygge • Saritas, Kristiansand VITANA, a.s. • Stabburet, Fredrikstad Armády 245, CZ-155 00 Praha 5 – Stodulky, Czech Rep. • Stabburet, Sem Tel.: +420 257 198 111 • Stabburet, Stranda www.vitana.cz • Stabburet, Vigrestad www.vitanafs.cz • Sunda, Oslo www.vitana.sk • Toro, Arna • Toro, Elverum • VITANA, a.s., Bysice, Czech Rep. • Vossafår, Voss • VITANA, a.s., Roudnice nad Labem, Czech Rep. • VITANA, a.s., Varnsdorf, Czech Rep. Orkla Foods Sverige AB • VITANA Slovensko, s.r.o., Slovakia Isbergs gata 9 b, SE-211 19 Malmö, Sweden Tel.: +46 10 142 40 00 Hamé s.r.o. www.orklafoods.se Na Drahách 814, CZ-686 04 Kunovice, Czech Rep. Tel.: +420 572 534 111 • Orkla Foods Sverige AB, Eslöv, Sweden www.hame.cz • Orkla Foods Sverige AB, Frödinge, Sweden • Orkla Foods Sverige AB, Fågelmara, Sweden MTR Foods Private Limited • Orkla Foods Sverige AB, Kumla, Sweden No. 1, 2nd & 3rd floor, 100 feet inner ring road • Orkla Foods Sverige AB, Kungshamn, Sweden Ejipura, IN-560047 Bangalore, India • Orkla Foods Sverige AB, Tollarp, Sweden Tel.: +91 80 40 81 21 00 • Orkla Foods Sverige AB, Uddevalla, Sweden www.mtrfoods.com • Orkla Foods Sverige AB, Vansbro, Sweden • Orkla Foods Sverige AB, Örebro, Sweden • Rasoi Magic Foods Pvt. Limited, Pune, India Orkla Foods Danmark A/S ORKLA CONFECTIONERY & SNACKS Hørsvinget 1-3, DK-2630 Taastrup, Denmark P.O. Box 423 Skøyen, NO-0213 Oslo, Norway Tel.: +45 43 58 93 00 Tel.: +47 22 54 42 00 www.orklafoods.dk • Orkla Foods Danmark A/S, Ansager, Denmark • Orkla Foods Danmark A/S, Havnsø, Denmark 165 Group Directory Annual Report 2016 Group Directory Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Norge AS www.lilleborg.no P.O. Box 423 Skøyen, NO-0213 Oslo, Norway Tel.: +47 22 54 42 00 • Lilleborg Technical Dept., Furuset, Oslo, Norway www.nidar.no www.kims.no ORKLA HOME & PERSONAL CARE www.saetre.no P.O. Box 673 Skøyen, NO-0214 Oslo, Norway Tel.: +47 22 54 40 00 • Trondheim, Norway www.orklahpc.no • Skreia, Norway • Orkla Home & Personal Care, Ski branch, Norway Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Sverige AB • Orkla Home & Personal Care, Ello branch, Kristiansund N, Box 1196, SE-171 23 Solna, Sweden Norway Tel.: +46 77 111 10 00 • Orkla Home & Personal Care, Flisa branch, Norway www.olw.se • Orkla Home & Personal Care, Falun, Sweden www.goteborgskex.se • Orkla Home & Personal Care, Radzymin, Poland • Jordan Asia Pacific Sdn Bhd, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Sverige Branches: • Peri-dent LTD, Galashiels, Scotland • Filipstad, Sweden • Peri-dent Star Sdn Bhd, Nilai, Malaysia • Kungälv, Sweden Orkla Health AS Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Danmark A/S P.O. Box 353 Skøyen, NO-0213 Oslo, Norway Sømarksvej 31-35, DK-5471 Søndersø, Denmark Tel.: +47 22 54 40 00 Tel.: +45 63 89 12 12 www.orklahealth.no, www.orklahealth.com www.orklacs.dk Orkla Care AB Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Finland AB Box 1336, SE-171 26 Solna, Sweden Äyritie 22, FI-01510 Vantaa, Finland Tel.: +46 10 142 64 00 Tel.: +358 20 791 8600 www.orklacare.se • Haraldsby, Åland, Finland Orkla Care A/S • Vaajakoski, Finland Industrigrenen 10, DK-2635 Ishøj, Denmark Tel.: +46 78 79 75 62 Orkla Confectionery & Snacks Latvija Ltd. www.axellus.dk Miera iela 22, LV-1001 Riga, Latvia Tel.: +371 67 080 302 Orkla Care Oy www.orkla.lv Äyritie 24, FI-01510 Vantaa, Finland Tel.: +358 10 218 370 AS Kalev www.orklacare.fi Põrguvälja tee 6, Lehmja, Rae vald, EE-Harjumaa 75 306, Estonia Orkla Care Sp z o.o. Tel.: +372 6877 710 Olkuska 7, PL-02-604 Warsaw, Poland www.kalev.eu Tel.: +48 22 349 67 00 www.orklahealth.pl ORKLA CARE P.O. Box 423 Skøyen, NO-0213 Oslo, Norway SIA Orkla Health Tel.: +47 22 54 40 00 Rūpniecības iela 19 – 6, LV-1010 Riga, Latvia Tel.: +371 67211629 Lilleborg AS www.orklahealth.lv P.O. Box 673 Skøyen, NO-0214 Oslo, Norway Tel.: +47 22 54 40 00 UAB Orkla Health www.orklahpc.no, www.lilleborg.no Trinapolio 9E, LT-08337 Vilnius, Lithuania Tel.: +370 5 23 10 654 Lilleborg www.orklahealth.lt P.O. Box 673 Skøyen, NO-0214 Oslo, Norway Tel.: +47 22 54 40 00 166 Group Directory Annual Report 2016 Group Directory Orkla Wound Care • Candeco Confektyr AB, Malmö, Sweden Box 1336, SE-171 26 Solna, Sweden • Nimatopaal i Dala-Järna AB, Dala-Järna, Sweden Tel.: +46 10-142 64 00 • Frima Vafler, Århus, Denmark www.orkla.com, www.orklacare.se, • Call Caterlink Ltd., Cornwall, England www.firstaid.cederroth.com • Marcantonio Foods, Ltd., Essex, England • Eisunion, Nürnberg, Germany Orkla Cederroth, S.A.U. • NIC Nederland BV, Waddinxveen, The Netherlands Pol. Ind. Can Barri, C/D, naves 11-12 • Waverley, Glasgow, Scotland 08415 Bigues I Riells, Barcelona, Spain Tel.: +34 93 865 70 09 Odense Marcipan A/S, Odense, Denmark www.cederroth.es • Bæchs Conditori A/S, Hobro, Denmark Orkla House Care AB Credin Group, Freixeira, Portugal P.O. Box 133, SE-564 23 Bankeryd, Sweden • Credin Polska, Sobotka, Poland Tel.: +46 36 37 63 00 • Credin Danmark, Juelsminde, Denmark www.anza.se • Credin Productos Alimenticios, Barcelona, Spain • Credin Russia, Ulyanovsk, Russia Orkla House Care Norge AS • Merkur 09 Sp.z.o.o, Warsaw, Poland P.O. Box 423 Skøyen, NO-0213 Oslo, Norway • Kobo, Nisko, Poland Tel.: +47 22 54 40 19 • Sebmag, Ciechanów, Poland www.orklahousecare.com • Holpol, Nowe Skalmierzyce, Poland Orkla House Care Danmark A/S CBP A/S, Vejle, Denmark Stationsvej 13, DK-3550 Slangerup, Denmark Tel.: +45 47 33 74 00 Dragsbæk A/S, Thisted, Denmark www.orklahousecare.com • Kjarnavörur hf, Reykjavik, Iceland • Innbak hf, Reykjavik, Iceland LG Harris & Co Ltd • UAB Vilniaus Margarino Gamykla (VMG), Vilnius, Lithuania Stoke Prior, Bromsgrove, B60 4AE, England • Poznan Onion, Poznan, Poland Tel.: +44 1527 575441 • KT Foods, Fårup, Denmark www.harrisbrushes.com • Gædabakstur, Reykjavik, Iceland • Blume Food I/S, Randers, Denmark Pierre Robert Group AS • Naturli’ Foods, Højbjerg, Denmark P.O. Box 3 Skøyen, NO-0212 Oslo, Norway • PureOil I/S, Thisted, Denmark Tel.: +47 22 54 40 00 • Grøndansk ApS, Vejen, Denmark www.pierrerobertgroup.no • Kristjans, Akureyri, Iceland • Isbud, Reykjavik, Iceland Pierre Robert Group AB • Raw Snacks, Viby, Denmark Svetsarvägen 15, SE-171 41 Solna, Sweden Tel.: +46 8 629 17 00 KåKå AB, Lomma, Sweden www.pierrerobert.se • KåKå AB, Sollentuna, Sweden • KåKå AB, Örebro, Sweden Pierre Robert Group Oy • KåKå Czech, Prague, Czech Republic Äyritie 24, FI-01510 Vantaa, Finland • Belusa Foods, Belusa, Slovakia Tel.: +358 20 506 6000 • Jästbolaget AB, Sollentuna, Sweden www.pierrerobert.fi • MiNordija, Kaunas, Lithuania • LaNordija, Riga, Latvia ORKLA FOOD INGREDIENTS • Vilmix, Tallinn, Estonia P.O. Box 423 Skøyen, NO-0213 Oslo, Norway • Ekvia, Nitra, Slovakia Tel.: +47 22 54 40 00 • Condite Oy, Naantali, Finland • Teampac, Tyresö, Sweden Idun Industri AS, Hvam, Norway • Idun Industri AS, Rakkestad, Norway Orkla Foods Romania SA, Bucharest, Romania • Bako AS, Hvam, Norway • Orkla Foods Romania, Covasna, Romania • Iglo Logistikksenter, Jessheim, Norway • Orkla Foods Romania, Iasi, Romania 167 Group Directory Annual Report 2016 Group Directory Sonneveld Group B.V., Papendrecht, The Netherlands AS Saudefaldene • Sonneveld Sarc, Cergy Pontoise, France Vangsnes, NO-4200 Sauda, Norway • Sonneveld NV/SA, Brussels, Belgium Tel.: +47 52 78 80 00 • Sonneveld KfT, Öcsa, Hungary • Sonneveld Poland, Nowe Skalmierzyce, Poland Trælandsfos AS, Kvinesdal • Broer, Waddinxveen, The Netherlands P.O. Box 423 Skøyen, NO-0213 Oslo, Norway Tel.: +47 22 54 40 00 OTHER BUSINESSES Orkla Eiendom AS OTHER GROUP COMPANIES P.O. Box 423 Skøyen, NO-0213 Oslo, Norway Orkla IT AS Tel.: +47 22 54 40 00 P.O. Box 353 Skøyen, NO-0213 Oslo, Norway www.orklaeiendom.no Tel.: +47 22 09 61 00 Sapa AS Orkla Insurance Company dac. Biskop Gunnerus’ gate 14A, NO-0185 Oslo, Norway Elm Park, Merrion Road, Dublin 4, Ireland P.O. Box 81, NO-0101 Oslo, Norway Tel.: +353 1 407 4992 Tel.: +47 22 41 69 00 www.sapagroup.com Orkla Asia Pacific Pte Ltd 111C Telok Ayer Street, 4th Floor, Singapore 068580 HYDRO POWER Tel.: +65 68 80 79 10 Sarpsfoss Limited P.O. Box 162, NO-1701 Sarpsborg, Norway Tel.: +47 69 11 80 00 • Mossefossen ANS, Moss, Norway 168
