Global Compact: Communication on Progress Participant Oriental Fastech Manufacturing Sdn Bhd Published 2017/06/21 Time period December 2016 – December 2017 Format Stand alone document – Basic COP Template Differentiation This COP qualifies for the Global Compact Level Active level Self-Assessment 1. Includes a CEO statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles. 2. Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights. 3. Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour. 4. Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment. 5. Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption. 6. Includes a measurement of outcomes. Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer To our stakeholders: I am pleased to announce that Oriental Fastech Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we reaffirms that our actions to continue improve and integrate the Global Compact’s principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Mr. GAN Joe Yee General Manager Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals ORIENTAL FASTECH MANUFACTURING SDN. BHD. (OFMSB) is committed in ensuring that our working environment is free from discrimination and harassment. Discrimination and harassment in our workplace will not be tolerated under any circumstances and disciplinary action will be taken against any employee or subcontractor who breaches this policy. Any breach of policy by a non-employee directed to an employee shall be handled in a similarly appropriate manner. Discrimination and harassment occurs when a person is victimized in the workplace on the basis of but not limited to the following criteria: Race, Color, Gender, Religion, Disability, Sexual Orientation, Pregnancy or Age and shall include exposure to racial or ethnic jokes, offensive profanity, intimidating behavior and exposure to unwanted sexual flirtations. We strive to achieve a working environment where all members of staff are treated with dignity, courtesy and respect. Any employee who believes that he or she has been the subject of, or has witnessed, an incident of discriminant and harassing conduct should report the matter promptly. OFMSB employees should report instances of discriminant and harassing conduct either to a person in the reporting employee's supervisory chain, or to the plant Operation Manager or Group General Manager. All complaints shall be treated in a sensitive, fair, timely and confidential manner and complainants shall be guaranteed protection from any victimization or reprisals. It is an important fundamental of company policy that the reporting of behavior in breach of policy is encouraged in order to correct and promote appropriate standards of conduct at all times. Human Rights Implementation All new employee will undergo job orientation briefing which introduce the company’s rules and regulation. This job orientation is aim to standardize, create mutual understanding and reduce confusion between the new or existing employee and the company. Organization chart is also brief to all employee to create easy access to company representative in the event of escalation of an incident. At the same time, our customers requires us to comply towards Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) code of conduct. This is to safeguard the rights and benefits of our employees. Lastly, we have an exit interview to understand the employee resignation reasons and identify area of concern for further improvement. Human Rights Measurement of outcomes There’s no report filed on human rights violation for the past 5 years. Labour Assessment, policy and goals ORIENTAL FASTECH MANUFACTURING SDN. BHD. (OFMSB) supports Global Compact’s Fundamental and Principles on Labour Rights. This including non-discrimination, prohibition of child and enforced labor, and freedom of association and the right to engage in collective bargaining. Labour Implementation Our group Audit Committee will hold 2 risk assessments every year to identify the labour risk and risk at work place. The audit committee will direct interview with the employee to gather their feedback. The findings will be share and highlighted to other board members for timely action. Our customer which also an Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) member, conduct checks every 2 years to ensure that OFMSB compiles to the fundamental and principles of EICC. Labour Measurement of outcomes ORIENTAL FASTECH MANUFACTURING SBN. BHD. passed customer’s EICC audit on year 2016 No report filed on labour violation on Auditor Committee report on year 2016. Company trip to Langkawi Environmental Assessment, policy and goals We believe, everything is start from us. To show our responsibility towards the environment, OFMSB have implemented ISO14001. We strongly believe that by implementing ISO14001 standards, we can create more environmental effort awareness to every employee. Our employee is trained to reduce energy, water and other resources consumption through internal training, briefing, environmental campaigns, signage and auditing. We also initiate tree planting within the company premises to show our commitment towards the environment. Go Green Environmental Implementation Our group Audit Committee will hold 2 risk assessments every year to identify the risk impacting the environment. The findings will be share and highlighted to other board members for timely action. RoHS compliant and Non-Use of Hazardous or Banned Substances questionnaires is send to each supplier during registration into system. The supplier is required to pledge their support towards protecting the environment. OFM also put Energy Saving signage at each electric switch locations to remind each employee to switch off the electricity when not in use. During the short lunch break, the lights in each room is also switch off. We also have monthly 6S walkabout to identify area for improvement. The result of this improvement will create better and safer working environment to all employees. Environmental Measurement of outcomes No report filed on environment violation on Auditor Committee report on year 2016. All of OFM suppliers pledged their support towards the environment of NOT using hazardous substances in their premises and RoHS compliance. This is a MUST requirement during the new supplier selection and registration. Anti Corruption Assessment, policy and goals We are committed to Anti-Corruption practices as stated in our Employee regulation Handbook which include the points at below. 1. Integrity of Business Practices 2. Personal Behaviors 3. Breach of Conduct 4. Conflict of Interest 5. No gift policy Anti Corruption Implementation Each new employees is briefed on the company rules and regulations. This includes employee regulation handbook and business ethics. Complain channel is setup and the contact is published in the group’s website to allow easy contact and communication with the Board of Directors for any illegal activity reporting. Whistle-blowing is also include in our human resource policy. Anti Corruption Measurement of outcomes No report filed on anti-corruption violation on Auditor Committee report on year 2016.
