EPHRAIM STRONGTOWER LIMITED 70D ALLEN AVENUE IKEJA, LAGOS. NIGERIA. TEL: +234-703-165-4175 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PARTICIPANT ID: 19682 YEAR: JULY 8, 2016 – JULY 8, 2017. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS This is the fourth Communica on on Progress (COP) for Ephraim Strongtower Limited (RC 474369 and UN Global Compact Par cipant ID: 19682). Submission of this report is part of our obliga on as a United Na ons Global Compact Par cipant. The Ten Principles of the United Na ons Global Compact: At Ephraim Strongtower Limited, we are commi ed to align our opera ons and strategies within our spheres of inﬂuence with the ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and an – corrup on. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protec on of interna onally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of associa on and the eﬀec ve recogni on of the right to collec ve bargaining; Principle 4: the elimina on of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the eﬀec ve aboli on of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimina on of discrimina on in respect of employment and occupa on. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precau onary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake ini a ves to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI – CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corrup on in all its forms including extor on and bribery. STATEMENT OF EXPRESSION OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE TEN PRINCIPLES The period covered by our Communica on on Progress is between July 8, 2016 and July 8, 2017. Ephraim Strongtower Limited and its management even to the highest level governance body have supported and will con nue to support the ten universally accepted principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and an – corrup on by taking the following steps: We have made the ten principles of the UN Global Compact part of our day – to – day business strategies and opera ons within our spheres of inﬂuence. Our commitment to responsible business is incorporated in our business agenda through our purpose and vision. We have incorporated the UN Global Compact and its ten principles in our organiza onal decision making. We will con nue to support the UN goals and issues including the Sustainable Development Goals. We will con nue to do our best to create awareness about UN Global Compact and its ten principles amongst our stakeholders, clients, customers, partners and the general public at large. We have and shall con nue to work against corrup on in all its forms especially in Africa where corrup on is endemic. We hereby reaﬃrm our commitment to the UN Global Compact and its principles. This statement and commitment is endorsed by the management of Ephraim Strongtower Limited and the Chief Execu ve Oﬃcer. Mr. Funmi Ajibawo (CEO & Contact Person) TEL: +234-703-165-4175 Email: ephraimstrongtower@gmail.com The Communica on on Progress (COP) would be shared with all stakeholders including employees, customers and at all public presenta on of the company. It would be made accessible to all interested par es on company website. UN GLOBAL COMPACT The following table provides an overview of how Ephraim Strongtower Limited has implemented the Ten Principles across our business opera ons. Principle Assessment, Policy Implementa on Measurement and Goals of Outcomes HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Businesses should Ephraim Strongtower Ephraim Strongtower Implementa on support and respect Limited respect and Limited implements has increased the protec on of support the universal the United Na on’s employees’ interna onally Declara on of Human Protect, Respect and morale and has proclaimed human Rights and the guiding Remedy Framework. mo vated them rights; Principles on Business posi vely. and Human Rights. Advancing human 2. and make sure that rights across our We have not they are not complicit Company Policy opera ons including iden ﬁed any in human rights stated in Employee our Supply chain. instances from abuses. handbook. ESL that Crea ng awareness contributes to ESL has strongly among staﬀ members. any adverse advised all relevant human rights stakeholders to Conduc ng training to incidents of any comply with the UN update members of staﬀ member. Global Compact staﬀ. Principles and A team of senior interna onal Eﬀec ve system in management declara on on human place to address staﬀ staﬀ will rights. grievances like con nue to sugges on boxes. monitor, review and improve on Eﬀec ve monitoring the and evalua on implementa on mechanisms of strategy of the human rights human rights integra on. policy of the Company. Principle Assessment, Policy Implementa on Measurement and Goals of Outcomes LABOR STANDARDS 3. Businesses should At Ephraim Ephraim Strongtower We receive uphold the freedom Strongtower Limited Limited will not engage in, posi ve results of associa on and our commitment is or support discrimina on from our staﬀ the eﬀec ve very strong in respect in hiring, compensate, based on the recogni on of the of upholding all the accessing, training, feedback and right to collec ve relevant interna onal promo ons or ques onnaire bargaining; labor laws and termina on of report on the declara ons employment based on changes put in 4. the elimina on of all concerning race, na onal origin, place through forms of forced and discrimina on, child religion, disability, gender sugges on compulsory labor; labor, and freedom of on sexual orienta on. boxes. associa on, working Detailed 5. the eﬀec ve hours and employee CHILD LABOR: grievance aboli on of child grievance. ESL will prevent the use of procedure in the labor; and child labor and forced employee Commitment to labor. handbook. 6. the elimina on of fairness, dignity and discrimina on in integrity. HEALTH AND SAFETY: Awareness respect of ESL is commi ed to training on labor employment and ESL has a social providing a safe and rights and civil occupa on. Accountability Policy healthy working policy. Document signed by environment for our Posi ve the Chief Execu ve employees in accordance coopera on Oﬃcer and made with the Health and from all relevant available to all staﬀ Safety at work act 1974. stakeholders. members and relevant stakeholders. A copy of the Company Social Accountability Policy is included in the Communica on on Progress (COP). Principle Assessment, Policy Implementa on Measurement and Goals of Outcomes ENVIRONMENT 7. Businesses should Ephraim Strongtower ESL will con nue to work Ephraim support a Limited is commi ed with local community by Strongtower precau onary to promo ng ini a ng environmental Limited will approach to awareness by issues and encourage con nue to environmental informing and repor ng on work with all challenges; mo va ng all our environmental issues of relevant staﬀ and encourage public interest. stakeholders 8. undertake ini a ves them to play an ac ve towards to promote greater role in adhering to the ESL will con nue to achieving our environmental company policy on promote, develop, and environmental responsibility; and environment. implement waste policy aims. preven on reduc on, re9. encourage the We are constantly use and recycling in a We have put in development and consul ng with all systema c and cost place awareness diﬀusion of relevant stakeholders eﬀec ve manner. training on environmentally about the company’s environmental friendly environmental policy ESL is commi ed to issues and technologies. and commitment. suppor ng more ecoeﬃcient energy eﬃcient products, public usage. ESL purchasing policy policy to tackle Climate is to favor change and reduc on of We have set Manufacturers and gas ﬂaring. speciﬁc Contractors that improvement adopt best targets, monitor environmental progress and prac ces. communicate results internally. ESL ‘s Environmental Policy is included in the Communica on on Progress (COP). Principle Assessment, Policy Implementa on Measurement of and Goals Outcomes ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Businesses should At Ephraim At ESL, we are Ephraim Strongtower work against Strongtower Limited, constantly organizing Limited has a system corrup on in all its even to the highestin-service training to of interven on in forms including level governance create awareness and place under the extor on and body, we are sensi ze our supervision of the bribery. commi ed to members of staﬀ Audit department. achieving a high about the company standard of ethical policy regarding an ESL retained external behavior in everything corrup on. Auditors for checks that we do. and balances. ESL policy on an Improvement on the At ESL, integrity is one corrup on is clearly internal system by of our core values. wri en in the plugging leakages employee hand book. thus transla ng to ESL’s policy on an increase produc vity corrup on is clearly Zero tolerance for and proﬁt. detailed in the corrup on in all our employee handbook. dealings. ESL has also set a special team of We have advised all ESL will con nue to senior management relevant stakeholders dialogue with all staﬀ that will to support and adhere relevant stakeholders con nue to monitor, to the UN Global about our policy in review and improve Compact an respect of an the system to corrup on principle. corrup on. achieve the company policy regarding an Repor ng system in corrup on. place to handle complaints and sugges on boxes. GC SCOPE: TAKING ACTION IN SUPPORT OF BROADER UN GOALS AND ISSUES As a Par cipant of the UN Global Compact and a Responsible Business Organiza on, we are commi ed to upholding its Principles across our business opera ons by taking ac ons in support of advancing broader UN Goals and issues. CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY, GOVERNANCE AND LEADERSHIP At Ephraim Strongtower Limited, we are ready to align our business strategies to the implementa on of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We believe and subscribes to Corporate Sustainability, Governance and Leadership by our approach through our board’s adop on, oversight and stakeholders engagement. The COP describes the commitment of our CEO and the Leadership of the company to the Principles of the UN Global Compact and advancing broader UN Goals and issues. The Communica on on Progress (COP) would be shared with all stakeholders including employees, consumers, clients, vendors and at all public presenta on of the company. Also, it would be made easily accessible to all interested par es on company website. For: Ephraim Strongtower Limited Mr. Funmi Ajibawo. CEO & Contact Person. Ephraim Strongtower Limited’s Environmental Policy Ephraim Strongtower Limited is a major supplier and service provider. We are commi ed to delivering quality products and services. As a specialist, we are commi ed to the protec on of health and environment and determined to minimize any adverse impacts as a result of its ac vi es. Ephraim Strongtower Limited is commi ed to addressing the following issues: Promote awareness We will inform and mo vate all our st aﬀ and encourage them to play an ac ve role in Ephraim Strongtower Limited’s commitment to its environmental policy. Environment and the Community We will con nue to work with the local community by ini a ng environmental ini a ves on-site and encouraging local environmental ini a ves and repor ng on environmental issues of public interest Con nuous Improvement We will set speciﬁc improvement targets, monitor progress and communicate results internally. Property Management We are always improving our buildings. We will construct, refurbish and manage our buildings in a manner that will reduce the associated environmental impacts and be sympathe c with the external surroundings. By addressing the issue of energy eﬃciency in our buildings, we will contribute to the reduc on of greenhouse gas emissions in line with na onal and interna onal agreements. Procurement We will use Ephraim Strongtower Limited’s purchasing policy to favor manufacturers and contractors that adopt best environmental prac ces. Waste Management We will con nue to promote, develop and implement waste preven on, reduc on, re use and recycling on-site in a systema c and cost eﬀec ve manner. We will use appropriately regulated waste management contractors to ensure safe management of hazardous and non-hazardous waste sent oﬀ-site in accordance with best environmental prac ce. We will work with our manufacturers and customers towards achieving our environmental policy aims. For any issues related to Environmental Policy linked to this business, please contact: Mrs. Folashade Familola Director of Administra on.
