SUSTAINABILITY AND RESPONSIBLE OWNERSHIP – EXTRACTS FROM THE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 This is Ratos Ratos is an investment company that acquires, develops and divests primarily unlisted Nordic companies. The common denominator for the companies that Ratos acquires is a clear development potential with focus on growth and profitability. VISION Ratos will be the best at developing companies in the Nordic region INVESTMENT STRATEGY Ratos invests mainly in unlisted medium-sized Nordic which Ratos and the companies can together identify and companies with clear development potential. The enterthen realise a potential. Ratos’s investment interval spans prises should have an established business model through from SEK 250m up to SEK 5 billion in equity. RATOS’S BUSINESS MODEL ACQUISITIONS DEVELOPMENT DIVESTMENT Medium-sized companies Ratos’s goal is to generate value by developing Ratos has a flexible ownership with clear potential for successful companies. We lend the horizon and stays on as owner development, tested business innovativeness, experience, expertise, 2. Fo as long as we contribute to the cu models and employees with contacts and capital needed to reales cre s development of the company u a ue strong drive are interesting ise the potential of the companies 1.V val and meet our return target. investment opportunities for in which we invest. Our primary al on on We endeavour to combine longti Ratos. Ratos primarily invests focus is to work together with term sustainable growth with the in unlisted companies in the the companies’ executive DEVELOPMENT MODEL highest possible return. Nordic countries and ideally management to increase growth nce in partnerships with entrepreand improve profitability. That 4. T o na ol er neurs and other stakeholders the companies develop in terms bo ov who see the advance of our of environmental, climate and social x 3. G flexible ownership horizon and sustainability is a prerequisite for longactive ownership model. term economic value creation. FINANCIAL TARGETS Company-specific return target (IRR) of a minimum 15% RATOS’S VALUES Entrepreneurial since we encourage Committed and dedicated in our Responsible since we have high demands original approaches, curiosity and harness businesses, companies and the people who lead on business ethics and weigh in the conseopportunities, conduct business and build and work at Ratos and its companies. quences of the decisions we are involved in for companies. people and the environment. Ratos’s portfolio Ratos’s portfolio consists of 18 medium-sized Nordic companies and the largest segments in terms of sales are Consumer goods/Commerce, Construction and Energy. A detailed description of each company is presented on pages 26-44 in Ratos’s Annual Report 2016. SALES BREAKDOWN BY SEGMENT – CONSUMER GOODS/COMMERCE – Plantagen The Nordic region’s leading chain for sales of plants and gardening accessories with more than 120 stores in Norway, Sweden and Finland and a primary focus on consumers. Arcus A leading supplier of wine and spirits in the Nordic region through its own brands and well-known agency brands. 34% Gudrun Sjödén Group International design company with a unique, colourful style and clear sustainability profile. Jøtul One of Europe’s largest manufacturers of stoves and fireplaces with global distribution through its own sales organisations and via distributors. HL Display An international supplier of products and solutions for in-store communication and merchandising. Oase Outdoors Designs, produces and sells high-quality camping and outdoor equipment. – CONSTRUCTION – 14% 25% HENT A construction company that focuses on newbuild of public and commercial real estate in the Nordic countries. airteam Supplier of high-quality, effective ventilation solutions in Denmark. – ENERGY – Aibel Norwegian supplier of maintenance and modification services as well as new construction projects in oil, gas and renewable energy. – TECHNOLOGY, MEDIA, TELECOM – Bisnode A leading European data and analytics company. By transforming data into insight, Bisnode helps decision makers to make smart decisions. 12% KVD Sweden’s largest independent online marketplace offering broker services for second-hand vehicles and related services. Nebula A provider of cloud-based services, IT infrastructure and network services to small and medium-sized enterprises in Finland. – INDUSTRIALS – Diab A global company that manufactures and develops core material for sandwich composite structures including blades for wind turbines. 10% Ledil A leading global supplier of high-quality secondary optics for LED lighting. GS-Hydro Global supplier of non-welded piping solutions. The products are used in the marine and offshore industries, among others. – CORPORATE SERVICES – 2% Speed Group Supplier of logistics, staffing and production services, with complementary services in recruitment and training. – HEALTH CARE – 2% TFS A global service company that performs clinical trials on behalf of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries. – REAL ESTATE – 1% Serena Properties A commercial retail properties in Finland with tenants in grocery and discount retail. Adjusted for the size of Ratos’s holding. Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 1 CEO’s comments An eventful and transactionintense anniversary year 2016 was an unusually eventful year for Ratos. The year marked the celebration of Ratos’s 150th anniversary, and its long, noteworthy history of operational development and community involvement. In addition, a new chairman and new CEO joined Ratos. The Annual General Meeting elected Jonas Wiström Chairman and I, Magnus Agervald, assumed my position as CEO for Ratos in November. The year was also one of the most transaction-intense ever in the company’s history. Ratos concluded a total of five new acquisitions, signed agreements to divest four companies, in full or in part, and conducted an IPO of one company. Exciting growth companies with great potential for development rank among our newly acquired companies, which we warmly welcome to the Ratos family. In addition to our new acquisitions, we also continued our development projects during the year in our portfolio of companies and in our central organisation at Ratos. Ratos – a tradition of development Group, we are mainly focusing on global expansion and Our 150-year history is proof of the capacity, will and development of e-commerce. At the start of the year, we skills of generations of the Söderberg family to constantly also concluded the acquisition of Serena Properties and create something new and to keep on developing in step in November, the acquisition of Plantagen. In the latter, with an increasingly changing world. It is important for me work has just begun with the management and board. to learn from the past in order to create the best condiWe realised significant values during the year, in tions for the future. Ratos stands on a solid foundation accordance with our strategy to invest in attractive and, as we move forward, we will do our best to create companies, develop operations and then sell companies long-term shareholder value. A key part of value creation at the right time. An outstanding example of this is Arcus, lies in ensuring that our companies steadily evolve and where we completed an IPO in December after havprogress. I am personally driven by building companies; ing owned it since 2005 and developing the company developing operations and people. Together with the from a local Norwegian spirits producer into one of the management teams and boards, I look forward to supNordic region’s leading suppliers of wines and spirits. porting our companies in their journey towards long-term Mobile Climate Control is also an excellent example of and sustainable operational development. how Ratos works with operational development, where, During the year, Ratos’s organisation continued its during our time as owner, the company has doubled its work and I am impressed by the efforts of our employsales, expanded internationally and carried out significant ees. The continued development work of our portfolio add-on acquisitions and new investments. Combined, the of companies, and Ratos as a whole, has created a strong companies generated an exit gain of approximately SEK foundation and platform for tomorrow. I am convinced 1.7 billion and a cash-flow effect of SEK 2.5 billion, providthat changes are positive and necessary, and will contribing a healthy premise for new, exciting acquisitions. ute to increased value. During the year, we implemented We also divested Euromaint and signed an agreement streamlining measures within the central organisation, for the divestment of AH Industries and most of Biolin resulting in a reduction in staff and office space as well as Scientific, companies that have not developed according lower operational management costs going forward. to plan but which, through the measures we have implemented, stand on stable ground. Value-creating transactions The transaction market remained strong during the Long-term and sustainable year. Ratos acquired a number of entrepreneur-headed operational development growth companies: airteam, Oase Outdoors and Gudrun Bisnode, airteam and TFS have concluded add-on acquisiSjödén Group. During the year, an important add-on tions during the year, an important part of value-creation acquisition was conducted in airteam. In Oase Outdoors, in the companies. Several of our companies are making we are now driving development with focus on growth progress both operationally and strategically. Restrucinitiatives and product development. In Gudrun Sjödén turing and layoffs to boost competitiveness have been in 2 Ratos Sustainability and responsible ownership focus for GS-Hydro and Aibel, both of which face a tough trend of -19%, adjusted for the size of Ratos’s holding. The climate in the Norwegian offshore market. Bisnode is decline in earnings compared with the year-earlier period implementing an extensive change programme to exploit is primarily attributable to the weak offshore market trend the growing demand in data and analysis. HENT has that affects both Aibel and GS-Hydro. established a presence in the Swedish market and continTo reflect the companies’ market situation, we adjusted ues to show very strong sales growth. KVD is investing our book values during the year. We made considerable considerable amounts in upgrading its technical platform impairments of book values attributable to the portfolio to be able to build out its customer offering. companies of Aibel, AH Industries, Biolin Scientific, EuroAs owner, Ratos wants to help companies to develop maint, Jøtul and GS-Hydro. In total, the impairments of their sustainability agendas. We are certain that this investments in associates and goodwill attributable to the contributes to long-term value creation. By integrating owners of the parent amounted to SEK 1.9 billion. responsible entrepreneurship into every company’s strategy, we can create credibility and opportunities for new, Focus on continued development sustainable business. In terms of the development of the company portfolio, we In 2016, we refinanced two of our largest companies, will continue our intensive efforts aimed at creating even Aibel and Bisnode. We also supported GS-Hydro and better companies and in this way increase value for the KVD by providing capital. During the year, we contributed employees, society and all our shareholders. In addition, a total of about SEK 700m, corresponding to our holdwe are also carrying out a review of Ratos’s strategy. ing. Refinancing has strengthened the companies’ capital I, together with all of our fantastic co-workers, look structures, providing a long-term, stable platform for forward to further building on Ratos’s strengths, while continued development. also taking on new challenges, all with a focus on providing Many companies are performing well, but performance the best foundation for the coming 150 years. was unsatisfactory for the portfolio as a whole. We are working diligently to address this together with the companies, their management teams and boards. For the year, the portfolio displayed positive sales growth of +13%, but Magnus Agervald a weak adjusted EBITA trend of -2% and a reported EBITA CEO Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 3 Ratos as owner Committed and active owner Ratos’s goal is to develop successful companies. A committed and active owner, we invest in Nordic, primarily unlisted enterprises. Each investment situation is unique, and even if the companies operate strategically, operationally and financially independent of each other, there is a common denominator for our activities. Ratos’s focus is to contribute to long-term and sustainable operational development based on common values. Our ownership model is based on four cornerstones: 1. Values 2. Focus on value creation Ratos’s actions are based on the core values of When we invest in a new company, a thorough entrepreneurial, committed and responsible. and ambitious strategy and business plan is preEntrepreneurial because we in our companies want to pared, with clear business targets for development stimulate curiosity, original approaches, change and and financial effects. Together with the companies’ reinforce the will to exploit opportunities. executive management, we cultivate conditions for Committed since we want to work closely with key more growth and better profitability. people in the companies, develop ideas and act Ratos has a flexible ownership horizon, which is together. often between five and ten years. We strive for Responsible since we have high demands long-term, lasting effects on business ethics and always weigh in our work with the companies the consequences of the decisions and take part in driving 2. Fo we are involved in for people and cu sustainability development the environment. Those with s cre s in the companies in which whom we do business will ue a ue we are active. be able to trust us, want to 1.V val choose us and return to us. al on on ti DEVELOPMENT MODEL nce 4. Tool box o na 3. Governance Ratos lends expertise, 4. T ol er A distinct and transparexperience, contacts and bo v Go ent structure for corporate capital to our companies. x 3. governance is always introThis is done in part via board duced in companies in which we work, in part through daily coninvest. A board is appointed consisttacts between key people in the coming of people who bring strategic experpanies and Ratos’s employees, as well as tise and industrial experience. The chairman in forums organised by Ratos in which employees of the board is recruited externally. Management from different companies meet and exchange best has clear and complete operational mandate and practices. Ratos’s organisation contains experience responsibility. In parallel with a formal corporate accumulated in strategy processes, business analygovernance, we want to create a close collaboration sis, transactions, financing, accounting, sustainability and common agenda for the company’s developand brand issues that contribute to the companies’ ment. We do so through our troikas (CEO, chairman development. of the board and Ratos’s company executive) which efficiently prepare key issues and can serve as a sounding board for the CEO. 4 Ratos Sustainability and responsible ownership Active ownership contributes to Sustainable business development As a responsible owner, Ratos creates value by establishing companies with a structured sustainability agenda. Ratos sees that a strategically anchored agenda involving significant sustainability issues is value generating. Moreover, sustainable development is a prerequisite for a better world, in line with the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals adopted in 2016 (Agenda 2030). As responsible investor and owner, Ratos conducts structured sustainability initiatives with demands and support to each individual company. In 2013, Ratos became a signatory to the UN Global Com(for a presentation of the materiality analysis, go to Ratos’s pact’s ten principles for responsible business operations website). For Ratos, sustainability means sustainable as well as the UN Principles for Responsible Investment, development through active responsible ownership, giving top PRI. These principles provide a basis for our sustainability priority to the following issues: efforts. This year’s report adheres to the GRI Standards Do business with good business ethics, including anti(see the reference index on pages 16-17). corruption Ensure sound corporate governance and transparency Significant sustainability issues and our stakeholders Develop and involve our employees Ratos’s most significant sustainability issues are identified Drive corporate responsibility in the companies, through intelligence gathering, industry analysis and a process that weighs in the different stakeholders’ priorities and including managing ESG risks and opportunities highly relevant issues for the operations and value creation. Ratos’s direct impact is slight in relation to the portfolio In 2016, structured interviews with the stakeholders have companies’ impact, which is why Ratos’ work as responbeen held to ensure the correct focus. Discussions have sible investor and owner has top priority. The owner also been conducted in Ratos’s management group. Prioricompany’s (parent company’s) own sustainability agenda is ties are set based on this mapping of relevant issues. a prerequisite for its ability to act as a responsible owner Ratos’s key stakeholder groups are prioritised accordand drive the sustainability agenda in Ratos’s companies, ing to their influence on Ratos’s financial, environmental where financial strength and resilience are critical cornerand social aspects and are described in the table below. stones for Ratos to conduct its operations and develop Ratos’s sustainability issues have been prioritised companies. Refer to the financial reports for more details. based on stakeholder dialogues and materiality analysis Ratos as responsible owner Ratos’s ambition as owner is that our companies will estabStakeholders Method of interaction lish a good standard for sustainability, continuously improve their sustainable agenda and ensure a sustainable strategy. Employees at Interviews with representatives in connection with stakeRatos holder dialogues Sustainability is an integrated part of the exercise of our Staff meetings, performance reviews ownership role throughout the holding period – from Structured discussion groups focusing on Ratos’s values, decision processes ahead of an acquisition to a responsible corporate culture, processes and future development exit. To govern these efforts, we have drafted a number of Employees of Interviews with representatives in connection with relevant policies and guidelines (see the Code of Conduct, Ratos’s comstakeholder dialogues panies Meeting forums at Ratos (CEO, CFO, HR, Sustainability, etc.) the Policy for Sustainability and Responsible Investments and the Environmental Policy on Ratos’s website). The companies’ Interviews with representatives in connection with stakemanagement holder dialogues groups and Clear and structured corporate governance and dialogue Acquisitions board members Group-wide assessment of the work of the board The assessment of a potential acquisition includes evaluating Owners and Interviews with representatives in connection with stakethe company and the sector in relation to Ratos’s exclusion investors holder dialogues Active in surveys from or dialogues with organisations such criteria. The next phase includes evaluating the position, as such as Hållbart Värdeskapande, RobecoSAM, Vigeo, i.e. the company’s exposure to long-term trends such as Sustainalytics, CDP and Regi IR Nordic switching to renewable energy, recycled materials, sharing General meetings Dialogues and individual meetings economy, etc. Simultaneously, the level of risks is mapped, meaning sustainability-related risks in the company’s opOther No proactive dialogue, available for discussions as needed erations or value chain (in relation to human rights, labour NB: Companies refers to subsidiaries. In our associated companies, Ratos can exert conditions, other social issues, environmental issues and influence to a different extent, which is why demands and processes can vary. business ethics including corruption risks) and practices, i.e. Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 5 SUSTAINABILITY IS INTEGRATED INTO RATOS’S OPERATIONS SCREENING/LEADS ACQUISITIONS DEVELOPMENT DIVESTMENT Screening vs. exclusion criteria M  ap and analysis part of the K  ey sustainability issues included in S upport in the exit process A  ssess position, long-term strategy decision material to Ratos’s the ownership agenda and business (communication pertaining and commercial effects Board of Directors plan to sustainability, risks, etc.) A  ssess risks and practices, map sustaina­ E stablish sustainability agenda bility-related risks and opportunities and infrastructure within the first 12-18 months I n-depth due diligence employing expert support as needed S upport to company team and company as needed/requested the company’s policies, processes, activities and follow-up On the acquisition date, many of Ratos’s companies have in relation to these risks. The company’s values and no established infrastructure for structured sustainabilculture are also assessed. A compiled due diligence is part ity efforts. Subsequently, focus is initially on putting this of Ratos’s final decision material ahead of the investment in place and defining spheres of responsibility, mandate, decision and constitutes a recommendation to the future resources, tools and processes. We have an ongoing ownership process. dialogue with and provide concrete support to the company’s management and sustainability manager to bolster Ratos’s exclusion criteria: each company’s sustainability efforts during our ownership. Ratos does not invest in companies that Ratos’s annual Sustainability Forum creates networks and operate in the arms industry opportunities to share best practices. Practical tools are cause serious environmental damage produce or are actively involved in the supply of pornography provided to facilitate efforts, including Ratos’s CR Handproduce tobacco products book, the whistleblowing framework agreement and climate reporting systems. Of the 18 companies included in Ratos’s policy: Ratos’s portfolio at the start of 2016, Ratos has interacted The following policy guides Ratos in the assessment of new investments with all companies (100%) on the matter of sustainability. and in work with existing holdings. breaches of international conventions R atos’s exercising climate considerations Divestment Ratos is not a perpetual owner. When divesting a compaDuring the year, Ratos has used negative screening, i.e. ny, we want to ensure good survival for the company in assessed investment possibilities in relation to Ratos’s question. exclusion criteria. In 2016, Ratos made five acquisitions, and in all acquisitions (100%), an assessment of the Responsibility, governance and follow-up sustainability-related risks was performed as an integral Ratos’s active ownership necessitates a clear division of part of the due diligence. The risk assessment resulted in responsibility and follow-up. Ratos’s CEO has the overall a recommendation to proceed with each acquisition and responsibility for Ratos’s sustainability strategy and initiarecommendations for Ratos’s ownership agenda. tives. Ratos’s operational sustainability efforts are defined and coordinated by the Sustainability Committee and Development representation from both the investment organisation and Ratos invests across several industries. Consequently, business support. The Sustainability Committee defines our companies are affected by many different issues. and coordinates requirements, guidelines and follow-up of We therefore have both common requirements for the Ratos’s and the companies’ sustainability work. One of Raentire portfolio and company-specific efforts to ensure tos’s Industrial Advisors assists the Sustainability Commitfocus on sustainability issues relevant to each compatee, Ratos’s company team and, on request, the companies ny. Demands emanate from relevant legislation and the regarding strategic sustainability issues. In each company, Global Compact’s principles. Since 2011, Ratos’s demands the CEO and company management has the operational and expectations on its companies are clarified in our responsibility for its sustainability efforts and each board is Corporate Responsibility (CR) framework. It has a basic ultimately responsible for ensuring that the company comlevel that applies to all subsidiaries, and a few additional plies with current requirements, policies and guidelines. modules with requirements for specific companies based Each company has an established process that enables the on their operations and market presence. Moreover, board to regularly follow up sustainability efforts and as of Ratos encourages own initiatives which strengthen the 2014, all companies that Ratos has owned for more than company’s sustainability work and sustainable business one years present an annual sustainability report. development. The base for the companies’ sustainability work should constitute identifying significant sustainability Key activities in 2016 issues, a strategy and process for the work together with Structured stakeholder dialogues conducted to verify set targets, anchored in the company’s board, including a focus on material sustainability issues for Ratos AB plan for how the CR framework will be implemented and Ratos’s Sustainability Day for the companies’ sustaina­ complied with in operations. bility managers 6 Ratos Sustainability and responsible ownership L aunch of instructions for Ratos’s companies governing Develop and involve our employees sustainability, compliance and risk initiatives Ratos places great importance on strategic talent developL aunch of Ratos’s policy governing tax ment and supply, better equal opportunities and diversity, and Planning for implementation of GRI reporting among a sound occupational environment and health, including workRatos’s companies to fulfil new laws regulating sustainlife balance. See pages 10-13 for more information about ability reporting. Ratos’s employees and how Ratos addresses these issues. Parent company’s sustainability efforts Climate impact Responsible exercise of ownership requires that Ratos To be able to make demands and influence our compadoes business with good business ethics, ensures good nies, Ratos strives to lead by example. Climate issues corporate governance and develops and involves the concern everyone and Ratos wants to contribute to a employees. Furthermore, Ratos wants to be a good role better environment and less climate impact. We do so by model for the companies, for example in terms of envimeasuring and reducing/limiting our consumption of enronmental and climate efforts. ergy and consumables and by optimising business travel. Ratos has an environmental policy and plan for its inDo business with good business ethics and culture ternal environmental work that aims to constantly reduce Ratos’s reputation and the opportunity to do sound busiRatos’s environmental impact. Ratos’s CEO is responsible ness rests on good business ethics. Ratos works actively for follow-up. Ratos’s parent company is not subject to to ensure that the company’s values and ethical rules perany specific environmental legislation. meate all operations and that all employees understand In 2016, Ratos completed its third climate report and comply with the Code of Conduct adopted by Ratos’s (scope 1, scope 2 and parts of scope 3 according to the Board of Directors. Ratos’s internal ethics policies and Greenhouse Gas Protocol). Ratos’s greatest climate process coupled with regulatory compliance guarantee impact stems from business flights. Face-to-face meetings high quality and long-term confidence from the market. and networking are fundamental to our ability to do busiRatos’s employees receive training in business ethics, our ness, and Ratos will continue to prioritise critical business Code of Conduct and other related policies. In 2016, trips. Consequently, we make climate compensation Ratos had zero incidents of violations of the Code of Confor all air travel as of 2014. As of 2016, Ratos uses only duct and zero whistleblowing reports. Ratos has not been electricity labelled good environmental choice. Ratos’s fined or received any other sanctions due to violations of total emissions from the parent company amounted to laws or regulations. 46 tonnes CO2e for 2016. Ensure sound corporate governance and transparency Total emissions, tonne CO2e/yr 2016 2015 2014 Sound corporate governance creates value and is a Business trips 254 248 294 prerequisite for Ratos’s ownership process. Ratos aims of which, air travel 230 207 274 for high transparency in our operations. We continuously Head office (the building) 20 27 210 improve our corporate governance and communication to of which, electricity consumption 3 3 187 Other 2 4 2 safeguard high quality and the market’s long-term confidence. Total before climate compensation 276 279 506 Total after climate compensation 46 72 232 GENERAL TARGETS FOR RATOS’S RESPONSIBLE OWNERSHIP EFFORTS General targets Status Comments/focus 2016–2017 Ratos and the companies are considered attractive employers in each target group Efforts to establish concrete goals and measurement methods Dedicated, motivated employees continues in 2017. Safe workplace Before acquisition, all new investments are subject to a sustainability or This screening was performed for all five acquisitions completed ESG screening. in 2016. All the companies we sell have an established sustainability plan All companies (> 1 year) submitted a status report concerning (refers to companies that Ratos has owned > x years) sustainability 2016. The work of improving reporting is underSustainability agenda with top issues and activities (company > 1 year) way, with a greater focus in 2017 with reference to the new susShortand long-term sustainability goals established and followed-up tainability reporting law. In 2016, a programme was launched to (company > 2 years) clarify the companies’ sustainability goals. This has taken longer Sustainability agenda with top issues and activities (company > 1 year) than expected and will continue in 2017. The board is ultimately responsible and involved: all company boards have defined In 100% of the companies we owned > 1 year, the Board has the sustainability goals and follow-up initiatives at least once a year. presented and discussed the company’s sustainability efforts during the year. Reduce the climate impact and energy consumption per SEK of sales during the Implementation of climate reporting systems completed or onholding period for each company. Milestone: all companies (> 2 years) will implegoing in 7 of 14 concerned companies (> 2 years). It has not been ment systems or methods for CO2measuring and reporting (scope 1, 2 and possibly possible to prioritise the programme in certain companies due parts of 3). to other major projects. Implementation will continue in 2017. Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 7 Employees, human rights and working conditions Implementation of Ratos’s development plans in each company A good, safe work environment, employee dedication and talent cannot be done without talented, dedicated and healthy employdevelopment are therefore top-priority issues. Respect for ees. Most (89%) of the Group’s 14,500 employees work in the human rights, reasonable working conditions and freedom of Nordic countries and the rest of Europe, and 8% work in Asia, association are other key aspects. Several of the companies have China mainly. Several of the companies have operations that put suppliers and partners in other countries where there is an eleemployees at a greater risk of personal injury. vated risk of violations of human rights or employee rights, which is why these issues have a prioritised position in the companies’ Group employees per geographic area 2016 supply chains. Sweden 18% As owner, Ratos makes it clear that international convenRest of the world 1% tions, human rights, and employee rights and conditions must Rest of Asia 5% be respected, which is stipulated in Ratos’s Code of Conduct. North America 2% Norway 39% The companies are to implement a code of conduct in line with Rest of Europe 15% Ratos’s Code. Based on a risk analysis, the same will also be implemented in the value chain in a suitable manner. China 4% In the sustainability reports that the companies are asked to Finland 4% Poland 4% compile every year, morbidity and the share of women in senior Germany 4% Denmark 4% positions is reported as the same standard. Responsibility for environmental and climate impact Our companies are the source of Ratos’s greatest environmenThe companies’ sustainability reports contain a compilation of tal impact. All companies will implement an environmental energy consumption (kWh) and relative energy consumption. policy or an environmental plan based on an analysis that For companies that have their own production, expectations identifies the drivers of the company’s greatest environmental are higher and involve among other things, waste management impact. Each company has a delegated responsibility to comply and water consumption. In 2016, Ratos introduced mandatory with relevant environmental legislation/standards, ensure that CO2 footprint reporting in line with the GHG Protocol for all environmental permits exist, and so on. Ratos’s companies. 54% of the companies that Ratos owned > 2 For Ratos, as for other investors, climate impact and a years had on 31 December implemented or were in the process transition to a climate-neutral world is an important issue. As of implementing a system. owner, we can support our companies to develop sustainable and “climate smart” products and services, and to advocate more focus on energy efficiency and reducing greenhouse gas Share of companies Share of companies (>1 year) emissions through sector and company-specific initiatives. We (>2 year) that have a that have environmental also have a responsibility to ensure that the companies develop CO2-report: certification (ISO14001): 54% 54% sustainable strategies that embrace and support the transition that the business world will go through – such as companies that are exposed to oil and gas cultivating operations aimed at renewable energy – while simultaneously conducting traditional operations as responsibly and ecologically as possible. Business ethics, anti-corruption and losses For an investment company like Ratos, credibility, sound ethical Ratos’s CR Handbook, which has guidelines, support and best values and regulatory compliance are essential for our ability to do practices for all companies, contains principles for the compabusiness. Corruption is a widespread problem in the world, leading nies’ anti-corruption initiatives and development of its anti-corto ineffective markets and major costs for companies as well as ruption programme. Companies that have an elevated risk of significant losses for many countries in the form of limited progress. corruption or irregularities have more requirements regarding An important aspect of Ratos’s active ownership involves preventive efforts in their own operations and with business mapping corruption risks. A detailed corruption analysis was partners. As part of Ratos’s preventive efforts, Ratos launched performed in 2014 for all companies and is reviewed on a in 2016 instructions related to sustainability, compliance and regular basis. Of Ratos’s companies, 10 are considered to have risk in Ratos’s subsidiaries aimed at providing guidelines and an elevated risk of corruption. The risk assessment was done support to the Boards of Ratos’s subsidiaries in their sustainabilusing a tool devised for Ratos’s investment organisation and ity-related work and focusing on anticorruption. Ratos has also the companies. The Code of Conduct that Ratos’s companies strengthened its follow-up processes concerning the companies’ implement contains written business ethics and anti-corruption compliance to laws, including anticorruption efforts. instructions. All companies will perform corruption risk analyses As of 2016, Ratos’s general rule is that all companies will as part of the comprehensive risk mapping and management, have implemented an externally run whistleblowing system to and have preventive routines and processes that are risk-speguarantee anonymity and full integrity. 38% of the companies cific, such as guidelines for employees and training programmes that Ratos owned > 1 years had on 31 December implemented for people who have high-risk jobs. or were in the process of implementing such a system. 8 Ratos Sustainability and responsible ownership Aibel – consistent group-wide safety programme Aibel, a leading Norwegian supplier of maintenance and modifitheoretical and more interesting training programme than becation services for oil and gas production platforms as well as field fore. All yard employees receive regular training at the centre, development within oil, gas and renewable energy, has operations which can accommodate up to 300 people weekly. along the entire Norwegian coast and in Asia. Aibel has a strong safety culture and focus on good working conditions. For a long time, Aibel has given strong focus to health and safety, driven by laws and industry guidelines as well as a strong safety culture that takes all employees into account. The same focus and routines apply throughout Aibel’s operations, including Aibel’s yard in Laem Chabang, Thailand. In 2016, further investments were made at this yard with the construction of a state-of-the-art safety centre to enhance training in the field, a key step in efforts to realise Aibel’s long-term goal of zero injuries and incidents. The safety centre, a premises measuring around 600 m2 with seven discipline-specific classrooms, is designed for hands-on demonstrations, thereby offering a less Diab – lower customer weight means lower climate emissions Diab is a global provider of sandwich composite materials that The boat has a speed three times higher than previous electric contribute favourably to the transition to a climate-neutral world by ferries. Because the ferry can replace boats that use traditional facilitating growth in renewable energy, reducing weight and, consefuel, CO2 emission levels are slashed to a fraction while the high quently, users’ fuel consumption and climate footprint. speed makes it possible for more people to choose to commute on the water instead of the roads. Diab’s materials promote advances in renewable energy. For instance, the low weight allows for larger wind turbine blades and thereby higher efficiency. In the transport sector, the company’s materials are used in traditional vehicles, i.e. driven with fossil-based fuels which helps to lower weight and reduce fuel consumption. Lightweight composites are a prerequisite for the transition to electric vehicles. Tests show that a ferry made of composite material reduces fuel consumption by some 40% compared with a ferry made of aluminium. Diab’s material facilitate a transition to electricity-driven vehicles and vessels. Stockholm City uses a commuter ferry in the Stockholm archipelago that combines a hull made of lightweight material from Diab, ultra-modern batteries and airbag technology. TFS – safe and ethical clinical trials TFS performs clinical trials on behalf of pharmaceutical and medical All internal process that serve as guidelines for how TFS will perdevice industries. The industry and the company have a strong focus form clinical trials are based on applicable international laws. All on business ethics, manifested in high-quality, safe and ethically staff, including management, receive regular training about these performed trials. processes, guidelines and standards. Compliance is followed up and monitored by TFS’s quality department. External reviews are TFS gives priority to an ethical approach to clinical research, which performed by ethics committees and pharmaceutical committees is reflected in the company’s core values. TFS’s operations are in each country, which review and approve all trials. strictly regulated by both national legislation and international regulations and directives where ICH E6 “Good Clinical Practice” and the Declaration of Helsinki developed by the World Medical Association serve as cornerstones. The latter underscores that the purpose and goals of medical research never takes precedence over the rights and interests of the patients. Clinical trials must always be performed in an ethical manner using methods and processes that guarantee high patient safety, high quality and correct handling of data and outcomes. All participation in research trials must be voluntary and requires the consent of the patient. Before a trial can begin, it must be approved by a research ethics committee. Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 9 We at Ratos People make the difference In all business operations, value is created by people. Attracting, developing and retaining skilled employees and talent is imperative to Ratos and our companies’ ability to deliver and realise long-term success. Therefore, a major priority for us is that we and our companies are attractive employers. In 2016, we reinforced our organisation with a Strategic HR Manager to direct even more focus on these important issues. The Ratos Group has about 14,500 employees worldThe power of teamwork wide who work for one of the 18 companies that make Each company has a dedicated team which normally conup Ratos’s portfolio of companies or in Ratos’s own sists of two Ratos employees, one of whom is company organisation. In the parent company, 34 individuals were executive, with one or more as a member of the comemployed at the beginning of 2017, 19 of whom work in pany’s board. The composition of the team and its team the investment organisation responsible for development spirit is key. Together with the companies’ management of the companies and finding new investment opportuand boards we draft ambitious business plans to create nities. In addition, 16 Industrial Advisors are associated growth and profitability, and to realise our return target. with the operations. Ratos’s CEO and management group are responsible for the employees’ work situation, talent Network with Nordic business experience development and initiatives related to equal opportunities Our Industrial Advisors act as advisors in investment proand diversity. cesses and during operational development of the comIn harmony with Ratos’s changing circumstances and panies, and are often board members in the companies as needs as a company, change initiatives began during the year well as members of our Advisory Boards. Furthermore, that have generated organisational changes and streamlining we work with an extended network of qualified advisors of operations, resulting in fewer employees at Ratos. who have long-standing business experience from all the Nordic countries. To further broaden and improve our Focus on the right skills Nordic contact base, we have Advisory Boards in DenThe investment organisation is staffed with people who mark, Finland and Norway made up of people with many have extensive experience in development of enterprises years of business experience. They act as Ratos's repreand strategic analysis, people who often have a background sentatives and share their knowledge of local business life as management consultants or from operative roles. They and contacts in their individual networks since the Nordic are continuously involved in investment processes, and lead countries differ in several respects, including corporate the work in Ratos's companies together with each comstructure, sector distribution and business culture. pany's board and management. Ratos’s organisation also includes people with expertise in communication, strategic Strategic HR with value-creating activities HR, sustainability initiatives, financing and accounting. We at Ratos are convinced that business success comes During the year, the investment organisation continfrom those individuals working at Ratos, in our portfoued the project that started toward working in a more lio companies and via our strong network of Industrial sector-oriented organisation. Among other things, the Advisors. Our aim is to work strategically to ensure that sector division will lead to a more structured approach we have the right person with the right competence in in acquisition activities and comprises eight different secthe right place at the right time. This has received greater tors, namely consumer goods/commerce, construction, focus since we established a new role at Ratos that industrials, energy, technology/telecom/media, corporate focuses on strategic HR. services, healthcare and real estate. Age distribution 2016 Average parental leave 2016 Number of permanently employed per age category, Ratos head office Number of months of parental leave (rolling twelve months, mean), Ratos head office 20 15 12 months 12 months 15 15 13 10 10 2 4 months 1 5 4 4 3 months 5 0 0 < 30 years 30-50 years > 50 years 2015 2016 2015 2016 Women on parental leave Men on parental leave 10 Ratos Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos’s values Entrepreneurial since we encourage Committed and dedicated in our Responsible since we have high demands original approaches, curiosity and harness businesses, companies and the people who on business ethics and weigh in the conseopportunities, conduct business and build lead and work at Ratos and its companies. quences of the decisions we are involved in companies. for people and the environment. Employees, type and function at Ratos’s head office 30–50 Number and proportion based on the type of employment in relation to gender Women % Men % <30 years years >50 years Permanent employment 18 46 21 54 3 28 8 Fixed-term contract 1 50 1 50 2 0 0 Management group 1 20 4 80 0 3 2 Investment organisation 7 35 13 65 2 17 1 Business support 10 71 4 29 1 8 5 Total * 19 22 5 28 8 Ratos’s Board of Directors 3 43 4 57 0 0 7 Boards in the companies, excluding Ratos’s investment organisation 23 30 53 70 Employees who have resigned 10 3 0 8 5 New employees 4 2 2 4 0 * At the start of 2017, six more people resigned. My role as Investment Director is multifaceted and varied. We work in teams, which affords me the opportunity to work together with highly knowledgeable colleagues to both develop the companies we already own, for which I am responsible for Arcus, Bisnode and TFS, and identify new acquisition opportunities. It is largely about interaction between people as those of us in the companies work actively through boards and management. Becoming a good active owner takes time and requires collecting good practices. Analysis, governance and leadership are parts of the interrelated whole. When I worked as management consultant before joining Ratos, I met different private equity actors and their portfolio companies and saw enormous differences. Most particularly in perspectives, values and processes, all factors that are important for me in terms of job satisfaction. I also came upon Ratos in these contexts and appreciated both the people I met and Ratos’s perspective on ownership. Mikael Norlander Investment Director Ratos is characterised by people with a genuine drive to do good things together. I work with consolidated financial statements and financial reporting, which lets me actively help to develop accounting and reporting processes. I’m also involved in many interesting Group-level issues. I like working in an inquisitive environment where new, exciting ideas are combined with long-term sustainability. I believe these are the best alternatives for the future. Nina Grönberg Group Accounting As Industrial Advisor to Ratos, I employ my experience mainly in building relationships to find suitable acquisition candidates and assist Ratos’s investment organisation in sorting out potential acquisition candidates. An important part of my role is to find the people who can help Ratos with its value-creating agenda during the acquisition process itself and the holding period. For me, Ratos is a company that stands and operates on sound values with a human image. It is a privilege for me to work with so many talented colleagues with whom I hope to be able to share my experience. Peter Carrick Industrial Advisor Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 11 The Ratos spirit concerning to what extent parental leave is taken are Ratos’s actions are based on our core values – to be compiled and monitored. In 2016, of those on parental entrepreneurial, committed and responsible. Through leave, women were on leave for an average of 12 months good business ethics, we ensure that those with whom and men for 4 months. we do business will be able to trust us, want to choose us To gain access to and harness the skills of a deep pool and return to us. These values define how we work and of talent, Ratos advocates equal opportunities and diversiinteract with each other and our stakeholders. ty. Ratos is relatively equal when it comes to the total number of employees and, in the investment organisation Attractive employer which is traditionally a male-dominated sector, 35% were In all enterprise, value is created by people, which is why women. it is a major priority for us that we, and our companies, While there is normally no risk for serious physical are attractive employers. We actively work to build injury at Ratos’s office, there is a risk for stress-related networks of individuals with complementary and exciting illnesses. Ratos takes a preventive approach by encouragskills and make sure that we find the right person for the ing health-promoting activities, for example, by offering right job. fitness subsidies, medical and health insurance and preRatos has a structured approach for attracting, develventive health exams. oping and retaining skilled employees and talent as it is imperative to Ratos and our companies’ ability to deliver Sharing best practices and realise long-term success. We offer attractive opporEvery year Ratos conducts a number of initiatives to tunities for personal growth and development through stimulate the transfer of knowledge and exchange of best interesting and diverse tasks, as well as the opportunity to practice between different companies, sectors and employcreate value and do business. ees through, for example Network Days, Chairman Forum, Talent and leadership development programmes CEO Summit, CFO Summit, CR Forum, HR Forum and are regularly offered when a need is identified. In 2016, Ratos Talent Award. this included training in board work, compliance issues, diversity, management, lean processes and personal Involved in community development development. All employees (100%) have annual formal Ratos’s community involvement is founded in our 150performance reviews. year history where long-term responsibility is a natural 1.5% part of our operations. Ratos strives to contribute to a world where people have the opportunity to make a Sick leave is generally low difference by changing and developing companies, sectors and in 2016 was: and society. By merging hearts and heads in our day-today work, our employees lend their time and expertise Ratos endeavours to provide a good work-life balance. in operational development and entrepreneurship to Most of Ratos’s employees work full time, but other contribute to various public activities and projects with alternatives are available and are determined by emwhich Ratos has an established collaboration. Two of the ployee preference. The option to structure working organisations that Ratos has collaborated with in 2016 are hours to achieve a work-family life balance does exist Inkludera Invest, which by backing social entrepreneurs along with more possibilities to work from home. Ratos takes social innovations to market and Mentor Sweden, encourages parental leave for both men and women, and which works to give young people a strong self-image and actively works to make the return to work after parental brighter outlook on the future by offering various mentorleave smooth and straightforward. As of 2015, statistics ship programmes. Distribution, Investment organisation 2016 Distribution, the company’s boards 2016 (excluding Ratos employees and employee representatives) Women 35% Men 65% Women 30% Men 70% 12 Ratos Sustainability and responsible ownership The year’s winners are: Lise Gustavsen in the category Entrepreneurial Project manager, HENT Her creativity and innovative thinking have made Lise instrumental in leading and managing large complex construction projects. She repeatedly delivers the best financial results and has completed buildings that impress the customers. Lise is a true entrepreneur who takes greater responsibility than expected. Her courage and her curiosity urge Lise to always look for constant improvements that generate strong results for both the customers and HENT. Tania Nadal in the category Committed Executive Director Clinical Monitoring, TFS With a combination of great customer focus, hard work and employee Ratos Talent Award dedication, after 15 years at TFS Tania continues to amaze with her strong Five years ago, Ratos established the Ratos Talent Award as commitment. Her tireless work to shape the future of the function and the a way of recognising the many talented individuals working company does not only improve quality and deliverables but cultivates a high level of engagement in her team, which positively affects the business at our companies. The ability to implement ambitious plans outcome for her business function and TFS as a whole. in our companies hinges on having the experience, expertise and commitment. Therefore, HR and talent developLaura Lajmanovich & ment are prioritised issues for us as owners. Jörgen Dahlström in the category Responsible Entrepreneurial, Committed and Responsible comVP China & Project Manager/Group Process Engineer, Diab prise Ratos’s core values – values that we believe are With great integrity and dedication to following Diab’s Code of Conduct and critical in our efforts to be the best at developing comthe UN’s Global Compact initiative, Laura and Jörgen have been a driving panies in the Nordic region. We are confident that there force in implementing a new plant in China in a very impressive and resolute are many employees in our companies who are good role way. With the entire team, Laura and Jörgen have been pushing for improved safety and better environment. Without their big hearts and determination models when it comes to these qualities, which is why to stand up for our Nordic values in a location where authorities are fighting they were the criteria for this year’s Ratos Talent Award. corruption, the project had not been as successfully implemented. HENT – an employee-focused company HENT, a Norwegian construction company, adopts a stratpromote and give prominence to the individual is clearly a promiegy to encourage as many employees as possible to identify nent task for us as leaders,” continued Terje. new opportunities for growth within the organisation. This Talent Management is an ongoing project, firmly rooted may involve employees developing within their present role, at management group level. CEO Jan Jahren is personally broadening their skills by changing departments or pursuing involved in the project through management meetings and a career in their current field. weekly reports with the HR department where manage“If we are to achieve our business targets, it is imperative ment supply and talent development are always on the agenthat we successful in this. We apply HENT’s training initiative da. In 2017, Jan will gather all the younger and future project that includes leadership training. We offer courses in various managers at a meeting where the theme will be culture, subjects and on-the-job training in construction projects where innovation and career. experienced employees provide support. Another important An employee satisfaction survey is performed annually initiative for the company is ensuring that besides a traditional and the results are presented per department and region career involving a management role, it is also possible to have within the organisation. The aim of the survey is to secure a career as a specialist with comparable salary and good future anonymous and concrete feedback from all employees opportunities in the company,” says HENT’s HR Director regarding management, organisation, training, culture and Terje Hugubakken. work satisfaction in order to create a platform from which The strategy is to, through the company’s philosophy to drive improvements. HENT also wants the survey to and culture, cultivate as many leaders and talents as possiserve as an extra channel for the individual to personally ble, in an attempt to always fill vacancies at HENT internally. suggest concrete improvement measures. Performance reviews are used to collect and identify career “The employee satisfaction survey takes the temperature plans and to ensure that the individual’s career goals are of the entire organisation and gives us valuable information identified. and feedback that we can convert into concrete measures for “We feel that our systematic approach in this field is one every department and the company as a whole,” said Terje in of the most important initiatives we can take to develop and conclusion. retain motivated employees within HENT. That we as employer Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 13 Companies overview Ratos’s portfolio of companies is made up of 18 companies that together employ some 14,500 employees with combined sales of approximately SEK 38 billion and an adjusted EBITA of approximately SEK 2.3 billion on an annual basis. The companies are active in different sectors, and operate strategically, operationally and financially independent of each other. The common denominator for these companies is the existence of an apparent company-specific growth potential that is realised by focus on long-term value creation. Information about the companies’ operations, market position, financial key figures and growth potential can be found on pages 28-44 in Ratos’s Annual Report 2016. The Ratos Group’s net sales for 2016 according to IFRS Sales breakdown by segment were SEK 25,228m (24,480), an increase of +3%, and TECHNOLOGY/MEDIA/TELECOM 12% CORPORATE SERVICES 2% operating loss was SEK -235m (1,411). To facilitate a Bisnode, KVD, Nebula Speed Group REAL ESTATE 1% comparison between periods and enable follow-up of the Serena Properties ongoing performance of Ratos’s company portfolio, the INDUSTRIALS 10% CONSTRUCTION 25% companies overview includes certain financial information Diab, Ledil, GS Hydro HENT, airteam that is not defined in accordance with IFRS. For a reconciliHEALTHCARE/ LIFE SCIENCE 2% ation of the alternative performance measures used in this TFS report with the most directly reconcilable IFRS measures, CONSUMER GOODS / ENERGY 14% COMMERCE 34% refer to www.ratos.se. Aibel Arcus, Gudrun Sjödén Group, Jøtul, HL Display, Oase Outdoors, Plantagen Summary of Ratos’s companies Interest-bearing Net sales EBITA in the Adjusted EBITA net debt in the Consolidated Ratos’s SEKm in the portfolio portfolio in the portfolio 6) portfolio value holding 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016-12-31 2016-12-31 2016-12-31 Aibel 10,892 7,728 46 279 314 480 2,585 587 32 airteam 1) 768 629 47 94 74 94 197 356 70 Bisnode 3,458 3,535 228 275 358 328 1,745 1,606 70 Diab 1,516 1,450 109 154 114 146 890 770 96 GS-Hydro 887 1,175 -149 12 -102 26 368 0 100 Gudrun Sjödén Group 2) 712 711 70 74 70 74 -6 166 30 HENT 7,991 5,716 239 189 239 190 -733 298 73 HL Display 1,417 1,488 67 8 85 66 569 840 99 Jøtul 898 930 0 0 7 6 534 4 93 KVD 321 317 37 29 48 38 143 356 100 Ledil 365 297 105 95 105 95 123 530 66 Nebula 332 299 101 87 107 90 440 283 73 Oase Outdoors 3) 422 333 46 37 72 40 284 137 79 Plantagen 4) 3,696 3,681 233 258 299 242 2,384 1,303 99 Serena Properties 5) 171 167 129 133 129 133 1,094 398 56 Speed Group 562 536 34 25 41 42 -50 296 70 TFS 793 689 63 45 66 45 4 168 60 Total companies in their entirety 35,200 29,679 1,406 1,795 2,027 2,136 10,571 Change 19% -22% -5% Total adjusted for Ratos’s holding 22,794 20,164 1,005 1,233 1,384 1,414 Change 13% -19% -2% All figures in the above table relate to 100% of each company, except consolidated values, which are based on Ratos’s holding. In order to facilitate comparisons between years and provide a comparable structure, where appropriate some holdings are reported pro forma. Pro formas for 2016 are presented in the note on the right. As a listed company, Arcus is no longer included in the table above. 14 Ratos Sustainability and responsible ownership Sales breakdown and employees by geographic market % of the Ratos Group’s sales Nordic countries % of the Ratos Group’s employees Western Europe 76% 65% Eastern Europe 15% 20% 2% 4% North America Rest of the world 2% 2% 5% 9% Net sales growth Adjusted EBITA margin % % 50 80 40 40 30 30 20 20 10 10 0 0 -10 -20 -10 -30 -20 be TF l tu e lay ro be l TF S tul e lay ro O EN T l ee N eb ula S Jø od yd O Ai ut TEN d N eb ula Jø od isp yd Ai ut do or d G ro sn isp do H or s G ro up sn H H Le d s D up Bi D SH air Le dil Se D Pla iab Bi D Sair il te am Se na P re lan b ta i a L G te am re na nta eePr gen HL G e Pr gen op er H e Sp op er tie as G Sp ud tie s as G ud K V s O ru KVD n O ru n Sjö D 2015 2016 Sjö de n de n Sustainability indicators9) Share of Share of External Average number women production units CO2Code of conduct in whistleblowing of employees on the Board7) with ISO 14001 reporting line with Ratos’s system 35 30 25 4,073 0% 100% no yes yes 20 186 25% nc nc nc nc 15 2,209 33% 0% yes yes yes 10 1,242 20% 57% yes yes yes 5 596 25% 36% 0 yes yes yes 328 60% nc nc nc nc -5 773 33% 100% Bi yes8) us -G ibe ol upp in r Sc n A ies e l yes TFS no us tr ien Bi ic tif 982 33% 75% yes8) yes yes sn od e Ind Eu IAB ro G aint SD m H yd AH H ro 580 25% 0% no yes no Ar H EN L D T isp lay M obcile Jø KV tu l Cl im at e Le D Co dil 162 25% 0% yes yes no Sp Neb nt ro l ee d G ro ula up 95 20% 100% no yes no 137 25% 0% yes8) yes no 78 0% nc nc nc nc 1,168 33% nc nc nc nc 0 67% 0% no yes no 752 20% 50% no yes8) no 729 33% 0% no yes no 1) airteam’s earnings for 2016 and 2015 are pro forma in terms of Ratos’s acquisition and 4) Plantagen’s earnings for 2016 and 2015 are pro forma in terms of Ratos’s acquisition for new financing and Group structure. and for new financing and Group structure. 2) Gudrun Sjödén Group’s earnings for 2016 and 2015 are pro forma taking into account 5) Serena Properties’ earnings for 2016 and 2015 are pro forma in terms of Ratos’s Ratos’s acquisition. The German operation was included in its entirety for the period acquisition and for new financing and Group structure. in 2015. 6) EBITA, excluding items affecting comparability. 3) Oase Outdoors’ earnings for 2016 and 2015 are pro forma in terms of Ratos’s 7) Of external board members acquisition and for new financing and Group structure. 8) Under implementation 9) Companies acquired in 2016 are included as of 2017. Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 15 GRI Index Ratos’s sustainability reporting refers to calendar year 2016 is and implementing GC’s principles. This index describes where the GRI and prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) COP information can be found in Ratos’s Annual Report 2016. guidelines for sustainability reporting, version Standards at the Core The sustainability report is prepared based on GRI’s principles level. Ratos has used relevant sections of GRI Sector Disclosures, Finanin order to determine content and ensure quality. The report covers cial Services. This is Ratos’s second sustainability reporting according to Ratos as an investment company, i.e. the parent company Ratos. Ratos GRI and Ratos intends to report annually. has a significant ownership in the portfolio of companies. However, a In line with the Global Compact (GC) commitment, Ratos subkey principle in Ratos’s owner model (described in Ratos’s Owner Policy) mits a Communication on Progress (COP), that presents the task of is that each company acts strategically, operationally and financially GRI STANDARDS INDEX CORE LEVEL WITH FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR DISCLOSURE Page in Ratos’s Annual Report UNGC Indicator/disclosure 2016 Comments principles 102: GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES 2016 Organisation profile 102-1 Name of the organisation 46 102-2 Operations, brands, products and services 2, 3, 8, 9 102-3 Location of headquarters 46, back side 102-4 Countries served by the organisation 18, 27 102-5 Natue of ownership and legal form 24-25, 112 102-6 Markets served by the organisation 3, 18, 27 102-7 Organisation scale 20-21, 26-27 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 20-22 Employee data has been collected from Ratos’s HR system. 102-9 Supply chain Ratos’s purchases include services and products to office operations in Stockholm and consultancy in the acquisition and sales processes as well as development procedures. Suppliers operate primarily in the Nordic countries. 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain No significant changes during the year. 102-11 Precautionary Principle 15-16 The precautionary principle is followed and refers to assessment and management of sustainability risks in connection with investments. 102-12 External initiatives 15 102-13 Membership of organisations The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, the Swedish Venture Capital Association and Swedish Leadership for Sustainable Development Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4-5 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles and ethical guidelines 2, 10, 15-16, 18, 21 10 Governance 102-18 Governance 16, 54, 56-57 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 15 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements All employees, regardless of form of employment, in the parent 3 company are covered by collective bargaining agreements. 102-42 Identification and selection of stakeholders 15 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 15 102-44 Key topics raised through stakeholders 15 Reporting 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 105, 112 102-46 Process for defining report content and topic boundaries 15, 122-123 102-47 List of material topics/sustainability issues 122-123 www.ratos. se/hallbarhet 102-48 Restatements of information This is Ratos’s second sustainability report according to the GRI Standards. No significant changes have been made related to the information provided in earlier reports. 102-49 Changes in reporting See above. 102-50 Reporting period 122 102-51 Date of most recent report 2016-03-10 102-52 Reporting cycle 122 102-53 Contact person for the report Magnus Agervald, CEO +46 8 700 17 00 Helene Gustafsson, Head of IR and PR +46 8 700 17 00 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 122-123 102-55 GRI content index 122-123 102-56 External assurance The sustainability report is not subject to external review. 16 Ratos Sustainability and responsible ownership independent of each other. Furthermore, Ratos is not perpetual owner relation to the portfolio companies’ impact, which is why reporting to its companies, but instead has an active exit strategy, which means Ratos’ work as responsible investor and owner has top priority. “Withthat the composition of the portfolios changes every year. An active in the organisation” refers to the parent company Ratos, “outside the sustainability programme for Ratos’s parent company is a prerequisite organisation” refers to Ratos’s companies and their operations as well for Ratos’s ability to develop companies and their sustainability perforas other parts of the value chain. See also index per aspect. mance during the period of ownership. Stakeholder dialogues and materiality analysis are the basis for Ratos’s sustainability issues. Ratos’s direct impact is considered very slight in SIGNIFICANT ISSUES, GOVERNANCE AND TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES Page in Ratos’s Annual Report UNGC Indicator/disclosure 2016 Comments principles 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 2016 – BOUNDARY RATOS’S PARENT COMPANY 103-1 103-3 Sustainability governance 10, 15, 18, 20-22, 3-6 123 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 22 3-6 development reviews 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2016 – BOUNDARY RATOS’S PARENT COMPANY 103-1 103-3 Sustainability governance 10, 15, 18, 20-22, 3-6 123 405-1 Diversity of board of directors, governance bodies and employees 21, 54 3-6 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION 2016 – BOUNDARIES RATOS’S PARENT COMPANY, HOLDINGS AND OUTSIDE THE ORGANISATION; BUSINESS PARTNERS 103-1 103-3 Sustainability governance 15, 17.18, 56-58, 10 123 205-1 Business units analysed for risks related to corruption. 18 10 419: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 2016 – BOUNDARY RATOS’S PARENT COMPANY 103-1 103-3 Sustainability governance 15, 17.18, 56-58, 10 123 419-1 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions During the year Ratos has not been issued 10 for noncompliance with laws and rules in the social and economic area. material fines or received any other sanctions due to violations of laws or regulations. RATOS’S OWN SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES – BOUNDARY RATOS’S PARENT COMPANY Product portfolio 103-1 103-3 Sustainability governance 10-12, 15-18, 56-58, 1-10 123 FS6 Percentage of the portfolio based on the investment portfolio – region, 26-27 1-10 scope, sector Active ownership 103-1 103-3 Sustainability governance 10-12, 15-18, 56-58, Voting is used as an integrated part of gover1-10 123 nance of the portfolio of companies, where environmental and social issues are included. FS10 Share of the companies that the organisation has interacted with on 16 1-10 environmental or social issues Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 17 Shareholder information Annual General Meeting 6 April 2017 The Annual General Meeting of Ratos AB (publ) will be held at 2:00 Calendar p.m. CET on Thursday, 6 April 2017 at Skandiascenen at Cirkus, Djurgårdsslätten 43-45, Stockholm. 6 April 2017 Annual General Meeting 8 May Interim Report, January-March 2017 Participation 17 Aug Interim Report, January-June 2017 To be entitled to participate in the business of the Meeting, shareholders 14 Nov Interim Report, January-September 2017 must Reports can be accessed on Ratos's website directly after be recorded in the register of shareholders maintained by Euroclear publication and are issued in Swedish and English. The annual Sweden AB on Friday, 31 March 2017, report is sent by post to shareholders who have so requested. notify the company of their intention to attend no later than 31 March 2017. Publications can be ordered at www.ratos.se or by post: Ratos AB Notification Box 1661 Out of consideration for the environment and to become more efficient SE-111 96 Stockholm through the use of digital services, Ratos has this year chosen to not issue invitations to the Annual General Meeting by mail. e-mail: info@ratos.se Notification of participation may be made via via www.ratos.se via phone +46 8 518 015 50 weekdays between 9.00-16.30 in writing to the following address: Computershare AB, “Ratosstämman 2017”, Box 610, 182 16 Danderyd. When notifying participation please state name, personal/company registration number, postal address, e-mail address and daytime telephone number. Nominee registered shares In order to be entitled to participate in the Meeting and exercise their voting rights, shareholders whose shares are registered in the name of a Shareholder contact nominee must temporarily re-register their shares in their own names. Such registration must be effected at Euroclear Sweden AB by Friday, Helene Gustafsson 31 March 2017. Shareholders are requested to inform their nominees in Head of IR and PR good time prior to this date. Tel: +46 8 700 17 00 e-mail: info@ratos.se Dividend and record date The Board proposes an ordinary dividend for the 2016 financial year of SEK 2.00 (3.25) per Class A and Class B share. The record date for the right to receive dividends is proposed as 10 April 2017 and dividends Contact details are expected to be paid from Euroclear Sweden on 13 April 2017. Board and Nomination Committee The Board proposes that a dividend on outstanding Class C preference shares until the 2018 Meeting, in accordance with the Articles of Association, shall be paid quarterly in an amount of SEK 30 per Class C Ratos AB preference share, although a maximum amount of SEK 120. Box 1661 The record dates, prior to the next annual general meeting, for SE-111 96 Stockholm quarterly dividends on outstanding Class C preference shares are e-mail: info@ratos.se proposed as 15 May 2017, 15 August 2017, 15 November 2017 and 15 February 2018. Payments from Euroclear Sweden AB are expected to be made on 18 May 2017, 18 August 2017, 20 November 2017 and 20 February 2018. Production: Ratos in cooperation with Wildeco Ekonomisk Information Photograph CEO: Karl Nordlund Aibel’s photo page 9: Piyawat Hirunwattanasuk Translation: The Bugli Company Ratos AB (publ) reg. no 556008-3585 18 Ratos Sustainability and responsible ownership Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 19 Ratos AB (publ) Drottninggatan 2 Box 1661 SE-111 96 Stockholm Tel +46 8 700 17 00 www.ratos.se Reg. no. 556008-3585
