UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 JULY STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I am pleased to confirm that Bacher Work Wear reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. This Communication on Progress is our fourth report, in which we describe our commitment and actions to improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also recognise our commitment to share this information in our Communication on Progress with our relevant stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. The Communication on Progress encompasses Bacher Group A/S (including Bacher Work Wear A/S, Bacher Logistics A/S, Bacher Uniforms A/S and Bacher Merchandise ApS). Yours Sincerely, Peter Vallentin, CEO Bacher Group A/S HUMAN & LABOUR RIGHTS Vision Our vision stays unchanged since our first Communication on Progress. It is still a key element to the entire Bacher Group that we support and respect the internationally proclaimed Human and Labour Rights. It is of great importance to us, that we are in no way complicit in any kind of abuses. It is our policy to ensure that these rights are respected for everyone – and at all levels of our company. We wish to promote a culture of respect for the law, and consideration of all members within the organization. Progress It is always an ongoing task to review and update relevant policies and procedures to ensure that they are both accurate and adequate in regards of the needs of the employees and those influenced by the company. We continue to be fully committed to ensure that the company is not knowingly complacent in any Human or Labour Rights abuses. It is the company policy to ensure that we do not associate, or accept commission from anybody, corporate, private or official, where their actions are questionable in respect of Labour and Human Rights abuses. We comply with Danish legislation, which fulfills international conventions. Since 2015 we have made thorough employee satisfaction surveys and this year is no exception. See the results on the next page. SATISFACTION SURVEY Results 2017 2016 2015 Bacher Group complies with Danish work legislation and we support the ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental principles and rights at work. During the last twelve months there have been no reported incidents. We are satisfied that we do in fact have no reported incidents during the company’s lifetime. Our company procedures aim to protect internationally proclaimed Human and Labour Rights for all influenced by our business conduct and we have a zero OTHER FACTORS tolerance of non-compliance. We still encourage our manufacturers and suppliers to support the principles of Global Compact within their possible reach and we continue to collaborate on possible improvements every year. WORKING CONDITIONS 2017 has been a very busy year. In 2017 we acquired Four Danes (now Bacher Logistics), expanded our logistic center and warehouse facilities with more than 6.000 sqm and have welcomed several new employees. We expected this to show on the satisfaction survey, as we are aware that these transformations have an impact on general satisfaction. We always strive to improve, so we have a lot of work WORKPLACE SATISFACTION to do to improve and stabilize this until next year. Employee satisfaction is of upmost importance to our entire company. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 ENVIRONMENT Vision Bacher Group has been and still is committed to building a sustainable future. As an old business with more than a hundred years in the industry we understand the importance of driving a sustainable business. We do not want the next generations to make compromises in regards of their options and possibilities to meet their needs. Every year we consider our sustainable strategy and make sure it is in correspondence with our core business and that it is measured in regards of the impact we can achieve. This is how we believe we can create real value all around. In time, we want to have taken every corner of our business into account and let that guide our ethical choices. We want to inspire people to engage in sustainability thinking and welcome any suggestions and ideas from of our suppliers, employees and customers in regards of making environmental considerations a part of our business. Progress We are committed to act in accordance with all relevant environmental laws and regulations in the countries we operate, and all suppliers have to sign our Code of Conduct, promising that they follow the guidelines of the UN Global Compact and its principles. The last couple of year we have focused on chemicals in the clothing we sell, emissions from transportation, energy consumption and we have made more sustainable options available to customers. We take pride in using the resources responsibly in our production, as well as using the best quality materials to ensure durability and a long lifetime. Results The idea to a new concept emerged in cooperation with one of our close business partners – CPH. The uniform jackets we supply to the employees of CPH are of very high quality and often they can still be used even though the company no longer needs them. An employee from CPH saw that everything was discarded and destroyed, because CPH may not give anything away with a logo. It seemed sad and a waste of good materials. So, he thought out of the box and looked into various options for eliminating waste in cooperation with Bacher Group. Now, Bacher Group helps with covering of the logos and text on the jackets. We think it is a very good solution that benefits a vulnerable group of people, reduces wastage and promotes recycling. In 2017, we will develop a strategy and make sure that more of our customers will know of this initiative and we will give them the same option to hand in useful clothing that can benefit the less fortunate. 2017 will also be the year where we focus even more on how we conduct transportation of our goods. We are working on a system that reduces the number of single packages sent to our customers, and try to increase general efficiency in regards of our distribution. We are always interested in ideas that promote greater environmental responsibility within our line of business, so we welcome any suggestions from our stakeholders. ANTI-CORRUPTION Vision Bacher Group has a zero-tolerance policy in regards to bribery and corruption. We are dedicated to working against all forms of corruption – including extortion and bribery. If we are noticing or made aware of any unethical conduct we feel obligated to investigate the matter. This also count if any suspicion towards corruption is detected. Progress Bacher Group will always undertake and participate in the progress towards eliminating and abolish corruption in our business, from our engagement with local communities to our global supply chain. Vision We have, to our knowledge, not had any incidents to report, and we continue to show a zero-tolerance.
