REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 CONTENTS A word from the Director ..............................3 About the report ...............................................4 Overview of the company ............................5 Interlux Company in numbers ...................6 Structure of the company..............................7 Human rights ........................................................10 Labour relations ..................................................11 Environment...........................................................15 Interlux in the society.......................................17 Prevention of corruption................................18 Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 A WORD FROM THE CEO THIS JUBILEE YEAR, already the fifth time, we are industrial technologies. We have also introduced a fluent presenting a report on the progress of social responsibility. crime prevention mechanism. Corporate social responsibility is a global phenomenon. The cornerstone, which helps us to go the right path, is Our long-term experience tought us that being a socially employee involvement and a wish to spread the good responsible company is first of all understanding thoexample. Employees, partners and customers are in parroughly a multitude of relationships connecting it with ticular important for Interlux Company, therefore we take employees, suppliers, institutions, organizations, local care of the safe working environment, employees‘ health and global communities and then monitoring these reand wellbeing, sustainable, ethical, responsible business lationships with due dilligence, as well as ensuring that development as a natural foundation for our activity. transparency and sustainability are critical elements of After joining the United Nations Global Compact five yeeach relationship. ars ago, lnterlux has been impeccably following the 10 Social responsibility – is not a managerial decision to foprinciples of the Global Compact in the areas of human llow certain principles and not a strategy laid down on and employee rights, environmental protection and fithe paper. Social responsibility – is a personal choice of ght against crruption. each employee of the company in a daily work to make This year again we responsibly declare that we will contiresponsible decisions, to respect human rights, not to nue observing our provisions and commitments concerbreech gender equality principles, not to behave in a ning the 10 principles of the Global Compact in the areas corruptive manner, not to pollute the environment and of human and employee rights, environmental protectimake all efforts to preserve it for the future generations. on and fight against crruption and we will support initiaA socially responsible company – is as a nest giving birth tives of United Nations Global Compact. to the ideas favourable for the humans and the environment, whereas its organizational culture helps these ideWe also responsibly evaluate a direct impact of the proas safely develop and become a standard of the collectiducts and services supplied by us on the areas of medive behaviour and part of the labour ethics. cine, science and industry, therefore we select the most advanced and safest technological solutions to improve In the course of the recent years, Interlux has been grothe level of medicine, science and public health. wing by more than just a number of employees. We have managed to instill the main norms of social responsibility in our community, we have created a strong connection with partners, who follow the same ethical princiRespectfully, ples – global leaders in the innovations of medical and dr. A. Matuzevičius, Director of Interlux Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 ABOUT THE REPORT WE ARE PRESENTING TO YOU THE 5TH REPORT on the Progress of Social Responsibilty of Interlux Company introducing to you social initiatives carried out in 2016, processes implemented by the company in the areas of environmental protection, human rights, corruption prevention and the progress achieved in the area of labour relations. Since 2012, when Interlux joined the United Nations Global Compact‘s 10 principles in the areas of human and employee rights, environmental protection and fight against corruption, the Company drafts reports to account to the society on the progress of social responsibility. MAIN DIRECTIONS OF SOCIAL Reports are drafted in Lithuanian and English languRESPONSIBILITY OF LNTERLUX: ages. Electronic versions of the Report are placed on www.interlux.lt website and on the website of Global TRANSPARENT and responsible activity. Compac www.globalcompact.org. SOCIAL employment. This Report on the Progress of Social Responsibility is REDUCTION of the negative impact on the intended for the audiences interested in the company‘s environment. activity – partners, employees, shareholders, community, institutions and all who wish to have a more thorough SUPPORTING social initiatives in the fields of knowledge of Interlux Company. advocating a healthy life and safe medicine, development of young scientists, ecology, protection of human rights, prevention of corruption, and promotion of responsible business. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 ABOUT THE COMPANY INTERLUX IS AN INTERNATIONAL COMfully under the ten principles of the United Nations Global PANY supplying innovative technologies and solutiCompact in the areas of human rights, working conditions, ons for medical, scientific and biotechnological industry environmental protection and anti-corruption. to its customers in Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. Interlux decided to join the United Nations Global ComSince the start of its activity in 1994, the Company has pact and honestly fulfils its commitments based on the been continuosly and successfully growing while expanvalues that form the core of its business. Interlux respects ding the range of the products and diversifying its actiinternational protection of human rights and guaranvities. Today Interlux represents more than 250 brands tees staying aside from the violations of human rights. of the most famous world level producers in the areas of The company also ensures the rights of its employees by medicine and biotechnologies, has over 1 mil different supporting the freedom of association and recognizing products and a team of nearly 100 employees in Lithuathe rights to collective bargaining, does not advocate nia. In 2016, the turnover of the company reached 15,5 forced labour and exploitation, child labour, discriminamillion EUR. tion on the employment or at a workplace. Interlux Company also owns Sormedica Company, Like other members of the Alliance in the world, Interlux which specializes in surgery, oncology and radiology, manages its supply chain and sales so as to meet the hiLabdata Company, which develops and implements ghest environmental requirements and preclude chanspecialized information technology solutions, and an ges in the climate. The company also supports environe-shop www.Hifamed.lt. mental and social intiatives, promotes the development and distribution of environmentally friendly products Interlux operational standards meet the highest world and technologies. Interlux responsibly deploys natural quality standards – this is one of the main causes why resources and strives to use paper and other resources, global producers of medical and scientific technologies which are directly related with the pollution of nature and diagnostic systems select our company as their and climate change, as rationally as possible. representative in the Baltic region. lnterlux has been also certified in accordance with LST EN ISO 9001:2008 In 2016, Interlux again contributed to the fight against standard of the quality management system ehich eviall forms of corruption (including extortion and bribery) dences that services of the company meet the highest and took part in initiative governmental and organizatistandards. onal activities encouraging the reduction of corruption Being a member of the United Nations Global Compact and the National Network of Responsible Business Companies of this alliance, Interlux continues operating successMISSION VISION To be a leader of innovative solutions and the first choice Using sciettntific-clinical technologies to improve health of customers and partners. of all people and create value for industry. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 INTERLUX COMPANY IN NUMBERS ESTABLISHED: in 1994 STAFF: over 87 employees INCOME: over 15,5 million EUR RANGE OF PRODUCTS: over 1 million CUSTOMERS: dover 700 health care, veterinary, scientific and industrial enterprises and institutions in Lithuania alone PARTNERS: over 250 business partners around the world Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 STRUCTURE OF THE COMPANY Interlux seeks to ensure service of the highest quality at THE COMPANY HAS 5 SALES units taking each stage of the activity of the company: we compecare of different types of products, besides there are detently and responsibly advise our clients in the sales propartments of Service, Logistics, Finance and Customer cesses, provide professional service and maintenance service. of the equipment, develop innovative products which spare human health and are useful for a healthy lifestyle. www.interlux.lv www.labdata.lt www.sormedica.lt Family Medicine and Analytical and Industrial Healthy Lifestyle Diagnostic technologies technologies group group Installation Scientific and Therapeutic and In vitro Diagnostic and technical Laboratory Image Diagnostic technologies group service Research technologies Therapeutic technologies group group Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 ABOUT INTERLUX SALES UNITS ANALYTICAL AND INDUSTRIAL SCIENTIFIC AND LABORATORY DIAGNOSTIC TECHNOLOGIES (AID) RESEARCH (SLR) TECHNOLOGIES GROUP GROUP Procures laboratories not only with the latest instruProvides technologies to carry out tests of cytomics, gements and products for chemical analysis, but with a nomics, proteogenomics, microbiology and pays particomplex laboratory software. cular attention to the diagnose and management of infections and progress of genetic and pharmacogenetic studies. IN VITRO DIAGNOSTIC (IVD) FAMILY MEDICINE AND HEALTHY TECHNOLOGIES GROUP LIFESTYLE (FMH) TECHNOLOGIES Procures laboratories with the latest in vitro technoloGROUP gies, reagents, disposable medical supplies and introduces automation solutions and equipment for in vitro Equips rooms of family doctors with innovative diagnosdiagnostic laboratories. tic tools and offers all other means necessary for these rooms. Supplies exceptional products intended for a healthy lifestyle to help to improve health and life quality with efficiency evidenced by clinical trials. THERAPEUTIC AND IMAGE DIAGNOSTIC (TID) TECHNOLOGIES GROUP Provides to treatment establishments pioneering and safe devices of daily patient monitoring, imaging, bioregeneration therapy, selection of donors and solutions. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 ABOUT THE COMPANIES BELONGING TO THE INTERLUX GROUP SORMEDICA – a supplier of the latest, safe and Professional, best specialists in their respective fields, clieffective invasive medical technologies and advanced ent-centered quality management, experience accumutreatment methods for surgery, oncology and radiology. lated during many decades, permanent improvement Established in 2012. Number of employees: 12. and socially responsible activity – all of this guarantees customers’ trust and successful operation of the company. LabData – this is a company supplying IT services, introducing and maintaining innovative information technologies and process control management solutions in the area of laboratories and medicine. Established in 2004. Number of employees: 7. SIA INTERLUX (LATVIA) – a provider of advanced technologies for medicine, science and veterinary medicine as well as of laboratory solutions, in vitro diagnostic reagents and disposable medical devices in Latvia. Established in 2006. Number of employees: 14. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 HUMAN RIGHTS LNTERLUX COMPANY and its employees are The human rights are also observed in the internal and against any violation of human rights, discrimination, external communication of the company. The marketing violence, abuse, forced and child labour, intollerance to and coomunicative material prepared by the company attitudes as well as lifestyle and health situations and is strictly controlled and cannot be related with any form conditions. of video, audio discrimination and violence, nor encourage discrimination or intollerance to attitudes, lifestyle, These provisions and principles of internal and external situations and conditions of health. activity have been instilled through the Code of Conduct of lnterlux and are followed by all employees of Interlux. The human rights are also ensured in the documents of Interlux defining the policy of the staff. The human rights are observed within the team of the company and while communicating with the customers. Interlux Company does not tollerate any discrimination and no manifestations of discrimination have been noticed in the course of 2016, nor any discrepancies have been recorded in connection with the principles of the Global Agreement consolidated in the Global Compact. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 LABOUR OVERVIEW OF THE STAFF In 2016, the company was staffed by 87 persons working RELATIONS in the following fields: • 24 administrative employees; • 38 sales employees; • 9 service employees; Interlux also holds to the principles of honest payment • 7 financial employees; and responsible employment. • 9 procurement employees. Education of Interlux team: ADAPTATION OF NEWCOMERS – A • 89 per cent – higher university education; CHALLENGE OF THIS YEAR • 3 per cent higher non-university education; This year has become a year of intensive staff development, therefore a smooth adaptation of new employees • 7 per cent – advanced vocational education and was one of the main aims set and smoothly implementraining; ted. • 1 per cent secondary or special secondary education. STAFF POLICY – SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYMENT IN 2016, 15 NEW JOBS WERE Interlux pursues a socially responsible staff policy and afCREATED IN INTERLUX – NEARLY fords in particular a lot of attention to ensure the rights BY DOUBLE MORE THAN A YEAR of its employees, organize measures of motivation, and AGO, IN 2015. increase satisfaction of employees with the company. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 Last year a new job was created in Interlux – Adminis• Employees are informed of structural changes, matrator of Infrastructure responsible for maintaining offinagement-related and other changes, as well as ce premises belonging to the company by the right of of Director‘s orders by email and other means of ownership. communications. In total 17 new employees have been admitted. • The team is also acquainted with staff news – notifications about new and leaving employees are After signing a labour contract, each employee is acqucommmunicated. A general CV and some informaainted upon signature with the following information: tion on the likings and personal skills of the new co• A register of introductory on-job instructions on lleague are presented. works safety and health instructions; • Corporative, staff news, more interesting events of • Rules of procedure; separate subdivisions are monthly announced in • Interlux Code of Ethics; the Interlux internal information publication titled • Fills out declarations of public-private interests with „LUX“. Employees are informed of the company‘s fia view of ensuring transparency. nancial indicators, structural changes and plans at the general meetings of the company‘s employees which are periodically organized every half a year. CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT OF THE EMPLOYEES – ONE OF THE MAIN PRIORITIES OF INTERLUX INVOLVEMENT OF THE EMPLOYEES IN THE DECISION-MAKING PROCESS In 2016, all employees participated in the training sessions of „Information safety management system‘s requiA Work Council is functioning within Interlux – this is an rements“ and „Ensurance of information safety“. independent body set with a view of strengthening a dialogue between employees and the management. The Like each year, all employees of Interlux were given a Work Council meets at least once a month or whenever possibility to improve in their subject areas by taking there are questions to be resolved. The Work Council part in different workshops and conferences. encourages team members to communicate with the Employees of sales and service divisions continuously management, notify of spotted violations of the Code of improve their qualification as well, they train themselves Conduct, potential violations of human rights or other in the courses organized by foreign partners and particiissues. The mission of the Work Council is also to propose pate in different international conferences. changes in the company, to mediate and represent employees in the negotiations with the menagement. • Surveys are often implemented in the company aiATTENTION TO INTERNAL ming to clarify employees‘ needs and involve them COMMUNICATION in the decision-making process. • Interlux seeks that employees are well informed on • Employees are also encouraged to express their opinions and submit proposals while drafting different the activity of the company and staff-related events. internal procedures, evaluation and promotion sysThe company considers involvement of the emplotems of the company. yees in the management of the company and decision-taking as its priority. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 OBJECTIVE EVALUATION BASED ON • The company provides to the employees additional social benefits, for example, it appropriates one-off PERSONAL GROWTH benefits on the occasion of the birth of a child, de• Like earlier, employee performance in the company ath of the family member or first marriage. is assessed at the end of the year during the conversation of the yearly assessment of the employee‘s activity. During the conversation between the emMONITORING OF EQUAL RIGHTS ployee and his direct manager, which is based on clear and pre-agreed criteria, achievement of the Gender distribution in the company: goals of the previous period and personal features In 2016, there worked 87 persons of whom: influencing performance of work of the assessed person are evaluated, tasks and areas for the impro• 47 were men; vement are set for the coming period. • 40 were women. • It is also aimed to find out at the annual conversaDistribution of the management staff by gender: tion how the employee feels in the company, whether his/her needs are satisfied, if the employee feels • 5 women; discriminated or his/her rights are in any other way • 10 men. restricted in the organization. Not a single employee worked under the fixed-term labour contract. MOTIVATION Interlux company created conditions both for women • All employees after three months of their employand men to use without any restrictions additional rest ment in the company are subject to an additional days due for them, for example, the so-called mother health insurance to help them take care of their hedays or father days. Over 2016, in total 115 mother days alth, ensure a possibility to receive quality health and father days were taken. care or health promotion services and products. Interlux ensures a possibility of using freely and without • Each year the company pays tribute to and promotes employees who had remarkably performed their any restrictions the right to different mother and father duties: sales employees who had achieved the best holidays related with responsible parenthood, for examresults, the most initiative employees and other deple, 565 days of child care holidays and 18 days of parenserved members of the team. tal holidays were granted. Women and men are equally subject to sickness and patient care holidays. It should be noted that women MORE GUARANTEES, SAFETY AND spend more days due to sickness or for nursing a patient RESPONSIBILITY which is most often related with the duties of the res• Interlux creates conditions for its employees to componsible mothers for their children: bine job and family obligations. One can chose to • In 2016, men took 79 sick-leave days, women – 146 work according to a flexible schedule and thus madays; tch job, personal and family roles. • Men used 11 days to nurse a patient and women – 72 • Conditions have been created for studying persons days. to match studies and work. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 ENCOURAGEMENT OF SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE ACTIVITY Interlux employees on their own initiative take part in different social activities, e.g. charity sport events, and the company encourages such initiatives and supports them if there are possibilities. TAKING CARE OF THE EMPLOYEES‘ HEALTH Interlux, which set „improvement of the health of all people using scientific-clinical technologies“ as one of its main strategic goals, puts every effort to contribute to the bringing of the most effective technologies and equipment to Lithuania and its use in each daily transcation. Interlux is equally paying a lot of attention to the health of its employees: • ergonomic work places have been equipped; • additional health insurance is given; • a yearly preventive health screening of all employees is organized; • vaccination against the flue is offered to each employee who wishes to do that; • prophylactic check-up is organized for the employees belonging to risk groups, for example prophylactic test of the cervical cancer; • employees are offered healthy 100 percent real juice to strengthen the body. In 2016, no accidents and injuries at work were registered in the register. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 ENVIRONMENT Company Interlux unites nearly 100 employees in LithuaBUSINESS AND nia, it also operates in Latvia and Estonia, therefore, it has an impact both on business and social environment. SOCIAL In 2016, Interlux stood on the following key strategic activity pillars doing its best in making just a positive impact ENVIRONMENT both on the business environment and the entire surrounding environment: • responsibility in business and in selection of business • LVK (Lithuanian Business Confederation) – mempartners and suppliers; bership since 2016; • transparent communication with medical proffesio• MPGA (Association of Food Supplements) – memnals; bership since 2016. • holding to ethical provisions; • provision of the correct, latest, medical and product-reLESS PACKAGES – HEALTHIER lated information based only on scientific evidence for the customers and the society; ENVIRONMENT • promotion of the healthy lifestyle; While taking care of the environment, we contribute to the reduction of the negative impact on the environment and • provision of safe and quality devices for the work of the medical staff; we seek to reduce pollution of the air and environment, to mitigate climate change, preserve healthier environment • promotion of personalized medicine; for future generations. • responsible employment. Use and utilisation of the commodities sold by Interlux and Interlux contributes to the activity of different associatons car driving by our employees for business matters result in and societies where it also builds on the principles of transthe direct impact on the environment. parency, reducton of detrimental effect on the nature, spaSaving of natural resources remains the priority environring use of resources, ensurance of equal opportunities, mental goal of lnterlux. corruption prevention. Interlux ensures that packages of all the goods sold by the • UNGC (UN Global Compact) – membership since 2012; company are recycled. We have signed an agreement with • MIGA (Lithuanian Association of Manufacturers of MePTO (Packaging Handling Organization) and we pay for the dical Equipment) – membership since 2013; same number of packages that we sell for the customers. • LAVA (Lithuanian Association of Responsible Business) – membership since 2013; Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 In 2016 we paid for (numbers of tones): LESS AIR POLLUTANTS, MORE RECYCLED • Glass – 2,5 t; PAPER • Plastic – 3,5 t; In 2016, efforts to reduce consumption of motor fuel and • Paper – 26 t; the negative impact of the emmissions of the pollutants resulted in the adoption of the new car usage policy in the • Wooden packaging – 4 t; company. • Combined (without paper) – 4 t. Interlux continues participating in the procurement of the Accumulators, batteries, electrical and electronic equipcentral public procurement information system carried out ment used for the needs of Interlux activity are safely coelectronically, without using paper, this way seeking to save llected and handed over for treatment to the Association paper used in the company.Also the company often opts to of the Producers, Importers and Distributors of Electronic buy products from recycled paper, to use paper rationally Equipment (Association EEPA). and, whenever possible, to shift from paper to electronic The company selects for its vehicle fleet only the cars meedocumentation. ting the highest environmental pollution prevention standards and with the least fuel consumption. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 INTERLUX Interlux takes part in different events and initiatives arranged by IN THE SOCIETY public organizations to improve the quality of health, science and learning, and studies. The company also initiates or contributes to other community events characterized by the same valSPORTING AND ACTIVE SOCIETY IS A HEALTHY ues and aims as a socially responsible attitude of our company SOCIETY and which are in line with Interlux values: responsibility, reliability, efficiency, safety, innovations, quality and rationality. So Interlux also supports federations and clubs of different sport kinds. ASSISTANCE IN FOSTERING THE HEALTH OF The company contributes to the strengthening of such kinds of THE COMMUNITY sport as biathlon, rowing, basketball and squash. Disease prevention and prophylaxis are very important social Support granted by Interlux to Vilnius Youth Basketball Club proinitiative areas capturing particularly much of the company‘s atvided a possibility for the young people to participate in internatention each year. tional tournaments. Interlux, in collaboration with the National Centre of Pathology SUPPORT FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE and other laboratories and treatment establishments, organized QUALITY OF SCIENCE AND STUDIES a preventive action for women: „Take care of yourself check up against cervical cancer“. The purpose of this action is to encourInterlux supported initiatives of different educational establishage as many women as possible to take up a prophylactic examments and universities to encourage schoolchildren and students ination for the cervical cancer. to elaborate their knowledge and cherish curiosity, as well as to improve the quality of knowledge of the young generation. In the event intended for the commemoration of the World Heart Day Interlux provided a possibility for several hundred of For example, the company allocated funds for the Vilnius Univerthe event attendees to measure blood pressure, define the level sity Students Representation to organize a scientific-practical conof cholesterol in the blood and find out biological age of one‘s ference „The COINS 2016“ and „FiDi“ events for students. blood-vessels. This way the company contributed to the preThe young wunderkinds should also have a possibility to compete vention of heart diseases in Lithuania and sent a signal to each amongst themselves and raise their bar higher and higher. Thereparticipant of the event on the need to contact doctors for more fore, Interlux granted support to organize the 55th chemistry, detailed diagnostics. the 50th biology and the 65th physics olympiads for Lithuanian Interlux also supported Child‘s Heart Association initiatives by alschoolchildren. locating funds for their activity. DISSEMINATION OF EVIDENCE-BASED NEWS Interlux contributed to the initiative to help women with breast OF MEDICINE cancer through charity running „PINK RUN“. Members of Interlux Aiming to contribute to the dissemination of the last and most reteam participated in this social action by successfully overcomcent evidence-based news of medicine, education of the medics ing the route of the marathon. and specialists of nature and life sciences, Interlux supported the Mother‘s breast milk is a start of the healthy life. Interlux didn‘t activity of different professional medical societies and organizastay indifferent to a new project and helped to set up a bank of tion of scientific-practical conferences in 2016. donor milk by participating in a project „Healthy start in a drop The company also allocated funds to such social projects of the of mother‘s milk“. community as the project of VU prof. Algimantas Marcinkevičius A disease is a pain for each of us, therefore Interlux responded to student club to build a monument in order to render meaning to the request of TV programme „Bėdų turgus“ (Bazzar of Troubles) the calling of the doctor‘s profession titled „Lazarus, come out!“; and of the charity and support fund under the same name to alsupport was also given to the publishing project of Theodor locate funds to help socially vulnerable people and people with Grotthuss Fund of Lithuanian Academy of Sciences to publish disabilities. prof. Juozo Algimantas Krikštopaitis monograph „Life Sacrificed for Science“. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 PREVENTION OF CORRUPTION INTERLUX OBSERVES THE PRINCIPLES TRANSPARENT BUSINESS of transparency and responsibility in business. Values, RELATIONSHIPS AND COMPETITION models and principles of transparent and anticorruptive activity are laid down in the Code of Conduct which The concept of transparency of Interlux includes culstates: „Let’s act transparently, reliably and honestly by ture of transparent and ethical business, transparent separating public and private interests. We avoid conrelationships with business partners and customers, flicts of interests“. public procurement, transparent policy of labour pay and payment of taxes, transparent and honest compeWe are happy that in 2016, as in the previous years, no tition and adherence to competition laws. case of breaching the Code of Conduct was recorded. Nevertheless, the company goes on consistently enIn 2016, as in previous years, no cases of corruption couraging the employees to be vigilant with respect to manifestation were recorded in lnterlux company. potential cases of breaching the Code and to notify of Throughout 2016, Interlux worked ethically, transparthem by all means. ently, without violating the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact and it will seek to retain the Another leverage of Interlux – is the procedure for highest level of responsibility, reliability, sustainability stating working and personal interests – each new emand anticorruption. ployee must fill in the declaration of public and private interests. ANTI-CORRUPTION TRAINING COURSES In 2016, Interlux employees attended two different anti-corruption courses:„Information safety management systems requirements“ and „Ensurance of information safety“. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016
