Communication on Progress 2016 1 HL Display Communication on Progress 2016 Management of the corporate responsibility work In 2016, HL Display formulated a new vision that will be the guiding principle HL Display’s corporate responsibility programme is established and decided by the Board of Directors. The work during 2016 for the Company’s future development: was headed by the Company’s Purchasing Director with the To lead the development in creating support of other members of Group management. The Group’s ­innovative and sustainable solutions for local entities have a high level of responsibility for day-to-day a better shopping experience around sustainability work, particularly with regard to environmental, and health and safety issues at the production facilities. From the world. The new vision will bring an 2017, HL Display’s Group Marketing Director has overall increased focus on sustainability and ­responsibility for the Group’s sustainability efforts. responsibility issues, particularly as one of the six key strategies for achieving the Policy documents vision is to be first choice for sustainable HL Display has developed clear guidelines for the corporate merchandising solutions. responsibility work. The important governing policy documents While creating the new vision, we have are HL Display’s Corporate Responsibility policy, the Company’s Code of Conduct, policy for equal opportunities, also established an updated Corporate policy for external and internal working environmental, policy ­Responsibility policy and an initial road for whistleblowing and purchasing policy. The Board reviewed map with associated measures for the these policies during 2016. development of sustainability work in the The Code of Conduct is a key policy document and a culture coming years. All in all, this will be of great carrier that HL Display wants to permeate the Company. It is linked to other principles, including those enshrined in the UN importance to our increased efforts in the Global Compact. The Code of Conduct clarifies the fundamental area of sustainability beginning in 2017. principles that HL Display expects every employee to follow. It contains information about how the Company views its In 2010, HL Display signed the UN Global responsibility in terms of social and ethical, as well as environ­ Compact, confirming that we support mental issues. The areas of responsibility described include the UN’s fundamental values and the among others human rights, labour standards, environment, ten principles on human rights, labour, anti-corruption, consumer interests, competition and conflicts environment and anti-corruption, and that of interest. In the global annual employee survey, the staff was asked if the know where to turn to if they want to report a we are committed to make them part of our concern about something that is not in line with the Code of strategy, culture and day-to-day business. Conduct or business ethics. 83 percent said yes. I am pleased to confirm our continued ­support for the Global Compact and renew our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its ten principles.” Nina Jönsson, President and CEO, HL Display 2 HL Display Communication on Progress 2016 Human Rights Cooperation with suppliers UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES HL Display has clear requirements for its suppliers of production inputs and products. A central Principle 1 ­component of work in this area is that all suppliers Businesses should support and respect the protection of must sign HL Display’s purchasing policy. By internationally proclaimed human rights; and signing the document suppliers agree to meet defined r­ equirements in several areas. These Principle 2 include ­compliance with ILO (International Labour make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Organization) conventions and other principles related to human rights and labour. In addition, there are clear guidelines on business ethics (corruption) and HL Display’s Code of Conduct expresses clear statements of environment. Failure to comply with the purchasing position ensuring that the Company supports and respects policy can lead to the contract being cancelled. the protection of human rights and that the Company is not complicit in human rights abuses. HL Display is also actively HL Display regularly makes site visits and audits of working to ensure that employees are treated fairly, equally the company’s most important suppliers. These will and with respect (please see section on Labour for information be audited at least once every other year. During about the working conditions and standards, health and safety 2016, HL Display conducted 35 audits of important at work and equal opportunities at HL Display). suppliers. Making sure all employees are aware of the contents of the Code of Conduct and that they agree to comply with it is an The audit is made up of two parts. The first part important part of the work to secure that HL Display is not ­concerns if suppliers fully understand and apply complicit in human rights abuses. All new employees in the HL Display’s requirements in accordance with the Group in 2016 had the Code of Conduct explained to them and purchasing policy. The second part relates to the all employees in HL Display have signed the Code of Conduct, production organisation. Representatives from ­ thereby agreeing to comply with it. HL Display perform a review of the workshop based In 2017, HL Display will introduce a new way of working on a number of predefined criteria, basically making to ensure that all employees are continuously kept up to date sure that the workshop is at the level required to with the latest version of the Company’s Code of Conduct. In produce for HL Display. the new Human Resources system, all employees will be able to read and must confirm their continued commitment to the The result of the audit is a rating ranging from A, company’s Code of Conduct every year. which is the rating of a top supplier, to D, which is Suppliers that HL Display engages must sign the Company’s the worst rating leading to an immediate cancellation purchasing policy, thereby undertaking to comply with areas of the c ­ ooperation. The B and C ratings imply that such as respect for human rights. (See also the Cooperation with improvements are needed in various degrees. suppliers section to the right.) HL Display had no reports of violations of the Code of Conduct or the Purchasing Policy regarding human rights in 2016. Employee facts 2016 2015 Number of employees as of December 31 1,020 1,026 Gender structure all employees, % Male 56 57 Female 44 43 Gender structure Group management, % Male 67 67 Female 33 33 Education level, % University 39 36 Upper secondary education 41 42 Nine-year compulsory school 20 21 Investment in staff training Total, SEK million 1.4 1.6 Per employee, SEK thousand 1.4 1.6 Costs related to health promotion activities Per employee, SEK thousand 1 1 Number of workplace accidents leading to absence or sick leave 26 20 3 HL Display Communication on Progress 2016 Labour standards in these areas. Suppliers are required to sign the Company’s purchasing policy, thereby undertaking compliance with ILO conventions and similar principles on working UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES conditions. (See also the Cooperation with suppliers section on page 3.) Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and Equal opportunities the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; HL Display is a multicultural company with operations in many Principle 4 countries around the world. The Company will endeavour to the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; give all its employees equal opportunities for professional development, promotion and pay growth, regardless of background, Principle 5 gender, ethnicity or age. Zero tolerance applies to all forms of the effective abolition of child labour; and discrimination. This is clearly emphasized in HL Display’s Code of Conduct and Policy for equal opportunities. Principle 6 HL Display is working in a long-term perspective on the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment initiatives to increase gender equality in recruitment and career and occupation. development. When there is a recruitment need, for example, the Company’s HR staff support the managers by reviewing existing groups in order to identify and correct any imbalances The working conditions and standards that HL Display follows in areas such as gender distribution. are defined in the Code of Conduct. In brief, these include a In the global annual employee survey, employees were asked clear statement of position in favour of freedom of association whether they felt they were given equal opportunities for new and the right to collective bargaining, and an equally clear roles/job advancement as others in the workplace, if applicable. position against forced labour, child labour and all forms of 85 percent responded positive. ­discrimination. In addition, HL Display will offer a working The aim of the question is to identify areas of improvement environment that is healthy, safe and in accordance with and to work proactively. international standards and local laws for all employees. HL Display is keen to follow collective agreements in Employee development countries where such agreements are in place. In general, the terms of employment that HL Display applies are in accordance The basis of HL Display’s efforts to develop employees and with local laws and applicable collective agreements, whether create a talent base in the Company consists of a well-estabthe employees choose to be unionised or not. lished annual performance review process, which is followed There is a further emphasis on the working environment in up after six months. (More information about HL Display’s HL Display’s external and internal working environment Human Resources and employee development work can be policy. The policy states, for example, that HL Display will found on page 6.) respect European health and safety standards in its factories, respect employees’ freedom of association at all workplaces in OHSAS 18001 certification accordance with the principles of the ILO (International Labour Organization) and UN, and work systematically to ensure In 2016, HL Display completed a certification of the produccompliance with legal requirements. tion plant in Suzhou, China, in accordance with the work HL Display also expects its suppliers to adhere to the same ­environ­ment management systems standard OHSAS 18001. Number of employees Age distribution Group 800 400 369 600 300 347 252 246 400 200 121 200 50 390 65 100 55 27 113 5 0 0 Sweden Other Asia <20 21–30 31–40 41–50 51–60 >60 Europe Women Men 4 HL Display Communication on Progress 2016 This means that 75 percent of production facilities are now certified (Sundsvall in Sweden, Suzhou in China, and Harlow Whistleblower function in the UK). It is HL Display’s ambition to eventually have the work environment management systems certified according to A whistleblowing function has been in operation at the OHSAS 18001 standard for all production facilities. HL Display since 2013. The function enables In 2016, the Logistics Centre in Tours, France, also carried employees to report malpractice to a central unit. This out work aimed at obtaining OHSAS 18001 certification. The will ­complement the natural dialogue that takes place application was submitted in 2016 and the logistics centre between employees and managers about malpractice received its certification in April 2017. at the Company. Health and safety in the workplace The whistleblowing channel in use at HL Display is called Whistleblowing Centre, which is part of TripleB, Health risks at HL Display are mainly associated with a Swedish sustainability consultancy. By using the production. HL Display aims to ensure safe workplaces with a site the employee is guaranteed anonymity when good working environment by carrying out preventive work, reporting malpractice. Reports made through the including regular updates of safety procedures and examination system go directly to the Group Marketing Director of different risk factors. who is responsible for HL Display’s sustainability work, In 2016, HL Display further developed its efforts to increase and simultaneously to the principal owner Ratos’ safety and improve the working environment at its production ­representative on the Board of Directors. facilities. At the factory in Sundsvall, the thresholds for r­ eporting incidents have been lowered. This means that incidents even if Examples of malpractice that HL Display wants to pick they did not result in injury are included in the reporting and up by having implemented a whistleblowing channel that measures to prevent any recurrence are taken. This will include non-compliance with local laws or breaches further reduce potential risk factors in the factory. of HL Display’s Code of Conduct in areas such as At the factory in Gliwice in Poland, there was a temporary human rights, labour and anti-corruption. increase in workplace accidents in 2016. This was because production was expanded and new production processes were Information that comes through the whistleblowing added, while the proportion of temporary staff increased. This channels will be investigated centrally. If the resulted in a series of measures, which improved the situation malpractice proves to be well founded and correct, it at the end of the year. Among other things, a major focus was will result in disciplinary and, where applicable, legal placed on increasing the proportion of permanent employees action. No reports were made through the whistlein the workforce to 80 percent in the first half of 2017. At blowing system in 2016. the same time, induction training for new employees has been enhanced. A new, more comprehensive training package related to workplace health and safety has also been prepared for 2017. In 2016, all factory employees at HL Display’s production facilities have undergone health and safety training. The number of workplace accidents leading to absence or sick leave in 2016 was 26 (2015: 20). No fatal accidents occurred. 5 HL Display Communication on Progress 2016 HL Display’s further processes will be digitised, including salary reviews and future learning or talent management processes. HR work New employee survey introduced In 2016, HL Display introduced a new employee survey with In 2016, HL Display began work on digitisation a clearer, simplified process. The survey is fully digital and also of ­processes in the area of human resources. employees who do not use computers in their daily work were for the first time in 2016 able to access tablets to participate in Both ­performance appraisals and employee the survey. The simplified process has resulted in the response surveys are now using online tools. The aim is to rate increasing to 93 percent, compared with 60 percent for the improve efficiency and create benefits for both traditional survey conducted in the previous year. the Company and employees. The new survey is more closely linked to the company ­strategy than before, and covers four areas: Efficiency, ­Leadership, Engagement and Sustainable work life. Based HL Display is an international company that strives to occupy on the results, HL Display will prioritise and implement a leading position in its areas of operation. This in turn places ­improvements that strengthen the Company’s position as an demands on employees’ skills and abilities, as it is ultimately employer and support efforts to achieve the Company’s goals. their expertise, motivation and drive that enables HL Display to In addition to the results at Company level, HL Display also continuously strengthen its market position. It is therefore a key reports results by department and about 100 managers have task for HL Display to create the right conditions for employees received their own results for their teams. On the basis of the to develop and feel committed to the Company. results, they take local measures – which are monitored– aimed at developing their business. The survey generated group-wide Established process for performance appraisals actions, such as internal communications and training. HL Display has had an established process for helping Learning at work employees to develop for many years. The process consists of annual performance appraisals, in which employees receive HL Display is working continuously on further training of constructive feedback on their work, together with clear goals employees in order to ensure they are well-equipped for success defined jointly by the employee and their immediate supervisor. in their work. This year’s employee survey identified a need for This also includes a development plan, including training needs, sales and product training for sales personnel at the Company, with future development steps to be taken, and career planning. which was also provided. Particular focus has been placed on A mid-year review takes place after six months, in which the product training and the Company’s product managers have individual goals and development plan are followed up. organised local training for the sales force as well as operations teams around the world. New digital system for Human Resources HL Display conducted local management training in selected topics for Asia and Sweden. Also safety training was carried In 2016, the process for performance appraisals was digitised out for all factory staff at the Company’s production facilities and integrated into a new Human Resources system that was in 2016. The training was arranged locally and is provided developed during the year, creating many advantages. The as a combination of classroom instruction and practical system facilitates performance appraisal implementation both ­demonstrations in the factory environment. Further examples for employees and managers. The new system also ensures of training initiatives during the year included IT training, on that ­documentation, which may contain sensitive data, can boarding training for new staff, and English language training be ­handled in a safe and correct manner. Employees also for selected employees in France and Poland. have constant access to their own information through the system and can go back and follow up on agreed goals and the development steps to be taken. The fact that the process is fully digital also facilitates monitoring for the HR function, which, for example, can easily check that all employees have completed the annual performance appraisal. As a further check, all employees were asked whether they had undergone a scheduled performance appraisal in the annual employee survey that the Company conducts, and 90 percent scored positive. Continuing development Another important part of the Human Resources system has been to create a complete global register of all employees at HL Display, with photos, contact information and details of where in the organisation they are based. The information is available to all employees and has been a valued source of information, given the fact that the organisation operates in over 20 markets. Easy access to who is who facilitates ­cooperation between employees in different departments and in different countries. Development of the tool will continue and 6 HL Display Communication on Progress 2016 Environment Raw materials and input goods 2016 % (2015) UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental ­responsibility; and PVC 42.5 (37.9) PET 19.8 (16.2) Principle 9 Polystyrene (PS) 3.5 (3.3) encourage the development and diffusion of ABS 3.9 (5.8) ­environmentally friendly technologies. Other plastic materials 3.1 (3.5) Packaging materials 11.2 (11.2) Aluminium, steel and wire 10.6 (12.6) HL Display’s Corporate Responsibility Policy and Code of Other materials 5.3 (9.5) Conduct define the fundamental guidelines that the Company follows with regard to environmental impacts. These include that HL Display has a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and will work systematically to reduce the environmental impact of its operations. remains to be certified and it is HL Display’s aim that this will The main environmental impacts of HL Display’s production be done as soon as it is practicable. are related to plastic waste, use of plastic raw materials and energy consumption. The Company has a presence in approxiRaw materials mately 50 markets, either direct or through distributors, which means that shipments of products also represent a source of HL Display’s main raw material is plastic, notably PVC. See the environmental impacts. table above for more details about raw materials use. HL Display also defines environmental requirements for Several projects related to raw materials will be launched its suppliers in the Company’s purchasing policy. Suppliers must in 2017. One of these is being run together with IVL Swedish guarantee that they comply with all applicable environmental Environmental Research Institute, its purpose being to laws and regulations in the country where they operate. They conduct a lifecycle analysis of HL Display’s products from must also sign a written undertaking with regard to REACH cradle to grave. By clearly establishing the current situation, (the EU’s chemicals legislation). HL Display’s major suppliers are it will be ­easier for HL Display to ensure that the Company’s large international producers of plastic raw materials, which have development choices, such as the use of recycled materials or the their own comprehensive environmental programmes in place. development of brand new materials, will result in the desired improvements from a sustainability perspective. ISO 14001 certification In parallel, HL Display will collaborate with KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, in another project to An on-going process in compliance with the ISO 14001 develop new materials with less environmental impacts for use environmental management standard is an important part of in the Company’s products. HL Display’s efforts to continuously improve its environmental HL Display complies with REACH, the EU’s chemicals performance. Within the framework of working with ISO legislation, and this is taken into account in the Company’s 14001, a number of important parameters that have an effect approval of new materials. on the Company’s environmental p ­ erformance are monitored annually. Waste management As of 2016, the production facilities in Sundsvall in Sweden, Gliwice in Poland, and Suzhou in China have ISO The waste generated at HL Display’s factories consists largely 14001 ­certifications, meaning that 75 percent of HL Display’s of plastic. HL Display addresses the problem of waste in ­production facilities are certified. The facility in Harlow, UK production in two ways. The first is to reduce plastic waste Waste management, metric ton Packaging Mixed Other safe Total safe Hazardous Total Plastic Metal material material waste waste waste Re-use own production 24 – – – – 24 – Recycled externally 1,203 338 168 61 3 1,774 13 Recycled for heating – – – 134 – 134 – Deposit – – – – 112 112 – 7 HL Display Communication on Progress 2016 generated in production by streamlining production processes where possible. The second is to recycle plastic and other waste Energy consumption as far as possible. 2016 HL Display has worked continuously during 2016 to reduce Electricity “green” (MWh)* 11,375 the number of production interruptions at the factories in Gliwice, Poland, and Sundsvall, Sweden. This is important, Electricity (MWh) 8,455 as interruptions in the production process for extrusion and Gas (MWh) 5,728 injection moulding are major sources of plastic waste. By Water (m3) 367,482 regularly monitoring interruptions and understanding why * Electricity from renewable sources. they happen, the aim is to reduce the frequency and length of interruptions. This work has been quick to produce results in Gliwice, where the number of production interruptions showed a decline at the end of 2016, resulting in less waste. It is also HL Display’s aim to use plastic waste directly in its In Sundsvall, water use for the cooling of extruded plastic own production – both its own waste and waste material from sections increased in 2016. The main reasons are that the external sources. HL Display began production trials based on production volume at the factory increased at the same time third-party supplier waste material during the year. The trials and that the production of more complex profiles require more proved promising and the work will be further developed. water. The current project on reducing waste in production HL Display’s goal is that all waste from production will (described under the heading Waste Management) is also ­eventually be recyclable. Total waste at the Company’s positive from a water consumption perspective. The waste ­production facilities in 2016 was 2,057 tonnes (2015: 1,941 material also has to be cooled down, which means that less tonnes), and 94.5 percent of this was recycled (2015: 94.1 waste results in lower water consumption. percent). In 2016, 367,482 m3 of water were used at the Group’s production facilities (2015: 347,120 m3). Energy consumption Transport HL Display’s direct electricity consumption in production was 25.5 GWh in 2016 (2015: 25.5 GWh). 45 percent of HL Display has sales companies and distributors in Europe, HL Display’s energy consumption comes from renewable Asia, North America, the Middle East and Southern Africa. This sources and, as an example, HL Display’s Sundsvall factory means that transport is a major part of HL Display’s environruns entirely on hydrogenerated electricity. Various measures mental impacts. HL Display engages third-party suppliers for for reducing electricity consumption are being implemented at its transport and requires these suppliers to have environmental the factories. These range from heating the premises using waste programmes in place. heat from machinery to installing time-controlled lighting. The majority of shipments are by truck, for example from the Water usage in production is primarily related to the cooling European factories to the European hubs, and from the hubs to of extruded and injection moulded plastic products in water the customers. Sea transport is the primary shipping method for baths. HL Display’s factory in Gliwice uses a closed cooling ready-made goods from Asia as well as tools bought in Asia for water system for injection moulding in order to reduce water use in the European factories. consumption. HL Display constantly endeavours to improve transport efficiency by increasing the number of products per package and reducing package size. The ability for a product to be efficiently packaged is taken into consideration already in the product development phase. The Company’s fleet of vehicles It is HL Display’s aim to gradually reduce CO2 emissions from its fleet of vehicles. The Company has four different categories of vehicles and there are limits on CO2 emissions for each category. These limits are reviewed every 12-18 months to see if they can be lowered. Respect for the environment in all our operations HL Display endeavours to promote a high level of environmental awareness in everyday activities at its offices around the world. This means collecting and sorting paper, packaging material and old electronic equipment and ensuring they are sent for recycling. HL Display has been using telephone and video conferences as an alternative to travel between offices for many years now. With technological development and the launch of services such as Skype, Google Hangout and others, the use of video conferencing at HL Display has increased further. This means lower travel costs for the Company and a reduction in the environmental impacts of business travel. 8 HL Display Communication on Progress 2016 Anti-Corruption Corruption a risk area The risk analyses that HL Display has conducted previously UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES have identified corruption as a risk area for the Company. Risks are mainly associated with purchases made in local markets. Principle 10 The risk of corruption also exists in customer relationships. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, HL Display operates in some risk markets, where some parties including extortion and bribery. may try to facilitate deals by making direct payments to individuals in the client company. Increased centralisation and control of purchasing activities Credibility, sound ethical values and regulatory compliance are plays an important part in the Company’s anti-corruption essential for HL Display in order to be a preferred partner to its efforts. Any local suppliers that HL Display wishes to engage in customers and continue to develop successfully. the regions must be validated centrally. This ensures that HL Display’s Code of Conduct demonstrates the Company’s the prices and other terms are in line with the Company’s strong position against corruption. The Company will other collaborations. Under the local purchasing procedures, maintain a good reputation for honesty, integrity and taking the individual placing a purchase order is not the one who ­responsibility. This means that HL Display will not tolerate identifies and selects a supplier. In the selling activity, agreed involvement in bribery, extortion or corruption in any form. prices are entered into HL Display’s ERP system. Invoicing and customer payments relating to each order are controlled by the Measures to counter corruption ­Company’s back-office function and are completely separate from field sales. HL Display has well-developed management systems and HL Display did not have any corruption-related incidents that structures for financial monitoring and reporting. These are key led to disciplinary action in 2016 (2015: 0). tools to, in daily work, minimise the risk of irregularities and corruption in the business. In 2016 HL Display conducted a significant revision of its regulatory framework “Instructions for Authorities, Decisions and Approvals”. The aim of the revision was to simplify and increase clarity in the framework, which represents an ­important tool for combating irregularities in the business. It contains clearly documented rules that govern the authority of employees at different levels in the Company and how decisions are to be made and approvals given in the Group. Measures also include that all new employees in 2016 had the Code of Conduct, which contains clear rules of practice with regard to corruption, explained to them. All employees in HL Display have signed the Code of Conduct, thereby agreeing to comply with it. Clear guidelines on business ethics are also included in the purchasing policy that all suppliers must sign. 9 HL DISPLAY AB (publ) BOX 1118, Cylindervägen 18 info@hl-display.com SE-131 26 Nacka Strand www.hl-display.com Phone: +46 8 683 73 00 Fax: +46 8 683 73 01 10
