#Thinking ahead. Acting consciously. Sustainability Report 2016 Preface, p. 3 Sustainably successful, p. 4 01 Profitable business model, p. 6 Facing the future from a position of strength 02 02 Risk management, p. 8 Syndication enhances flexibility 03 Technology and innovation, p. 10 Exploiting the opportunities offered by digitalisation 05 04 Client relationship management, p. 12 It all comes down to trust 05 Corporate integrity, p. 14 Change brings new opportunities 06 Stakeholder engagement, p. 16 Dialogue for corporate development 07 Attractive employer, p. 18 Room for new ideas 08 Know-how, p. 20 Professional experience made easy 10 09 10 Sustainable lending business, p. 22 High-value property loan portfolio Sustainable Consulting/Services business, p. 24 The paperless office is already here 11 Operational resource management, p. 26 Cutting energy consumption by increasing efficiency 12 Sustainable procurement, p. 28 Shared responsibility About this report, p. 30 Imprint, p. 31 Companies that do business sustainably by managing economic, ecological and social aspects in a responsible manner ensure their future. Conversely, firms that take their long-term viability as their yardstick also do business sustainably. Corporate values such as reliability, innovative ability, integrity and maintaining client relationships based on mutual trust are key components of our sustainability mission statement. At an overarching level, we focus on twelve strategic action areas that we have developed together with external stakeholders. These also allow us to keep the promise we made when we signed the United Nations’ Global Compact. This report shows how the action areas in our sustainability strategy contribute to our ’Aareal 2020 – Adjust. Advance. Achieve.’ programme for the future, which was unveiled at the beginning of 2016. Aareal Bank Group’s aim with Aareal 2020 is to safeguard its strong foundation in a business environment that will remain very challenging in the future, whilst also unlocking new income potential for both business segments. During the past financial year, we completed many of the preparations for a rapid implementation of the programme on schedule and reached our first important milestones. For instance, Aareal Bank has launched a comprehensive realignment of its IT infrastructure, pursued the expansion of digital platform offerings in the Consulting/Services segment, and initiated cooperations with start-ups in order to swiftly implement its digital agenda. In addition, we have driven forward our syndication activity in the interests of more flexible portfolio management. The past year has provided impressive proof that our strategy is bearing fruit and that we are therefore on the right track. The transformation of our Company in line with the strategic priorities defined in Aareal 2020 will accelerate significantly in 2017. Once the programme has been implemented, we will be more flexible and more efficient, as well as sustainably profitable and successful despite the fundamental changes in the market and competitive environment. Aareal Bank Group’s clients and employees will benefit from this, but so will its investors, shareholders and stakeholders in society. Yours, Hermann J. Merkens Chairman of the Management Board 4 Sustainably successful Our sustainability management activities are based on an analysis of the key topics that are critical in the long term to Aareal Bank Group’s success. A sustainable approach to doing business is one of stakeholders (clients/the Client Advisory Council, suppliers, the preconditions for a company’s or an organi­ auditors, Supervisory Board members, etc.). In addition to sation’s long-term viability. Successful sustainability documenting what stakeholders expect from the Company, management therefore requires us to select and the ­discussions focus on their views of how it adds value to prioritise the action areas and key topics that are material to the goals of sustainable development. our Company’s business in its specific sector. Identifying and analysing these key topics allows us to lay the foundations for Based on our stakeholders’ expectations, we then developed strategic sustainability management, which defines quantifiable four strategic directions which define the framework for our targets and goals and develops precisely tailored measures to sustainability management activities and our sustainability achieve them. ­reporting. We performed such an analysis of the topics material to a – Document and increase the sustainability of our core competitive, forward-looking focus for Aareal Bank Group in ­business the financial year 2015, and deepened and reviewed it in 2016. – Continue pursuing our systematic and Group-wide ­approach to sustainability Discussions with stakeholders – Identify and increase the value added by Aareal Bank Group The starting point for the analysis in 2015 was a series of – Increase the transparency of our sustainability performance ­discussions with approximately 20 stakeholders, which we have continued since then down to the present. We exchange The evaluation of the action areas and key topics that were information and opinions both internally (with subsidiaries, identified was presented to and agreed by the Sustainability the ­divisions, the Works Council, etc.) and with external Committee and the Management Board. ”The Supervisory Board was already actively involved in the sustainability reporting process last year. We shall continue this policy, especially in view of the Supervisory Board’s statutory duty as from 2017 to review the content of the non-financial statement.“ Marija Korsch, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Aareal Bank AG Compact Sustainability Report 2016 Aareal Bank Group 5 Aareal Bank Group’s materiality matrix Action areas Frequently Corporate integrity (i + e) Profitable Addressed by external stakeholders** business model (i + e) Stakeholder engagement Know-how (i + e) (i) Risk Client management relationships (i + e) (i + e) Attractive employer In part (i) Technology Sustainable & innovation lending (i + e) (i + e) Sustainable Consulting / Services business Operational (i + e) resource management Infrequently Sustainable (i + e) procurement Action areas attracting highest management attention (i + e) Action areas attracting high management attention Material to corporate success Important by conviction (i ) Internal boundary (e) External boundary Medium High Extremely high Importance for corporate success* * Based on the assessments by management and specialist divisions (including assumed stakeholder expectations) ** e. g. clients /advisory boards, Supervisory Board, rating agencies Ensuring the Company’s success is our goal our business model, effective risk management and our Our operational focus is on twelve identified action areas ­con­tinued attractiveness as an employer. Additionally, the list and associated key topics that were presented to and agreed ­includes action areas that we are driving forward because by the Sustainability Committee and the Management Board. we are convinced of their value, such as our operational ­resource management or the sustainability of our portfolio of The 12 action areas are particularly relevant because they services. These ensure our Company’s credibility and hence are important for ensuring the Company’s long-term success. contribute in the long term to Aareal Bank Group’s business In line with this, the core thrust is on the profitability of success. 6 01 IN BRIEF New governance/committee structure A new level immediately below the Management Board – the Group Managing Directors (GMDs) – bundles reporting lines for particularly strategic tasks and is designed to make it easier to exchange views within the Group. Attractive dividend policy We ensure that our shareholders participate in the Group’s success. The Bank plans to continue distributing an 30 % Profitable ­ordinary dividend of approximately 50 per cent of earnings per share (EpS) for the financial years from 2016 ­business model 10 % onwards. For financial years 2016 -2018 the goal is to pay a supplementary dividend, which will rise from 10 per cent to between 20 per cent and 30 per cent of EpS. A sound business Our Common Equity Tier 1 ratio, which at 15.7 per cent as at 31 December 2016 is well above the statutory requirements, documents our commitment to security and ­stability. Excellent results for 2016 Another above-average operating profit is proof of our Facing the future sound business model. The consolidated operating profit rose by 14.4 per cent* to € 366 million. The pretax return on equity increased to 13.2 per cent. from a position of * Based on the previous year‘s figures after adjustment for the negative goodwill arising from the initial consolidation of Westdeutsche ImmobilienBank. strength continues to write its success story in the medium to long term. The programme‘s headings – Adjust, Advance and Achieve – group together measures derived from the action areas ­contained in a strategic agenda that was developed for the Company in 2015. ’Adjust‘ means establishing structures and processes so as to keep pace with growing and modified requirements and to be able to help master change. The focus is on improving ­efficiency. ’Advance‘ bundles our forward-looking initiatives for our Structured Property Financing and Consulting/Services business segments, with the aim of tapping into new markets and acquiring new client groups. We define ’Achieve‘ as the Management Board: Thomas Ortmanns, Christiane Kunisch-Wolff, ­ economic result of these measures, which create lasting value Hermann J. Merkens (Chairman), Dagmar Knopek, Christof Winkelmann for clients and employees. A successful start Our Aareal 2020 programme for the future combines our In 2016, we completed all preparations for implementing our decades of experience in supplying financing solutions programme for the future. We are on track with its execution: and services to the property sector in particular with our in addition to defining the strategic directions for enhancing technological expertise. our business model, launching related projects and realising the first concrete initiatives, we have driven forward a number Aareal 2020 is an Aareal Bank Group programme designed of structural changes. In particular we have realigned our to organise our business on sustainable lines in future. It aims IT architecture, increased the flexibility of our organisational to ensure that our Group maintains its solid foundation and structures and enhanced our corporate culture. Compact Sustainability Report 2016 Aareal Bank Group 7 Our way forward Gain new customer groups, Enhance tap new markets efficiency Adjust. Advance. Further enhance agility, Optimise funding innovative strength and willingness to adapt Anticipate regulation Further develop existing business Achieve. Achieve ambitious Consistently implement financial targets required measures Ongoing growth of Strong demand Realise strategic objectives property markets for Group and segments for syndication services Attractive returns in Increasing related industries internationalisation Substantial demand for Digitalisation opens up innovative solutions new business areas We have already recorded initial successes in leveraging new revenue potential: for example we have expanded our US business, built up our syndication activity in the area of new business and rolled out successful innovative digital solutions that offer clients significant added value. WHAT WE ARE WORKING ON ... Aareon AG makes a considerable contribution to achieving We are intensifying our cooperation with start-ups these goals. Operational implementation of the Aareal 2020 so that we can identify developments and trends programme for the future in the Consulting and Services at an early stage. This is part of our innovation activi­s egment means growing its digital solutions, reinforcing the ties in the various divisions. Our start-up strategy ERP business, entering new markets and new market segments, includes not only partnerships but also equity continuously increasing profitability and improving corporate ­interests and integrating products with Aareal’s and performance. Aareon’s product portfolios. Our experiences to date with start-ups have been positive. Take KIWI.KI, with which we have been working together since November 2016. The Berlin-­ based company has developed an intelligent keyless door access system that makes property main­ ”Our Aareal 2020 programme for the future addresses tenance easier for our clients. The digital access the challenges we shall face going forward. In an system can be used, for example, to let craftsmen environment dominated by technological change, into a building even if nobody is present. This means altered client requirements and fiercer competition, it we can connect housing enterprises, craftsmen allows us to secure our strong foundations while also and property owners even more smoothly and effileveraging new revenue potential.“ ciently than before. Hermann J. Merkens, Chairman of the Management Board 8 From left to right: Jens Engemann, Senior Manager Credit Management Christof Teichmann, Director Business & ­Syndication Management 02Risk management Syndication enhances flexibility Aareal Bank‘s increasing use of syndication for large fund managed by our client, Invesco. Aareal Bank is the ­property loans reduces its risk, increases its capacity to a­ rranger and agent and was able to bring the Allianz Insurance do business and keeps its balance sheet flexible. Group on board as a partner. Allianz’s share of the ten-year financing package, which has a total volume of € 610 million, Large cross-border transactions require considerable structuring is € 366 million. The loan agreement provides for the credit expertise, an international network and partnerships that are facility to be extended by a further as yet uncommitted sum built on trust. A recent example of this is our cooperation of approximately € 390 million, bringing the total maximum with Invesco Real Estate in 2016. The company was looking amount to € 1 billion. to finance a pan-European property investment deal covering 27 locations in seven European countries. Instead of shoulInternational specialists dering the project on its own, Aareal Bank leveraged its estabDue to the size and complexity of this deal, many employees lished network to structure and implement a syndication with from various divisions – including Risk Management, Transother lenders. action Management and Treasury – worked on it in total. A transaction of this size can only be successfully handled by a As the name for the transaction – the ’Bedrock Deal’ – specialist with an established, robust network of national and ­suggests, it provided a stable foundation for the investment international property industry players (clients, consultants, Compact Sustainability Report 2016 Aareal Bank Group 9 From left to right: Christof Teichmann, Director Business & IN THE SPOTLIGHT Syndication Management Johannes Kupers, Vice President Special Property Finance High or low risk? Elvira Valiullina, Manager Credit Management The ability to correctly assess risks, and to Michael Eisenkolb, manage them in a targeted manner, is a Director Special Property Finance key requirement in banking. Aareal Bank has ­pursued a conservative risk policy for many years, as can be seen from our consistently positive quarterly results, even during the ­financial crisis. We exceeded the ECB requirements that were relevant to us even in the most stringent ECB stress test scenario. Our risk culture is an integral part of responsible corporate management. The Bank’s risk appetite framework constitutes an end-to-end approach comprising guidelines, processes, controls and systems. This means that we can take conscious decisions at all times on the degree of risk that we are ready to a­ ssume. WHAT WE ARE WORKING ON ... From left to right: Pfandbriefe account for a major share of our long-­ Michael Eisenkolb, term funding. Their quality has been repeatedly Director Special Property Finance Johannes Kupers, confirmed by a variety of excellent ratings, most Vice President Special Property Finance recently the Aaa rating we received from Moody’s in January 2017. Fitch has given our Pfandbriefe an AAA rating. Traditionally, the insurance sector was the ­industry to use Pfandbriefe, as these consistently lawyers, valuers, etc.). Aareal Bank Group’s head office in Wiesyielded stable interest income over long periods. baden is home to teams of specialists with extensive cross-­ However, for many insurance companies the curborder expertise who focus on shopping centres and the rent interest rate situation on the financial markets logistics and hotel sectors. Our ability to ­deploy a mixture of is no longer attractive. New Pfandbrief issues local market and sector experts gives us a strong regional are increasingly aimed at banks and central banks presence in Europe. that are looking for low-risk, liquid investment ­opportunities. The strong Moody’s rating had a The combined know-how provided by our local expertise and positive effect during the placement of our € 500 our use of specialist teams allows us to address client needs million mortgage Pfandbrief in January, which at an early stage and to take a solutions-oriented approach has a term of 5.5 years. More than 60 investors to produce effective and rapid results – a clear unique selling took part, with some of them acquiring an Aareal proposition that lends itself in particular to complex, cross-­ Bank Pfandbrief for the first time. The issue was border, multijurisdictional transactions. Aareal Bank’s short oversubscribed by a factor of three and the order ­internal decision-making processes allow it to act quickly and book was closed after only two hours. to process transactions efficiently. 10 03 TOTALLY DIGITAL Leadership Meeting on Digitalisation: Executives and experts from Aareal Bank Group focused on the issue of digitalisation at their Annual Management Meeting (AMM) in Berlin in April 2016. Management Board Chairman Hermann J. Merkens stressed that networking, collaboration and thinking issues through Technology together will form a much more important part of the Group’s everyday activities than they had in the and ­innovation past; the motto for this is ’Innovate. Create. Move.‘. Aareon DesignLab: In July 2016, Aareon AG opened its DesignLab at its head office in Mainz. This offers an optimal environment for deploying the ­’design thinking‘ approach, in which people from ­different d ­ isciplines work together using a variety of Exploiting the methods. First workshops have already been held with housing industry ­clients. Among other things, they developed new solutions for digitalising rental manageopportunities ment, such as a company-specific tenant app. offered by digitalisation Our unique combination of IT and banking solutions, our In-depth meetings profound knowledge of our clients’ processes and payment/ In its four meetings in 2016, the Technology and Innovation ERP systems, and our services expertise allow us to Committee examined such multifaceted topics in detail. ­support our clients as they transition to their digital future. ­Market trends, technological developments and innovations play a key role, especially for our Consulting /Services segAareal Bank Group is a provider of financial and technology ment clients. These include potential business opportunities services. Our clients, who are mainly drawn from the propresulting from increasing business process digitalisation and erty sector, use our IT services to manage their properties and the question of how Aareal Bank Group can exploit these for for a wide range of billing applications. To underscore just the benefit of its clients. how important this business segment is, we have made innovation an integral part of the structure of Aareal Bank Group’s One of the client-focused topics discussed by the committee governing bodies: the Supervisory Board’s Technology and in 2016 was the potential that digitalisation offers the housing ­Innovation Committee, which was set up in 2015, looks industry. To protect its leading position in this area, Aareon AG both at the Company’s internal IT structure and at innovative has launched the ’Aareon Smart World‘ on the market. We are products that we develop and market. systematically enhancing classic, generally nationally focused ERP solutions by taking international approaches. The new One challenge facing us is the dynamic development of the ’digital platform‘ will be both a development environment and software environment in the systems that our clients and we a communications interface. We have already started marketing ourselves use. Business growth poses a constant stream of our first solutions – for example in the areas of customer, new systems and applications requirements in the form of the supplier and building relationship management, and work-force need for new interfaces and the ability to expand the systems automation. that connect with them. In addition, increasing regulatory ­requirements are impacting our internal control systems and our reporting. Compact Sustainability Report 2016 Aareal Bank Group 11 Rapid prototyping: A total of 85 programmers ­divided into 24 teams competed at the Bankathon ”Digitalisation uses technology on the Payment Services Directive 2 held on to model analogue real-world pro9 -11 October 2016. The goal was to develop the prototype of a digital product in just 30 hours and cesses, automates them and then to present it in a live demo. Our teams developed an integrated solution for managing, checking makes them measurable. We can and forecasting rental agreements and cash flows observe the effects of digitalisation for commercial properties with large numbers of rental units, along with an app for optimising cash in both our private and our pro­ management for multiple bank accounts. fessional lives. Keeping pace with Aareon’s got talent: The ideas management the velocity and complexity of this ­competition for Aareon AG employees produced exciting innovations. The prizewinners were a development is and will continue ­mobile multilingual sales solution, the integration of drone technology with Aareon Smart World and to be a challenging task, for us as a video-based identification procedure. human beings and for enterprises, too.“ Holger Spielberg, Group Managing Director (GMD), Group Technology ”Efficient payment solutions are WHAT WE ARE WORKING ON ... based on high-performance sysA powerful IT infrastructure is crucial for Aareal Bank Group‘s effectiveness and efficiency. This is tems. That’s why the advantages why realigning our IT architecture is an integral part of our Aareal 2020 strategy. The aim is to of digitalisation are clear to see. provide optimal support for Aareal Bank Group’s Aareal Bank Group is exactly the business strategy by ensuring flexible data ­availability, low maintenance costs, a high level right size to implement the necesof adaptability and enhanced modularity. The foundations for Aareal Bank’s new IT environment sary change processes with the will be laid by the end of 2017. required speed, both internally and together with our clients. ­Digitalisation offers opportunities to cut our cost base without compromising on service quality.“ Dietrich Voigtländer, Aareal Bank AG Supervisory Board member and Chairman of the Technology and Innovation Committee 12 04 WHAT WE ARE WORKING ON ... Our data protection strategies focus on information security management, on preventing cybercrime and on additional standards and technical measures. We use a variety of ’defensive strategies’ to address new legal regulations and requirements in the field of information security management. For example, the EU’s General Data ProClient relationship tection Regulation (EU GDPR), which was resolved in May 2016, will harmonise the protection of management personal data throughout Europe. Also relevant to us are the German IT Security Act (IT-Sicherheitsgesetz), the Minimum Security Requirements for Internet Payments (Mindestanforderungen an die Sicherheit im Internetzahlungsverkehr – MaSi) issued in 2015 by the Federal Financial Super­ visory Authority (BaFin) and (from 2018 onwards) the EU’s Payment Services Directive 2 (PSD2). As a consequence, Aareal Bank Group has introduced the position of a Chief Information Security It all comes Officer (CISO) – an independent central instance that will become an industry standard under ISO/ IEC 27001. down to trust Data security builds trust, strengthens client relationships confirms that Aareon AG – including Group companies and is a must for Aareal Bank Group. This applies to both Aareon Deutschland GmbH and Aareon Immobilien Projekt the lending and the Consulting /Services business. Gesellschaft mbH – has implemented effective processes to protect personal and potentially personal data. The number of cyber attacks is increasing rapidly and is ­putting the issue of data security even more squarely in the In the course of the preparations for the project, we bundled spotlight. The focus in all cases is on IT systems security and our numerous information security activities and measures on protecting sensitive client data. While there are strict laws into a single certifiable package. Certification in accordance governing both areas, careful and rigorous data protection with ISO/IEC 27001 documents that Aareon effectively opermanagement by the organisations storing the data is also ates an information security management system to a recog­required. nised international standard. All mission-critical technical and organisational measures relating to data controller/processor Aareon Group handles particularly large, complex volumes ­relationships within the meaning of section 11 of the German of data due to the many billing and administration processes Federal Data Protection Act (Bundesdatenschutzgesetz) have it performs for a large number of clients and their tenants. been effectively implemented. ­Because of its various telecommunications tools, it is also classified as a telecommunications operator by the German By obtaining the TÜV data protection certificate, Aareon has Federal Network Agency (Bundesnetzagentur – BNetzA) and provided recognised proof of the effectiveness and appropritherefore has to comply with the requirements of the German ateness of the data protection measures it has taken. The Telecommunications Act (Telekommunikationsgesetz). It thereadded value for Aareon clients is particularly clear in the confore comes as no surprise that data security is particularly text of controller-processor arrangements: they can use the ­important to Aareon Group. certificate to document compliance with their own statutory duty of care and control. Data protection certification In July 2016, TÜV Rheinland awarded Aareon the status of a For us, certification confirms our high standards with respect ’service provider offering certified data protection management’. to data management – a prerequisite for our clients’ confidence The data protection certificate from TÜV Rheinland i-sec GmbH in us. Compact Sustainability Report 2016 Aareal Bank Group 13 ”Our corporate structure benefits customers in two ways: firstly, they know they can expect digital solutions which adhere to strict banking regulations as well as data protection and compliance requirements. Secondly, our customers can count on us offering them the necessary know-how, and complying with high demands regarding intelligent safety concepts.“ Christiane Kunisch-Wolff, Member of the Management Board of Aareal Bank AG CLIENT SATISFACTION IS OUR BENCHMARK Client satisfaction surveys are an important tool in the ­continuous improvement of our products and services in our ­c lients’ interests. In 2016, Aareon AG conducted its third ­international customer survey. All branches agreed on a ­basically identical questionnaire in order to be able to com­ pare the results across individual countries. In Germany, this was the 14th client satisfaction survey. Clients were polled in September and October 2016, with the survey extending until mid-November in some countries. The results varied slightly depending on the product involved. Whereas client satisfaction with core products such as Wodis Sigma increased slightly, it declined slightly for some others. All in all, good levels of satisfaction were recorded both for client satisfaction with our products and for their readiness to recommend us to others. At the same time, we identified isolated areas with room for improvement and added measures for them that are now being systematically implemented. Aareal Bank‘s Housing Industry division also intends to ­c onduct systematic annual online client satisfaction surveys from 2017 onwards to supplement its established – and ­important – personal contacts. The technical and organisational requirements for this were established in 2016. 14 05 IN BRIEF 40 per cent women on the Management Board Praise for Aareal Bank AG came from the AllBright foundation in September 2016: it said the Company was the only one out of the 160 German public limited companies included in stock market indices to have 40 per cent women on its Management Board. Four out of the total of 12 members of the Supervisory Board are also women, including the Chairman, Marija Korsch. Corporate integrity New responsive design website Aareal Bank Group revamped its website in March 2016. The content was restructured and streamlined and transparency enhanced, in keeping with the focus on new ­target groups. The new website www.aareal-bank.com automatically adapts to displays on a variety of different devices (’responsive design‘). Transparency of sustainability reporting Aareal Bank Group bases its communication about sustainability and corporate responsibility on internationally agreed transparency guidelines (the Global Reporting ­Initiative’s G4 Guidelines and the recommendations of the German Sustainability Code). It also uses a variety of channels: information about sustainability is included in general corporate presentations and in investor and analyst materials. Aareal’s sustainability reporting is based on CSR Directive Aareal Bank Group has partially implemented the requirements of Directive 2014/95 EU, which regulates the ’disclosure of non-financial and diversity information’ a year before it is required to be applied in Germany – in online form as our ’Sustainability Accounts 2016’, in parallel to this compact report. ➜www.aareal-bank.com/responsibility Change brings new opportunities Our comprehensive enhancement of our corporate However, such priorities cannot simply be imposed from above. culture is ensuring that Aareal Bank Group is becoming A flexible organisation, powerful IT facilities, leaner structures even more client-focused, agile and innovative. and faster processes demand a lot from our employees as well. Our comprehensive change management programme, Continuous development is vital to remaining competitive in which was originally launched at Aareon in 2015 and was an increasingly digital world. At Aareal Bank Group, we have ­extended to the entire Group in 2016, assists us in mastering identified our uncompromising client focus, high level of agility the transition. We are helping to drive forward cultural change and above-average innovative ability as the values that ensure using beacon projects and by creating an appropriate framewe will be successful in the long term. For this development work that includes, for example, pilots for new spatial concepts to remain authentic, it must start in our executives’ and em(’creative boxes’) and developing new ways and methods of ployees’ minds and must progress from there to become ­ working. Executives have an especially important role to play an integral and living part of our corporate culture – one that here and must take particular care to live up to their function influences the behaviour of each and every one of us. as role models. We have set up a change monitoring process that regularly measures sentiment in order to monitor the pace of change. Compact Sustainability Report 2016 Aareal Bank Group 15 Dr Manfred Alflen, Chairman of the Aareon AG Management Board ”You need role models for change. And you need time.“ Dr Manfred Alflen, Chairman of the Aareon AG Management exchange ’testimonials of change’. These allow them Board, shares his ­experience of change management to ­c ommunicate how they experience change, what has ­processes actually changed for them in concrete terms and what ­c ontribution their own division or team can make to the Dr Alflen, you launched a change programme for change process. Aareon back in 2015 – what motivated you to do this? It is my deeply-held conviction that everything is going to be different, especially in the sector in which we operate. Digitalisation means that change is no longer a linear process, but an exponential one. The principle of ’survival of the smartest’ applies here, meaning that success comes to those who adapt most quickly to a changing environment. And this depends on having a corporate culture that supports and promotes agility as optimally as possible. WHAT WE ARE WORKING ON ... What exactly do you mean by agility? In future, sustainability will be represented on It means keeping moving: we have to act quickly and flexibly, ­Aareal Bank Group‘s website by the ’Responsito be open and to reflect on our situation continuously. We bility‘ menu item at the top of the home page, must look at things from different viewpoints and interact on a level with the Company, Customers, Career, from different perspectives. And we must be able to think in Investors and Media areas. This is our response terms of opportunities and possibilities. to increasing demand for this information from a ­variety of interested stakeholders. What lessons have you learned that can you contribute to this Group-wide change process? ➜w  ww.aareal-bank.com/responsibility You need role models for change. And you need time. This is why, at Aareon, we use dialogue formats in which our staff 16 06 Stakeholder engagement Dialogue for corporate development Aareal Bank Group actively seeks to engage in face-to200 discussions with more than 300 investors and analysts face dialogue with its stakeholders – and as part of this in the course of twelve roadshows in Europe and the USA. We our investors can also talk directly with the CEO. aim to provide as accurate a picture as possible of our Company’s position, both to facilitate informed investment decisions Communication isn’t a one-way street. We use a wide variety and to learn about areas in which investors want greater transof formats in our search for dialogue with our Company’s parency. stakeholders. Our goal is to do more than simply push our messages; we also want to interact with others so as to underInvestors really appreciate the fact that the Chairman of the stand the expectations they have of us, making the dialogue Management Board personally takes part in a large number of fruitful for both sides. these roadshows and capital market conferences. For example, in the context of an analyst recommendation, German newsThe same motto also applies to the capital markets. In 2016, paper ’Handelsblatt’ reported the analyst as saying that ’the our Investor Relations team took part in a total of ten inter­ roadshow with the Bank’s CEO, Hermann Merkens, had connational capital markets conferences and held well over firmed his positive assessment of the property finance specialist.’ From the CEO’s schedule (H1 2016) Roadshows and capital market conferences attended by the Chairman of the Management Board, Hermann J. Merkens, in the first half of 2016: 23 February: Annual Press and Analysts’ Conference 12-13 May: Roadshow London 29 February: Roadshow Frankfurt 18-20 May: Roadshow Montreal/ Toronto/ Los Angeles 3-4 March: Roadshow London 25 May: Aareal Bank AG Annual General Meeting 10-11 March: Roadshow New York and Chicago 8 June: Deutsche Bank capital markets conference 14 April: Bankhaus Lampe capital markets conference (Germany) (Germany) 29 June: Roadshow Zurich 10 May: Press call on Q1 2016 results Compact Sustainability Report 2016 Aareal Bank Group 17 The investor meetings focused among other things on – the impact of regulatory measures – and at present in ­particular of the ’Basel IV‘ package of reforms (planned new WHAT WE ARE WORKING ON ... rules for calculating risk) – equity and how optimising it can improve profitability, and We are holding ongoing discussions with rele– the situation in a number of countries such as Italy, the UK vant stakeholders to further validate the results and Turkey. of the materiality analysis that we performed at the end of 2015 and beginning of 2016 (see Our partners in these discussions included not only share­ page 4/5). We are talking to investors, clients and holders but also investors in our subordinated products, e. g. sustainability officers at our competitors – ­unsecured corporate bonds and Pfandbriefe, and analysts from and our recent discussion with a member of the a number of rating agencies. Sustainability issues are also management board of a well-known building ­a ctively addressed at investor meetings – which is why, since ­certification company also yielded valuable insights. 2016, we have included them as a fixed item in our The discussions will focus on different strategies ­documents for analysts. for integrating sustainability with a property finance specialist’s core business. In dialogue with... ... colleagues: In addition to a large number of formal and less formal opportunities for the management and staff of ... clients: Aareal Bank Group is in continuous dialogue ­Aareal Bank Group to exchange news and information, our with its clients, for example at trade fairs and other events. activities in 2016 focused on our Aareal 2020 strategy for the One of the regular discussion forums is our Aareon Congress future. Among other things, cross-departmental, cross-hierar– the largest meeting for the German property industry – chical task forces were set up in December to develop concrete which was held for the 26th time in June 2016. In July 2016, projects and measures as part of the programme for evolving Aareal Bank hosted the 9th Housing Industry Summit, our corporate culture. which opened with a presentation on the sustainable use of resources. We are also available for discussion at the ... stakeholders in society: We know the challenges leading international property industry trade fairs, such as facing people outside our Company and their needs, not least MIPIM in Cannes and Expo Real in Munich. due to our involvement with charitable organisations as part of our corporate social responsibility activities. One ­example is the ... politicians: At the Hauptstadtsalon – a discussion event ’Zwerg Nase Stiftung’: the Förderverein Zwerg Nase e.V. – the held several times a year in Berlin – we seek to exchange association of friends of this foundation, which we have supnews and views with politicians, the business community and ported for many years – aims to provide simple, unbureaucratic members of society. help to parents of disabled children. ➜ www.zwerg-nase.de 18 FAMILY BENEFITS AT A GL ANCE Aareal Bank works together with the charitable ­organisations ’Fit For Family Care’ and ’famPLUS’ in order to help employees with small children balance the needs of their work and their families. Aareal Bank and Aareon employees at a number of locations can use parent-child offices to solve short-term care bottlenecks. 07 Aareal Bank also supports the Hessen Family Card scheme. This offers a range of discounts and benefits in various areas. Together with Wiesbaden’s Department for Social Work, Aareal Bank offers vacation child care for employees’ children aged between 6 and 15. Attractive employer Room for new ideas For us as a service provider, our employees are our most In addition, we need to adapt to, and to actively shape, market important resource – their skills, their commitment and changes to an even greater extent – one example here are the their sense of responsibility determine A ­ areal Bank Group’s increasingly rapid moves towards product and c­ lient digitalisaeconomic performance and compe­titiveness. tion, which is leading on our part to a growing need for agile and flexible solutions. We adopt a wide variety of approaches Aareal Bank Group does a lot for its employees. Our offerings to promote a corporate culture that is designed to achieve this. cover all key areas of state-of-the-art human resources management – from comprehensive programmes for continuous Our employees evaluate the progress we are making: most ­professional development down to our Company Health recently, we polled international executives throughout the Management scheme and programmes designed to help staff Group in October 2016. Despite the short lead time the survey achieve a successful work-life balance. The success of these achieved a good response rate of 57 per cent; with e­ specially measures is underscored by a series of external awards. high levels of answers being returned in Germany and at ➜ www.aareal-bank.com/en/your-perspectives-at-aareal-­ ­Aareal Bank AG. Respondents were asked about their general bank/aareal-bank-as-an-employer/an-excellent-employer/ personal mood, their ’feeling of urgency’ with respect to ­necessary changes, their understanding of our strategy, ability This was countered by a number of changes in the context to change, our management culture and their belief in our of integration and consolidation activities in the recent years. common success. Compact Sustainability Report 2016 Aareal Bank Group 19 WHAT WE ARE WORKING ON ... Effective 1 January 2017, the new General Works Agreement ’Mobile Working/Telework’ came into force at the Bank. The objective of this agreement is to give staff more flexibility in how they organise their work, so that they can better align their personal circumstances and needs with the Bank’s goals. The General Works Agreement initially runs until 31 December 2018 and is designed to serve as a pilot project for the Bank. The Bank and the Works Council representatives have arranged to Numerous awards ... start negotiations on signing a new agreement In February of 2016 and 2017, the CRF Institute well before the pilot period expires. again awarded Aareal Bank Group the accolade of being a ’top employer’, bringing the total number of times it has received this award to ten. Praise came for the excellent working conditions that the Company provides for staff and for its measures to ensure their continuous professional development. In November 2016, Aareal Bank Group received its second Corporate Health Award. The prize is given every two years by EuPD Research Sustainable ­Management, Handelsblatt, TÜV Süd Academy and ias Group to companies that have demonstrably shown an exceptional commitment to the health of their employees, and hence pursue a forward-thinking and sustainable personnel strategy. In 2016, Aareon AG was a finalist in the ’Success Factor Family – Germany‘s Most Family-friendly Companies’ competition for companies, which is run Work-Care Balance Charter signed by Germany’s Federal Ministry for the Family, Senior Demographic change also affects companies and their employCitizens, Women and Young People (BFSFJ). ees. Its effects include not only the shortage of s­ pecialists that we frequently hear about, but also the fact that more and more staff are having to juggle looking after relatives who ­require care in addition to doing their jobs. In September 2016, Aareal Bank Group signed up for the Work-Care Balance Charter in Hesse. The signatories are companies located in the state who share the goal of actively addressing the ­challenges associated with trying to reconcile work and longterm care. Aareal Bank has already offered an internal care network for some time that enables affected staff to communicate with each other and obtain advice. In addition, Aareal Bank employees have access to Viva FamilienService – a free, com­prehensive range of advisory and support services that staff can use if their close relatives fall ill or need long-term care. 20 08Know-how ”The Bank encourages and ­supports a wide range of training and CPD measures. This means that I can do a master’s degree at the same time as my traineeship.“ Bastian Haider, trainee Professional experience made easy Aareal Bank Group’s Junior Training Programme offers a Vocational training and dual work-study programmes also development path for young professionals. ­belong in this category. For example, in Wiesbaden we offer two vocational traineeships as office management specialists In mid-2015, we put the Bank’s entire training activities for and two dual work-study course places for degrees in busiyoung staff on a new footing and established the Junior ness IT and business administration for banks. We plan to ­Training Programme (JTP). It comprises a number of different ­expand this to include a degree course for software developcomponents: the annual Girls’ Days and Boys’ Days held in ment and consulting in 2017. Both the vocational training Wiesbaden and Mainz and our internships for school students, courses and the dual work-study courses last three years. In which focus on younger age groups and aim primarily to raise addition, we offer a two-year dual work-study master’s course awareness of Aareal Bank Group and the wide variety of and a trainee programme for graduates of bachelor’s and areas it is active in. Five to ten such internships are offered master’s degrees. each year. At the end of 2016 we had nine ’juniors’: four dual work-study The mandatory and voluntary internships provided for students undergraduate course students, two students on integrated during their university courses focus more specifically on work-study degree courses, two vocational trainees (office ­recruiting direct entrants. We fill these positions by advertising management specialists) and one master’s student as a trainee. with universities, offering approx. 20 students a year the opWe aim to offer permanent employment to all vocational portunity to gain their first professional experience with our trainees and students on the JTP once they have finished their Company for periods of between six weeks and six months. studies. Compact Sustainability Report 2016 Aareal Bank Group 21 WHAT WE ARE WORKING ON ... Digitalisation is changing our day-to-day busi”One of the key things ness – the way we work, communicate, obtain you learn here is how information and share knowledge. We also to think across divisional ­exploit the resulting opportunities and potential internally, e. g. in knowledge management, boundaries.“ so as to leverage synergies and realise efficiency gains. For example, the Housing Industry Zaman Kakhki, dual work-study degree course student division is continuing to expand its corporate digital learning offering, which is used for employee training, on our new knowledge management platform. The training offering with its focus ”All the people I have got to on cross-departmental interface optimisation know here so far are is being migrated in full to e-learning tools. The goal is to capture the expert knowledge extremely nice and helpful.“ needed for process optimisation in this area and to make it accessible to employees at all times Jaruwan Singruang, integrated work-study degree course student in the form of documentation, webinars and learning videos. The knowledge management portal is currently being set up and is being continuously expanded to include new corporate digital learning packages. TAILOR-MADE PROGR AMMES Executive Programme: Aareal Academy’s executive development concept covers six areas/basic challenges that we consider to be essential: complexity, ­reflection, innovation, knowledge, collaboration and r­elationships. These are flexibly structured in modules and can be customised to fit individual needs. Expert Programme: Aareal Academy also offers an ’Expert Programme’ for employees aiming for a focused specialist career track. A variety of training modules ­prepare staff for future roles in the Company, including a ’Fit for responsibility’ module that addresses, among ”A bank is not just about figures: ­ other things, the topic of ’lateral management’ (management of/ by people on the same hierarchical level within political and regulatory effects an organisation). Other modules on topics such as make working here a fascinating stakeholder management, emotional intelligence and ­experience.“ self-management are also available. Vanessa Schmehl, intern Cross-mentoring Programme: Launched in 2016, this programme aims to promote constructive relationships between mentors and mentees from different ­organisations. Over a limited period, mentors provide mentees with an independent perspective on issues arising in their day-to-day roles, enabling them to reflect on their behaviour, expand their horizons, boost their self-confidence and drive forward their personal development. 22 09 ”We track the market closely. Roughly 10 per cent of the buildings financed by Aareal Bank between 2014 and 2016 had a sustainability certificate, most of them office properties.“ Christof Winkelmann, Member of the Management Board of Aareal Bank AG ”International certifications differ in terms of content. Sustainable The effects of sustainability certification results on the property under review must be considered individually. lending business The criteria we apply when preparing a valuation report for a property are distinctly more comprehensive and also take account of long-term usability and ­marketability, among others.“ Karl-Ludwig Göth, Managing Director of Aareal Valuation GmbH High-value property loan portfolio Financing properties and portfolios entails more than just granting loans. Aareal Bank Group’s Ioan approval process incorporates risk avoidance processes at many points, thus ensuring that our decisions are sustainable. Expertise plus sustainability Highest standards: Our credit risk indicator is consistently WHAT WE ARE WORKING ON ... low; it was a mere 65 basis points at the height of the financial crisis in 2009 and continued to decline between 2015 To date, the way in which sustainability was and 2016, falling from 43 to 33 basis points. In this way, dealt with in international valuation reports varied ­Aareal Bank contributes to the stability of the financial market, considerably and any sustainability seals of especially in the area of commercial property finance. ­approval were not always fully described or not described at all, in terms of their names (LEED, Green finance initiatives: Aareal Bank played a more active BREEAM, HQE, DGNB, etc.) and the achieved role in industry initiatives on green finance issues in 2016 – level (platinum, gold, silver, bronze, etc.). for example at the Verband öffentlicher Banken (VÖB – Since the beginning of 2017, our standardised ­Association of German Public Banks), the Verband deutscher instruction letter for ordering valuation reports Pfandbriefbanken (vdp – Association of German Pfandbrief ­includes a query for all properties on whether they Banks) and the latter’s European counterpart, the European have been granted a green building certificate Covered Bonds Council (ECBC). and what level or score was reached in any sustainability rating. In the medium term, we expect Sustainability certifications for building finance: In a multithis to lead to significantly enhanced transparency stage process, Aareal Bank AG has revisited a large proportion regarding the certification status of the sustain­ of the financing deals that it entered into in the period from able properties we finance, as well as to provide 2014 to 2016 to document whether the office buildings, hotels, further encouragement for the sector to create etc. concerned were certified in accordance with recognised a common pool of qualified and meaningful sustainability standards. This is an important first step towards data in order to determine the effect that susimproving our understanding of the importance of certification tainability certificates have on property values. in the property finance business. Our goal is to compare how certification affected the valuation. Compact Sustainability Report 2016 Aareal Bank Group 23 Sustainability-related aspects of the loan approval process* 1 Credit risk strategy 7 Repayment/ Term sheet Disbursement extension 6 External Contract negotiations and drafting Internal positive positive 2 3 4 5 8 Acquisition Due diligence Loan application Loan approval Monitoring 9 Funding Syndication 10 1 Group-wide policy requirements 4 Sales units and Credit Management assess 6 Legally compliant documentation Investment financing of office buildings, h ­ otels, the funding separately on the basis of: – Negotiation/drafting of loan agreement plus collat­shopping centres, logistics and residential ­properties Market analysis eral agreements using in-house/external lawyers on three continents – A  nalysis of (macro)economic conditions – Risk mitigation using covenant structures (binding – High level of diversification – E  valuation of property market conditions for the borrower) as risk indicator /­ – No contentious properties (industrial plants, etc.) (down to submarket level) management tool – Controversies (e. g. regarding transparency issues in the project development business) irrelevant Property appraisal 7 Careful check – Examination  of economic, technical, Check if collateral has been furnished and other 2 Active management of portfolio and new functional, socio-cultural and ecological ­conditions for disbursement have been met ­business quality; lifecycle analysis – Lending policies pool specific lending decision – Assessment of marketability and 8 Continuous early risk identification process reqs: quantitative/qualitative risk mitigation ­criteria third-party reuse Risk classification of existing exposures – – Focus on stable markets, plus (macro)economic – Conservative valuation ensures cover regularly and ad hoc and property market specific criteria; legal pool eligibility – determines frequency/scope of credit ­monitoring ­certainty, market transparency, corruption levels, – triggers intensive care if risk is elevated etc. taken into account Risk analysis – Multiyear business plan for optimising the Bank’s – Risk classification using end-to-end rating 9 Balanced funding mix including: revenue/risk structure, including minimum con­ ­procedure covering borrower (credit ­rating), Pfandbriefe – a sound investment ditions to be met ­property quality and expected cash flows In some cases, loans are funded by issuing rated ­(operator, tenant structure, rental trends) and Pfandbriefe (Fitch, Moody’s), an intrinsically sustain­ Comprehensive KYC** check ­capital debt stack (equity/debt mix, etc.) able form of finance: Client checks for compliance with far-reaching – subject to strict statutory requirements ­anti-money laundering and terrorist financing Profitability assessment – guarantees high level of investor protection ­requirements, e. g. – A  ccurate assessment of transaction – sound investment thanks to excellent credit quality – origin of money and assets ­profitability – ownership – Optimum allocation of Aareal Bank AG’s equity Housing industry deposits – Additional pillar in funding mix that is largely 3 Basis of cooperation 5 Clear allocation of responsibilities ­independent of the capital markets Due diligence on the risk/return perspective ­enables – L  oan approval decision depends on size/­ clients to be given a non-binding term sheet early compliance with lending policy 10 Established network on detailing whether and on what terms Aareal Bank – R  apid, efficient decision-making in client’s Use of consortia to finance large, often multi­national can take part in the financing ­interests property portfolios (credit obligations and credit risk spread among partners) in order to – avoid cluster risk – mitigate risk – optimise use of equity * Loan agreements may fail to be reached, or may be rejected by the other side, at any stage before signature. – generate additional revenue potential ** KYC: know your customer 24 10 BK 01 eConnect at a glance BK 01 eConnect Sustainable Consulting /Services business Data capture Data transmission Invoice components and Flat /deep structure transmission format SAP ERP plus IS-U Document management system Direct Indirect transmission transmission E-mail EDI Web service subservice The paperless office is already Wide range of invoice formats here ZUG XML XLS FeRD CSV ARS Products such as BK 01 eConnect enable our clients to ­digitalise their processes and design them more efficiently. For some people, the paperless office is wishful thinking, while for others it is impracticable. Yet younger people frequently Client show us how this could work: they are digital natives who are at home with the Internet and using electronic media comes 1. naturally to them. Free choice of data 2. The situation at Aareal Bank Group’s clients is similar. Housing Free choice of associations, property managers and public utilities generally communications channel use electronic media. And yet in many cases good old lever arch files full of printouts of electronic documents are still used in parallel, negatively impacting paper, toner and electricity 3. Free choice of data format consumption. Compact Sustainability Report 2016 Aareal Bank Group 25 Aareal Bank Group has a large number of offerings designed – A large number of other new digital solutions are in the to facilitate lean, efficient invoicing by digitalising manual product pipeline, including an online rental agreement, ­ and /or paper-based processes. For outgoing invoices, our a mobile system for placing work with craftsmen, a condoBK 01 eConnect product enables energy utilities to provide corminium owners’ association portal and a savings portal. porate customers with electronic invoices in flexible formats using a number of different communications channels. This – In October 2016, Aareon developed a new software packsolution allows our clients to leverage process and sales force age for third-party property management together with benefits in their day-to-day business and to reduce their TREUREAL. The new property manager template builds on ­negative impact on the environment. our Wodis Sigma ERP solution. The structures and modules offered focus in particular on property management reWe have taken the same approach with regard to the housing quirements and on property managers who have to handle industry. Aareon’s Invoicing Service and BK 01 Invoice Data changing portfolios. Processing are two products that perfectly model incoming electronic invoices at housing enterprises. – The new Wodis Sigma University provides comprehensive weekly webinars on the functionality and innovations Digital services ­offered by all the modules making up Wodis Sigma – our Aareal Bank Group’s digitalisation strategy – part of our ERP system that is at the heart of Aareon Smart World. ­Aareal 2020 programme for the future (page 6/7) – is already a reality in large parts of the Consulting /Services business –  The Aareal Portal – a multibank-enabled online corporate segment. The digital solutions business is picking up speed client portal that offers account overviews and payment and we are continuously expanding our offering: ­authorisation functionality plus an easy-to-use, state-ofthe-art infrastructure – was our investment focus last year – For example, a fully automatic rental process enables and will continue to be so in the years to come. It will serve customers of the Joseph Foundation in Bamberg to take a as the basis for positioning and marketing an enhanced ­v irtual tour of their student accommodation in southern digital portfolio. With it, clients will be able to increase the Germany, apply for it online and then complete all the efficiency of their processes as well as to access additional ­formalities online using a secure platform. The tenant app, offerings to support their financial management business which is already in use in France and the UK, is being processes. tweaked for the German market. The 360° solution . ­produced by our English subsidiary 1st Touch is currently being customised for the German market. WHAT WE ARE WORKING ON ... One of the wide range of upcoming goals emissions produced and time spent) and help and measures is Aareon’s ’Green Consulting’ clients cut their travel budgets. This means offering. We want to increasingly encourage that our ­consultants can be freed up to work clients to de-emphasise consulting services on other client projects more quickly, thus performed at their premises in favour of remote ­increasing our overall consulting capacity for WebEx offerings – online meetings and con­ them. ference calls – and e-learning services. As an additional incentive, we donate Remote consulting has a direct impact both € 10 per offsite consulting day to DESWOS, a on our clients’ sustainability accounting and non-profit organisation dedicated to com­ on Aareal Bank Group. We can reduce the bating poverty and housing shortages in the ­effort involved in travelling (and hence also the developing countries. 26 IN BRIEF New Ökoprofit certificates Both Aareal Bank AG and Aareon AG again received Ökoprofit certificates in 2016. Aareon received its certificate at the Rheinhessen Chamber of Commerce and Industry’s Energy Forum, as one of the ten businesses belonging to the Ökoprofit Club in Mainz. Aareal Bank Group’s head office also received another certificate in July 2016. We are cutting our energy and material con­ sumption, carbon emissions, water consumption and 11 waste volumes using the wide range of measures in our ambitious environmental programme. Revised environmental guidelines In August 2016, we revised Aareal Bank AG’s environmental guidelines, which were resolved by the Management Board and apply throughout the Group. These serve as a binding standard for our activities and set out 123 responsibilities in relation, among other things, to the economical use of resources, sustainable procurement, monitoring and data analysis methods, stakeholder dialogue, participation in external environmental initiatives Operational and raising employee awareness. Increasing the transparency of our ecological footprint ­resource Specialist divisions within Aareal Bank Group regularly capture and analyse environmental consumption data management and indicators for all locations (including our international sites). This allows us to produce an ’ecological footprint‘ – an overview of the effect that our business activities have on the environment – and to develop measures to reduce negative ecological impacts. One way of doing this has been to successively increase the proportion of green energy used by the Group, a process that started back in 2014. Cutting energy consumption by increasing efficiency Aareal Bank contributes to the federal government’s It comprises 21 German business associations and organisa­climate protection goals through its membership of tions plus the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs (BMWi) Wiesbaden’s energy efficiency network. and the Federal Ministry for the Environment (BMUB). The objective is to cut greenhouse gas emissions by five million Energy efficiency is one of the crucial keys to combating tonnes in the period up to 2020. ­climate change. The logic is really simple: the less energy used, the lower carbon emissions are. This is why, as part of Aareal Bank has been taking part in the Wiesbaden energy its Climate Action Plan 2020, the federal government is ­efficiency network as part of its activities in connection with aiming to get businesses and consumers to use less energy the Ökoprofit-Initiative there, thus helping the federal governand improve the efficiency of energy usage, for example ment achieve its climate protection and energy policy goals. by switching to state-of-the-art, energy-saving devices. The project is scheduled to run from March 2015 to the end The details have been set out in a National Action Plan for of 2017 in the first instance. The Energy Efficiency Networks ­E nergy Efficiency (NAPE). One key component of NAPE Initiative requires participating enterprises to define a common is to launch and establish around 500 energy efficiency energy savings target. For 2017, this has been set at 1.5 per ­networks in Germany by the end of 2020. The Energy Efficent. Other requirements cover the measures taken to achieve ciency Networks Initiative was set up to achieve this goal. these goals and the method used to document this. Recog➜ www.effizienznetzwerke.org/initiative nised measures include switching lighting, insulating building Compact Sustainability Report 2016 Aareal Bank Group 27 Clear goals for dialogue platform Energy efficiency networks Share experiences and ideas are part of the federal government's voluntarily, systematically, purposeNational Action Plan for fully and unbureaucratically Energy Efficiency (NAPE) Minimum By 2020 requirements 500 new networks, Identification of potential meeting uniform savings at companies / minimum standards 500 establishment of savings target for each network Energy efficiency networks initiative Recording A joint initiative by the federal thanks to annual monitoring government and German business associations and organisations Goal Support To save up to 75 PJ* of from qualified primary energy and 5 mn tonnes energy consultants of GHG emissions * Petajoules Source: Based on Deutsche Energie-Agentur GmbH (dena) envelopes, new heating facilities, efficient water and waste water pumps, electromobility and many more. WHAT WE ARE WORKING ON ... We are convinced that combating climate change can be done Due to Aareal Bank Group’s established organimost effectively by as many partners as possible working tosational structure comprising a number of comgether. Our active participation in the Ökoprofit project, where panies, each with a series of subsidiaries and we have been addressing energy efficiency issues for several ­foreign branches, many policies and thematic years already, helps us in our work with the Wiesbaden network. guidelines currently apply to specific companies only. Our goal is to work more closely together in the future. For example, we are currently ­developing Group-wide ecological ­targets and are starting off by implementing them as part ” We have bundled electricity procurement at our of the energy efficiency network. Other topics ­ erman locations and have switched almost totally to G will follow. green electricity.“ Oliver Wünsch, Senior Manager Purchasing Services, Aareal Bank AG 28 12Sustainable procurement Shared responsibility With our new Code of Conduct for Suppliers, we expect Our business partners also affect our sustainability our business partners to comply with the same standards ­performance of ecological and social responsibility as we do ourselves. By signing and hence agreeing to abide by our Code of Conduct, suppliers undertake to comply with the legal requirements How far does a company’s environmental and social responand with ethically correct standards of behaviour. A responsible sibility extend in the age of globalisation? All relatively large approach to the environment plays a particularly important enterprises are asking themselves this question. Depending role here. Suppliers are required at all times to conserve natural on the sector they are in, the answers can yield very different resources and to find and prioritise environmentally friendly results – take the example of the textile industry, where in solutions as far as possible. Ultimately, our Code of Conduct many cases all raw materials and merchandise come from requires our business partners and service providers to comply ­developing countries and emerging markets, or the automotive with the same high standards in terms of ecological and sector, where vertical integration at leading manufacturers is ­social responsibility as we do ourselves. now frequently only 30 to 40 per cent. The Code of Conduct is particularly important to us for two At first glance, the impact of suppliers in the financial and reasons. Firstly, it extends our environmental and sustainability IT services sector would seem to be small. However, a second management activities to the Company’s indirect effects, which look reveals that Aareal Bank Group actually accounts for a we cannot otherwise influence to any large extent. Secondly, sizeable procurement volume – from IT terminals through paper we can protect ourselves against potential risks in the supply and office materials down to office fittings and furnishings. chain from failures to comply with environmental or social standards – failures that would reflect negatively on us. When we signed the United Nations’ Global Compact, we undertook to ensure compliance with human rights, to take a The Code of Conduct is publicly available on our website and preventive approach to environmental protection, and to fight forms part of our General Business Conditions. Existing busicorruption and bribery. This is the background to why we ness partners are also successively signing the Code, with the ­introduced a Code of Conduct for Suppliers at Aareal Bank initial focus being on partners with whom master agreements Group in 2016. This mandatory, Group-wide policy forms the exist. In the case of new business partners or service providers, basis for our business relationships with suppliers. the Code of Conduct forms the basis of the business relationship. Compact Sustainability Report 2016 Aareal Bank Group 29 ”The Code of Conduct for Suppliers documents the high standards that we have always required our business partners to meet. Our initial experiences confirm that in some cases business partners use voluntary commitments that are even stiffer.“ Thomas Böhler, Senior Manager Purchasing Services, Aareal Bank AG Testing electric vehicles in practice Alternative drives are the technology of the future. But when does this future actually start? Aareal Bank Group’s company ”The fact that our requirements car policy has provided incentives to purchase hybrid and are now set out in writing will be electric vehicles since 2013. The fact that demand is still muted is due among other things – as is the case for the German particularly useful when it vehicle market as a whole – to batteries’ current range limitacomes to requests for tenders.“ tions and to the inadequate charging infrastructure. Adrian Haese, Team Leader, Central Purchasing, Aareon AG However, battery capacities and the range of vehicles available are both increasing. To test this, a BMW i3 has been made available as a carpool vehicle at our Wiesbaden location. This allows staff to experience for themselves what sustainable, ”Section V of the Code of Conduct forward-looking mobility can offer in terms of vehicle range, for Suppliers shows that we take charging times, electricity consumption and suitability for our duties under the UK Slavery ­day-to-day use. Other areas of the Company already have Act to prevent forced labour, slavery electric vehicles: one has been in use at Aareon in Mainz since February 2016, while the Aareal Bank branch in Paris acquired and human trafficking seriously.“ another in June 2016. Dr Daniela Westphalen, Legal, Group, Bank & Supervisory Law, Aareal Bank AG Healthy catering and eating Sustainability also plays a role at Aareal Bank when it comes to buying food. Employee health is the top priority here. As an employer, we offer our staff the opportunity to eat healthy, balanced meals in our in-house canteen. In the process, we comply with the goals of our Company Health Management scheme. We only source fresh fruit and vegetables, not pre-prepared foods, and our suppliers are experienced local companies with a focus on regional products. WHAT WE ARE WORKING ON ... Not only can commuting to work every day commutes and act in a cost-effective and be stressful, it can also pollute the environ­environmentally aware manner. For example, ment. This is why Aareal Bank Group is curwe are interested in knowing whether staff rently reviewing its mobility concept and would find an ex­pansion of the car sharing conducting an employee needs survey. The platform developed by Aareon or a leased March 2017 Intranet survey is designed Company bicycle ­offering attractive. to find out what we can do to simplify daily 30 About this report Aareal Bank Group has produced annual reports on its sustainability performance since 2012 – making the current report the fifth of its kind. Its main focus is on the progress made during the reporting period in the twelve action areas for sustainability management, as well as on providing information about what we are currently working on. Aareal Bank Group’s sustainability reporting is supplemented and completed by our online Sustainability Disclosures, which have been prepared in accordance with the current version (G4) of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). In addition, the Sustainability Disclosures are based on the transposition into German law of EU Directive 2014/95 as regards disclosure of non-financial and diversity information (the CSR Directive). They are structured in line with the five areas of concern specified (environmental matters, social and employee-related matters, respect for human rights, anti-corruption and bribery matters), and also include information on diversity. As a quality assurance measure, a limited assurance was also performed of selected quantitative and qualitative non-­financial disclosures in the Sustainability Disclosures. The online Sustainability Disclosures can be found at www.aareal-bank.com/responsibility Compact Sustainability Report 2016 Aareal Bank Group 31 Imprint Responsible for the content: Aareal Bank AG · Julia Taeschner · Group Sustainability Officer Paulinenstrasse 15 · 65189 Wiesbaden, Germany Phone: +49 611 348 3424 · E-mail: sustainability@aareal-bank.com This report was prepared in cooperation with akzente kommunikation und beratung GmbH, Munich/Frankfurt am Main, Germany Photography: Uwe Nölke Concept/Design: fischerAppelt AG, Hamburg/Frankfurt am Main, Germany Layout: S/COMPANY · Die Markenagentur GmbH, Fulda Production: ABT Print und Medien GmbH, Weinheim, Germany Editorial deadline: 30 April 2017 Aareal Bank AG Paulinenstrasse 15 65189 Wiesbaden, Germany E-Mail: sustainability@aareal-bank.com www.aareal-bank.com 05/ 2017
