Hans Følsgaard A/S COP report 2016 Content CEO Statement................3 Key events 2016..............4 Employees.......................4 Environment....................5 Society.............................6 Suppliers..........................7 CEO Statement 2016 was a great year for Hans Følsgaard A/S as we have made progress on almost every market parameter. Moreover, our biggest sales increase comes from customers in the green sector and the infrastructure sector having a positive impact on the environment. We continuously tailor We have new big projects for the coming year 2017 our solutions to match some of which were launched in 2016. The three most our customers’ needs and important ones are our LEAN project ensuring optimal end products in a simple workflow within our company, the introduction of ISO way minimizing resource as we expect to be ISO certified during the first half consumption. of 2018 and third but not least we wish to expand our business globally establishing our presence outside of We have experienced Scandinavia. significant growth in our telecom department as well. We plan to establish a company in Germany in the More and more Danish homes first quarter of 2017 enabling us to serve our German have fiber-to-the-home broadband connections. The customers in the energy and telecom sector even better mobility in the society has grown considerably and than we do today. people work from home and closer to home – resulting in less transport and less environmental impact. These projects help us develop and create more successful partnerships with customers and In 2016 we replaced our CRM system with a new one manufacturers/suppliers. We keep strengthening our improving the integration with our ERP, e-mail and relationships with our suppliers and expect of them marketing systems providing us with a vital tool for to adhere to the principles of UN Global Compact. HF business growth and enterprise transparency. It fosters joined the UN Global Compact in 2012 and we are greater communication, productivity and collaboration pleased to confirm our continued support to the UN across the organisation on all projects and activities Global Compact and its ten principles. in our comprehensive product range and very mixed customer portfolio. Although it has been an incredibly busy year, we have managed to keep the HF spirit high and our employees Getting a good overview fast means less resources satisfied and happy. spent for us and for our customers. Furthermore, it enables us to prioritize the projects which add most value to us and our customers. Jørgen Stenberg CEO 3 Key Events 2016 ■ Launch of new sustainable product ‘1 to 3 splitter box’ ■ Warehouse: Optimized lighting to minimum 100 lumens, new pallet drawer pull-out units and height adjustable forklifts to avoid lifting above shoulder level to further improve the work environment. ■ Bigger waste sorting containers limiting CO2 emission ■ The staff association received a large contribution from the Hans Følsgaard Foundation to further improve employee well-being. ■ New CRM system fully integrated with ERP, e-mail, phone and marketing system ■ Addtech education for all employees ■ Reduced CO2 from paper consumption by further 16% ■ Reduced CO2 emission from inand outbound shipments by 18% ■ New air conditioning system in our server room reducing power consumption by 20% Employees Our employees are our most valuable a professional responsibility to update our employee’s Further to this the staff association at HF has in 2016 assets and we treat them as such. Our knowledge. HF acknowledge the need for ongoing been granted a large amount from the Hans Følsgaard Education education and competency. Foundation to further improve the wellbeing of our future development depends on them; colleagues. Measures such as reimbursement for sports their well-being and job satisfaction are ■ HF acknowledge the need for ongoing education membership fees has already been taken in 2016 and important to us. and competency. In 2016 all external colleagues more will come in 2017. attended Addtech business school and our managers We allow our employees a high degree of autonomy. attended manager courses. ■ In the warehouse we have in 2016 acquired 3 new Giving our employees the freedom to manage much height adjustable forklifts to avoid lifts above of their own work we get flexible, dedicated and ■ The annual team-building sessions in each shoulder level and pallet drawer pull-out units for satisfied employees in return. HFs ambition is to always department under guidance and supervision of optimal handling of goods. attract and keep the best employees. Thus, HF conducts Strategic management consultants have been duly annual performance appraisal dialogues in order to carried out in 2016 – to ensure continuous growth, ■ We have optimized the lighting in our warehouse identify the areas where the employee would like to wellbeing and job satisfaction in the teams. to minimum 100 lumens everywhere. grow and develop and to ensure a healthy social work environment. Education & Training. Health The health and wellbeing of our colleagues is really Education & Training important. The company is already providing free Our vision is to be our customers’ Technical Partner health insurance for colleagues and their children, of choice. Being a Technical Partner, we advise our free eye examinations and free weekly massage and No incidents of involvements in labor rights customers on technical solution and therefore we have coaching. violations have been reported in 2016 Team-building 2014 2015 2016 EMPLOYEES 67 73 69 ■ Administration/Sale/Purchase/Finance 50 56 53 ■ Warehouse 9 9 8 ■ Norway 7 7 7 ■ Sweden 1 0 0 ■ China 0 1 1 Average age in years: 46.5 47,8 46,7 Average seniority in years: 8,7 9,2 8,6 Sick absence: 1,82% 3,5% 2,76% Male 50 53 50 Female 17 20 19 4 Pallet drawer pull-out unit Environment A strong intention to safeguard the much paper is used when printing from the environmental value. In 2016 we managed to environment forms part of HFs business individual PC’s in the office. Furthermore, we consolidate shipments from yet another supplier increasingly use electronic communications; viz. from several weekly shipments to just one shipment strategy. The aim is to minimize HFs from 2016 statement of accounts and invoices a week. impact on the environment by working to are emailed to our customers every month instead Splitter box reduce waste, CO2 emission and energy of mailed by post. We have also developed an ■ We take pride in developing and paper consumption. internet web page for frequently requested environmentally responsible and cost effective technical information for our customers to download. solutions – in close cooperation with our customers HFs main operations consist today of technology sales This way we not only lower CO2 emission we also and suppliers. In 2016 we developed yet another and distribution and only very limited production. save money on handling, paper and postage. such solution adding Economic, Social and Environmental value; a so-called “1 to 3 splitter HFs main direct impact on climate is from the handling, ■ The main reason for the increased box”, reducing the energy consumption by 12% packaging and transportation of finished goods, and electricity consumption is water damage. on Reefer units and increasing the number of business travel. The majority of purchases is from Unfortunately, our warehouse got weather related transported units/liters of oil. suppliers outside Denmark; i.e. from Europe, the US and water damage in 2016 and the equipment used to Asia, necessitating a high transport volume. rapidly dry out the building and restore the floor ■ The air conditioning systems in our server consumed a lot of energy. room has been replaced by a new system Activities are conducted continuously in HF to reducing the power consumption by 20%. safeguard environment; please refer to previous COP ■ The waste sorting containers delivered to reports for information on measures already taken. our warehouse are now bigger, thus limiting the number of times the containers have to be emptied Following measures were taken in 2016: and thereby lowering the CO2 emission. Air Conditioning System ■ We have managed to further reduce paper ■ We do our utmost to consolidate HF has neither been sued nor fined or received consumption in the office due to the fact that we shipments from our supplies to limit transports any penalties for violation of environmental laws focus on the paper consumption and monitor how and handling, thus gaining economic, social and or environmental regulations in 2016 2014: 139.953 kWh 1.116.667 km 554.624 CO2 /kg 2014: 9% 3.10 1.122,1 kg 70.648,6 Hours 2015: 137.910 kWh 1.070.000 km 588.325 CO2 /kg 2015: 3,5% 2.80 1.083,3 kg 68.205,8 Hours 2016 160.161 kWh 1.203.300 km 480.331 CO2 /kg 2016 16,1% 2,50 0.908,5 kg 57.285,0 Hours CO2 reduced by Used trees Produced CO2 Equiv. to bulp hour Electricity consumption Transport driven Emissions in total from non-renewable by employees in line resulted from inand energy of service outbound shipments. Waste Sorting Containers 5 Society HF actively supports many worthy ■ Donation to Børns Voksenvenner (Childrens Adult causes in the community, thus provide Friends) make a positive lifelong impact on children financial support to humanitarian and young people with delicate or difficult family relationships. Based on knowledge, professionalism organizations and sports associations. and experience they create valuable and developing friendships between the affected children and HFs most important positive impact on society lies in resourceful adults. our contribution to economic and social growth in the form of jobs and taxpayers. Through our products, ■ Donation to Stine Sofie Foundation for Children in we also help, for example, to bring efficiency Norway against violence and abuse. improvements and to cut energy consumption (see environment) ■ Donations to organizations that help fight cancer. HF has employed apprentices Sales Assistant since ■ Sponsorship for sports clubs, handicap sports and September 2011. The apprenticeship takes 2 years to local initiatives. complete after which a new apprentice is hired. Examples of social commitment projects in 2016 During the period, HF was not ordered to pay any ■ Donations to Julemærkehjemmet in Denmark which fines because of offences in the form of breaches helps children who have problems with bullying and of laws and regulations governing the provision social isolation. or use of products and services. 2014: DKK 547.107 2015: DKK 547.072 2016: DKK 756.311 6 Suppliers We consider ourselves the right-hand suppliers is essential for our business and we are very We take pride in developing environmentally man not only for our customers but also selective. We ensure not only that their products responsible and cost effective solutions – in close match our customers’ requirements, but also that our cooperation with our customers and worldwide for our suppliers throughout the world. suppliers are socially and environmentally responsible. suppliers. In 2016 we developed yet another such solution adding Economic, Social and Environmental Hans Følsgaard A/S work with some of the world’s We encourage our suppliers to sign our supplier code value; a so-called “1 to 3 splitter box”, reducing the foremost manufacturers of innovative and marketof conduct that support the ten principles of the UN energy consumption by 12% on Reefer units and leading technical products and trade with over 20 global compact. As part of these efforts, HF conducted increasing the number of transported units/liters of oil. countries in Europe, USA and Far East. Our longits first supplier self-assessment in 2013 comprising 30 standing and close relationship with our partners make of the company’s largest suppliers, and has decided to the way from manufacturer to customer and vice versa screen our suppliers biennially. shorter, processing time faster and customized solutions possible and accurate. We do our utmost to consolidate shipments from our supplies to limit transports and handling, thus gaining Our partnerships are long lasting some of them go economic, social and environmental value. In 2016 we back 50 and even 60 years and HF works continuously managed to consolidate shipments from yet another No violation of principles and regulations has on deepening supplier relationships. Our choice of supplier from several weekly shipments to just one been reported in 2016 shipment a week. 7 Designspace 02.2017 Hans Følgaard A/S is a subsidiary in the Addtech Group Addtech has a Code of Conduct that covers all subsidiaries, and each year a sustainability report is produced to present the results of the CSR work. The reporting complies with the guidelines for Application Level C of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). HF FØLSGAARD HF DANYKO AS THEILGAARDS TORV 1 BARK SILAS VEI 8 DK 4600 KØGE N 4876 GRIMSTAD TEL: +45 4320 8600 TEL: +47 37 090 940 hf@hf.net danyko@hf.net See Addtechs CSR Report here www.hf.net www.hf.net
