TELEKOM ROMANIA STAYING CONNECTED TO SUSTAINABILITY. SHARING OUR PERFORMANCE 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO introduction 2 1. SETTING THE SCENE 5 1.1. Telekom Romania in numbers 6 1.2. Who we are 7 1.3. Romania in a digital era 8 1.4. New business model: integrating responsibility into operations 10 2. OUR STRATEGIC PATH 13 2.1. Our business strategy 14 2.2. Our sustainability strategy 16 2.3. Our way of working 19 2.4. Our relations 20 3. HOW WE INCREASE OUR IMPACT THROUGH TRANSORMATIONAL SOLUTIONS 22 3.1. Smart cities 23 3.2. Fostering innovative communities 25 3.3. Responsible products for sustainable business 26 4. HOW DO WE TAKE CARE OF CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE & SAFETY 28 4.1. Advancing quality of products and service 29 4.2. Safe data 31 4.3. Safe user 33 5. HOW WE CONNECT THE UNCONNECTED? 35 5.2. Social impact: digitization & education 38 5.3. Social impact: helping the disadvantaged 40 5.4. Social impact: helping through sport 41 6. HOW WE SUPPORT TRANSITION TO LOW CARBON SOCIETY? 42 6.1. Energy and climate change 43 6.2. Mobile-related challenges 45 6.3. What’s the challenge for the future? 47 7. OUR PEOPLE A VALUABLE TEAM 50 7.1. Who are our employees? 51 7.2. How do we create a good place to work? 53 7.3. How we ensure the development of our employees? 56 7.4. How we foster social engagement of our employees? 57 8. OUR BUSINESS CONDUCTED RESPONSIBLY 59 8.1. Who is responsible? 60 8.2. Creating a culture of ethics 61 8.3. How we ensure being a responsible market player? 63 8.4. How we ensure responsibility of our supply chain? 64 8.5. How we ensure that our CR commitments are implemented? 67 8.6. Entreprise risk management 68 9. ABOUT OUR REPORTING 70 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX 74 Annex Awards and recognition 82 Annex – Glossary Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 2 Including more people in a growing economy also means helping those who struggle to participate in its benefits. In 2016 we invested 433,384 EUR in social projects helping 351,358 beneficiaries, and facilitated the collection almost G4-1 300,000 EUR through our donation lines. Through the work of our Telekom Romania Foundation we help individuals and communities from disadvantaged backgrounds who had been struck by personal tragedies. As a business operating on a highly competitive market, we share Romania’s appetite for growth and we want to grow together. But we also recognize that we can only grow together in a safe and well-preserved environment. In 2016 we registered a 12% decrease in our CO2 emissions and a 5% decrease in overall electricity consumption as compared to 2015. We are further challenged to reach the goal set out at DT Group level of reaching a 20% carbon footprint reduction by 2020. If we are to achieve all the ambitious goals defined in our CR Miroslav Majoroš strategy, we must have strong foundations and agile systems Chief Executive Officer, Telekom Romania in place. Grounded in a culture of ethics, we must build our strength through conducting our business operations responsibly, safeguarding our compliance processes and managing social and environmental risks in our supply chain. In order to embed sustainability into our operations, we follow CEO INTRODUCTION through our commitments to create more efficiencies that reduce our impact on the environment, but also address any THE RIGHT WAY TO GROW social concerns related to ITC technologies. These include data privacy and safe use of the internet but also the need to As a major player on the telecom market, one of our key commeasure the impact of electromagnetic fields. Recognizing mitments is to help Romania on its path to forming a knowlthe ever-changing nature of our products and services we are edge-based society, in which companies and communities continuously monitoring their impact and developing new ways exchange information and build their capabilities based on it. of making sure they are safe and sustainable. Our approach to the role we play in the society is thus reflected Knowing exactly where we currently stand is the first step to through our motto Experiente împreună (Life is for Sharing). We going forward. Telekom Romania is on the way to transforming believe that everyone in Romania should experience the beneits business into a sustainable business model. Reaffirming fits of a knowledge-based society, to tap into the life-enhancing our commitment to the 10 principles of UN Global Compact on opportunities brought to us through new technologies. We are human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption and the proud to have encouraged more people to participate in Roma17 Sustainable Development Goals, we continue to implement nia’s transition to digital, which is reflected in the growing numour CR strategy and measure our progress. ber of media-literate customers. It is through being connected that people can build stronger partnerships and communities. That is how we grow not separately, but together. Hence, we invest in infrastructure that ensures long-term development of the economy as well as in solutions for smart cities where technology, administration and citizens form an effective ecosystem. A successful such project is the first integrated Smart City pilot-project in one of the main parks in Bucharest which combines four components on an Internet of Things platform. This sample-like vision of the city of the future serves as a great inspiration of how technology can be used to impact entire communities in Romania in positive ways. Our significant investment in the development of advanced networks, 3/4G for mobile and FFTx for fixed landline services, demonstrates our contribution to connecting the unconnected. This enabled significant improvements in the provided speeds and also access to new technologies, thus offering a better experience to the customers. We are also supporting RoNet project, which provides the infrastructure for connecting remote areas to the Internet. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 3 Our CR Report 2016, which stands as our second CommunicaOur next challenge focuses around enhancing the Telekom tion on Progress for UN Global Compact (COP), demonstrates Romania customer experience across all touch points. Curthat we are committed to keep the Global Compact and its prinrently the Romanian telecom market is mostly defined by ciples as part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations price-driven competition, but positive changes are starting to of our company. Telekom Romania will continue to promote to take place and we want to be at the forefront of the transition this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. to a much more customer-centric approach. Our key objective is to become a simple, personal and digital business for our We have undergone transformative changes at Telekom customers. To fulfill this promise we must become a more agile Romania in the last couple of years. And, without a doubt, we company and further improve our business performance. have to continue our transformation program. These changes, supported by a growth mindset, will help us tackle the The future also brings transformation in broader terms as we ever-changing market challenges and return to a healthy busiacknowledge the need to adjust our business model to new ness model. requirements of a circular economy. We are making our first steps in that direction by raising awareness both internally Going forward, we want to continue being a fair and supportive and externally of product life-cycles and the possibilities for employer and focus on building a sense of mutual trust. We regeneration. want to encourage an open dialogue and spark conversations that lead to new, innovative solutions. This cannot be possible However, we must learn to walk before we can run and without our people feeling welcome in their teams and supportmeasure our steps carefully. No significant change has ever ed by the organization in their own development. Hence we are started from a place of complacency. That is why, I am proud to opening new internal communication channels and investing in present to you our 2016 Corporate Responsibility report which training opportunities that will help our employees excel. outlines our achievements so far and defines the road ahead. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 4 1. Setting the scene SETTING THE SCENE What are the main What is the vision and products and services What are the main mission of the company? offered by Telekom challenges of the market? What are the key financial Romania? What is the market & nonfinancial data of the How are the business position of Telekom company? model and the value chain Romania? organised? CHAPTER 1 Making people's lives easier and enriching them in the long KEY FIGURES term is the very essence of what we do. We continuously work to further consolidate our status as leading integrated service operator on the G4-9 Romanian market, facilitator of digitalization across all societal and business spheres all whilst putting our customers and PEOPLE PLANET PROFIT customer experience at the forefront. Number of Electricity Revenue Our current focus is on operational improvements that will employees consumed (GWh) (million EUR) help us secure our position in a highly demanding environment. The main challenge presented by the telecom industry 6,084 205.27 984.7* in Romania is to maintain high quality services and customer 6,368 (2015) 215.08 (2015) 1,040.2 (2015) care standards in a market still predominantly driven by 6,490 (2014) 218.89 (2014) 1,048.5 (2014) price, with low margins and a very aggressive competitive environment. Work-related Managed Pro Forma But Romania is also an interesting market, undergoing posfatal injuries waste (t) EBITDA itive changes, which constitute new, exciting opportunities (million EUR) for technological growth. We are committed to bringing our 0 3,255.98 175.2** contribution to the sustainable development of Romanian 0 (2015) 3,255.98 (2015) 205.5 (2015) economy and society, especially by supporting its digital 0 (2014) 7,541.31 (2014) 252.9 (2014) journey. We believe that we can deliver on these promises better with a more sustainable business model. People supported CO2 emissions Number of (Scope 12) (t) services (million) 351,3581 13,626.17 10.09 406,428 (2015) 14,077 (2015) 10.35 (2015) 1.1 Telekom Romania in numbers 412,950 (2014) 14,626.1 (2014) 10.68 (2014) MARKET COVERAGE G4-8 97.43% urban population 4G population coverage 8,100 localities 3G population coverage Over 99% GSM/GPRS population coverage Over 90% GSM/GPRS geographic coverage SUBSCRIBERS WHAT ARE THE KEY FINANCIAL & NONFINANCIAL 1.18 million broadband DATA TO PRESENT THE COMPANY? (fixed and mobile) subscribers 5.3 million mobile subscribers Telekom Romania (G4-3) is one of the largest 1.46 million TV subscribers telecommunications companies in Romania in terms of 2.15 million voice (fixed and mobile) users revenues and a leading player on the convergent fixed-mo2 million households fiber optics coverage bile services segment. Our operations are managed from several hundred offices, technical spaces and stores all over the country, with the headquarters in Bucharest (G4-5). G4-3, G4-5 1 Through sponsorship projects (estimated figure from partners reporting) 2 Scope 1 emissions – direct CO2 emissions from operations fuel consumption and company owned vehicles *Revenues consolidated **EBITDA adjusted Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 6 CHAPTER 1 1.2 WHO WE ARE OTE Group is the largest telecommunications provider on the Greek market and one of the leading telecom groups in Southeast Europe with presence in Greece, Romania and Albania. OTE is among the largest listed on the Athens Stock Exchange and offers a full range of telecommunications services: from fixed-line and mobile telephony, broadband services, to paid TV and ICT solutions. In addition to its core telecommunications activities, OTE is also active in maritime communications, real-estate and professional training. More information on OTE Investor Relations section. Deutsche Telekom, one of the world's leading integrated telecommunications companies with approx. 165 million mobile customers, 29 million fixed-network lines and more than 19 million broadband lines (as of December 31, 2016). Deutsche Telekom is present in more than 50 countries and G4-4 hires around 218,300 employees worldwide More information on DT Investor Relations section. Telekom Romania is present on the Romanian market since 2014 when two major telecommunications operators Telekom Romania Communications (formerly Romtelecom) and Telekom Romania Mobile Communications (formerly UNIQUE OFFER COSMOTE Romania) officially joined forces, under a new and dynamic telecommunications brand. Today, under one The combination of investments in our network and commerG4-6 umbrella company, we offer complete, innovative and cial presence via innovative solutions on both the residential customized mobile and fixed communication services to and business segments are expected to improve the coma broad customer base, using approximately 10 million pany‘s market position over time. Our new bundled offers services. delivered under one brand are a significant differentiator on the market. Ownership Telekom Romania Communications S.A Ministry of Communication and Information Society 45.99% How do these bundled offers look like? OTE International: 54.01% Everything in ONE place for all fixed and mobile commuOwnership Telekom Romania Mobile Communications S.A. nication needs: One Stop Shop, one Call Center, one bill, one Cosmote Mobile Communications S.A. 70% MyAccount (including one mobile app); Telekom Romania Communication S.A. 30% 10 seconds average waiting time in the call centre for customers of integrated fixed & mobile services; Telekom Romania is part OTE Group and part of the Entertainment and exclusive content on all screens (TV, G4-7 Deutsche Telekom Group. tablets, laptops, smartphones). Customers Infrastructure Product Operations Billing & Strategy & Lifecycle Lifecycle Support & Fulfillment Assurance Revenue Commitment Management Management Readiness Management Market & Sales Domain Product Domain TELEKOM ROMANIA Customer Domain OPERATIONS VALUE Service Domain CHAIN Resources Domain Engaged Party Domain Suppliers / Partners Enterprise Domain Shareholders Employees Stakeholders Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 7 CHAPTER 1 For the business segment, this concept reinforces our “One In addition, the Smart City solutions project piloted in Stop Shop” philosophy, which translates into more simplicity Bucharest contributed to the presence of Telekom Romania and convenience through a single contact point for all the comin all areas of operating ICT solutions. munication needs, covering the needs of all types of companies. We have launched the first true convergent fixed, mobile LEADING THE MARKET & SETTING NEW TECHNOLOGY and cloud bundle on the market including 1 TB of secure STANDARDS KEY 2016 ACHIEVEMENTS storage space (ISO Certified) and access to the online version of Microsoft Office for all FMC business customers. 4G coverage at 97.43% of urban population following national roaming contract; Enhanced 4G experience with renewed mobile B2B portMOBILE OFFERS folio with attractive benefits; Strong Fixed-Mobile Convergence growth, due to combinaIn September 2016 we introduced a new offer of our intetion of mobile and fixed strengths; grated fixed and mobile bundles for residential segment. Consolidation of the market position as turn-key IT&C soluThe Dad-hero is an innovative marketing campaign for family tions provider, leading position on the business fixed segment entertainment and communication. The campaign, labelled and for VPN respectively and significant growth in premium #1Dad, promoted our new data 4G bonus, 36 GB for the entire Internet; contractual period, 1.5 GB / month. It started with Surf M / Talk Focus on highly innovative IoT and Smart City solutions, in L / Surf L / Complete XL / Complete XXL and, in January 2017, line with Deutsche Telekom vision (Smart City project piloted was extended to Talk S and Talk M rate plans. in Bucharest, integrating 4 components on an IoT platform); Digitalization of schools: several smart education services In the prepaid segment, we noticed that data users quickly were introduced (interactive board, virtual reality learning and adopted the GigaWeekend offer first launched in 2015, with an electronic catalogue). additional bonus of 1 GB of data traffic at their disposal. Since the GigaWeekend bonus enjoyed a 72% repurchase rate we decided to re-launch the offer over in Q3 of 2016 with 1GB data traffic bonus per week. In the B2C postpaid segment we continued to offer a simple, straightforward product portfolio 1.3 ROMANIA IN A DIGITAL ERA positioned at different price points between 8.95 and 49.95 Euros and addressing various communication needs. TV SERVICES FOR ALL SCREENS We offer the highest number of HD channels with exclusive football content (UEFA Champions League, UEFA Europe League) as well as the highest number of OTT channels (up to 115) available in Romania. Our Interactive Television (IPTV) offers the most competitive TV experience on the market through interactive features such as Catch-up TV, Cloud recordings, Video on Demand, Pause Live TV and Startover TV. LEADING POSITION ON THE FIXED B2B SEGMENT We maintained our leading position in Managed Virtual Private Networks, Fixed Internet and Cloud IaaS in the B2B segment, with a 3.7% increase in revenue. The migration of ISDN services to IMS SIP Trunk modern technology continued throughThe ICT sector can contribute immensely to a country’s nationout 2016, offering premium customer service level agreement. al GDP, acting as an enabler, can result in improved market Moreover, we extended the number of installed access points competitiveness of products and services. This can have a (AP) for Managed WiFi product dedicated to B2B, which positive impact on governance and other sectors of the econoffers wireless routers, smart gateways and access points. At omy, effectively assisting international economic integration, the same time we focused on selling several cloud services, improving living standards and narrowing the digital divide including Smart Office, Unified Communication, Smart Bill and that alienates the unconnected communities. These socioecoSmart POS. nomic mechanisms visibly apply to Romania. Between 2010 and 2015, the Romanian ICT sector grew with almost 45%, its contribution to Romania GDP increased from 3.4% in 2011 to 6.7% in 2015. (Source) Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 8 CHAPTER 1 ROMANIA MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS The entire market of both broadband and TV grew significantly in 2016. All relevant players have their own extensive infrastruc2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ture with a focus on network development, with FTTH/B being by far the largest fixed broadband technology. Romania’s urban fiber coverage has currently exceeded 80%. The TV market is GDP growth 2.3 0.6 3.5 3.0 3.7 4.8 almost saturated in terms of customers (95% penetration), but growth is possible through services such as relevant content ICT sector growth 4.4 -9.1 24.5 9.4 11.7 13.1 packaging and the right technology mix. Telekom Romania’s strategy is to focus on convergent packages, TV content with ICT contribution exclusivities on all screens and the experience of 3/4G coverto GDP 3.4 4.5 4.9 5.1 6.7 7.2 age for mobile services. (Source) ICT influence on 0.1 -0.3 1.0 0.5 0.8 1 The mobile market is saturated and operators had to deepen GDP growth their relationship with existing customers to maximize monetization opportunities. Since the T brand launch in September Source 2014 and until the end of December 2016, Telekom Romania gained 370,000 fixed-mobile convergent customers. Romania is the no. 1 country in Europe and no. 3 in the world with download speed of fixed broadband Network improvements: increased infrastructure at 72.15Mbps. investments made by Romanian telecom operators; 9 out of the top 15 cities in the world in fastest internet speeds are in Romania. Growing consumer appetites: increased mobile data and smart devices usage; High-spec areas of technological innovation: top speed Romania faced two main connectivity challenges in 2016. mobile internet, IoT solutions, machine to machine Firstly, it needed to improve the coverage of fixed broadband services (M2M) and cloud computing; networks reaching only 89% of households, significantly below the EU average (98%). Secondly, to increase the number of Convergence of services: bundles including mobile, broadband subscribers: only 63% of households subscribed to fixed and TV services in one package gaining more and fixed broadband (EU average is 74%) and 71 subscribers per more ground; 100 people subscribe to mobile broadband (EU average is 84), limiting Romania's ability to exploit the benefits of the digital Price-driven market: demand for digital remained economy. (Source) uneven and deeply heterogeneous, defined largely by price sensitivity rather than practical or utilitarian At the end of 2016, Telekom Romania customers were criteria. benefiting from increased coverage of 4G services of 97.43% in urban population. The number of areas in which we are offering 3G services reached over 8,100. On the fixed segment, our fibre (FTTx) coverage increased to 2.1 million households’ footprint. Customers opting for this technology benefit of speeds of up to 1 Gbps for broadband and of interactive television (IPTV) services. “Telecommunications is a competitive environment, where changes are Currently the Romanian telecom market is mostly defined by happening fast, customers are demandprice-driven competition, but positive signals from the econing and every day is a race against time omy, including recovering private consumption, rising wages and surpassing your yesterday's and low inflation levels, are leading to a gradual move towards performance. We are delivering what the more qualitative solutions. Competition based exclusively on customers want in terms of technology, tariffs with 2 large fixed line operators, 3 mobile operators and handsets and communications packag1028 small ISP with their own infrastructure, is gradually slowes, all taking into account in close cooping down. Market players are re-focusing to providing increaseration with our partners the life cycle of ing broadband access speeds, offering exclusive content or the products and the sustainability footprint derived from the introducing fixed-mobile convergent FMC bundles. (Source) current technology.” Roxana Baias, Marketing Director Romania Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 9 CHAPTER 1 COMPETITOR LANDSCAPE Our activities with respect to network development are primarily driven by the needs of our customers, which are conIn the fixed line of business Telekom is competing with tinuously evolving along with the growing number of mobile RDS&RCS and UPC Romania, both companies having large devices, games, high-resolution videos, cloud services etc. optical-fiber networks extending over significant portions of The dynamics of today’s society dictate the need of secured the country. Our main competitors in the mobile segment are access to the digital world whilst on the move, at work or at Orange and Vodafone, with great national coverage of LTE home, with optimal speed and quality. networks and fast speed access. To fulfil these needs we need to ensure that our network has to be widely accessible, safe and reliable. Optical fibre was a key priority for us our focus remained on further increasing the penetration of this technology in the already covered regions. The fiber optics coverage increased to 2.1 million households’ footprint at the end of 2016, from almost 2 million households in Q3, thus exceeding the company’s target for the year. To differentiate ourselves in a price driver market we adopted a new vision and a strategy built around offering great value 1.4 New business model: for our customers. We do this by bringing more benefits and integrating responsibility into competitive and simplified services, along with providing great operations customer experience across all touch points. More information you may find in the chapter #4 How do we take care of costumer experience & safety . We focused on TV content with the aim to offer access to the best content football, quality movies and documentaries, entertainment. Our recent investments in top quality TV content amounted to tens of millions of euros, enabling Telekom to consolidate its position on this segment and set the highest standards in the market of TV and entertainment services. Furthermore we took steps in improving our IPTV platform that will become live next year. This is a major stepping-stone to providing unique experience to our TV customers on all screens. Staying in the product zone is of the essence this is why convergence remains important to us. We reported over 370,000 fixed-mobile convergent service customers at the end of 2016. We maintain a unique proposition on the market and this is something we should continue to build upon. Further improving our fixed-mobile convergent portfolio, by offering cusWe are integrating principles of responsible operation in our tomers simplicity, convenience, value for money and services management practices, in order to ensure that they are being tailored for their specific needs, for both families and businesstaken into consideration in our daily operations. We develes is certainly something that gives us a jolt in the market. oped a business process model based on eTOM (enhanced Telecom Operations Map) and implemented integrated Understanding the changing Romanian consumer enables us management systems in the areas of quality, environment, to map in-depth profiles, which inform us about specific needs. health and safety, information security, business continuity, This in turn helps us tailor the best-fitting bundles and services. service management, risk management and compliance. Throughout 2016, we have intensified this approach towards our integrated services customers, but also extended it to our mobile customers, offering customized retention and renewal offers. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 10 CHAPTER 1 Our management systems, co-ordinated by the Process Management Romania Department and externally certified, are harmonized with Telekom Romania’s strategic objectives. They support our goals through building simple, reliable, efficient processes, designed in partnership with internal customers in an objective, transparent and honest way. This leads to an efficient evaluation of risks and provides innovative solutions through a unitary model, enabling performance and encouraging change while maintaining control and functionality of our E2E Processes. We’re constantly working to improve our performance and every year we run an in-depth SWOT analysis as well as external and internal audits for each of the systems to identify our strengths and weaknesses. As of May 2015 we have officially adhered to the 10 principles of UN Global Compact and joined the Global Compact Network in Romania. Since then we have been gradually implementing the UN Global Compact Principles in our operations and in our compliance system, ensuring that our activity is in line with the principles internally and externally. INCREASE CUSTOMER SATISFACTION MANAGE AND REDUCE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Quality Management System based on Environmental Management System based on ISO 9001 ISO 14001 Certified by TUV Hellas | 2014/2015* Certified by TUV Hellas | 2014/2015* ENSURE A SAFE AND HEALTHY WORK ENVIRONMENT PROTECT PERSONAL PRIVACY Health & Safety Management System based on Information Security Management System based OHSAS 18001 on ISO 27001 Certified by TUV Hellas | 2014/2015* Certified by TUV Hellas | 2014/2016* ENSURE BUSINESS CONTINUITY IDENTIFY AND PREVENT RISKS Business Continuity Management System based on Risk Management System ISO 22301 (ISO 31000) Certified by TUV Hellas | 2014* Attested in 2016* COMPLIANCE IS THE FOUNDATION OF OUR BUSINESS Compliance Management System and Antitrust System based on German Auditing Standard IDW PS 980 Certified 2013 |2014** *current certification for fixed-mobile integrated operations **only fixed operations Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 11 CHAPTER 1 KEY PARTNERSHIPS For us, stakeholder engagement is not a one-off process, but it is G4-15, G4-16 continuous. We have developed long standing partnerships with various stakeholder groups, including NGOs, local communities, suppliers and business sector. We see this approach as our standing contribution. UN Global Compact Partner since 2015 Position: Member in the Steering Committee Thematic area: Human Rights, Labour, Environment, Anticorruption International Telecommunication Unit Partner since 2015 Position: Member of board of directors Thematic area: Sustainability, Technical Standards, Radio Spectrum, Satellite Communication Romanian Advertising Council Partner since 2015 Position: Member Thematic area: Advertising self-regulation, Copyrights The American Chamber of Commerce in Romania Partner since 2010 Position: Member Thematic area: Advocacy and business growth professional association German-Romanian Chamber of Commerce Partner since 2011 Position: Member Thematic area: Advocacy and business growth professional association Forum Investment Council Partner since 2010 Position: Member Thematic area: Advocacy and business development climate Association of Mobile Operators in Romania Partner since 2008 Position: Founding member Thematic area: ICT regulation, Consumer information, Responsible operations on internet, Responsible competition Association of Romanian Telecommunication Operators Partner since 2010 Position: Member Thematic area: Telecommunication regulatory framework development Transparency International Romania Partner since 2014 Position: Member Thematic area: Anticorruption practices Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 12 2. Our strategic path OUR STRATEGIC PATH What are the business What are our strategic goals? What are the SDG's that goals concerning What is our purpose, what we contribute to in sustainability? are the main impacts? Romania? What is our progress? CHAPTER 2 Through collaboration and continuous innovation, we aim to In 2016 we have achieved strong results within three key become the top convergent provider and the enabler of digitaareas: lization, and the customer experience creator and the telecom employer of choice.To achieve this, we are investing in infraBUILDING AN INTEGRATED OPERATOR structure that ensures long-term development for the economy, as well as cutting edge solutions that will build smart cities This is reflected by the success of our integrated of the future. In our view, technology, administration and offers with the number of subscribers more than citizens are part of a single, effective ecosystem. doubling during 2016 and reaching 370,000. We could not see this vision through without setting out clear LEADING IN TECH principles that guide our business practices and encourage a positive approach amongst all our employees. This is furWe continued to invest in cutting edge technolother reinforced and inspired by UN Sustainable Development gies, with a focus on expanding our 4G and fibre Goals (SDGs) that we accepted as an external motivator that optics (FTTx) networks, which resulted in over 2 will challenge us into thinking globally. million households covered by the FTTx network. Our business strategy aims to integrate business with sustainability. TRANSFORMING THE OPERATING MODEL 2.1 OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY Building towards a one-stop-shop for all fixed and mobile communication needs: one Call Center, one Bill, one MyAccount, one mobile app and one click payment. EVOLUTION OF COMMERCIAL INDICATORS The table below illustrates the evolution of Telekom Romania’s commercial indicators. The numbers are in millions. in million euro 2014 2015 2016 Voice services reported by 2.18 2.17 2.15 fixed company Mobile customers base 5.95 5.75 5.3 If we are to secure a sustainable position in all market segTV Services 1.41 1.45 1.46 ments and geographical areas, we will need to capture fixed-mobile synergies across the value chain (fixed-mobile Broadband services reported integrated offers for all types of customers) and deliver cus1.23 1.20 1.18 by fixed company tomer excellence, with a highly efficient and focused operating model. Commercial premiers (unique innovative offers for our customers), customer excellence focus, all-in-one philosophy, significant investment in technology and infrastructure are some of the major outcomes of our strategy based on innovation and technological leadership. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 14 CHAPTER 2 OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED TELEKOM ROMANIA G4-EC1,G4-DMA Economic performance in million EUR 2014 2015 2016 Total revenues 1,048.5 1,040.2 984.7 Pro forma EBITDA 265.5 205.5 175.2 Taxes and contributions* 174.2 147.0 121.0 *Total taxes paid at national level, except penalties which are reported separately The key indicator we measure our financial performance against is stability. Our 2016 results show stable revenues, with smaller EBITDA, but positive performance on integrated fixed-mobile bundles segment, TV and wholesale (as reported by OTE Group). FIXED OPERATIONS MOBILE OPERATIONS In a very competitive market, the financial results reported by Telekom Romania Mobile Communications registered a total Telekom Romania Communications for 2016 rose 0.14% yoy revenue of EUR 457.1mln at the end of 2016, up by 4.2% to EUR 602.5 million. Key areas such as TV and integrated compared to the corresponding period last year. In Q4 2016, offers continued to generate growth for the company. For the compared to Q4 2015, Telekom Romania Mobile’s total customer base decreased by 7.1%, to 5.3 million, out of which entire year 2016, adjusted EBITDA was EUR 93.5mln com30.5% are post-paid customers. pared to EUR 118.4mln in 2015, down by 21%, as positive results reported for Q3 2016 could not compensate the value The total number of business customers grew by 6.3% comreported at 12 months. pared to Q4 2015, reflecting the company’s targeted offers for professional users and synergies created following its Operating Expenses, excluding depreciation, amortization, rebranding, together with Telekom Romania Communications, charges related to voluntary retirement programs and restrucunder the Telekom Romania brand. turing, as well as RONET costs, increased by 3.96% for entire 2016 compared to previous year, following higher direct costs Effective management of costs led to increase of 1.7% in related to customers, but also higher indirect costs, mainly in Adjusted EBITDA in Q4 2016, against Q4 2015, to EUR the area of network rent and customer care. The convergent 17.7mln. services generated 64% increase in revenues in Q4 2016 compared to Q4 2014, with corresponding increase in the number of FMC customers, which reached over 370,000. FIXED OPERATIONS MOBILE OPERATIONS in million EUR 2014 2015 2016 in million EUR 2014 2015 2016 Total revenues 609.1 601.7 602.5 Total revenues 439.4 438.5 457.1 Pro forma EBITDA 159.9 118.4 93.5 Pro forma EBITDA 105.9 87.1 81.7** **Consolidated revenues Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 15 CHAPTER 2 2.2 OUR SUSTAINABILITY INTEGRATING GLOBAL GOALS IN OUR VISION STRATEGY For Telekom Romania sustainability refers to creating economic value through responsible core business practices and increasing our positive impact on society and economy as well as reducing negative environmental impacts. Our mission is to connect the unconnected, build low-carbon society and help stakeholders to connect life and work. To achieve this vision we focus on material issues presented in this report and we track our progress based on KPI’s. The ground of our strategic thinking of Telekom Romania is consistent with the sustainability strategy of Deutsche Telekom Group as well as the OTE Group CR Policy implemented in our company in 2016. “We, as Telekom Romania, integrate economic, environmental and social aspects along our entire value chain and maintain regular exchange with our stakeholders. We invest in infrastructure that ensures long-term development of the economies, but also in solutions for smart cities in which technology, administration and citizens are part of an effective ecosystem.” Miroslav Majoroš, CEO Telekom Romania OUR CONTRIBUTION TO UN SDG As part of Deutsche Telekom and OTE Group, member of Global Compact Network Romania and integrated telecommunication company in Romania, we have accepted the challenge to contribute to the achievement of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDG) and we G4-15 are delivering our contribution here in Romania (G4-15). Our vision of a Sustainable Society is simple: as a good life and well-being for all now and in the future. We believe that Information and Communication Technology (ICT) can help achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals and what drives us are three interconnected human needs: the need to communicate, the need to belong and the need to live in a clean and healthy natural environment. Telekom Romania is committed to corporate governance based on the principles of corporate responsibility (CR). With CR’s governance structure, we ensure that topics related to sustainability are integrated in key business processes. The Board of Directors grants overall responsibility for CorpoG4-DMA Indirect Economic Impacts, G4-DMA Employment, G4-DMA Materials, G4-DMA Energy, G4-DMA Emissions, G4-DMA Procurement rate Responsibility to the CEO. Corporate Communication Practices, G4-DMA Supplier Environmental Assessment, G4-DMA Supplier Romania Director is responsible for strategic design and Assessment for Labor Practices, G4-DMA Supplier Assessment for Impacts implementation of relevant actions. on Society, G4-DMA Investment, G4-DMA Effluents and Waste Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 16 CHAPTER 2 HOW DO WE MEASURE OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS TELEKOM ROMANIA KPIS WITHIN CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY? In order to measure and steer our CR performance, Telekom Romania uses guidelines and indicators developed by both Strategic KPI Definition 2014 2015 2016 area Deutsche Telekom and OTE Group. These indicators are of the essence as they help us to systematically and transparently optimize and improve our performance. Nine (difference in (9) ESG key performance indicators are monitored within the CO2 emissions compared Deutsche Telekom Group (Link ). We have also implemented Emissions DT ESG KPI to the climate target base year 2008 in 122,447 93,318 84,298 OTE Group Social Charter and we steer our CR performance thousands of t CO2) by employing some of OTE’s Group KPIs. All of them cover three strategic impacts environmental, social and employees. Energy (energy consumption Consumpin thousands of 431 407 345 tion MWh/revenue in ADDITIONALLY, IN 2016 WE HAVE SUCCESSFULLY: ESG KPI billions of €) Environment Completed ISO 14001:2004 certification through external audit and participated in Climate Change Strategy Project of Deutsche Telekom Group. You will find more Renewable (share of renewable energy in total information in the chapter #6. How we support transition to Energy DT ESG KPI electricity n/a 84 84 low carbon society?” consumption) Implemented Telekom Romania 2016 Scholarship Program. You will find more information in the chapter “#5. How we connect the unconnected?” Used (cell phones collectParticipated in DT's project in the area of “Vendor ManCell-Phone Collection ed in thousands / 0.62* 0.62* 0.31* agement & Sustainable Procurement” DT ESG KPI customers in millions) Issued our first Sustainability Report based on Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines – the most rec(Telekom Romania's ognized methodology. Our report is comparable to other involvement in the reports based on GRI within the sector. Data covering CorpoCommunity Investment community either financially, in-kind or rate Responsibility of Telekom Romania were also included DT ESG KPI by time contribution 254 640 452 in the 2015 COSMOTE Sustainability Report. More informaof its employees measured in thousands tion you will find in the chapter #9. About our reporting of euro) (difference between OUR IMPACTS the assessment of the importance of social Social commitment and Commitment n/a -14 -10 Telekom Romania contributes to the UN Sustainable DT ESG KPI Telekom Romania's social commitment Development Goals; activities (expressed in percentage points ) (number of people involved in community Society Beneficiaries activities and in target DT ESG KPI group that benefited 413 407 352 from community activities in thousands of people) (% of people reached through programs Media addressing media Literacy DT 0 0.17 8.07 literacy from total ESG KPI number of beneficiaries) (Number of projects (volunteering)/ OTE Group Number of Corporate 6 22 30 KPI Volunteering activities) Employee (employee Employees Identification identification with with CR Telekom Romania's n/a 156 n/a Commitment CR commitment DT ESG KPI in %) * Cases in which we do not have indicator in fix but have in mobile Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 17 CHAPTER 2 OUR DIRECT IMPACT IN ROMANIA Decent work and economic growth (#8) Transforming traditional employment sectors Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure (#9) and creating brand new employment opportuniICT plays a crucial role in providing affordable ties in areas such as social media management, and increased access to information through gaming and the mobile apps economy, informaenabling research into new, sustainable technoltion technology outsourcing (ITO) or business ogies and solutions. process outsourcing (BPO). Sustainable cities and communities (#11) Reduced inequalities (#10) ICTs can play a significant role in reducing the By facilitating a broad and easy access to carbon footprint of cities by moving to a more internet, ICT can address health, education intelligent use of energy but also connecting and economic inequalities by focusing on most various “smart” realms of activities like electric marginalized groups or regions. mobility, e-Health, e-Care, and e-Governance. Responsible consumption and production (#12) OUR CONTRIBUTION THROUGH OUR SUSTAINABILITY ICTs have the potential to foster sustainable conSTRATEGY sumption and production through product-specific improvements, increased dematerialization Affordable and clean energy (#7) and virtualization, and the implementation of Providing ICT-enabled solutions such as smart smart technologies. grids, smart buildings and smart logistics which can play a major role towards an energy efficient Climate action (#13) future, reducing global GHG emissions. ICT plays a crucial role in sharing climate and weather information and in forecasting and early No poverty (#1) warning systems. Increasing efficiency, competitiveness and market access for SMEs, create new jobs, revive old Life below water (#14) occupations, and add new public services. ICT is already playing an important role in communicating water related scientific knowledge Good health and well-being (#3) effectively. Geographic Information Systems and Supporting e-health policies and strategies that remote sensing provide opportunities for water foster health education through a portfolio and monitoring and sustainable management of smart health solutions and additional solutions marine and coastal systems. to educate the market and access to preventive information as well as remote diagnostics. Life on land (#15) The protection, conservation, and restoration OUR INDIRECT IMPACT AS AN ICT COMPANY of terrestrial ecosystems can’t be achieved without real time and accurate information. Zero hunger (#2) Satellite-based monitoring delivers timely and acFacilitating access to timely information that curate data on a global basis, while local sensors helps trigger rapid responses when battling deliver updates in real-time. hunger, managing the procurement, storage and distribution of essential food. Peace and justice, strong institutions (#16) ICTs can play an important role in crisis manQuality education (#4) agement, humanitarian aid and restoring peace. Widening the access by reducing the physical For example, governments are starting to make and social barriers to education, supporting the more and more information readily available to improvement of the educational management the masses via the internet/”ICT” sphere, pieces and contributing to of legislation posted online, digitalization of modernization of schools. some processes (apply online for certain permits). This openness from the Government's side Gender equality (#5) increases transparency, empowers citizens, and Providing mobile services that help fight violence helps drive economic growth. against women. Partnerships for the goals (#17) Clean water and sanitation (#6) The spread of ICTs and global interconnectedSupport in mapping and monitoring water ness has great potential to bridge the digital infrastructure. divide by developing more knowledge-based economies and societies. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 18 CHAPTER 2 WHAT IS OUR PURPOSE AND HOW DO WE WORK I. CUSTOMER DELIGHT AND SIMPLICITY DRIVE OUR TOWARDS IT? ACTION G4-56 We are determined to achieve our vision of becoming the The first Principle reminds us that the needs of our cusintegrated operator and leading driver of digitization in tomers should always be at the core of all our activities. It's Romania by fulfilling the promise of technology that about the thoughts, emotions, needs and experiences of our supports and enhances people’s well being in the modern customers as the drivers of our success. world without compromising the ecosystem or the prospects of later generations. Our corporate culture, a set of II. RESPECT AND INTEGRITY GUIDE OUR BEHAVIOUR values serving as road signs for all our activities, is a key factor that will shape our way of working towards this goal. This principle applies both internally and externally. We need These road signs are reflected in our Guiding Principles to respect each other when working together within our which define how we behave and act on our values in teams but also when interacting with the outside world. This practice, both within and outside the organisation. applies not only to our customers but also partners, suppliers and shareholders. We make sure that the Guiding Principles are regularly communicated via our internal communication, helping to III. TEAM TOGETHER – TEAM APART incorporate them into the everyday work of our employees. One example is our annual Guiding Principles Day “Best The third Guiding Principle relates to the culture of cooperaPlace to Perform and Grow”. This “day” is held every year tion. When working as a team, all issues must be discussed across the Group and it implies calling all of our employees openly. There has to be room for different opinions and to think about our Guiding Principles, bring them to life discussions that get to the root of the problem. But once and find ways on how to implement them into the day-toa decision is reached, it is final and will be implemented day work. This is done through different campaigns and accordingly. team events such as competitions, workshops, and panel discussions. IV. BEST PLACE TO PERFORM AND GROW Our employees are the key to achieving our business objectives. This Guiding Principle is an obligation for all managers 2.3 OUR WAY OF WORKING to recognize individual commitment and success and to offer a positive environment with opportunities for professional development. V. I AM T – COUNT ON ME The fifth Guiding Principle addresses the personal commitment of each employee. What this means in practice is that we are all personally committed to finding a solution to a customer’s problem. This customer may be a consumer, a colleague, business partner or another corporate partner, such as companies that are not our business customers but with whom we engaged in partnerships for various purposes e.g. different types of events. You can find more about Our Values and Guiding Principles by accessing this link. The following principles describe the manner in which we work together within the company as well as our interactions with third parties. They also serve as the basis for our Code of Conduct, explaining what they mean in our daily work as well as their tangible and practical impact. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 19 CHAPTER 2 2.4 Our relations WHO ARE OUR STAKEHOLDERS? G4-24, G4-25 Our stakeholders are the people who can affect our business and who are affected by it. We have identified groups of stakeholders based on the strength of the impact of the company and the interest of the stakeholder. HOW DO WE RUN THE DIALOGUE AND WHAT WE LEARN FROM IT? KEY 2016 ENGAGEMENT TOPICS AND CONCERNS ENGAGEMENT TYPE AND FREQUENCY Customers G4-26, G4-27 Activation of products, quality of services (in relation to costs) Customer satisfaction surveys monthly Technical Support (e.g. web hosting, DNS services, IPVPN) CR Surveys biannually Commercial and Billing Issues Tracking Studies monthly Telephony Operations Call Centers daily Improving the way customer complaints are handled Customer Account Managers daily Safe use of Services Social Media daily Electro Magnetic Fields Sales Network daily Responsible Marketing (e.g. consumer rights) Introduction of new technologies Data Security and Privacy Media Timely Response Corporate announcements and systematic contacts with media representatives dailly Management Press conferences and events monthly Commercial Answers to media enquiries on CR topics weekly Technology CR Surveys biannually Financial Environment Labour CR Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 20 CHAPTER 2 KEY 2016 ENGAGEMENT TOPICS AND CONCERNS ENGAGEMENT TYPE AND FREQUENCY Suppliers Tender Criteria and clarification Consultation on procurement issues (relevant laws, market issues etc.) monthly Communication on Supplies Issues Meetings daily Transparency CR Surveys biannually Market Policy Suppliers’ Evaluation annually Economic Growth Partnerships daily Inserting CR Criteria, including Environmental Criteria Communities & NGOs Importance of CR Systematic liaison with central and local authorities bimonthly Internet Safety Public Education Meetings with NGOs weekly Support for Vulnerable Groups and Charities CR Surveys biannually Social Contribution Community projects weekly Meetings and Electronic Communication preferred Sponsorships weekly Electro Magnetic Fields Biodiversity Environmental Performance Employees Rationalization and reduction of labor costs in agreement, as much as possible Intranet daily Fair Work (diversity, work– life balance) Circulars on all important company decisions weekly Planning and Conducting of Training Programs Meetings with employees annually Professional Development Negotiations with labor unions weekly Health and Safety Emails and newsletters weekly Protection of Personal Data Employee satisfaction annually Surveys on different topics Pulse Surveys biannually, Employee Opinion Survey once every 2 years CR Surveys biannually Organization of internal events monthly Appraisal System annually Trainings daily Investors Company strategy and results Corporate Responsibility Reports annually General legal and taxation framework CR Surveys biannually Outlook on labor relations, regulatory decisions Participation in Corporate Responsibility ratings annually Climate Change Policy Conference Calls quarterly Meetings of Executives weekly Adoption and implementation of policies and guidelines weekly Public Authorities Implementation of Regulatory Measures Consultations on proposed laws and frameworks for telecom markets monthly Issues of Effective Regulatory Adjustment Written or verbal communication with regulatory and public sector bodies weekly Specialized National Goals for European Digital Agenda Dialogue with representatives of national and local authorities weekly Transparency CR Surveys biannually Governance Attendance in associations and unions biannually Economic Growth Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 21 3. How we increase our impact through transformational solutions? HOW WE INCREASE OUR IMPACT THROUGH TRANSORMATIONAL SOLUTIONS How do we understand What can change through What does a Smart City innovation? our products and look like? services? CHAPTER 3 As a modern technology company, our aim is to assume a pi3.1 SMART CITIES oneering role and help shape the systems that set the scene for better, more sustainable lives for future generations. This is why we develop smart solutions that create greater G4-EC8 efficiency and convenience for users while keeping environmental impact to a minimum. While keeping our eyes and ears open to changing conditions and needs in our environment, our current focus is on areas such as machine-to-machine communication, telemedicine, smart offices and smart cities. We are proud to say that our products and solutions are already supporting the transformation of cities and communities in inclusive, safe, durable and sustainable urban spaces. But we do not stop there. Through our business solutions we help large organisations not only to create efficiencies and reduce their carbon footprint but also to foster a sustainable growth of Romanian SMEs. Taking it a step further, through participating in the local start-ups community, we use our expertise and resources to identify new, grassroots technologies, giving way to new generations of innovators. DT GROUP: BEING “SMART” MEANS SOMETHING DIFFERENT FOR EACH CITY Our product and service strategy aims to achieve the The Deutsche Telekom vision for smart cities is one of an ecofollowing goals: system enabled by a more efficient administration of public services through ICT-based solutions, ultimately increasing the quality of life for its citizens, attracting visitors and supporting the economic development. From Bonn to Budapest, Gijón to Dubrovnik, Bucharest and Prague – thanks to DT’s smart city initiatives, life in many of Europe’s urban spaces are Enable sustainable growth of our company becoming more convenient. Understanding that each city is different means that the solutions must take into account different motivations, Support the transition to a low carbon society requirements, limitations, challenges and objectives very often generated and required by the dominant political and economic groups. Facilitate access to education and health services for as many people as possible “Today’s cities are faced with enormous challenges, from continued rapid growth and resulting ecological and economic pressures, Support the sustainable development of to complex urban transformation Romanian communities needs due to recent technology advances.” Ralf Nejedl, Senior Vice President Enable customers to achieve their own B2B DT Europe. sustainability goals Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 23 CHAPTER 3 While cities account for a large share of global CO2 emisHOW DOES A ‘SMART CITY’ LOOK LIKE?* sions, at the same time they can also be the origin and driving force behind innovative solutions that push societies towards sustainability. Benefitting from Deutsche Telekom Public Transport Management group’s expertise, we are dedicated to initiatives that help Efficient management of public transport (real-time informareshape cities into smart urban spaces. tion with regards to arrival times of busses, line information or With the support of Cisco as our technology partner in 2016 rout changes) we rolled out the first integrated Smart City pilot-project in the Tineretului Park in Bucharest. Combining four components: Citizens having remote access to traffic information (traffic City Safety, Smart Lighting, Smart Parking and WiFi connecdensity on a certain avenue at a certain time) tivity integrated through an Internet of Things platform, the Bike-sharing systems (where are the “bike sharing depots” project ensures a better and safer experience in a landmark located and number of available bicycles) green space.The City Safety solution incorporates a video surveillance system and an application that permits identiSmart Parking fication of specific predefined scenarios that trigger intervention from city authorities. The solution provides alerts for Lower carbon emissions cases of vandalism or trespassing in restricted areas. It also Fluid traffic, reduced congestion provides early warning in cases where a person is in a situation requiring immediate help. Another benefit of the solution Efficiencies in parking surveillance is the possibility to identify illegally parked cars. Reduced illegal parking Greater efficiency of traffic monitoring Smart Street Lighting Energy-efficient Flexible intensity depending on occupancy Real-time maintenance reports Waste management M2M solution for selective pick-up of garbage bins Reduced costs of logistics due to fill-level sensors Innovative billing solutions enabling a more fair waste management pricing Garbage collectors able to notify the city authorities when containers are used improperly Health and Safety Electrical cars charging stations Mapping the network charging stations for electric vehicle drivers The Smart Lighting solution was used on eight polls Automated transaction tracking creating transparency on equipped with LED lights and controllers equipped with movehicle energy costs tion sensors and technology that responds to ambient light Telemedicine intensity. The lighting system can be controlled remotely or automatically to increase light intensity whenever an individConnecting patients with adequate health care providers and ual is close by. This can result in energy costs decrease of as specialists much as 60%, yielding a significant benefit to local authoriFacilitating remote medical examination ties. The Smart Parking solution allows the local authorities to use Health care cost reduction and optimization of medical the data to output reports on parking space occupancy and activity traffic levels in the area. Drivers, on the other hand, can use a dedicated app to easily identify whether a parking space *Solutions available in Telekom Romania portofolio near the park is available. Tineretului Park visitors can also enjoy free internet access in a designated area. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 24 CHAPTER 3 Moreover, the internet solution can be extended in a way to 3.2 FOSTERING INNOVATIVE include data analytics features providing local authorities with a tool to analyse traffic flow peaks and lows based on COMMUNITIES which security services in a certain area can be managed more efficiently: see on which streets the traffic is dense and afterwards relay this information to emergency services so they know to avoid it and find a more optimal route. The digitalization of urban space is motivated by societal, economic, ecological and technological developments. These include current and future challenges such as increasing urbanization and demographic changes as well as area-specific issues faced by local communities. Therefore, the road towards a Connected City must be understood as a complex interplay of different interests and objectives, marrying the demands of entire cities, individual citizens as well as other stakeholders such as local businesses and institutions. We are always looking for solutions that will help us, our customers and the Romanian society in building sustainable progress. Our approach to encouraging innovation is to support new technological ideas and initiatives, which can contribute to social and economic progress while protecting the environment. Besides the innovative solutions in our portfolio, we are an active supporter of the local tech and creative start-up community. We support a number of start-ups through pilot projects. We encourage early stage start-ups to submit their proposals as to where they see room for collaboration. These innovative products and services are then assessed by our subject matter experts and, depending on the development stage, the start-up will be offered customized recommendations for its further development or a partnership. Among the piloted projects are: SEMSEYE, which provides in-store analytics for retailers Our Smart City solutions entail many different facets and DeviceHub.net, an IoT-based project management platform challenges – from processes, hardware, software and comfor manufacturers munications layers to the design of new business models. Omnipaste, an application, which allows desktop computBuilding on our expertise at operating, managing and aders to connect to an Android device vancing large communication infrastructures, as well as our SafeDrive, a mobile application rewarding drivers for not experience in the M2M sector and IT integration capabilities, using their phones we take it upon ourselves to put the pieces of this complex ecosystem together. Collaboration, open platforms and multi-layered urban networks are the key to taking digital transformation of cities to the next level. This is an evolutionary process in which heterogeneous building blocks need to be integrated in a larger ecosystem of connected things and people. The step by-step transformation of public infrastructures and services addresses the challenges of modern cities – from energy supplies and traffic planning to economic and ecological sustainability. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 25 CHAPTER 3 Besides inviting start-ups to collaborate with us directly, we are also connected with the start-ups community in Romania CASE STUDY and internationally through a number of partnerships. The most important of them is our participation in promoting Romanian start-ups through hub:raum Krakow (Deutsche Telekom’s innovative start-ups incubator) and its acceleraTechnology against dementia tion program WARP. Offering mentoring from experienced professionals, workshops featuring international experts and Spring of 2016 also saw the launch of Deutsche Telemeetings with relevant companies, WARP is a great platform kom’s global project Sea Hero Quest in Romania. This for early stage start-ups. innovative game is specifically designed to help bring scientists one step closer to developing new diagnostic tests for dementia. Sea Hero Quest marries entertainment with scientific research by providing data about In the last years, during five editions of WARP Accelerator, how its users navigate everyday life. over 3,000 start-ups have been evaluated and 58 teams By October 2016, downloads of the game Sea Hero from 18 countries were invited to take part in the program. Quest since its global launch have reached about 2.4 milAmong them, 10 teams from Romania. At the beginning of lion and the game has been collectively played for over 2016, TypingDNA, which provides an online security solution 30 years generating the equivalent of more than 4,500 based on the way people type on their keyboards – was one years of similar lab based research. The mobile game of the four projects selected by Deutsche Telekom for the created in partnership with University College London, 2nd phase of the hub:raum Krakow acceleration program – University of East Anglia, the Alzheimer’s Research charWARP. In 2015, a Romanian start-up, DeviceHub.net, which ity and game developers Glitchers received nine awards provides cloud services for the Internet of Things communiat 2016 Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity. cation, was awarded 80,000 euros from hub:raum Krakow to develop their project. The team supported by hub:raum’s benefit of access to 150 million Deutsche Telekom Group customers all over Europe. 3.3 RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS We are also involved in Deutsche Telekom’s other internaFOR SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS tional programs dedicated to start-ups and entrepreneurs such as ChallengeUP, a project rolled out in cooperation with Cisco and Intel. On a local level, we support several start-up communities by providing connectivity services, mentoring or financial support. This includes cooperation with co-working spaces such as TechHub Bucharest, NOD Makerspace and WeLoveDigital where we provide high-speed Internet services to their members. We are also an active participator and partner of key industry events, such as How to Web, which is the most important event dedicated to technology innovation and entrepreneurship across South-Eastern Europe, or MVP Academy, a pre-acceleration program addressed to start-ups from Central and Eastern Europe. For further information, please visit our corporate website section for start-ups. Technological progress offers new ways of addressing challenges posed by climate change and scarcity of resources and fosters the development of innovative healthcare systems. Information and communications technologies play a key role in this context. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 26 CHAPTER 3 We offer responsible products and services: secure for the Business Services length of their lifetime, with appropriate and informative labelConvergent services ling, always keeping in mind the confidentiality of their personal VoceNet IT Manager G4-EC8 data. To fulfil this obligation we make sure that all our products and services are certified and carry all obligatory markings Net Business required by EU legislation, directives and regulations regarding safe use, hazardous substances restrictions and the reduction of electronic waste. To us, enhancing the reuse and recycling of materials as well CASE STUDY as encouraging safe use of the Internet are imperative. All our marketing communications are carried out in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, while we continue working to develop tools and procedures that ensure customer data Smart offices security. With our growing offer of green products and innovative ICT Turning IT&C technological innovations into specific solusolutions consumers and businesses can effectively lower their tions means offering services that meet an array of needs energy consumption and reduce CO2 emissions. For several to business of different profiles and sizes. Especially on a years now we have been offering services that help demamarket such as Romania it is essential that we help small terialize business processes. Each year we invest in further and medium companies manage their resources more growth of these solutions, offering our business customers the efficiently and identify new opportunities for developing competitive edge they need to succeed and helping them grow their own business. in sustainable ways. Our two machine-to-machine (M2M) packages, Security Package and Comfort Package, allow companies to control, monitor and automatize their offices remotely. Both packages are managed through mydlink Home application which intuitively connects and coordinates all the equipment using the office Wi-Fi. Through user-friendly functionalities, customers can then tailor the settings to fit their needs and add other smart devices to the package such as water sensors, sirens, IP cameras or Wi-Fi audio extender. The Comfort Package includes a Smart Plug, a motion sensor and a HD camera with built-in night vision function which assists the human eye to see up to 5 metres CLOUD COMPUTING in complete darkness. For those who are looking for a more secure environment, the Security Package includes Cloud computing provides online services within a safe and a connecting hub, a 3-in-1 sensor for door and window reliable IT infrastructure, giving users the ability to directly opening, temperature and light, a siren and a HD camera access, monitor and manage their data through user-friendly monitor. Connected Home Hub ensures the connectools. tion between the Wi-Fi network and the other devices, Moving business applications such as email, CRM and while users can control and monitor the office remotely bundled productivity software from local computer systems to through the mydlink Home application. centralized cloud services companies can cut their IT electricity consumption and directly contribute to CO2 emissions reduction. In addition to that, our ‘One Drive’ cloud service, providing 1TB of data storage space, helps reduce the costs of logistics and maintenance. One of the services based on cloud computing is our integrated teleconference application, which allows corporate clients to make video conferences from anywhere and through any device. This helps them not only save time and reduce significant travel costs but also minimize the use of fuel. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 27 4. How do we take care of customer experience & safety? How do we take care of costumer experience & safety What dialogue channels What is the new do we offer to our philosophy of How we take care of our customers? What transformation of customers and their changes do we plan in Telekom Romania? satisfaction? order to improve their experience? CHAPTER 4 Telekom brand was born in Romania in 2014 following 4.1 ADVANCING QUALITY OF the rebranding of Cosmote and Romtelecom; it was then when we announced our new vision and strategy tailored to PRODUCTS AND SERVICE G4-DMA Product and Service Labelling differentiate in the Romanian price-driven market. In 2016 we continued to build on this strategy further embedding our name in the Romanian telecom arena. 2017 will mark a time of transformative changes at Telekom Romania, changes aimed to further solidifying this foundation. We are looking forward to spreading our philosophy and becoming a more simple, personal and digital business for our customers. If we are to make this mindset for our business reality, we will need to focus on areas such as growth of fixed and mobile FMC business and the ICT growth, but also tackle key processes upgrades, undergo organisational restructuring and improve our infrastructure. Tackling on all these challenges will take us to the next level in terms of delivering a better customer experience throughout all our touch points. Reaching our goal of designing and implementing cutting edge customer experience means focusing on delivering a great service as well as setting new standards in customer care across the organisation. Our Priority Customer Service introduced as part of our “integrated services” offering has proven that our call centre can service customers in 10 seconds for FMC customers. We will further introduce new initiatives ensuring that our contact centre employees are highly skilled professionals who are able to support customers by choosing the best fixed-mobile integrated services, tailored to their specific communications needs. Another improvement will be the introduction of quality check contact procedures Experiențe Împreună (Romanian equivalent of Life is for following service installations. sharing) . In the realm of telecom services the first step to delivering excellent customer experience is to get people connected efficiently and securely. Hence, one of our key focus is to constantly aim to bridge the digital divide by expanding internet access. We believe that by improving both broadband and mobile availability we can help create new business opportunities and foster social change. Being part of a telecommunications network, enables new forms of communication and collaboration possible and through allowing people to get involved, boosts economic development in Romania. Delivering a great customer experience also means capitalizing on our existing strengths hence; we will further enhance Offering great value to our customers is at the heart of our our FMC offering. Since the launch of our convergent fixed, strategy. Making it our priority will trigger all other aspects mobile bundle, respectively fixed-mobile and cloud bundle for of our operations to gradually fall into place. We believe in business customers, we have been rolling out an achieving this through bringing more competitive, simplified intensive campaign in this regard. The offer is a full fixed-moand personal services along with providing great customer bile integrated bundle. The results so far are more than experience through all touch points. encouraging as over 370,000 customers have opted for the integrated offers by the end of 2016. We make sure that our commercial operations are built around the guidelines defined in our corporate responsibility strategy: Customer Satisfaction, Information Security and Data Privacy. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 29 CHAPTER 4 Keeping in mind that in order to delight our customers we We have started by analysing our business processes and must go beyond their standard-level expectations, we are operations to pinpoint the areas that need remodelling. We also working to enhance our TV offering (especially with the identified that in order to deliver a more robust service to our focus on IPTV), the best TV experience on all screens. We customers, we must become a more agile company and are setting the highest standards on the Romanian market improve our business performance. G4-PR5 with uniqueinteractive features, highest number of HD channels, all-screen experience and exclusive content such as UEFA Champions League and Europe League. In order to consolidate our strong position in the B2B segment, we are further developing our One Stop Shop philosophy andfocusing on integrated offers with cloud component. We are the only operator offering fixed-mobilecloud services on the market, with a complete portfolio of fixed and mobile solutions, applications and IT integrated solutions that address all communications and ICT needs of modern day businesses. Additionally, with innovative cloud and M2M solutions, we are helping them gain competitive edge, making us their most trusted Partner for Digitization. CASE STUDY Currently we are at the stage where we are designing new and improved processes that will make it possible for us to provide Increasingly, ecological, social and ethical aspects users with over-the-expectation experiences delivered by a are taken into account by customers when making a stronger, faster and more efficient provider. The ultimate goal decision to buy. To this end, Telekom Romania strives of this transformation is to become the first choice provider of to improve customer satisfaction with sustainability mobile and fixed communications services, all-in-one issues. Telekom Romania aims at offering responsible entertainment and complete ICT solutions. products and services, well labelled and communicated, keeping our customers safe throughout the products In order to achieve this goal, all operational and remodelling and services life cycle and ensuring the customers’ law changes of the processes that will be implemented during consequent private data. 2017 will be developed at a strategic level. Implementing the transformation program will mean selecting Transformation Champions to represent all the business areas. They will help our management team create a new organizational structure and set up new business processes. The Champions will ensure that the results delivered by the transformation project TOWARDS CUSTOMER EXCELLENCE team are always cross-checked against relevant business activities across the company. Customer satisfaction and the experience we provide are at the essence of our strategy and must be at the heart of As part of the transformation program and the social everything we do. To make sure that this customer-centric dialogue frame, our management team is also planning a approach is followed through, we are constantly monitoring series of consultation meetings with trade unions represenG4-SO8 and analysing customer satisfaction. To ensure the transpartatives from different Telekom Romania companies. These ency of this process we use both surveys issued directly by sessions will ensure that the trade unions are informed and us to thecustomers as well as independent studies realized consulted about the changes implied by the new operational by a third party. Our goal is to understand and respond to model. client needs and then improve our service quality accordingly. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 30 CHAPTER 4 Hence, in 2017, we are taking on a number of initiatives that They contain a set of applicable requirements under will improve our customer satisfaction, as measured against European legislation on the adequate protection of personal the TRI*M index performance indicator. data. They have been applied within Deutsche Telekom as of December 2013 and were enforced within Telekom RomaThe TRI*M indicator analyses, measures and portrays stakenia starting with December 2016. holder relationships on the basis of standardized indicators. The index is made up of 4 points of view: performance, In 2016 TUV Nord recertified our Information Security recommendation, further usage and competitive advantage. Management System based on ISO 27001 in the mobile The information is based on surveys/ interviews. operations. In the fixed operations our Information Security Management System based on ISO 27001 implemented In order to improve our services, in 2016 we launched at company level successfully passed the first surveillance “Telekom Forum” (forum.telekom.ro). The platform is dediaudit. cated to customers and other stakeholders who would like to express their views on company products and services. The Baing part of OTE and DT framework programs, but also forum is available to anyone who registers, whether our client based on specific needs and requirements of our local or not. systems architecture, during the reporting period Telekom Users can not only post comments and ask questions under Romania implemented a series of measures and projects for one of the six specific topics, but also offer solutions based the improvement of the safety and security of data protection on their previous experiences. systems. 4.2 SAFE DATA “Sound business decisions grounded on a solid legal frame is protecting the company and its G4-DMA Customer privacy stakeholders from future trouble and constitutes the basis for sustainability. Together with constant efforts to enhance data privacy for our large base of customers and our employees following the internal compliance rules of ethical behaviour, we make sure we are keeping and advancing our responsible business model.” Mihaela Ionita, Legal, Corporate Affairs and Compliance Director Romania Information security and data privacy are incredibly important to us as an organisation, as they are to our customers, our partners and employees. Our continuous commitment to providing a secure information environment and guaranteeing that data privacy is embedded in our DNA and in the personal values of all our employees. Our shared information security and data privacy framework is based on the following elements: Specific policies and safety standards, which cover areas such as: IT/NT Security, Information Security and Data Protection; Binding Corporate Rules. Privacy within the DT Group. The new Binding Corporate Data Privacy Rules” cover the legal requirements for the exchange of personal data within the Deutsche Telekom Group. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 31 CHAPTER 4 SAFETY AND SECURITY INITIATIVES 2,685 employees were trained in 2016 on information security aspects via our e-learning platform, security awareness articles frequently featured in the weekly newsletter, and the dedicated information security intranet website, which is updated with relevant information. We run regular awareness campaigns on current Information Security issues; 3,296 employees trained in 2016 on data privacy aspects; We are testing numerous applications for vulnerabilities and misconfigurations as well as CPE (customer premises equipment) that we provide to our customers; We actively monitor security events in the internal network; We contractually require our partners and suppliers the implementation of high information security standards compatible with ours and impose information security in all newly acquired applications and products; In the concluded contracts with our contractors we provide all the necessary clauses to ensure that they protect personal data according to our best standards and practices. Ensuring data security and technical conditions of processing information in as a safe environment as possible are equally important, therefore we ensure that our employees receive regular training on handling personal data. BUSINESS CONTINUITY Business continuity is as important as information security and data privacy in order to be able to offer seamless communication with minimum interruption and damage to human lives, material assets and environment. The Business Continuity Management System is based on ISO 22301 and has been certified by TUV Hellas since 2014 for our companies. The Business Continuity Management System's aim, in response to a significant disruption (whether actual or impending), will always be to: Ensure the safety of the Company’s employees and other occupants or visitors within the buildings; Endeavour to meet our obligations to employees, customers, shareholders and other interested parties; Minimize disruption to our customers and to protect and preserve our assets and reputation; Facilitate a return to normal operations as soon as practicable; Stay in business. Telekom Romania’ Business Continuity Management System Key Objectives are to: Ensure the availability of the company’s products, services In compliance with the internal procedures regarding the and key business functions in-line with key stakeholders’ exonline training on data privacy, all employees must be trained pectations considering business objectives; once every two years. Maintain the organization certification as a prerequisite for auctions or contracts as well as to ensure a good reputation During 2016, we received one data privacy inspection from on the market. the competent authority, because of an external complaint, finalized with no penalty for Telekom Romania. In addition, we also had an investigation on Cloud Computing Services, G4-PR8 which was also finalized without any penalties. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 32 CHAPTER 4 4.3 SAFE USER PROVIDING PRODUCTS AND SERVICES THAT PROMOTE CUSTOMER SAFETY G4-PR2,G4-DMA Customer Health and Safety Telekom Romania offers its customers a variety of services addressing online safety and security. The broad range of applications include: anti-virus, anti-spam, firewall, browser protection, as well as enriched parental control services that allow parents to monitor, filter and block access to websites with inappropriate content (e.g. violence, adult content, weapons, drugs etc.). The parental control functionality gives users the ability to adjust the level of protection depending on the age of the children. Parental Control Services are also offered, in both IPTV and satellite platform. With these services, the subscribers have the option to set the parental control level of their choice to block access to specific programs, based on We provide our customers not only with services they use, the parental control rating level. Additionally, in the case of but also with services that can often go unnoticed, such our satellite service, subscribers can block access to specific as helping to keep them and their families safe online. It is channels. imperative that as one of the leading providers of internet services in Romania, we are always dedicated to creating Our mobile services enable user-friendly parental control and maintaining networks that guarantee user safety. offered to our subscribers free of charge. Specifically, the antivirus and security protection program “Lookout” is Naturally, we see this as joined responsibility of all those inpre-installed in all Android devices that we distribute, offering volved: industry members, the government, law enforcement, parents the option to block the “erotic” category as well as to civil society and finally, the consumers themselves. We are block unwanted access by calling our customer help line. also aware that each of these strongholds is just as important and therefore we will never shy away from taking all the precautionary measures to protect internet users. We protect our customers, their households and businesses CASE STUDY by providing them with safe and secure services on one hand and by building their awareness about possible risks on the ONLINE SAFETY other; in order to do so we are: Providing services with a high degree of data privacy and Through our Teachtoday program we are concentrated on data security; raising awareness of safe and effective use of the media. Improving internet literacy of our customer base and Since 2015 we have participated in it by advertising the working in partnership with others to create a child-friendly Media, sure! But secure. contest in Romania. Teachtointernet; day supports children, young people, parents and grandIncorporating data privacy and security aspects throughparents as well as teachers by offering hands-on tips and out the entire lifecycle of our products; materials through online and at face-to-face events. To find Collaborating closely with prosecuting authorities, NGOs out more about the program go to www.teachtoday.de. and with other partners from business, politics, and society to ban online content that is harmful to children and young people. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 33 CHAPTER 4 ROBUST PROTECTION FOR BUSINESSES We are looking at data security from many angles as the threats CASE STUDY have been intensified, diversified and multiplied. In 2016 the cyber security incidents in the telecom industry grew with a staggering 70% compared with 2015 and thus, our objective As a member of Deutsche Telekom Group and is to ensure viable protection for our customers. OTE-COSMOTE, Telekom Romania is part of the “CEO Coalition to make the internet a better place for Our security solutions are organized on the following the kids”, an auto-regulatory platform launched by the categories: European Commission in December 2011. This platform is designed to respond to emerging challenges from the diverse ways in which young Europeans go online, its signatories committing to take positive action to make 1. Network Security the internet a safer place for children. In addition, since Distributed Denial of Services (DDoS) – on-line detection 2009 we support the now called “Ora de Net” (The and mitigation at network level for local and international Internet Hour) project. This project implies the collabattacks up to 10 Gbps. oration between the Romanian Police and the “Salvati Copiii” (Save the Children) Organization, and carries out awareness raising, information and counselling activi2. Cloud Data Security ties aimed to increase the safety of young people when In case of disaster, Telekom data centers guarantee data using the internet. recovery and business continuity for all customers. Our customers and their safety is essential. 3. Equipments Security More information about a safer internet for children Our security services portfolio include Norton Security Online to ensure protection for any device: mobile phone, tablet, PC. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 34 5. How do we connect the unconnected? “#5. How we connect the unconnected?” on page on page on page 35 What is the social impact How do we contribute to What are the effects of of Telekom Romania the development of the Telekom Romania social Foundation’s social Romanian society? activities and investments? engagement projects? CHAPTER 5 Fostering a knowledge-based Romanian society is the main task at hand for us. As a leading company in the ICT sector Amount invested in social projects 433,384 we recognise our key role in the development Romania and supported during 2016 G4-EC7, G4-EC8, G4-DMA Indirect Economic Impacts all its communities. We must provide exhaustive and reliable access to the benefits of modern information and communication technology for all. These benefits can manifest in all Beneficiaries of social projects 351,358 aspects of our lives whether economic, social, educational supported during 2016 or cultural. We are determined to facilitate inclusive access to the advantages of information and communication technology for as many Romanians as possible. Number of external fundraising initiatives 53 supported in 2016 TELEKOM Sums collected via Telekom donation lines 1,300,000 ROMANIA (estimated value in LEI) CORPORATE SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT SOCIAL IMPACT 5.1 INCREASING ACCESS TO TELECOMMUNICATIONS Helping Increasing Digitization through access & education sport There is still a lot to be achieved before we can say that Romania is truly connected. Only 89% of all households have access to fixed broadband, which is significantly below the EU average (97%). What is more, only 63% of households subscribe to fixed broadband (EU average is 74%) and less But we extend the definition of building connections beyond than 71% subscribe to mobile broadband (EU average is the digital realm. We want to act as a good corporate citizen, 84%), according to Europe Digital Progress Report. connecting our activities with individuals and communities in This limits Romania's ability to tap into the benefits of digital need of our support. Our initiatives help the advancement of economy. Given our role and position on the Romanian security, education, health, environment as well as market we see providing access to broadband and mobile innovation. internet as our key responsibility. We are committed to building a sustainable infrastructure, promoting inclusive and sustainable industrialization and TELEKOM encouraging innovation. At the end of 2016 our 4G services ROMANIA Helping covered as much as 97.43% of Romania’s urban population. FOuNDATION the LESS The number of localities in which we are offering 3G services FORTUNATE SOCIAL reached over 8,100. In the fixed segment, our fibre (FTTx) coverage increased to 2.1 million households’ footprint. IMPACT Customers opting for this technology benefit of speeds of up to 1 Gbps for broadband as well as interactive television In 2016 we have extended our contribution to over 430,000 (IPTV) services. EURO through Fundatia Telekom Romania and our Teimplici.ro platform, as well as other community investment projects. Over 1,300 volunteers engaged in 30 corporate citizenship projects and we provided EUR 433,384 for communities with 351,358 beneficiaries, through over 60 partnerships with NGOs, educational institutions and hospitals. We have also devised internal scholarship and volunteering programs, through partnering with relevant projects and using our services and infrastructure to support local causes and initiatives. Our aim is to create A Better World for All. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 36 CHAPTER 5 “In 2016 as well, the free phone line for children 116 111 was the CASE STUDY trusted partner of more and more children who chose to express their own thoughts and fears but also TE IMPLICI.RO to seek help with regards to their abuses all by the help of one simple Launched in 2014 Teimplici.ro promotes beneficial imcall. Thanks to the support offered plementations of IT&C technologies in Romania. The projby Telekom Romania, children and ect focusses on identifying NGO projects that bring benparents who have approached 116 efits to specific communities in areas such as education, 111 have benefited free of charge from psycho-social and health, environment, innovation, development and social legal counselling from Specialists of the Children's Phone protection. Association (541,642 minutes in total was the duration of all In 2016, we evaluated 126 projects submitted through the the calls received in 2016). Together with platform by NGOs and as a result 10 organizations were Telekom Romania, we are thus able to give children access selected to receive funding of 70,000 Euros for their 2017 to the only telephone help line where they can express their activities. The planned projects involve a wide range of fears and problems in complete confidentiality.” topics covering areas such as seismology, education and counselling, tourism and IT. Since the launch of the platCătălina Surcel, Executive Director Telefonul Copilului form, 400 projects have been submitted and evaluated by Association a jury made up of subject matter experts and consultants. The total value of funds provided for the implementation of 30 projects has exceeded 150,000 Euros. Area Focus CASE STUDY Enhancing and enabling education through EDUCATION technology RO-NET PROJECT ICT technology for environmental ENVIRONMENT protection and awareness Following a thorough tendering process we have also Improvement of medical services through ICT been selected in 2014 as the contractor for an project of HEALTH solutions building a national broadband infrastructure in disadvanAdvancement of innovation through ICT taged areas. Commissioned by the Ministry of INNOVATION technology Communications and Information Society (Ministerul Comunicațiilor și pentru Societatea Informațională MCSI), DEVELOPMENT Reduction of social disparities using ICT RO-NET is one of the largest communication infrastructure projects in Romania. Using ICT to protect the disadvantaged social SOCIAL It focuses on 783 out of 2 268 localities throughout PROTECTION groups and address social Romania in “white areas”, which have no access to challenges communication networks. The selected 783 localities have been divided into seven sections, which will ultimately result in connecting some 400,000 residents, 8,500 businesses, and 2,800 public institutions to an internet broadband network. At the end of 2016 we “Through the nature of our work concluded works in approximately 400 localities and within the Academy of Inventions, in other 180 localities the works were in an advanced we are actively involved in preparing phase of network construction from the 783 included in young people for a future that can the project. only be under the sign of technology. This is why we put a high price on two aspects without which such We have maintained a constant investment level over the last an approach cannot achieve its 5 years, of around 150 millions Euros yearly. In 2016, our total objectives: the STEAM approach and investments cumulated 211 million euro and were directed partnerships with organizations active in the technology field mainly towards the expansion of both fixed (FTTx) and mobile which are aware of the need to engage in practical education infrastructures (3G / 4G). This infrastructure serves as a programs and are aligned to the real requirements of the foundation for a constantly increasing scope and quality of business sphere.” services but also helps us maintain our competitive edge. Cristiana Bogăţeanu, Co-Founder at Academia inventeaza.ro 1 Defined as cities, communes, villages 2 Defined as communes, villages Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 37 CHAPTER 5 5.2 SOCIAL IMPACT: TELEPRESENCE DIGITIZATION & EDUCATION In a partnership with Cisco and Webhit, Telekom Romania is providing modern technologies for virtual reality learning in 36 schools throughout Romania in a project started in 2015. It offers 10,000 pupils a variety of resources ranging from digital learning to live virtual lessons. Children can follow the content of the class and interact with it in real time, which gives them an opportunity to learn from teachers based in other schools. Often, this allows for a unique interaction between schools in rural and urban areas. The schools participating in the program recorded a significant rise in attendance rates together as well as an improvement in performance. ELECTRONIC CATALOGUE To further support the digitization of Romanian schools we launched an electronic school catalogue as part of our digital product range. It includes a tablet connected to the internet and access to an educational management platform. The application supports school managers in efficient organizaInspired to contribute to the UN Sustainable Development tion and increases interactions between teachers, students Goals, we are committed to ensuring inclusive and quality and parents. Schools where the platform has been introeducation for all and promoting lifelong learning. For us this duced have seen an up to 63% decrease in absence rate means using our technology and expertise to support the and an improvement in test results. advancement of education in Romania. We do this by facilitating educational delivery at all levels and reducing TECHNOLOGIES OF THE FUTURE the physical and social barriers to education. We are also working to improve educational management by providing We are proud to have provided equipment for the empowering teacher training. International Center for Research and Education in Creative Technologies (CINETic), the first international center specialized in the study of digital interaction. Telekom Romania handled the supply and configuration Number of people of CINETic laboratories, as well as the installation of the reached through equipment, software as well as data and voice network in the Media Literacy programs addressing media 13,209 CINETic building. ESG KPI literacy from total number of CINETic is the first center in Romania where students can beneficiaries learn the newest multimedia creation methods, stereoscopy, virtual and augmented reality and can use a wide range of IT equipment and software. Six laboratories featuring complex scientific research equipment and 10 state-of-the-art broadcasting innovative-creative technologies are at DEVELOPING EARLY PROGRAMMING SKILLS students’ disposal. The equipment purchased through the project opens new areas of research and innovation in Since 2011 we have been the host of Coder Dojo motion control, the capacity to capture motion in 3D, workshops that offer children aged 7-16 free lessons in stereoscopy and stop motion animation. computer programming in an informal setting. More than 130 children attended the workshops during the school year 2016-2017 to study programming and computer-assisted electronics based on the Arduino development platform. The children and young attendees are coordinated by approx.10 volunteer mentors professionals who want to get involved in educating the younger generation. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 38 CHAPTER 5 Number of students’ benefitting from virtual learning systems from 8,000 Telekom Romania financial 300,000 Telekom Romania, Cisco and Webhit contribution for students in 2016 (LEI)* Number of schools with virtual learning systems from Telekom Romania, Total number of students awarded 36 with Telekom scholarships 105 Cisco and Webhit Number of students Total number of students awarded in learning to code 130 with Telekom scholarships in 2016 10 TELEKOM SCHOLARSHIPS Starting as early as 2007 we have been supporting the educational performance of younger generations within the framework of Telekom Scholarship programme. Our goal is to identify and foster potential future leaders, high-performing students passionate about their field, with clearly defined career objectives, who are also involved in extracurricular activities and volunteering. In 2016 The Scholarship programme was organized in the form of a contest open to all students admitted to an VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND INTERNSHIP accredited higher education institution from Romania, regardless of profile or year of study. We granted ten scholarships Our involvement in undergraduate education manifests our each worth 11,250 lei (over 2,500 EUR) to young people with support for the dual system, which helps students to comoutstanding academic results. Since the initiation in 2007, we plement their theoretical studies with on-the-job experience have offered a total of 105 Telekom scholarships. To find out during three years of trade school. During the 2015-16 more, go to www.burseletelekom.ro. school year we started a collaboration with the Embassy of Austria in the College of Economic studies Costin C. Kiritescu in Bucharest. Through the o'SCAR program, together with six other companies, we offered scholarships to 5 secondary “I have to confess that it's a little school graduates, who wanted to specialize in sales. They difficult to be excited with student had an opportunity to immediately practice their selling skills exams after almost 25 years in the in the organization. Since the school year 2015-2016, we academic field. I am dissatisfied started to support 7 students from the Post and Telecomwith this and I'm trying to fight hard munications Technical College Gh. Airinei in Bucharest, against the routine that inevitably and other 6 from the following school year. They received an tries to set in. Fortunately for almost internship in Telekom Romania, and benefitted from scholar7 years now it is much easier for me, ships and other facilities, and after three years of trade school because every autumn I have the had priority in seeking employment within the company. We perfect opportunity to meet with intend to support other students who will start school in the exceptional youngsters as I am a member of the Telekom fall of 2017, in order to increase the number of enrollments in scholarship jury (and no, there is no exaggeration). In the 2-3 trade schools. days that the selection lasts, I manage to charge myself for a We are offering internships to students who wish to expewhole year. In short, thank you Telekom for this fantastic initiarience what it’s like to work in a big technology company. tive, I think I enjoy the experience of judging almost as much as For us this is a great opportunity to interact with students the winners of scholarships, which are awarded with so much and find out about their expectations. In 2016 we offered generosity.” internships to 12 students from the Polytechnics University in Bucharest, 5 students from University of Bucharest and AcadSorin Psatta, Lecturer at the Faculty of Journalism and Comemy of Economic Studies, and 10 pupils from the Technologmunication Sciences University of Bucharest and Strategy ical High school of Electrotechnics and Telecommunications Director at Graffiti BBDO Romania Constanta. * sum representing the total monetary value received by the supported scholars in 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 39 CHAPTER 5 5.3 SOCIAL IMPACT: In 2016 Telekom Romania Foundation rolled out the 6th HELPING THE DISADVANTAGED edition of the program You choose and we help together , first launched in 2010. Since its beginning, the program financially supported approximately 70 children and adults from disadvantaged backgrounds. This year’s edition was addressed to our colleagues or their family members diagnosed with serious illnesses. In 2016, the Telekom Foundation made 26 donations for children and adults suffering from severe illnesses. The foundation also donated 4,500 euros to cover the costs of speech therapist needed for 30 children with the Down Syndrome Association. Money generated by fees charged in corporate sports events such as the Brasov International Marathon went to the Crystal Children’s Association. 4,000 euros provided specialized therapy for 17 children with autism over a period of four months. We also offer continuous support for medical institutions and initiatives assisting those in need. At Christmas 2016, we supported the Pavel Association in distributing gifts and food to young patients suffering from cancer and other life-threatWHAT IS THE SOCIAL IMPACT OF TELEKOM ening illnesses. ROMANIA FOUNDATION’S SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT PROJECTS? With Red Cross we collected food and clothes for the benefit of disadvantaged families in Vaslui and Vrancea. The Our Telekom Romania Foundation operates as a link donations were distributed before the Easter holidays to 100 between Telekom Romania and social initiatives benefitting. families and 40 elderly people, with the help of volunteers The aim is to support people in special situations, social from Telekom Romania and the Romanian Red Cross. Bags causes, children and adults diagnosed with serious illnesses, full of more than 1,600 kg of food, clothes and toys were talented young students and campaigns requesting humanicollected and donated. tarian aid in case natural disasters occur. In partnership with SOS Children's Villages Romania, our Foundation provided support for 53 children from four communities in Bacau. The project was aimed at raising “One part of our Corporate awareness of the problem and encourage local authorities in Resposibility strategy is oriented Bacau to develop immediate solutions to prevent and comtowards sensitive issues that have bat cases of child labour and exploitation. The beneficiaries a great impact on people’s lives. of the project were families with children between the ages of This means focusing on people 14 and 16 who no longer attend school. and communities facing challenging situations but also supporting talented young people and humanitarian causes. Our primary tool for CASE STUDY addressing these aspects is the Telekom Foundation. It’s main goal is to identify, by way of direct interactions with communities and people, the social categories and specific We are also supporting social and environmental initiatives cases that we should be prioritising.” of external NGOs to rise their necessary funding through dedicated phone and SMS lines which we are providing Ionela Paunica free of charge for illness situations or at a significantly disExecutive Director, Telekom Romania Foundation and Senior counted rate for other causes. This donations program runs Coordinator Internal Communication, Corporate Events & on the basis of Telethon (donations through voice calls) and Corporate Responsibility the SMS donation service, both managed by corporate. Visit www.donatie.ro for details. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 40 CHAPTER 5 5.4 SOCIAL IMPACT: During the festival a new world record was set for “the largest HELPING THROUGH SPORT number of people running 100 meters in a 12-hour outdoor relay”. Around 1,000 runners took part and ran a total distance of 154 km in the city of Bucharest over a period of 12 hours. Participants could benefit from numerous sport and fitness classes as well as seek expert advice on nutrition and lifestyle. The Telekom Romania Foundation donated in 2016 approximately 1,500 euros for the charitable causes supported within the “The Biggest Sports Hour”. The beneficiaries were a school for talented young people, children with cancer, patients in terminal phase that need palliative caring and an online donation platform for projects developed in the community. Second edition of the Brasov International Marathon was another event held as part of the Sport is Good campaign in 2016. More than 2,000 national and international runners have participated. The fees collected from the 5 km race and 15% of the value of the other races, which took part during the event were donated by the Telekom Romania Foundation As a leader of the telecommunication sector in Romania and to the ”Copiii de Cristal” Association which helps children an active social participant, we are determined to be actively with autism. involved in sport, take the lead and inspire other to get involved and play. Especially when it leads to helping greater Our other sport-related initiatives include supporting the social good. We proudly share the same values as the Romatraditional Gerar semi-marathon held in during heavy snowfall nian National Football team: fair-play, integrity and the will to and Telekom Arena ice rink which encourages the practice of succeed. Therefore it was a natural step for us to continue on sport amongst children and youngsters. into 2016 as its main sponsor. Powered by our TV station, Dolce Sport, the 3rd edition of Sport is Good took place as part of the event “The biggest Estimated number of participants in sports hour” in Brasov Telekom Romania Foundation chose recreational sport activities 54,000 to support the daily center Hospice Casa Sperantei for terminally ill patients. “Sport is good” is a campaign first started by Dolce Sport in 2011 to promote health and well being through sports and diet. Cash donations leveraged through sport initiatives and events (EUR) 2,500 When sport connects thousands of people from different communities it demonstrates our common need for companionship and maintaining a healthy lifestyle. Through our Sport is Good campaign we are leveraging donations to social causes, multiplying the outcomes of our efforts with everyone's help. More than 50,000 people from 16 cities in Romania participated in the sixth edition of the “The Biggest Sports Hour” festival of sports and movement. In 2016 we proudly hosted the event as part of our Sport is Good campaign. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 41 6. How DO we support the transition to A low carbon society? #6. How we support transition to low carbon society?” How do we contribute to the Deutsche Telekom What are the priorities of What have we have Group's goal to cut 20% our environmental achieved so far? CO2 emissions by 2020? strategy? CHAPTER 6 Safeguarding the preservation of natural environment is a 6.1 ENERGY AND CLIMATE CHANGE major concern for Telekom Romania. Driven by the three pillars that define our strategy, we are especially focused on G4-DMA Energy, G4-DMA Emissions creating energy efficiencies, reducing the impact of electromagnetic fields and the implementation of systemic changes that bring us closer to a circular economy business model. Lead by both the sustainability standards and provisions of Deutsche Telecom and OTE Group on a global level, and our Romania-specific responsibilities on a local level, we want to set an industry example through reducing our footprint. In that respect a lot has been achieved at Telekom Romania over the last three years, including a ~12% decrease in our CO2 emissions. Nevertheless, there is still a lot to be done and taking on the DT Group goal means committing to a 20% smaller carbon footprint by 2020. Other challenges include further work on better waste management and giving second We are committed to the low carbon society vision, both life to the materials and equipment used by us and by our directly, by reducing our own CO2 emissions and G4-EN31, G4-DMA Overall customers. We have also invested 277,033 euro into our indirectly, by providing services and products with a low environmental programs to reduce the environmental impact carbon footprint over their life cycle which translates into of our operations. reducing our customers’ footprint. Our goal in this regard is defined by Deutsche Telekom Group’s Climate Protection strategy, which aims for 20% less CO2 emissions by 2020. “As Telekom Romania, we have a Our strategy is focusing on long and middle term goals big responsibility with regards to through four pillars: sustainability, as we have a very big footprint around the I. Lower energy consumption through efficiency meaentire country in terms of network sures. elements and in terms of II. Increased share of renewable in used energy sources. electricity consumption. We have III. Reduction of direct CO2 emissions. a major transformation program in IV. Expanding our sustainable products portfolio. our data centers to reduce consumption and we have a huge modernization effort underway, replacing legacy equipment that tends to consume a lot of electricity with modern, more environmental friendly technologies. ” Timos Tsokanis, Chief Technology and Information Officer Telekom Romania IMPLEMENTATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGY IN 3 PILLARS F Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 43 CHAPTER 6 CO2 EMISSIONS IMPROVING ENERGY EFFICIENCY In 2016 we registered approx. 12% decrease of CO2 emisImproving energy efficiency represents one of our major susG4-EN6, G4-EN3 G4-EN16, G4-EN19 sions and approx. 5% decrease in overall electricity tainability objectives. In 2016 our total energy consumption for consumption as compared to 2015. mobile and fix operations was 274.11 GWh, 4.27% lower than in 2015 (286.35 GWh) due to reduced electricity consumption We are constantly monitoring our performance regarding for mobile network and data centres as well as lower fleet fuel energy consumption and CO2 emissions using a set of key consumption. performance indicators (KPIs) developed to cover all aspects of our operations. The CO2 emission calculation is based on For both our fixed and mobile operations we set out energy our environmental indicators database, covering all types of efficiency plans which are reported yearly to ANRE (National energy we consume in our operations: electricity, fuels, heatRegulatory Authority for Energy). Our energy efficiency maning energy and natural gas. We calculate our CO2 emissions agement approach is based on: on the basis of standards such as the internationally recognized Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol, which distinguishes Long term goals towards 2020 between three CO2 emissions categories: GHG Scope 1, 2 Midterm goals covering a period of 2 years and 3. Over the last 2 years we have managed to expand our Yearly operational efficiency measures monitoring programmes and collect data, which allows us to report on GHG scopes 1 and 2. We are planning on extendThrough a variety of our energy efficiency and conservation ing our monitoring and reporting to Scope 3 within the next programmes we managed to achieve energy savings of 12.24 2 years. GWh, out of which, 9.77 GWh refer to electricity and 2.47 GWh to heating and fuel consumption. Amongst relevant measures In 2016 our total CO2 emissions, direct and indirect (scope we took in 2016 was the modernization of our electricity 1 + scope 2) dropped by approx. 12% compared to 2015, network, increased control and management of temperatures from 93,317.97 t CO2-eq to 81,845.83 t CO2-eq. We’ve also in equipment rooms with BTS (base transceiver stations) as decreased our energy consumption by approx. 5%. One of well as replacement of old equipment and air conditioning the most relevant contributors was the introduction of energy systems. efficiency measures in the telecommunication network in previous years. Our first ever Scope 3 emissions calculation in 2016 resulted in 428,322 t CO2-eq (the sources of these emissions derive from purchased goods and services). CO2 EMISSIONS EVOLUTION BREAKDOWN Energy consumption evolution Tons CO2-eq 2014 2015 2016 GWh 2014 2015 2016 Total CO2 emissions 122,578.1 93,317.97 84,298.00 Electricity consumption 218.89 215.04 205.27 (scope 1 and 2) Direct emissions District heating and fuel 14,627.06 14,077.12 13,626.72 27.45 29.91 29.70 (scope 1) consumption in buildings Indirect emissions 107,954.04 79,240.85 68,219.11 Fuel consumption (fleet) 45.05 41.4 39.14 (scope 2 ) Total 291.39 286.35 274.11 Other indirect emissions 428,322 (scope 3) TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION 274.11 GWh 1 Direct GHG emissions from operations that are owned or controlled by the organization 2 Energy indirect GHG emissions that result from the generation of purchased or acquired electricity, heating, cooling, and steam consumed by the organization 3 Energy indirect GHG emissions within the value chain, that result from extraction and production of purchased materials and fuels, transport-related activities in vehicles not owned or controlled by the organization Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 44 CHAPTER 6 ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION BREAKDOWN OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION Our mobile and fixed networks accounts for almost 90% of 2014 2015 2016 our total electricity consumption representing our main focus within the modernization process. In 2016, our total electricity District heating (GWh) 12.5 12.7 11.9 consumption (mobile + fix operations) was of 205.27 GWh, 4.27% lower compared to 2015 (286.35 GWh). Natural gas consumption 1,843.83 2,162.19 2,265.28 (thousands m3) We continued the upgrade process of the mobile telecommunication network and the implementation of saving energy Fossil fuel for electricity 106,147 85,642.45 73,563.3 solutions and we managed to reduce the electricity consumpgeneration (liters) tion by almost 5% compared with 2015. Nevertheless, we expect an increase for 2017 as we are continuing to expand our coverage. 6.2 MOBILE-RELATED CHALLENGES BREAKDOWN OF ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION 205.27 GWh We are continuously monitoring other key aspects related to our activities that may have an impact on the environment as well as on the health and wellbeing of a society. We are aware of the issues being raised concerning our infrastructure. We recognise the need to acknowledge and map out mobileDISTRICT HEATING AND FOSSIL FUEL CONSUMPTION related challenges such as maintaining low noise levels, preserving natural landscapes and measuring the impact of We are using district heating energy and natural gas for heating electromagnetic fields. purposes in our buildings and shops, especially for our fixed operations locations. We installed electricity backup generators SAFETY AND COMFORT OF NEIGHBOURING AREAS using diesel on all our technical locations to ensure the reliELECTROMAGNETIC FIELDS ability of service and technical integrity of our systems. These improvements are restricted by an old heating infrastructure The impact of electromagnetic fields is a topic that has as well as limited availability to control heat generation and been discussed for more than 40 years. Being aware of the distribution. concerns related to EMF Radiation, we adopted the EMF District heating is used only on our fixed operations facilities Policy that addresses these concerns by means of transand compared to 2015, the consumption decreased slightly parency, through raising awareness and taking on a particwith 6.7%. We also managed to reduce our fuel consumption ipatory, scientific approach. Following our EMF Policy we in backup electricity generators and base stations by 14%, have adopted a number of practices, which help us monitor, partly due to a decline in national grid power cuts. analyse and publicly communicate all aspects related to EMF. Based on these practices, we are confident that the levels of electromagnetic fields in all our Base Stations are significantly FLEET FUEL CONSUMPTION lower than the national limits set by the Order of the Minister of Public Health no. 1193/2006 which transposes RecomOur car fleet consists of service vehicles used for all technical mendation 1999/519/EC on the limitation of exposure of the operations and commercial vehicles used by our sales team. In general public to electromagnetic fields (0 Hz to 300 GHz), a 2016 our fuel consumption increased by over 4% compared reference document for all the EU Member States, endorsed to 2015 although the numbers of cars decreased. The average by the Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICfuel consumption per kilometre within the fleet increased also NIRP), a non-governmental organization formally recognised with 12%, from 0.067 l/km in 2015 to 0.076 l/km in 2016. by the World Health Organization. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 45 CHAPTER 6 In 2016, there were 26 EMF measurements performed by COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS ANCOM on Telekom Romania sites at the request of external stakeholders. These have not indicated levels exceeding In 2016 we have received 7 complaints regarding our operaG4-EN29,G4-SO8 those provided by the Order of the Minister of Public Health tions, out of which 3 referred to the noise impact of our equipno. 1193/2006. ment, 3 to electromagnetic fields and 1 to waste management. Through fixed monitoring sensors installed in urban centres While 4 of the complaints had no grounds or have been closed the Romanian National Authority for Management and Regufollowing noise and EMF level measurements, the other 3 genlation in Communications (ANCOM) makes electromagnetic erated a series of 9 corrective measures from local police and field strength measurement results available to the general National Environmental Guard, which have been implemented. public in real time. Adequate data is disclosed for mobile In the reporting period, Telekom Romania was not part of any equipment. other incidents regarding the compliance with environmental ANCOM map of conducted EMF measurements with mobile regulations. equipment NOISE SEEING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT IN BROADER TERMS OZONE PROTECTION We are using refrigerants within our cooling systems for offices and technical rooms and our objective is to avoid and reduce leakages, which can occur due to technical failures, during reparations and refilling activities. To improve the control of refrigerants and increase the efficiency of our cooling systems, we have implemented a clear maintenance and verification programme, which allows us to detect failures and leakages. In 2016 our cooling systems lost through leakages a total quantity of 2,715.53 kg of refrigerants. Telecommunication technical installations do not generate noise, but the auxiliary equipment does (generators, air conditioning systems and outdoor cooling equipment). In 2016 we received and solved 3 external complaints regarding the noise level of our equipment (competent authorities performed measurements and the resulting levels were below the legal noise limit). We are maintaining the noise level of our equipment below legal thresholds through maintenance programmes and by replacing old equipment. PRESERVING THE LANDSCAPE Visual impact aspects are associated with our Base Stations, which often have elements visible on high ground. We are reducing this by integrating our Base Stations within existing infrastructure, collaborating with other telecommunication operators and public utilities companies. We are also using REPLENISHED REFRIGERANTS smaller Base Station equipment where possible. To this date, Kilograms 2015 2016 we have not receive any complaints regarding the visual impact of our installation in 2016. Total 2,029.85 2,715.53 R134a 6.30 38.55 R407c 693.80 1,016.70 R410a 829.75 992.28 R427a 500.00 668.00 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 46 CHAPTER 6 WATER CONSUMPTION The contents of these studies and the approval process that includes a public consultation phase are specified in the relWater consumption is associated with our administrative and evant legislative acts. These studies, on the basis of current G4-DMA Effluents and Waste commercial activities in both our office and commercial scientific knowledge, conclude that impacts on biodiversity buildings. We are only using water from public sources. In are not material, and therefore there are no protected and/or addition to increasing awareness internally, we have limited restored habitat areas that are affected by Telekom Romania technical ability to influence water usage, which depends on operations. buildings owners (with the exception of Telekom owned buildings). WATER CONSUMPTION 6.3 WHAT’S THE CHALLENGE FOR Cubic meters 2014 2015 2016 THE FUTURE? Total 98,682.4 102,511.5 101,893.2 Fixed operations 93,410.4 93,660.0 93,106.0 Mobile operations 5,272.0 8,851.5 8,787.2 BIODIVERSITY We believe in the concept of circular economy as opposed to the linear ‘take, make, dispose’ model, which currently still prevails but is reaching its physical limits. A circular economy Preserving Romania’s unique biodiversity and recognizing is restorative and regenerative by design, aiming to keep the relationship between sustainable development and products, components, and materials at their highest utility human wellbeing are central concerns shaping our policies. and value at all times. Such business models are based on a We have to constantly strive to keep a balance between continuous development cycle that preserves and enhances sustainability and technological advancement of the society. natural capital. High quality telecommunication services everywhere and at any time necessitates the operation of a geographically In that respect, following Deutsche Telecom’s example set extensive network of installations, which inevitably include out in the Circular Economy Strategy, we strive to minimize protected areas. the environmental impact of our operations and to raise In 2016 there were 31 base stations that were situated in awareness of our employees and stakeholders on acting protected areas. 31 base stations and one building were situmore responsibly on the issue of environmental protection. ated in terrestrial ecosystems protected areas in the following Applying the principle Reduce – Reuse – Recycle for our counties: Alba, Bihor, Brăila, Brașov, Caraș Severin, Giurgiu, activities. Gorj, Harghita, Mehedinţi, Mureș, Sibiu, Tulcea, Vâlcea, Expanding the lifetime and overall utilization of the Neamţ, covering a total area of 0.017 km2. equipment provided to customers, and facilitating the recycling of their discarded equipment. All our protected area sites are developed, installed and Informing and encouraging citizens to adopt recycling operated based on Environmental Impact Assessment studpractices. ies approved by designated authorities, in line with national legislation. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 47 CHAPTER 6 RESOURCE AND WASTE MANAGEMENT STRATEGY MATERIALS CONSUMPTION Through our environmental policy and objectives we are comG4-EN1, G4-DMA Materials Tons 2015 2016 mitted to managing and reducing the environmental impacts of our operations. Thus we have established a precise and Total 1,434.7 658.14 detailed monitoring system for all materials and resources we use. This enables us to identify the potential for improvement Paper and cardboard 564.36 355.16 and set out specific measures to tackle those aspects, which are within our control. Plastic 13.12 25.01 To advance our material efficiency and waste management we developed our strategy around 7 key principles: Wood 166.93 67.65 Monitor the consumption of materials associated with our operations. Biodegradable bags (pieces) 301.04 0 Reduce the use of materials with high environmental impacts in their production phase. Paper bags (pieces) 389.25 210.32 Prevent waste generation whenever possible. Maximise the reuse of materials or recycle them through Aluminium 0.025 0 specialized companies. Manage all electric and electronic waste to prevent environmental impact. Enhance environmental awareness, internally and externally, to increase participation in recycling practices. ASSOCIATED MATERIALS CONSUMPTION We focus on reducing our waste quantities and increasing Tons 2015 2016 our recycling rate. At the same time we are developing initiatives and programmes that support collection and recycling Total 261.6 394.5 of batteries and accumulators (WB&A) as well as old electric and electronic equipment (WEEE). Office paper 66.69 79.54 Reused Ink cartridges (pieces) 195 315 USE OF MATERIALS WASTE MANAGEMENT We classify the waste generated by our fixed and mobile operations according to specific criteria: Hazardous waste (lead batteries, lamps, portable batteries, wooden poles with creosote, refrigerants, oils, ink cartridges); Technical waste generated during technical operations on our networks and systems (e.g. cables, metals, electronic and telecommunication equipment) and used products (e.g. phones and related accessories, etc.); Others (waste categories not included in previous categories, such as residual waste). All materials that can be recycled or managed in an environOur commercial operations use packaging materials to pack, mental way are disposed separately with authorized contractransport and deliver our products to shops and customers. tors and the rest of the waste is sent to landfills or incinerated. Furthermore, we are using packaging for marketing and administrative purposes. Within this category, we are monitoring the following packaging materials: plastic, paper and WASTE GENERATED cardboard, wood, aluminium and bags. In 2016 we consumed 79.54 tons of paper in our offices and Tons 2015 2016 recycled 47.8% of total paper and cardboard waste generated. We are reusing as many cartridges as possible through Total 7,189.66 6,988.48 refilling and we have established an alternative collection system for those at end of their refilling cycle. Technical waste 3,060.88 2,173.22 Hazardous waste 89.60 255.91 Others 4,039.19 4,559.34 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 48 CHAPTER 6 WASTE GENERATED Hazardous waste 4 Technical waste 31 2016 Others 65 (incl. residual waste) TECHNICAL WASTE BREAKDOWN WASTE DISPOSAL COST Tons 2015 2016 EUR 2015 2016 Waste disposal, packaging, WEEE, Total 3,096.05 2,173.36 356,792.86 268,883.5 batteries and accumulators Cables, aluminium, copper, etc. 2,479.29 907.90 IT hardware and telecommunication In 2016 we produced 6,988.48 tons of waste and recycled a equipment (WEEE) 578.89 1,265.21 total 2,321.82 tons. Internally, our efforts to raise awareness focus on recycling of paper, cardboard, mobile devices and Phones, Batteries & Accessories 0.72 0.11 accessories. We have seen an increase of recycling rates in all of these categories: Other waste (obsolete merchandise) 37.15 0.14 907.9 tons cables, aluminium, copper; 1,265.21 tons of IT and telecommunication equipment; 38.05 tons out of total 79.54 tons of paper (reaching 47.8%); WASTE MANAGED 0.11 tons of mobile devices and accessories ; Tons 2015 2016 0.93 tons of plastic. G4-EN23 Total 7,112.24 6,988.48 Recycled waste 3,263.38 2,321.82 CASE STUDY Non-recycled waste (including 3,848.86 4,666.66 residual waste) We promote recycling in our stores and office buildings to educate employees and customers on ways to reduce their own environmental footprint. The latter targets the CASE STUDY recycling of waste generated in offices and is based on the sorting-at-source principle. Therefore in our offices we have separate sorting bins for plastic, paper and houseIT hardware and telecommunication equipment reprehold waste as well as collecting bins for E-waste (e.g batsent the main WEEE type we collect and manage. In 2016 teries or neon-lamps). we have continued our modernization programme by replacing old equipment. We have decommissioned and collected 1,265.21 tons of IT hardware and telecommunication equipment (which was either sold at recycling centres or exchanged through a buyback system). Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 49 7. Our people A valuable team 77. OUR PEOPLE A VALUABLE TEAM 50 Who are our employees? What is our corporate culture? How do we foster the How do we create a good How do we ensure our social engagement of our place to work? employees' development? employees? CHAPTER 7 We recognise that aiming at a leading position on the market 7.1 WHO ARE OUR EMPLOYEES? requires great leadership and skills within the organisation. Adding to that is the need for fostering a digital-minded G4-DMA Employment, G4-DMA Diversity and Equal Opportunity culture and giving high performing teams the space and support they need to drive technological innovation. Adapting to challenging market conditions requires constant transformation and can create great pressure on the people working towards it. Having faced our need for changes within the organisation, we focused on creating the best possible conditions for our employees, helping them find their way in new and challenging situations, whether inside or outside our structure. Adopting a new operational model is never an easy process and it can destabilise company culture at all levels. Having indentified some necessary changes, we recognise the need to rebuild a sense of trust and security within the organisation. Maintaining relationships based on trust with our employees, trade unions and employee representatives is at the core of Going forward we will continue to create a safe and fair workour responsible employer vision. ing environment where talent is recognised and nurtured. Placing the right people in the right roles and supporting At the end of 2016, the total workforce of our mobile and future leaders in their development are imperative for our fixed operation was of 6,084 full time employees, which future growth. But the starting point for tackling any chalis with 4.5% less compared to 2015. Our active change lenge is to give our people clear guidelines and ensure open management program “Job Service & Placement”, was set upward communication. We can only go forward by making out to prepare employees whose positions are scheduled to sure that all our employees feel like they are part of a healthy, be cut or have already been cut for employment opportunisupportive working environment. ties within and outside the company. We assisted them with professional location analyses, provided consulting on their employment prospects and assisted them with their applications for compensation payments. WORKFORCE EVOLUTION INDICATORS 2015 2016 Total employees (full time, part time, 6,368 6,084 indefinite and definite contracts) Employee turnover as a percentage of 7.1 9.64 total employees (%) Even in these trying circumstances we managed to maintain a culture based on open dialogue and made sure that everyone involved was well informed at all times. To this end, we are using internal communication processes and tools to ensure that information reaches our employees in a unified and synchronized manner. In 2016, we continued to communicate with the employees through an array of digital channels such as the Intranet, YAM groups and campaigns, newsletters, text messages and live streaming sessions. Recognising the need to encourage a more open exchange, we allocated additional resources to direct communication channels to stimulate feedback and start real conversations. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 51 CHAPTER 7 In 2016, we ensured a 100% response rate for any inquiry 64% of our employees are over 30 years old, 18% received through the dedicated Corporate Communication over 50 years old. More than half are men. e-mail. In order to offer new dialogue opportunities, we launched a forum section on our Intranet. We’ve also seen a 48% increase in participation of Romanian YAM users on WORKFORCE EVOLUTION INDICATORS the Group’s international platform. Also, the company had a 2015 2016 different approach, using for video messages from top management, road tours for one-to-one meetings and promoting G4-LA12 Chief Executive Officers (CXO) 11 8 the live streaming of local events or events hosted by Group. CXOs <30 yo 0 0 KEY EMPLOYMENT FIGURES CXOs 30 yo<50 8 5 CXOs > 50 yo 3 3 92% of our employees have contracts on an indefinite period; almost 100% are full time employees. Female CXOs 1 1 % of Female CXOs 9 12.5 Male CXOs 10 7 WORKFORCE EVOLUTION INDICATORS % of Male CXOs 91 87.5 2015 2016 Directors 34 33 Directors <30 yo 0 0 G4-10 Indefinite contract employees 5,828 5,586 % of employees with contracts on an Directors >30 yo<50 28 30 92% 92% indefinite period Directors > 50 yo 6 3 Definite contract employees 540 498 Female Directors 10 12 Full time employees 6,231 6,049 % of Female Directors 29 36 Male Directors 24 21 Part time employees 137 35 % Male Directors 711 64 Full time employees 6,231 6,049 Managers and supervisors 746 556 Managers and supervisors <30 yo 49 40 Managers and supervisors >30 yo<50 553 403 Managers and supervisors > 50 yo 144 113 Female managers and supervisors 300 218 % of female managers and supervisors 40 39 Male managers and supervisors 446 338 % of male managers and supervisors 60 61 Staff 5,600 5,483 Staff <30 yo 1,056 1,009 Staff >30 yoi<50 3,663 3,463 Staff > 50 yo 881 1,011 Female staff 2,222 2,149 % of female staff 39 39 Male staff 3,378 3,334 % of male staff 61 61 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 52 CHAPTER 7 Most of our employees are over the age of 30, in 2016 7.2 HOW DO WE CREATE A GOOD the number of employees over 50 year old increased PLACE TO WORK? by106. 2015 2016 Total employees < 30 yo 1,206 1,049 G4-LA1 % of employees under 30 yo 19 17 Total employees >30 yo < 50 yo 4,137 3,904 % of employees over 30 yo 65 64 Total employees >50 yo 1,025 1,131 % of employees over 50 yo 16 19 Female employees 2,516 2,381 Non-discrimination, fairness and integrity in the workplace are fundamental values at Telekom Romania. The framework of our fair labour policy, based on respect for human rights, is % of Female employees 40 39 G4-DMA Non-discrimination in accordance with the following: The regulatory framework in Romania and the EU, which Male employees 3,852 3,703 prohibits the use of child labour and forced labour. The United Nations Global Compact, which Telekom % of Male employees 60 61 Romania signed in 2015. The Telekom Romania Code of Conduct and Employee on Labour Relations Policy, recognizing explicitly the basic The group with the highest exposure for the turnover of freedom of association and the right to participate in collecemployees is the one under 30 years old. tive agreements under national legislation, and expressly prohibit unlawful discrimination or harassment based on age, sex, religion, ability, background or sexual orientation. The management of personal data is realized in accor2015 2016 dance with the Code of Conduct for the Protection of Human Rights, developed in accordance with the existing national Turnover rate < 30 yo 26.7% 34.7% legal framework, in view of ensuring human rights. G4-LA1 Turnover rate >30 yo < 50 yo 5.34% 5.81% The core principle of our human resources management is that all decisions and actions relating to matters such as Turnover rate >50 yo 0.86% 0.35% recruitment, wages, growth and employee development and termination of contracts are characterized by meritocracy, transparency and non-discrimination. New employees <30 yo 628 372 Our Code of Conduct is the framework guiding the behaviour New employees >30 yo <50 yo 321 157 of all employees. It reaffirms our strong commitment to comply with laws and regulations, with the specific obligations New employees >50 yo 7 7 relating to ethical behaviour which, together with the five Guiding Principles, support our success. Our non-discrimination principle covers gender, age, religion, ability, origin and sexual orientation and have established internal reporting 2015 2016 mechanism for all questions, concerns or complaints related to non-discrimination and all Code of Conduct principles. Turnover rate for female employees 11.01% 12.35% G4-LA1 Turnover rate for male employees 7.06% 8.13% New female employees 397 275 New male employees 559 321 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 53 CHAPTER 7 FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE EMPLOYEE WORKING TOOLS AND BENEFITS LABOUR AGREEMENTS We provide a range of benefits and programs to employees, G4-LA2 We fully comply with the Romanian regulation on labour, supporting them and their families in their day-to-day lives, G4-11, G4-LA5, G4-DMA Labor/Management Relations freedom of association and collective labour Agreements. promoting a healthy work and life balance and helping them Our employees are organized within representative unions, through personal emergencies. Our employee benefit system covered 100% by collective labour agreements. Within is based on a flexible scheme that fits each person individualTelekom Romania Mobile Communications a union has ly and offers partnerships with a variety of different suppliers been formed in 2015 and a collective working agreement to ensure the quality of available services. These include: was concluded in 2016. WELLBEING The Collective Labour Agreements within Telekom Romania Meal tickets regulate health and safety topics, rights and obligations, Sport Club – 7Card working time, remuneration and other monetary rights, vacaMedical services tions, individual labour agreements, evaluation procedure in On site chair massage case of professional under performance, social protection, Discount to Spa & Beauty labour discipline, and union rights. Settlement of expenses for transport home work home Friend and family program Discount to travel agencies CASE STUDY Settlement of expenses for tourism and/or treatment Fuel Card At Telekom Romania the ratio of male/female remuneration is 1:1. Compensation level is determined by the level HOLIDAYS of the position held, performance at the job, education Holiday bonus level, market information available, while the minimum Christmas Premium wage level is adjusted according to the law. Christmas money gift for children Easter Premium Easter money gift for children “8th of March” Money Gift for Women “1st of June” Children Money Gift G4-DMA Equal Remuneration for women and men PARENTAL LEAVE WELLBEING IN THE FUTURE Private Pension Pillar 3 Telekom Romania provides parental leave for childbirth and Life insurance (Risks Covered – death, total and partial permanent disability by any cause, hospitalization by parental leave for childcare. Parental leave, which is considany cause, allowance for temporary disability due to ered and paid as working time, is provided to working mothhospitalization) ers or fathers immediately after the end of maternity leave. Special Offers for banks All working employees made use of parental leave as they were entitled to. No employee resigned during child care DEVELOPMENT leave with pay, and all men and women, returned to their Discount to libraries normal duties. Discount to education & entertainment Discount to electronics Microsoft licences Gift Voucher Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 54 CHAPTER 7 HEALTH AND SAFETY KEY HEALTH & SAFETY FIGURES In 2016, our objective was to continue to strengthen our H&S We recorded a slight increase in the number of non-fatal G4-LA6 management sphere and increase our performance on all work-related injuries. The number of fatal injuries was kept G4-DMA Occupational Health and Safety core aspects. We achieved our objectives and improved our at 0. performance by not having any injuries related to work tasks (as a prime example, we managed to cut in half the number of accidents resulting from falls from heights). HEALTH & SAFETY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS We have initiated corrective actions and preventive measures and we are keeping our 0 injuries goal for 2017. 2014 2015 2016 Number of employees In Telekom Romania Communications, despite an increase in number of accidents, we registered a good decrease of the severity index by over 30%. Having acknowledged that Work-related fatal injuries 0 0 0 the overall organisational average of recorded accidents has increased, we focused our management programs on Work-related non-fatal injuries 7 4 9 reducing the injury rates. Work-related non-fatal injuries (lost days) 610 360 530 We have also focused on ensuring that our employees remain healthy by providing easy access to basic, legally reHealth & safety training (hours/emplyees) 10.18* 11.17* 13.65 quired medical exams, as well as additional medical services provided in the compensation and benefits package. *Estimation Health and safety strategic objectives achievement status: HEALTH & SAFETY INDICATORS HEALTH & SAFETY OBJECTIVE STATUS Number of accidents/total number of 2015 2016 working hours by all employees No occupational diseases caused by No occupational disease have Injury rate (number of accidents/total numperformed activities been identified in 2016 0.12 0.16 ber of working hours by all employees). Lost days rate (total number of lost days as a result of accidents / total number of working 11.72 9.7 days planned for the year in scope) No occupational diseases caused by No occupational diseases have performing activities amongst Lost days rate female n/a 3.26 been identified in 2016 pregnant women Lost days rate male 19.14 13.70 9 working injuries recorded for No work-related injuries all operations Because of the slight increase in injury numbers an increase in lost days rates and absentee rates is to be seen. Training of employees on health All employees have been trained and safety periodically based on health & (100% employees trained) safety training topics All workplace leaders have been trained periodically based on Training of workplace supervisors on health & safety training topics. health and safety (100%) In addition, 8 workplace leaders graduated the H&S course (40 hours) Injury rate = (Total number of injuries / Total hours worked) x 200,000. The factor 200,000 is derived from 50 working weeks for 40 hours per 100 employees. The data includes all accidents resulted in injury, including first-aid injuries. Lost day rate = (Total number of lost days / Total hours worked) x 200,000. The factor 200,000 is derived from 50 working weeks for 40 hours per 100 employees. Lost days are calculated as calendar days and their count begins on the day of the injury. For the fixed operations, the lost days resulted from accidents occurred in previous year are included. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 55 CHAPTER 7 HEALTH & SAFETY TRAINING 7.3 ENSURING THE DEVELOPMENT OF Number of employees 2015 2016 OUR EMPLOYEES H&S periodical training 6,368 6,107 Our H&S induction training is mandatory upon H&S induction training employment and therefore all of our new employees went through it. H&S specialist training 22 16 *In 2015, a number of 60 employees received a first aid training from one of our partners Health & Safety medical exams Number of employees 2015 2016 Medical examination at hiring 1114 649 According According Periodical medical examinations to law to law Team together – Team apart and Best place to perform and Other medical examinations 50 68 grow represent the core principles of our employee engagement approach. The involvement, the commitment G4-DMA Training and Education and the satisfaction of our employees are key elements of our business success. COMPLIANCE WITH HEALTH AND SAFETY LAWS AND We believe in open and continuous communication between REGULATIONS all levels of our workforce, as essential ingredient for an inclusive and fair working environment. We inform employees During the reporting period, Telekom Romania participated about the strategic, technological and organizational changes G4-SO8 in 17 inspections from Labour authorities resulting in 1 finanmade, encouraging active participation and involvement in cial penalty, and 2 inspections from Emergency Situations all decisions. Hence, our employee survey is an essential tool authorities, which resulted in 2 penalties. All the financial through which our employees have the chance to provide penalties amounted to 1,550 EURO. feedback on a regular basis. The biannual Pulse Survey captures up-to-date feedback, which we then incorporate into our management team’s decisions and initiatives. HEALTH & SAFETY INDICATORS The 3 values that define our approach to employee Number of employees 2015 2016 engagement: Occupational disease rate occupational related illnesses/total number of worked 0 0 hours of all employees) Team spirit: we can feel like a family, it is up to us Occupational disease rate female 0 0 create the working atmosphere we want. Occupational disease rate male 0 0 Development opportunities: soft skills training, technical certificate courses, promotions and internal Work related fatal injuries (number of recruitment are all opportunities available to our 0 0 employees) employees who wish to advance within Telekom Work related fatal injuries female 0 0 Romania or the DT Group. Work related fatal injuries male 0 0 Technology and innovation: Telekom Romania is a place where the digital mind-set is constantly fostered and opportunities to work with cutting-edge technology are created. Occupational disease rates and work related fatal injuries were kept at 0. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 56 CHAPTER 7 PERFORMANCE AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT REVIEW CASE STUDY G4-LA11 Number of employees 2015 2016 Collaborations to cover compulsory practice internships % of employees receiving regular performance and career development 100 100 with various universities and high schools: 12 integrated reviews students from Polytechnic University of Bucharest; 5 students from other prestigious universities in Bucharest (e.g. ASE, Bucharest University) and 10 stuIn 2016, 100% of our employees went through the performance evaluation process dents from the Technological High School of Electrical and 99% of the evaluations were finalized. Engineering and Telecommunications Constanta. Development Days involved around 650 people in 7.4 HOW DO WE FOSTER THE several cities from the whole country in a new concept of SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT OF OUR training, based on a mix of internal champions and acclaimed external experts in extensive soft skills training. EMPLOYEES? The sessions covered themes such as Management and Leadership, Sales, Negotiation and Customers Services, Personal and professional development, Team development, as well as topics regarding Project management. Brand Champions Awards was a competition designed to identify those employees that best embody the Telekom brand values (Innovation, Competence and Simplicity). The aim was recognise how individuals contribute to the success of our brand in extraordinary ways. Following a two-stage evaluation, the top 10 candidates were each awarded 1,000 Euros to pay a training of their choice. Certification of more than 100 employees on specific technical topics: CISCO, PMP, ACCA, ITIL etc. We believe that managing social responsibility in an organisation should take place within two dimensions: corporate and personal. Hence, at Telekom Romania we always seek to provide our employees with opportunities to realise their needs TRAINING EVOLUTION INDICATORS and passions through engaging with their communities, thus building a culture of participation. Such projects are focused In 2016 we maintained the 100 percentage of trained on supporting a balanced life, which involves personal growth employees. through social contribution. G4-LA9, G4-LA10 Number of employees 2015 2016 Our volunteering framework provides the informational, technical and administrative support for direct employee involveEmployees trained 6,373 6,107 ment. This enables them to participate directly in activities addressing the following aspects: % of employees trained* 100 100 Total training (hours/employee) 25.29 20.84 Reforestations Total training female (hours/employee) n/a 12.35 Blood donation Total training male (hours/employee) n/a 25.4 Supporting sport events *An estimate of 100% of our employees receive trainings (in HR, Business Management, Management Systems either in class or E-learning etc). Because of Promotion of healthy living the fact that our training system is not integrated and because of the yearly turnover, the figures of trained employees are higher than the actual number of employees, (e.g. one employee receives training and might leave the company in the same year). Supporting children healthcare Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 57 CHAPTER 7 EMPLOYEES VOLUNTEERING 2016 Number of employees participating in 5% (282) volunteering initiatives Volunteering Hours 15,146 In 2016 we involved our employees, customers, suppliers and business partners in various initiatives and programs in areas such as reforestation, sports events, blood donations and volunteering for children’s healthcare. We make sure that our employees are always well informed about all our CR initiatives so that they can contribute according to their personal needs and values and fit these activities in their busy schedules. CASE STUDY Developed with the help of over 200 volunteers in Bucharest Botanical Garden, Green Work is a program built in partnership with Team Work Association. Telekom CASE STUDY Romania employees, together with their families and friends, joined a team of biologist to assist them in the revitalisation of green spaces that had been neglected In 2016, our team participated in the second edition of for over 10 years. Bucharest Botanical Garden is an the Bike2Work competition and ranked second among important landmark and this project gave our employees 27 companies. Our colleagues travelled 452 routes, a an opportunity to preserve a representative space in total distance of about 2,650 km.The Bike2Work contest Bucharest, which offers a green refuge to over 12,000 is a European Union program organized in Romania by visitors each month. Green Revolution Association. The contest involved in total over 1,400 bikers in Romania that travelled for over 280,000 kilometres. “Our belief is that the positive change we want to bring in the society starts with our company. Our aim is to ensure a fair, diverse, supportive and safe working environment which will leverage both professional and personal development of our people. Values and mission are translated into our day to day activities so we are permanently developing the necessary endowment, proactively improve the ways in which we guide and support our employees. Incorporating the external knowledge and good practices into our company environment, supporting through our employees a healthier and better society – this is how we see the connection between the internal and external dimensions of corporate responsibility. ” Carmen Dumitrache, Chief Human Resources Officer Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 58 8. Our Business conducted responsibly OUR BUSINESS CONDUCTED RESPONSIBLY What is our corporate How we ensure How we implement our governance? resposibility for the market corporate resposibility How we create a culture of and our supply chain? commitments? ethics? CHAPTER 8 For large, multi-layer organisations such as ours, it is not enough to just acknowledge the need to be socially and 8.1 WHO IS RESPONSIBLE? environmentally responsible. It is not enough to strategize and make promises to our stakeholders. If we are to be G4-34 G4-56 their trusted companion, we must make sure we put all the necessary measures in place in every corner and evaluate our behaviour at each and every step of our way. At Telekom Romania this is not a daunting task, but a positive approach supported by our belief in the personal integrity of our employees. Our trust in them, grounded through adequate internal compliance systems, will then translate into maintaining the trust of our customers, suppliers, partners and all external stakeholders. Our corporate responsibility strategy is founded in ethics, compliance and risk management. From the external perspective, compliance and risk management become especially important in the current context of a national battle against corruption in Romania. Internally it is essential for all employees to feel involved through adapting a culture of ethics as only then can we say that it really take effect on an organizational level. The board is responsible for the adoption of business strategic plans as well as sustainability strategy, the monitoring of operational performance and management, and the development of appropriate and effective risk management policies and processes. Members of the Board are selected based on their qualifications and expertise, while at the moment there Our goal is to support and strengthen our core operational is no separate consideration of gender and other indicators principles: of diversity in the selection criteria. Transparency; Justice; Professionalism; Members of our Boards of Directors in 2016 Integrity; Respect for the rule of law and for the ethical principles. TELEKOM ROMANIA COMMUNICATIONS S.A. President of the Board of Mr. Michail Tsamaz Directors Mr. Miroslav Majoroš Executive member Mr. Charalampos Mazarakis Non-executive member Mrs. Eirini Nikolaidi Non-executive member Mr. Nicholaos Stamboulis Non-executive member Mrs. Anca Georgescu-Aladgem Non-executive member Mr. Robert Hauber Non-executive member Mr. Bogdan Voicu Non-executive member Mr. Florin Furdui Non-executive member Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 60 CHAPTER 8 TELEKOM ROMANIA MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS S.A. In 2016 changes were made in the management team to ensure a more agile organization structure, with simpler and President of the Board of customer-oriented processes, enabling the increase of the Mr. Charalampos Mazarakis Directors operational efficiency and the acceleration of the company strategic plans. Find out more information about our Mr. Miroslav Majoroš Executive member Management Team. Mrs. Daniela Bujic Non-executive member Mr. Konstantinos Liamidis Non-executive member 8.2 CREATING A CULTURE OF G4-DMA Compliance, G4-DMA Anti-corruption, G4-14 ETHICS Mr. Anastasios Tzoulas Non-executive member Mr. Dimitrios Tzelepis Non-executive member Mr. Florin Furdui Non-executive member BREAKDOWN OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BODIES 2015 2016 % of people from governance bodies 0 0 <30 yo G4-LA12 % of people from governance bodies >30 yo<50 64 57 % of people from governance bodies 36 43 > 50 yo Female in governance bodies 6 5 At Telekom Romania “Compliance” defines the way we “want” to act, not the way we are “obliged” to act. A culture of Male in governance bodies 19 21 personal ethics and integrity is at the core of our compliance programmes that support principled performance. Minorities in governance bodies 0 0 During 2016, Telekom Romania: Was not part of any incidents of non-compliance with Governance bodies include: regulations regarding money laundering and corruption; Board of Directors Did not receive any discrimination complaints. Management Team Audit Committee Nomination and Remuneration Committee Enterprise Risk Management & Corporate Governance Committee We have integrated the compliance principle in all our G4-SO5, G4-HR3 Compliance Committee activities under the umbrella of the Compliance Management System and combined it with the goal of supporting and strengthening our core operational principles: transparency, justice, professionalism, integrity and respect for the rule of One of the key roles of the management team is to provide law and ethical principles. corporate leadership by articulating transcended goals, communicating high performance standards, setting the ethical and professional behaviour example and communicating clearly the values by which the company is being governed. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 61 CHAPTER 8 We focus on: At an organisational level we make sure that we conduct our Raising awareness about the risks of non-compliance and behaviour according to best practices through complying building compliance culture; with certification: Prevention of misconduct; Detection and treatment of compliance issues; Certification Anti-Corruption: in 2013, the auditors conProvide necessary compliance consultancy. firmed that the processes of the compliance organization are effective; in 2017 we aim to reach a re-certification with a focus on anti-corruption, among other Deutsche Telekom COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE Group subsidiaries. Antitrust Certification: The Antitrust System of Telekom Romania was examined as well by an independent auditing institution in 2014 according to the German standard IDW PS 980. The audit report certifies that Telekom Romania has an effective compliance management system to avoid antitrust violations and to recognize them in time. As part of this certification Telekom Romania, as well Deutsche Telekom AG and OTE were examined. RISKS Compliance Risk The high risk areas in the company have been highlighted Assessment as those related to corruption. As a result of the assessment process, the following potential risks related to corruption have been identified in the company: G4-SO3 1. Active Corruption reflected through the following potential scenarios: A benefit is granted to an employee or representative of a POLICIES partnering business in connection with a specific forthcoming business decision in order to gain an unfair competitive Compliance Management System is based on internationally advantage. recognized principles and frameworks including German A benefit is granted to a member of the public sector in audit standard PS 980 issued by the German Public Audit connection with a decision-making processes. Institute. The compliance guidelines and policies within the A sales agent/advisor uses part of their fees to win a conexisting framework include: tract through bribery. Ethical code of conduct; 2. Passive Corruption reflected through the following potenPolicy of avoiding corruption and other form of conflict of tial scenarios: interest; Employee formulates selection criteria in favor of one Categories of partners / compliance due diligence princisupplier/consultant. Procurement has no choice other than to ples; include this supplier/consultant in its selection. Alternatively, Telekom suppliers code of conduct; an employee influences an auction/tender in favor of one The code of ethics for senior finacial officers; bidder. In return, the employee receives a benefit from the Policy on accepting and granting of benefits; supplier/consultant. Events policy; Employee/buyer agrees terms to the disadvantage of Donation policy; DTAG or the Telekom entity when awarding contracts for Sponsorship policy; services in return for money or other benefits. Insider trading policy; Employees place lucrative orders to retailer IDs and accept Anti-fraud policy; money in return. Policy on antitrust law; Acceptance of a benefit in connection with a specific Whistleblowing policy; business decision. Policy on avoiding sexual harassement. Other policies pertaining to a culture of ethics: Corporate responsibility policy, Internal operations regulation code of conduct for the protection of the individual’s rights to privacy in the handling of personal data policy on employee relations, Benefits policy. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 62 CHAPTER 8 AWARENESS PRIVACY AND SECURITY In 2016 our compliance training programme reached a total of 22% employees (1,359) and focused on topics such as In number of trained employees 2014 2015 2016 G4-SO4 Anti-Corruption. Sessions, based on national and internaData Privacy training for internal tional case studies, were organised in classroom and online employees 1,560 632 3,296* formats. This created an opportunity to really participate and understand the relevant compliance risks that apply in their Anti-Trust 141 495 38 day to day activities and how to mitigate these risks, based on the existing processes and procedures. Our Compliance Data Privacy on Telecommunication 1,059 436 0 training programme is based on internal guidelines and Secrecy for internal employees policies which are updated annually as part of continuous Data Privacy for external employees improvement of the Compliance Management System. 215 4 0 (call centers) Information security training 4,176 2,685 Anti-Money Laundering n/a 73 1,069 * Data Privacy on Telecommunication Secrecy for internal employees as included in the standard Data Privacy training for internal employees 8.3 HOW WE ENSURE BEING A RESPONSIBLE MARKET PLAYER? COMPLIANCE TRAINING PER TOPIC In number of trained employees 2014 2015 2016 Anti-Corruption 5,849 1,647 1,144 Induction Training on Compliance 135 268 215 CASE STUDY “Transparency is essential in order to move forward” this was the theme of AntiCorruption Day held on 9 During 2016, Telekom Romania: December 2016. We celebrated it together with our Was not found in material breach of national fair comDeutsche Telekom colleagues all over the world, remempetition and monopoly regulations and no significant fines bering what transparency and integrity means, how we given on non-compliance with laws and regulations. There fight against corruption in our daily business and how was one small case identified in 2016 and it was related important it is to act in transparent ways. to a complaint from ANAF (National Agency for Fiscal Administration) based on the organization own initiative. Throughout 2016 the “Speak up Culture” employee-oriThe complaint covered the topic of unlimited benefits for ented campaign launched at DT Group level served as certain tariff plans. The complaint was formulated against the fixed and mobile company on February 16, 2016. G4-SO7, G4-SO8, G4-PR7 an enabler, promoting communication channels and creating opportunities to address issues early on and Following our response to their complaint, we received potentially avoid costly enforcement actions and other a fine of 3,500 LEI. We took the ANAF decision into the litigation. court and we won in the mobile company case, but not in the fixed company case. Was not identified as being non-compliant with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing, communications including promotion and sponsorship. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 63 CHAPTER 8 Our companies are committed to compliance with national and European regulations of the telecommunications market 8.4 HOW WE ENSURE in Romania. We are committed to working together with RESPONSIBILITY OF OUR SUPPLY government agencies, enterprises and other stakeholders to CHAIN ? G4-DMA Public Policy, G4-DMA Anti-competitive Behaviour, G4-DMA Marketing communications ensure a regulatory framework that protects all stakeholders’ interests and contributes to the overall welfare of society. In 2016 we concentrated on a number of regulatory and administrative actions on the following topics: Customers’ information about contractual conditions to ensure transparency on the market. Respecting the licenses’ obligations regarding spectrum utilization, numbering, technical resources allocation. Respecting the obligations regarding wholesale, interconnection, MVNOs, alternative services partners. Electromagnetic fields public perception mitigation, through ensuring transparency of ICNIRP and national regulations and World Health Organization recommendations. Debating legislative proposals on the telecommunication market regarding charge control and other local authorities initiatives. On-going consultancy process regarding European and national legal framework implementation in the business activity. Conforming to the applicable laws and regulations for communication and advertising including “Commercial comSPENDING ON LOCAL SUPPLIERS munication rules on telecommunication services and products” issued by the Romanian Advertising Council (RAC). 85% of suppliers are from Romania, the rest are from North America and Asia. 100% of new suppliers were screened using environmental, labor practices, using human rights and G4-12, G4-EC9, G4-LA14, G4-EN32, G4-SO9 impacts on society criteria in accordance to our Group policy. 2014 2015 2016 CASE STUDY Local suppliers 1,229 1,301 1,273 According to the general authorization regime adoptExternal suppliers 209 208 216 ed by the regulatory authority (ANCOM), any person intending to start the provision of public electronic communications networks or publicly available electronic communications services has the obligation to send WHO ARE OUR SUPPLIERS? ANCOM a notification on this intention. The assessment process ensures the compliance with current legislation, Contractors, licenses, consulting services, companies selling the resolution of complaints, as well as the assessment telecommunications equipment and services, companies of the quality of the provided networks and services. developing computer hardware and software, licenses usage of content rights, building/facilities managed services, Additionally, providers are obliged to inform ANCOM on marketing services, HR services, print services, mail services. aspects such as general statistical data, contracts, access and interconnection or annual financial statements. In 2016 ANCOM registered 143 complaints regarding our mobile operations and 209 regarding our fixed operations. All the complaints were answered in the legal term. For unfulfilling of obligations regarding informing of costumers and closing contracts at distance, ANCOM applied a warning and three fines totaling approx. 4,500 EUR for the fixed company. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 64 CHAPTER 8 G4-DMA Investment (as to human rights) We see sustainability in our supply chain as an opportunity for all. We are aware that without the support and collaboraSUPPLIERS’ SELECTION tion of our suppliers we can’t achieve a sustainable growth but also, as leading telecommunication company in Romania The suppliers are selected on the basis of purchase orders we drive development along our entire supply chain. Thus (POs) issued via SAP-ERP systems, within a 12 month period. through a development program, we help strategic suppliers All the selected suppliers are evaluated by the business units to introduce business practices that are socially and ecologinvolved and also a self-assessment questionnaire is comically acceptable and economically efficient. The program pleted by the Supplier. The selection criteria are based on is developed around four key components which together technical specification, price, commercial terms, contractual ensures that the relationship with suppliers are mutually issues and CR specific requirements. beneficial, respects social responsibility and environmental The contracts with all suppliers include specific clauses sustainability principles and forms our Supplier Assessment or annexes on health and safety, anti-corruption, security, Framework. environment protection, confidentiality and compliance with Telekom Romania Supplier Code of Conduct. environment protection. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 65 CHAPTER 8 TELEKOM ROMANIA SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT SUPPLIERS’ EVALUATION FRAMEWORK The active suppliers of our companies are evaluated on an annual basis. This process is coordinated by the Process G4-DMA Supplier Environmental Assessment, G4-DMA Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices, G4-DMA Supplier Assessment for impacts on Society Management and Improvement Division. The suppliers to be CASE STUDY evaluated are selected on the basis of purchase orders (POs) issued within a 12 month period. Thus all suppliers with orders worth over 2 million EUR and all suppliers providing Supplier Code of Conduct crucial supplies (as defined by the OTE Group, i.e. goods and Requires ethical and legally impeccable behaviour. services that have a significant impact on products and serAddresses requirements of honest behaviour for vices provided to customers) worth more than 500.000 EUR, business relationships, for handling information and the were evaluated. In addition, all suppliers of products/services avoidance of conflicts of interest. related to certified management systems of these companies Active and passive corruption, public procurement, are evaluated (i.e. Management systems according to ISO trade controls, donations, sponsorship, money launder9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, etc.) ing, data security and privacy are addressed in detail. SUPPLIER CLASSIFICATION AND DEVELOPMENT Corporate responsibility and anti-corruption clause Obliges suppliers to take all measures that are necThe rating of suppliers, performed by the involved business essary to prevent and sanctimonies active and passive units of our companies, together with the completed supcorruption. pliers’ self-questionnaires, are posted into the OTE Group’s Contains obligations for our suppliers to improve the Supplier Evaluation System, in order to obtain a quantified environmental performance and to reduce energy use. performance of each supplier. The performance of each Includes our Code of Conduct. supplier on Corporate Responsibility represents 10% of the Provides regulations to review the adherence of them total score. For the suppliers with a low score, the decision and includes regulations how to handle breaches. about further actions is taken at the level of OTE Group Management, whether they need to show improvement in their Environmental consideration for supplier assessment performance or whether their cooperation with the Group is procedure terminated. In the case of international suppliers, the deciThe overall assessments of suppliers consider the estabsions are taken based on DT supplier policy. lishment and implementation of an Environmental Policy, including procedures, clear targets and improvement programs regarding: pollution prevention; resource reduction; safe utilization, handling, transportation, storing, recycling, re-use and disposal of hazardous substances; disposal of wastewater and solid waste. Social Charta Refers to the Declaration of Human Rights, the OECD guidelines, Global Compact and the ILO core labour standards. Includes the topics of human rights, working conditions, prohibition of child labour and forced labour, equal opportunities as well as labour, health and environmental protection. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 66 CHAPTER 8 8.5 HOW WE ENSURE THAT OUR CR SUPPLIERS AND HUMAN RIGHTS COMMITMENTS ARE Ensures compliance with national and international rules, IMPLEMENTED? standards and laws Ensures and actively support adherence with environmental and social standards and human rights during all stages of the supply chain Manages CR opportunities and risks in the Group’s purchasing process Identifies risks and improvement potential, and develop improvement measures Analyses and evaluate the impact of the IT industry on society RESOURCE AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY, CLIMATE PROTECTION Develops, implements and reviews a company-wide waste management strategy Improves resource efficiency by providing instructions and recommendations Provides transparency on the company overall environmental footprint and identify improvement potentials Monitors company’s actions with respect to their environmental effectiveness SOCIETY To ensure that our commitment is transformed in action and results we have connected the Corporate Responsibility with Supports the most vulnerable groups among the populathe Board of Directors scope through our Corporate Commution nication functions. With CR’s governance structure, Telekom Enables disadvantaged people to participate in the knowlRomania ensures that topics related to sustainability are edge and information society integrated in its key business processes. The Board of DirecSupports education initiatives and opportunities via tors grants overall responsibility for Corporate Responsibility sponsorships, donations and corporate volunteering proto the CEO, who in turn keeps BoD up to date. Corporate grams Communication Romania Director is responsible for strategic design and implementation of relevant actions. CUSTOMERS AND PRODUCTS We have defined the key roles and goals of CR bodies for 6 Improves customer satisfaction with sustainability issues key business areas as follows: Assesses the relevance of product and service sustainability in a dialog with external stakeholders ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER MANAGEMENT FINANCE MARKET SYSTEMS Generates sustainable added value Establishes framework conditions for environmental performance according to the current relevant standards Contributes to the inclusion of Telekom Romania in approEvaluates and implement relevant national and internapriate sustainability indexes and steadily improve its rating tional standards on CR aspects and ranking evaluations Reviews and improve the efficiency of CR related management systems Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 67 CHAPTER 8 8.6 ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) is a systematic approach of identifying, analysing and evaluating risks in order to develop preventive strategies and ensure the effectiveness of existing control measures. Since March 2013 Telekom Romania has implemented the ERM framework comprising of Risk and Insurance Management Policy and the Enterprise Risk Management & Corporate Governance Committee. This framework observes the provisions of ISO 31000 Risk Management Principles and Guidelines, COSO framework and COBIT. The ERM process“Telekom Romania corporate es performed locally are fully aligned with both OTE and DT responsibility report is a picture ERM methodologies, processes and practices. in time of our sustainability efforts that we deploy everyday along the In 2016, the company has obtained the ISO31000 attestation year. The reporting exercise takes on the implemented Risk Management System. This is an sustained efforts and time and we independent recognition that the ERM processes applied for are proud to share with you our risk identification, evaluation, communication and treatment achievements and challenges in observe the international standards, thus contributing to making our business sustainable. fulfilment of company’s strategic goals. A company is a living organism that requires constant care and adjustment, and abiding to a philosophy of corporate responsibility ensures we are PROVIDING AN INTEGRATED ERM FRAMEWORK targeting and living every day the right values for a healthy business development. ” ERM function designed and implemented a unified methodology for performing risk assessment in all departments Ruxandra Vodă, Corporate Communication Director in line with ISO requirements, Romanian legislation requireRomania ments and commercial purposes. ERM team collected all formal risk assessments carried out throughout the company, analysed them, and reported them as per the ERM criteria and processes in place. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 68 CHAPTER 8 COORDINATION AND COOPERATION WITH BUSINESS In 2016, this Committee comprised of the following people: Internal Audit & Risk Management Director (chairman); The responsibility for specific risks management lays priChief Financial Officer; marily with our operational managers, while the ERM team Chief Human Resources Officer; is responsible to align with them, to provide an integrated Legal, Corporate Affairs and Compliance Director; framework for risk assessment and to report the enterprise Compliance Manager; and risks which meet the predefined set of criteria. Security Manager. In order to ensure a timely capture of potential new risks and ERM ANNUAL ACTIVITY to stay up to date with the evolution of current risks and their mitigation measures, we communicate quarterly and ad-hoc During 2016, we have reported five new risks (two operawith a network of key people in business areas. In addition, tional risks, two regulatory risks and one financial risk) and we consult management reports, financial reports, industry closed two other risks (one operational and one pertaining to reports, macro-economics indicators and progress reports of regulatory issues). ongoing/planned strategic initiatives. By the end of 2016, the Risk Register comprised of 27 on-goTo further increase ERM methodology awareness, we have ing risks (actively monitored and with mitigation measures in organized dedicated workshops with key business managers various degrees of implementation) and 21 risks that were and representatives of all functions performing risk assessremoved as result of the actions taken by top management. ment in the company. Upon request, ERM team has also deIn terms of risk trends, we encountered 4 cases where risks livered dedicated risk management trainings to the interested have deteriorated and 14 cases when risk have improved, teams inside the company. which shows strong commitment of top management to make the necessary efforts addressing the reported risks. REPORTING ON ENTERPRISE RISKS In going forward, we aim next years to a set of objectives, as follows: ERM team identifies and records the ERM risks, then it Strengthen cooperation with Strategy function and be assesses their impact and probability based on models involved in the strategic planning process; agreed with risk owners. ERM risks exceeding Eur 500,000 Implement risk appetite approach (including risk tolerEBITDA impact were included in the Quarterly ERM Report ance, risk limits, and risk capacity) within the context of ERM which has been validated by the ERM & Corporate Goverframework; nance Committee. Consider ERM software tools allowing for increased capabilities in early identification of key risk indicators and The amended report was further presented to the Audit correlations, monitoring risks and mitigation measures, and Committee, and upon its acknowledgement, Internal Audit & differential reporting; Risk Management Director has sent it to OTE ERM team for Instil the ERM culture in our organization through continuconsolidation. Prior to that, the report was presented to CEO. ous communication and training. Twice a year, Internal Audit & Risk Management Director presents the top10 risks to the Board of Directors. “The Enterprise Risk Management The ERM & Corporate Governance Committee is responsible function is actively supporting our to: company to achieve its strategic Perform a sanity check over the Quarterly ERM Report initiatives. Regular discussions with (check for the significant risks to be included, and mitigating management reveal risks related measures are up to date, review risk trends and risk position); to strategy, finance, reputation, Agree on the risk impact and probability assessment; operations, technology, legal, and Discuss the proposed mitigating measures, decide whethregulatory topics. We help maner the risk is mitigated sufficiently; and agement in finding the sweet spot If necessary, decide an escalation of issues to other corpobetween excessive risk-taking and a rate bodies able to the address the risks. risk-averse mentality, therefore achieving a customized and balanced approach, as the key to an effective risk management process. ” Codrut Bogdan, Enterprise Risk Management Senior Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 69 9. About our reporting #9. About our reporting Which are the material How was our contribution Which are our aspects relevant for to Romania's development standards for reporting? Telekom Romania and recognized during 2016? GRI Indicators? CHAPTER 9 CULTURE OF TRANSPARENCY of the report we have also considered the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the UN Global Compact We are happy to present the second Telekom Romania Corprinciples. porate Responsibility Report. It represents the continuation of G4-30, G4-31 a regular reporting cycle of 1 year which we began with 2015 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS report we intend to follow in the future as an expression of our corporate responsibility culture and also a part of the commitIn order to cover all the relevant sustainability aspects in our ment of Deutsche Telekom and OTE groups towards sustainreporting process, we follow steps recommended by GRI ability and business responsibility. Both groups are publishing (Identification, Prioritisation, Validation). The results were used G4-18, G4-29 annual sustainability reports for more than 10 years. As we to define the structure and content of our Corporate Responsiwould like to improve the quality of our reporting, we are open bility Report as well as list of GRI indicators. for any of your feedback or input. Please feel free to send your For the current reporting cycle we have: suggestions or questions at: csr@telekom.ro. Defined sustainability aspects which are connected with our services, products and operations basing on external sources, REPORTING SCOPE SDG’s, as well as strategic priorities in DT and OTP Group. Carried an extensive process of stakeholders dialogue The scope of this report encompasses the operations of with more than 150 persons from more than 35 organizations Telekom Romania Communications S.A. and Telekom (between March and May 2016), on the sustainability aspects Romania Mobile Communications S.A in an integrated apmaterial for the ICT sector in Romania. proach. Throughout the present report, the terms „TELEKOM Discussed internally with organizational stakeholders the ROMANIA”, „TELEKOM ROMANIA companies”, „We” or „Our relevance of each category of aspects from their perspective G4-17, G4-22, G4-28, G4-33 companies” refer to both Telekom Romania Communications Gained feedback to our previous (G4-29) 2015 Corporate S.A. and Telekom Romania Mobile Communications S.A. All Responsibility Report through interaction with 7 key external references to plural shall be construed as a reference to experts and representatives of stakeholders (June 2017) to TELEKOM ROMANIA. Also, „Mobile Operations” mean the understand what are the areas for improvement. telecommunication related services managed by Telekom Romania Mobile Communications S.A. and „Fixed Operations” mean the telecommunication related services managed by Telekom Romania Communications S.A. Throughout this report, where data was available, we are presenting separate data and facts for the two business areas. We encountered several data gaps which we could not address at this point due to the recent integration process. CASE STUDY The report presents the company's actions, challenges, results and achievements in 2016 (January – December). Where applicable, we have provided historical data from the two previous years. The GRI indicators have not been verified by an external Our 2015 CSR Report created the optimal framework, independent auditing company but the Financial Data used laid the overall foundation for a high quality and sustainthroughout the report was taken from the company’s financial able, continual Sustainability Reporting. statements, hence they were externally assured. Throughout this report, there were no restatements of previously reported The current CSR 2016 Report is the second one in the information due to mergers or acquisitions, change of base succession with significant improvements being made on years/periods or changes in the nature of the business. the content and quality spheres. From the standpoint of the 10 GRI Reporting Principles, added value has been brought when it comes to “Sustainability context”, REPORTING GUIDELINES “Materiality”, “Balance”, “Comparability”, “Clarity”. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4 Core). The GRI Index synthesizes the way we have addressed all requirements concerning indicators and disclosures. In defining the content G4-32 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 71 CHAPTER 9 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT RESULTS Taken as a sole concept, “Materiality” is a principle that helps define and determine the business, social and G4-19 environmental topics that matter most to a business and its stakeholders. Through the “Materiality Assessment Process” a triage of what is of high importance/less important to be reported, emphasized on is made; in our case of Telekom Romania, the graphics below illustrates this process: AREA OF TOPIC PRIMARY MATERIAL TOPICS SECONDARY MATERIAL TOPICS Materials (the type of materials used in the products) & Waste management Energy efficiency and climate change mitigation (including efficiency of resource use within company ENVIRONMENTAL operations) Services that promote and facilitate resources efficiency (including ICT solutions for a low-carbon economy/ products with low environmental impact) Research and development Economic impact Access to telecommunications products and services (bridging the digital divine, expanding broadband & mobile internet) Customer’s health & safety (including EMF, noise, etc.) ECONOMIC/CLIENT The economic performance of the organization ICT and child safety Service quality (customer service & satisfaction) Responsibility for privacy and personal data protection (data security & privacy/ cyber safety) Social products & services Social impact management (including direct social SOCIAL IMPACT contributions) Employee Volunteerism Business enterprising Employee satisfaction, involvement & motivation Health & Safety WORKPLACE Fair employment/ Responsibility in labour relations/ Welfare of employees Responsible transformation Employee development Compliance & risk management (including anti-corruption) GOVERNANCE Promoting sustainable development (including human rights in the supply chain) Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 72 CHAPTER 9 During our materiality assessment process we have identified Indicator G4-PR6 “Sales of banned disputed products” is no the aspect boundaries based on the criteria bellow: longer covered as Telekom Romania does not sell products Material aspect relevance within Telekom Romania; that are banned in certain markets nor any of the products Material aspects for which the impacts can occur within the were the subject of public debate. G4-20, G4-21 G4-23 boundaries of Telekom Romania, respectively during the To raise transparency in “Labour” category, we decided operations directly managed by Telekom Romania: to include indicator G4-LA11 regarding the percentage of Fixed operations; employees receiving performance and career development Mobile operations. reviews as appraising employee performance aids to their personal development and contributes to both skills manDue to relevance considerations in our current 2016 Report, agement and the development of human capital within the certain changes from previous reporting periods concerning organization. Materiality are to be seen. We decided to omit the following: From the “Environmental” category, aspects such as Water, Biodiversity, Transport and Environmental Grievance MechMaterial aspect relevance outside Telekom Romania: anism. Being a Telecom Company, the main water source is Material aspects for which the impacts can occur outside the the national water grid, the impact on biodiversity is minimal, boundaries of Telekom Romania (operations not under direct no significant environmental impacts due to transporting control of Telekom Romania) at the level of contractors, products/other goods or materials are to be seen because of suppliers, distributors and customers: our line of business and therefore there are no environmental Network maintenance and development contractors (A) grievances. Indicator G4-EN24 is also no longer covered as Administrative services contractors (B) non-material. Facility maintenance contractors (C) Hardware suppliers (D) From the “Social” category, aspects such as Child Labour, Software suppliers (E) Forced or Compulsory Labour, as well as the indicators correDistributors / commercial partners (F) sponding to Supplier Human Rights Assessment are inappliBusiness customers (G) cable. Telekom Romania purchases locally, the interaction Private customers (H) with the wider supply chain prone to social risk is covered by global agreements on the Group level of Deutsche Telekom (references to policies and global practices in this regard are made in the report). Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 73 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX Our report prepared in accordance with the GRI G4 Guidelines, has successfully completed Content Index service. This confirms that the GRI Content Index of the report is accurate. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Indicators Page Title of the disclosure Status/Comment SDG/UN Global Compact Strategy and Analysis A statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the G4-1 p.3 relevance of sustainability to the organization Fully implemented and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability Organizational Profile G4-3 p.6 The name of the organization Fully implemented G4-4 p.7 The primary brands, products, and services Fully implemented The location of the organization’s headG4-5 p.6 Fully implemented quarters The number of countries where the organization operates and names of countries G4-6 p.7 where either the organization has significant Fully implemented operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 p.7 The nature of ownership and legal form Fully implemented The markets served (including geographic G4-8 p.6 breakdown, sectors served, and types of Fully implemented customers and beneficiaries) G4-9 p.6 The scale of the organization Fully implemented The total number of employees by employment contract and gender, the total number of permanent employees by employment UNGC Principle 6 G4-10 p.52 type and gender, the total workforce by Fully implemented SDG 8 employees and supervised workers and by gender, the total workforce by region and gender UNGC Principle 3 The percentage of total employees covered G4-11 p.54 Fully implemented SDG 8 by collective bargaining agreements G4-12 p.64 The organization’s supply chain Fully implemented Any significant changes during the reporting No changes have been realized during G4-13 period regarding the organization’s size, the reporting period. structure, ownership, or its supply chain. Whether and how the precautionary G4-14 p.61 approach or principle is addressed by the Fully implemented organization The list externally developed economic, enp.12 vironmental and social charters, principles, G4-15 Fully implemented p.16 or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 74 The list memberships of associations (such G4-16 p.12 as industry associations) and national or Fully implemented international advocacy organizations. Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries List all entities included in the organization’s G4-17 p.71 consolidated financial statements or equivaFully implemented lent documents Explain the process for defining the report G4-18 p.71 Fully implemented content and the Aspect Boundaries List all the material Aspects identified in the G4-19 p.72 Fully implemented process for defining report content For each material Aspect, report the Aspect G4-20 p.73 Fully implemented Boundary within the organization For each material Aspect, report the Aspect G4-21 p.73 Fully implemented Boundary outside the organization The effect of any restatements of information G4-22 p.71 provided in previous reports, and the reaFully implemented sons for such restatements. The significant changes from previous G4-23 p.73 reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Fully implemented Boundaries Stakeholder Engagement UNGC Principle 6 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged G4-24 p.20 Fully implemented SDG 8 by the organization Report the basis for identification and UNGC Principle 3 G4-25 p.20 selection Fully implemented SDG 8 of stakeholders with whom to engage Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of G4-26 p.20 engagement by type and by stakeholder Fully implemented group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has G4-27 p.20 responded to those key topics and concerns, Fully implemented including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns Report Profile Period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for G4-28 p.71 Fully implemented information provided G4-29 p.71 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Fully implemented G4-30 p.71 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) Fully implemented Provide the contact point for questions G4-31 p.71 Fully implemented regarding the report or its contents G4-32 p.71 Report the GRI Content Index Fully implemented Report the organization’s policy and current G4-33 p.71 practice with regard to seeking external Fully implemented assurance for the repor Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 75 Governance The governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest G4-34 p.60 governance body. Identify any committees Fully implemented responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Description of the organization’s values, prinUNGC Principle 10 ciples, standards and norms of behaviour G4-56 p.19, p.60 Fully implemented SDG 16 such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES SDG/UN Global Indicators Page Omissions Title of the disclosure Status/Comment Compact Category: ECONOMIC ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA Economic performance p.15 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations G4-EC1 p.15 Fully implemented SDG 2,7,8,9 and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. The total monetary value of financial No financial assistance have G4-EC4 assistance received by the organization from been received from the Govgovernments during the reporting period. ernment in 2016. Indirect economic impacts G4-DMA Indirect Economic p.16, p.36 Impacts Development and impact of Infrastructure G4-EC7 p.36 Fully implemented SDG 9 Investments and Services Supported Significant Indirect Economic Impacts, G4-EC8 p.23, p.36 Fully implemented SDG 8,10,17 including the extent of impacts Procurement Practices G4-DMA Procurement Practices p.16, p.64 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at G4-EC9 p.64 Fully implemented SDG 12 significant locations of operations Category: ENVIRONMENT Materials G4-DMA Materials p.16, p.48 UNGC Principle 7,8,9 G4-EN1 p.48 Materials used by weight or volume. Fully implemented SDG 7,12,13 Energy G4-DMA Energy p.16, p.43 UNGC Principle 7,8,9 G4-EN3 p.44 Energy consumption within the organization Fully implemented SDG 7, 8, 12,13 UNGC Principle 8,9 G4-EN6 p.44 Reduction of energy consumption Fully implemented SDG 7, 8,12,13 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 76 Emissions G4-DMA Emissions p.16, p. 43 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) UNGC Principle 7,8,9 G4-EN16 p.44 Fully implemented emissions (Scope 2) SDG 3,12,13 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) UNGC Principle 8,9 G4-EN19 p.44 Fully implemented emissions SDG 13 Effluents and Waste G4-DMA Effluents and Waste p. 16, p.47 Total weight of waste by type and disposal UNGC Principle 7,8,9 G4-EN23 p.49 Fully implemented method. SDG 3,6,12 Compliance G4-DMA Compliance p.61 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for UNGC Principle 8 G4-EN29 p.46 Fully implemented non-compliance with environmental laws SDG 8,16 and regulations. Overall G4-DMA Overall p.43 Total environmental protection expenditures UNGC Principle 7,8,9 G4-EN31 p.43 Fully implemented and investments by type. SDG 7, 13 Supplier Environmental Assesment G4-DMA Supplier Environmental p.16, p.66 Assesment Percentage of new suppliers that were G4-EN32 p.64 Fully implemented UNGC Principle 7, 8 screened using environmental criteria Category: SOCIAL LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment G4-DMA Employment p.16, p.51 Total number and rate of employee turnover UNGC Principle 6 G4-LA1 p.53 Fully implemented by age group, gender, and region. SDG 5,8 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or partUNGC Principle 68 G4-LA2 p.54 Fully implemented time employees, by significant locations of SDG 8 operation. Labor/Management Relations G4-DMA Labor/Management p. 54 Relations The collective agreement for fixedoperations stipulates consultations with unions Minimum notice period(s) regarding signifiregarding reorganization UNGC Principle 3 G4-LA4 cant operational changes, including whether processes, when these proSDG 8 it is specified in collective agreements. cesses result in the reduction of the number of employees, with 20 calendar days before they become effective. Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA Occupational Health p.55 and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health UNGC Principle 3 G4-LA5 p.54 and safety committees that help monitor and Fully implemented SDG 3, 8 advise on occupational health and safety programs. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 77 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, G4-LA6 p.55 Fully implemented SDG 3,8 and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender 100% coverage of health and safety topics within agreements with trade unions, respectively: personal protective equipment, joint management-employee health and safety committees, UNGC Health and safety topics covered in formal G4-LA8 participation of worker representatives Principle 3 agreements with trade unions. in health and safety inspections, SDG 3, 8 audits, and accident investigations, training and education, complaints mechanism, right to refuse unsafe work, periodic inspections. Training and Education G4-DMA Training and Education p.56 Average hours of training per year per UNGC G4-LA9 p.57 employee by employee category and by Fully implemented Principle 6 gender SDG 5, 8 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued G4-LA10 p.57 Fully implemented SDG 8 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. Percentage of employees receiving regular UNGC G4-LA11 p.57 performance and career development Fully implemented Principle 6 reviews. SDG 5,8 Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-DMA Diversity and Equal p.51 Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category UNGC G4-LA12 p.52, p.61 according to gender, age group, minority Fully implemented Principle 6 group membership, and other indicators of SDG 5,8 diversity. Equal Remuneration for women and men G4-DMA Equal Remuneration for p.54 women and men Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of UNGC G4-LA13 p.54 women to men by employee category, by Fully implemented Principle 6 significant locations of operation SDG 5, 8 Supplier Assesment for Labor Practices G4-DMA Supplier Assesment for p.16, p.66 Labor Practices UNGC Percentage of new suppliers that were G4-LA14 p.64 Fully implemented Principle 1,2 screened under labor practices criteria SDG 8 Category: SOCIAL – HUMAN RIGHTS Investment G4-DMA Investment p.16, p.65 (as to human rights) Non-discrimination G4-DMA Non-discrimination p.53 No incidents of discrimination have UNGC Total number of incidents of discrimination G4-HR3 p.61 been recorded during the reporting Principle 6 and actions taken. period. SDG 5,8 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 78 Category: SOCIAL SOCIETY Anti-Corruption G4-DMA Anti-corruption p.61 Total number and percentage of operations UNGC Principle 10 G4-SO3 p.62 assessed for risks related to corruption and Fully implemented SDG 16 the significant t risks identified Communication and training of anti-corrupUNGC Principle 10 G4-SO4 p.63 Fully implemented tion policies and procedures SDG 16 Confirmed incidents of corruption and UNGC Principle 10 G4-SO5 p.61 Fully implemented actions taken SDG 16 Public Policy G4-DMA Public Policy p.64 Telekom Romania was not involved in any political Total value of political contributions by UNGC Principle 10 G4-SO6 aspects and did not have any country and recipient/beneficiary SDG 16 political contribution during the reporting period. Anti-competitive Behaviour G4-DMA Anti-competitive p.64 Behaviour Total number of legal actions for anti-comG4-SO7 p.63 petitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly Fully implemented practices and their outcomes Compliance G4-DMA Compliance p.61 Monetary value of significant fines and G4-SO8 p.30 p.46 p.56 p.63 total number of non-monetary sanctions for Fully implemented SDG 16 non-compliance with laws and regulations. Supplier Assesment for Impacts on Society G4-DMA Supplier Assessment for p.16, p.66 Impacts on Society Percentage of new suppliers that were UNGC Principle 1,2, 10 G4-SO9 p.64 screened using criteria for impacts on Fully implemented SDG 16 society Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 79 Category: SOCIAL PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer Health and Safety G4-DMA Customer Health and p.33 Safety Percentage of new suppliers that were UNGC Principle 1,2, 10 G4-PR2 p.33 screened using criteria for impacts on Fully implemented SDG 16 society Product and service labelling G4-DMA Product and service p.29 labelling Results of surveys measuring customer G4-PR5 p.30 Partially implemented SDG 3 satisfaction Marketing communications G4-DMA Marketing communip.64 cations Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes G4-PR7 p.63 concerning marketing communications, Fully implemented including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer privacy G4-DMA Customer privacy p.31 Total number of substantiated complaints G4-PR8 p.32 regarding breaches of customer privacy and Fully implemented losses of customer data. Compliance G4-DMA Compliance (product p. 64 responsibility) In 2016, Telekom Romania Communication and Telekom Romania Mobile CommunicaMonetary value of significant fines for tion received a total of 5,277 non-compliance with laws and regulations complaints through National G4-PR9 SDG 16 concerning the provision and use of prodAuthority for Consumer Proucts and services. tection and the National IT&C Regulator, which generated a total of 42,100 EURO financial penalties for our companies. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 80 ANNEX AWARDS AND RECOGNITION OUR STRENGHTS AWARD Excellence in business Award for obtaining 6th place in the ranking of the Top 100 Companies (Ziarul Financiar Gala) Award for innovative campaigns five Effie Awards, including the Grand Effie, at the Effie Gala 2016. This is the most important contest for the advertising industry in Romania. Innovative marketing & communication with clients TADAAAM campaign won three silver awards at the Internetics 2016 Digital Creative Industry Gala (For additional information please follow this link) Award in the Smart City Project category, for Smart City initiative in Bucharest (Comunicatii Mobile Gala) Excellence Award for Communications and Digital Industry” for Leadership in transformation into digital society the permanent effort to enhance the quality of integrated services and high end technologies, as well as the involvement in connecting the cities and villages at high communication standards (Nine O’Clock Awards 25 years) Romanian CSR Award for 2016 (second place) for the Teimplici. ro. project in the contest for the category Digital Innovation in CSR World Record: The largest number of people who ran a 100 m relay within 12 hours – At the 6th edition of the event entitled The Greatest Sports Hour in Romania, part of the national program Sport is good , almost 926 runners of all ages took part in the first relay run over a distance of 100 m. This lasted for 12 hours and covered a distance of 154 km Social engagement The “Sea Hero Quest” campaign was nominated at the Romania PR Awards in the category for “Social responsibility and dialogue with the co-interested groups” Ionela Paunica was nominated as a responsible citizen (People for People Gala) Ruxandra Voda, Corporate Communication Director; Mihaela Ionita, Legal, Corporate Affairs and Compliance Director and Carmen Dumitrache, Chief Human Resources Offices, awarded for their career (Finmedia’s Successful HR Women Gala) Mihaela Ionita, Legal, Corporate Affairs and Compliance Director, awarded for Excellence in Lawyer Carreer Development within Corporate Legal Directors category (Legal Magazine’s Lady Expertise of our employees Lawyer Gala) Romanian CSR Award for 2016: Florina Serban, Senior Coordinator in the Corporate Communication team, was handed the CSR Leader Award Ionela Paunica, Senior Coordinator in the Corporate Communication team, won the jury award (Guiding Principle Hero – internal DT contest) Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 81 GLOSSARY 4G Fourth generation of mobile technology, sometimes called LTE (Long Term Evolution) B2C Business to customer B2B Business to business BPO Business process outsourcing CSR/CR Corporate social responsibility/Corporate responsibility CLA Collective labour agreement DNS Domain name system DDos Distributed Denial of Servicesattack which occurs when multiple systems flood the band width or resources of a targeted system, ERM Enterprise risk management EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization eTOM Enhanced Telecom Operations Map e-“Care”/e-“Health”/e-“Governance” Electronically supported areas FTTH Fiber to the home FTP File transfer protocol (standard network protocol used for the transfer of computer files between a client and server) FFTx Generic term for any broadband network using fiber optics FMC Fixed-Mobile convergence market GHG Greenhouse gas Gbps Gigabits per second GB Gigabits IPVPN Internet Protocol Virtual private network (networking technology that allows users to connect over a public internet connection to their main network remotely) ICT Information and communication technology ITO Information technology outsourcing IoT Internet of things (a system of interrelated computing devices, mechanical and digital machines, objects, animals or people that are provided with unique identifiers and the ability to transfer data over a network without requiring human-to-human or human-tocomputer interaction) KPIs Key performance indicators Mbps Megabits per second MDM/EEM Policies Mobile device management and Embedded Event Manager (security related policies) NGO Non-governmental organization POS Point of sale RMS Risk Management System SAP-ERP Systemsenterprise resource planning software SME Small and medium enterprises SDG Sustainable development goals Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Telekom Romania 82
