sas sustainability report novEMBER 2015–october 2016 TRAVELERS think big Content Summary of SAS sustainability initiatives 2015/2016 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 This is SAS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Letter from the CEO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Value creation model . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 1.7% SAS Sustainability Agenda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 Greenhouse gas emissions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Work conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 reduction in Key social metrics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 co2 emission per Key environmental metrics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 passenger kilometer Accounting policies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 since 2014/2015 GRI index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 Sustainability terms, definitions and concepts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 Assurance report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 20+ years of ABOUT THIS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT This is the 21st SAS Sustainability Report, which has been subsustainability ject to third-party review since 1997. This Sustainability Report reporting describes SAS’s most essential environmental and societal aspects during the 2015/2016 fiscal year. The Annual Report with sustainability review and the Sustainability Report have been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) guidelines, G4 Core. The entire report has been reviewed by PwC. The UN Global Compact, UN Sustainability Development Goals, ISO 14001 and Athe CDP were taken into consideration in the preparation of this Sustainability Report. The SAS Annual Report with a sustainability review and the separate Sustainability Report for the 2014/2015 fiscal year were published in February 2016. Readers guide to this Sustainability Report • The SAS Group is referred to as SAS in this Sustainability Report. 2016 result in cDP • In the 2015/2016 fiscal year (2015/2016), SAS consisted of Scandinavian Airlines, SAS Cargo Group A/S, Cimber and SAS Ground Handling. • The fiscal year is from November 1 through October 31. • The KPIs reported in this Sustainability Report generally cover (unless specifically stated): – Financial  KPIs: SAS – Environmental KPIs: flight-related; flights flown under the SK flight number. – Ground related: SAS – Social KPIs: SAS External review: Material sustainability information and EU-ETS All material sustainability information in the Annual and Sustainability Reports for 2015/2016 has been reviewed by PwC. The Auditor’s assurance report on the Sustainability Contact information Report can be found on page 25. Lars Andersen Resare PwC has verified the systems and reports regarding the EU Head of Environment and CSR trading scheme for emission allowances for flights under the SK +46 70 997 23 46 flight number. lars.andersen@sas.se SAS Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016 Summary of SAS sustainability initiatives 2015/2016 | SAS Sustainability Report summary of SAS Sustainability initiatives 2015/2016 For SAS, sustainable development entails a simultaneous focus on sustainable profitability and financial growth, as well as gradual environmental improvements and social responsibility. SAS has a considerable social impact, both as a major employer and buyer, as well as through providing societal infrastructure. At the same time, aircraft operations have an environmental impact, primarily through emissions of greenhouse gases and noise around airports.  AS’s total tonne kilometer increased 10% and total CO2 S SUSTAINABILITY-RELATED KPIS1 emissions increased 8%. The growth was primarily on long Nov–Oct Nov–Oct Nov–Oct haul flights. 2015–2016 2014–2015 2013–2014  AS’s relative passenger-related CO2 emissions decreased S Revenue, MSEK 39,459 39,650 38,006 during the period to 99 grams (101) per passenger kilometer. EBT before nonrecurring items, MSEK 939 1,174 -697 EBIT margin, % 4.8 5.6 0.4  AS’s relative cargo related CO2 emissions fell during the S Number of passengers, millions2 29.0 26.9 27.1 period to 521 grams (529) per cargo tonne kilometer. Average number of employees3 10,710 11,288 12,329  AS introduced 14 brand new aircraft. S of whom women, % 39 38 40  AS achieved compliance with the EU-ETS regulations S Sick leave, % 4 6.2 7.0 6.5 for 2015. Total number of occupational injuries 237 268 270 Climate index 91 92 92  ick leave decreased to 6.2% (7.0). S CO2 emissions, 000s tonnes 4,122 3,822 3,890  AS used alternative sustainable jet fuel on flights from Oslo. S NOx emissions, 000s tonnes 17.8 16.3 16.4  he SAS Code of Conduct was updated with an upgraded T CO2 gram/passenger kilometer 99 101 100 mandatory e-learning training program for all employees. Fuel consumption airline operations, 000s tonnes 1,309 1,213 1,235  AS supported the ‘Christmas flight’ for the 30th consecutive S Fuel consumption ground time. operations, 000s liters5 1,669 1,837 1,625 Water consumption, 000s m3 69 52 63 Energy consumption, ground, GWh 110 116 125 Unsorted waste, 000s tonnes6 0.2 0.2 0.3 Hazardous waste, 000s tonnes6 0.2 0.1 0.1 External environment-related costs, MSEK 842 549 364 1) Accounting policies on pages 20-21. 2) Scheduled traffic. 3) Source: Note 3 on page 71 in SAS Annual Report November 2015–October 2016. 4) New calculation method. 5) Includes only ground operations at SAS main bases: Stockholm, Oslo and Copenhagen. 6) Includes only ground facilities, including technical maintenance. 10% reduction in CO2 per passenger 6.2% kilometer since 2010 sick leave in 2015/2016 SAS Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016 1 SAS Sustainability Report | This is SAS THIS IS SAS During 2015/2016, SAS consisted of Scandinavian Airlines, SAS Cargo Group A/S, Cimber and SAS Ground Handling. Scandinavian Airlines and Cimber have their own Air Operator Certificates. All commercial and operational functions, and staff units, such as purchasing, human resources, finance, legal, sustainability, etc. are centralized. SAS’s head office is located in Stockholm. PASSENGER TRANSPORT The majority of SGH’s services are provided to SAS flights with SAS primarily conducts passenger transport in its main maran SK flight number. ket, the Nordic region, through the airline Scandinavian Airlines The process of outsourcing SAS Ground Handling continued under SK flight numbers. In total, SAS transported 29.0 milin 2015/2016. All locations in Norway, except Oslo Gardermoen, lion passengers in 2015/2016 and its share of total traffic in its were outsourced during 2015/2016. SAS decided to keep SGH home market (measured in number of passengers) was approxiat the main bases in Oslo, Copenhagen and Stockholm within the mately 32% in the same period. organization. The process regarding Malmö and Gothenburg conDuring 2015/2016, SAS was the largest airline in the Nordic tinues and involves a potential buyer. region in terms of revenue, passengers and flights. Its network is mainly dimensioned according to business travelers’ needs, TECHNICAL MAINTENANCE but leisure travel is an expanding segment and represents a SAS Maintenance Production is part of Scandinavian Airlines growing share of revenue. The main bases are Copenhagen Kasand conducts technical maintenance at Scandinavian Airlines’ trup, Oslo Gardermoen and Stockholm Arlanda. home bases. The largest customer is Scandinavian Airlines. Flights are operated under SK flight numbers with aircraft and crew managed by Scandinavian Airlines, as well as in wet-lease SCANDINAVIAN AIRLINES AIRCRAFT FLEET operations with internal and external suppliers. Scandinavian Airlines has a network of destinations with varied Based on fuel consumed, 95 % of all flights with an SK flight passenger volumes and distances, which requires a fleet of airnumber were flown by Scandinavian Airlines (incl. flights on a craft of different sizes and range to make the offering attractive wet-lease basis flown by Cimber) during 2015/2016. to business and leisure travelers. Scandinavian Airlines used The remaining 5 % were flown by external suppliers. 126 different aircraft (16 long-haul aircraft, and 110 short-haul aircraft) in its own operations during 2015/2016. The average CARGO TRANSPORT age of the aircraft fleet was 12.9 years at year-end. Scandinavian SAS Cargo Group A/S (SCG) offers freight capacity on over Airlines renewed its fleet by introducing three brand new aircraft 1,000 daily flights to, from, via and within Scandinavia, using the and phasing out three old aircraft in 2015/2016. SAS fleet network and dedicated truck operations. In collaboraDuring 2015/2016, Scandinavian Airlines used 47 different tion with other carriers, SCG offers air freight services to most wet leased aircraft on long-term basis (one long-haul aircraft, 20 continents. The actual handling of freight and mail is carried out regional jets, and 26 turboprops) for flights operated under SK through contractual agreements with ground handling agents flight numbers. Eleven of the aircraft used on a long-term wetworldwide. lease basis are brand new. Scandinavian Airlines also wet leased SCG´s head office is located in Copenhagen with sales offica number of aircraft on a short-term basis. es in Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland, the US, China, Hong Kong, Japan, Germany, the UK and Poland, and with general sales agents covering the rest of the network. SCG includes Trust Forwarding, an independent full-service 32% provider of global freight forwarding services with a focus on the Nordic market. Trust Forwarding is 100% owned by SCG and its environmental data and results are included in the SCG overall data and results. sas share of total GROUND HANDLING SAS Ground Handling (SGH) operates at airports in Denmark, Norway and Sweden. Customers include airlines within SAS and traffic in home market 14 brand new SAS’s partners and external customers. aircraft SGH’s services includes, for example, passenger and lounge introduced in services, loading and unloading, de-icing and towing of aircraft. SAS fleet 2 SAS Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016 Letter from the CEO | SAS Sustainability Report Letter from the CEO In line with our forecast, SAS posted positive income before tax and nonrecurring items in 2015/2016. The trend shows that our customer offering is generating a favorable response, though earnings were negatively affected by currency effects and a lower yield, particularly during the second half of the year. The airline industry is changing fast as demand for air travel increases, particularly the leisure market where margins are lower and the price sensitivity is higher. Lower costs and improved competitiveness are pre-requisite to take advantage of growth opportunities in the market. We are therefore raising our cost saving ambition and plan additional measures to address remaining structural disadvantages, which result in higher unit cost than newly established competitors. During 2015/2016, an environment-related passenger duty was introduced in Norway and a similar duty is suggested in Sweden. We fully support the Polluter Pays Principle (PPP) but the solution implemented in Norway and that proposed for Sweden are not based on the size of the greenhouse gas emissions. Moreover, emissions are already covered by other regional or global market-based measures. We believe that emissions should only be covered by one market-based measure at a time and that this measure must incentivize moving toward lower emissions. SUSTAINABILITY IMPROVEMENTS We are convinced that financially sustainable operations require social and environmental responsibility, and that work on sustainability issues contributes to value creation and competitiveness in a variety of ways. We take our responsibility seriously and despite the turbulence and ongoing changes in the aviation THE NEXT STEP industry we will continue to take our responsibility. We believe We are planning further structural actions aimed at generating a that well-structured sustainability efforts create value for our considerable impact. The first step is to establish a new organcustomers and further differentiate SAS. izational structure to create increased ownership, smaller and During 2015/2016, SAS increased its production by almost faster units, and greater transparency. 10%, primarily on long-haul flights, which resulted in growth in Secondly, we have initiated a review of our customer offertotal emissions. At the same time, CO2 emissions per passenger ing. Over the past few years, we have implemented substantial kilometer decreased 1.7% in line with the year 2020 goal. and valued customer investments, but we have to ensure that we During 2015/2016 we took delivery of our first A320neo and are offering that which is appreciated most in the continuously the statistics show it delivers a 15% reduction in total emissions changing landscape of customer expectations. compared with the A320ceo. Finally, efficiency must be enhanced for ground handling serThroughout the year, we had bio fuel delivered at Oslo airport. vices, technical maintenance and flight operations. Though available volumes are small and the price is high, we are To leverage the market potential, SAS must have the same convinced that bio fuel is a crucial part of our future developconditions as our competitors. Therefore, we are also planning ment toward lower emissions. We need to play an active role in to establish airline operations based outside of Scandinavia. As these developments and to take our responsibility in order to aca company, we have to create shareholder value to be able to incelerate commercialization. vest in our future and to remain relevant for our customers. Thanks to structured long-term improvement activities, sick Therefore, improving SAS’s efficiency is a crucial and existenleave decreased 0.8 percentage points and the number of octial issue for the company. cupational injuries per million work hours improved during 2015/2016. Stockholm, February 1, 2017 Our efforts within our sustainability agenda continue and Rickard Gustafson more tangible initiatives from our journey will be launched in the President and CEO coming years. SAS Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016 3 SAS Sustainability Report | Value-creation model how we create value Resources we require OUR OPERATIONS for our operations Financial capital Vision MSEK 23,786 To make life easier for invested capital that comes from Scandinavia´s frequent shareholders, lenders and lessors. travelers. Manufactured capital 156 aircraft Operations with a market value of about SEK 34 bn., a number of SAS is Scandinavia’s leading airline and has an attracproperties, vehicles, machines, tools and equipment tive offering to frequent travelers. We offer smooth and such as lounges and self-service terminals. attractively priced flights based on a broad network with frequent departures to, from and within Scandinavia. In addition to airline operations, we also offer ground Intangible capital handling services and technical aircraft maintenance at 4.7 million members primary airports, as well as cargo services. of EuroBonus, over 800 takeoff and landing permits, the strong SAS brand and IT systems. Human capital 10,710 employees on average of which 36% are air crew, 39% ground personnel, 11% technical staff and 14% management personnel with extensive experience and highly developed skills. Social and relationship capital 29 million passengers and relationships with customers, suppliers, partners and decision-makers, as well as SAS’s extensive community with 120 million website hits annually and 1.2 million followers on Facebook. To create long-term shareholder value and achieve our vision, SAS works to: • Develop and invest in our customer offering Natural capital • Digitalize to increase efficiency and provide a stronger customer offering 1,309 ktonnes of jet fuel • Create a more efficient production platform of which 0.1 ktonnes is biofuel for flight operations, other raw materials, energy and food and drink for • Improve work processes involving suppliers passengers and personnel. • Ensure that we have the right skills 4 SAS Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016 Value-creation model | SAS Sustainability Report What we create value for stakeholders Customers Satisfied • New experiences, relationships and customer 73 personal development • Smooth & attractively priced travel that makes life simpler 29 MILl. • Making dreams a reality index Employee journeys Employees commitment 64 • Job opportunities • Personal & professional development • Salary and benefits index Financial backers & suppliers 263 813 SAS’s • Supplier payments of credit rating1 about SEK 33 bn. routes daily departures • Interest payments of MSEK 493 • Lease payments of MSEK 2,840 B/B2 Society ~1% • Infrastructure enabling trade, companies, import/export, tourism, cultural exchange and regional development of GDP in • Scandinavian community 118 Scandinavia2 • Tax income & job opportunities destinations and 1,300 via Star Alliance Environment CO2 emissions • Increased production with more fuel-efficient aircraft, with a lower climate impact and reduced noise. 4.1 mill. tonnes Value for shareholders 112 Mill. kg of transported goods • Net income for the year of MSEK 1,321 • Market capitalization of SEK 8.9 bn.3 • MSEK 350 preference share dividend 10% ROIC 1) Credit rating: Standard & Poor’s B, Moody’s B2. 2) Cowi, Inregia, tøi and WSP. 3) Both common and preference shares. SAS Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016 5 SAS Sustainability Report | SAS sustainability agenda SAS Sustainability Agenda The SAS sustainability agenda visualizes SAS sustainability initiatives and efforts with focus on CARE. The work is focused on minimizing sustainability-related risks and capturing potential opportunities. 6 SAS Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016 SAS sustainability agenda | SAS Sustainability Report LEGAL REQUIREMENTS Group Management The Board appoints the President of SAS AB, who is also Group SAS aims to follow applicable national and international legal CEO. The Board has delegated responsibility for the day-to-day requirements and legislation covering all aspects of the compamanagement of company and Group operations to the Presiny. Examples are legal requirements connected to employment, dent. Group Management comprised seven members, including financial obligations and environment. SAS has control mechathe President. Group Management normally has minuted meetnisms with allocated follow-up systems and resources in order ings on a weekly basis. Group Management’s management and to ensure compliance. control of operations are based on a number of guidelines and policies regarding financial management and follow-up, communication issues, human resources, legal issues, the Group’s MATERIALITY brands, business ethics and environmental matters. Last year SAS conducted an update of its materiality analysis acEnvironment and CSR work at SAS cording to GRI G4 methodology. The results were reviewed durSAS has a central department for Environment and CSR that reing 2015/2016 and are still valid. ports to senior management. Amongst the tasks of Environment and CSR is to develop, drive and maintain SAS’s sustainability agenda and support management in sustainability-related matThe following areas/aspects are the most material ters, both internally and externally. Environment and CSR also for both SAS and its stakeholders has responsibility for maintaining and developing fuel-saving ac• Work conditions tivities, compliance with EU-ETS/MRV, ISO 14001 certification, • Greenhouse gas emissions coordination of bio fuel activities and support for the organization in sustainability issues. • Business ethics and anti-corruption • Diversity and equality Environmental Management System • Noise SAS’s environmental management system encompasses all • Waste activities at SAS. The system focuses on activities around the • Sustainability in the supply chain main bases (Copenhagen, Oslo and Stockholm) and the head office, but also includes other geographical areas through follow-up programs and contracted services. The system is based In this Sustainability Report, SAS has decided to report on these on shared environmental and sustainability policies, the Code of areas/aspects with focus on the areas deemed as most material Conduct, the UN Global Compact, airline operational standards for both SAS and its stakeholders: work conditions and greenand ISO 14001. It provides guidelines for a continuing cycle of house gas emissions. This does not mean that all other areas/ planning, implementation and evaluation, as well as the improveaspects are immaterial or excluded from SAS’s sustainability ment of processes and activities to meet operational and enviagenda. ronmental targets. SAS has a review process that also integrates An illustration of SAS materiality is disclosed at environmental reports and the most important aspects of suswww.sasgroup.net/sustainability/SR16. tainability in existing quality/security inspections. This is part of SAS’s endeavor to achieve continuous improvements. GOVERNANCE UN’s Global Compact and UN’s Sustainability Development Goals An illustration of how SAS governs its sustainability work is disSAS joined the Global Compact in 2003 and participates in the closed at www.sasgroup.net/sustainability/SR16. Global Compact’s Nordic Network. One criterion for publishing company information on the Global Compact website is an Board of Directors annual update of the material, the Communication On Progress The Board’s work is governed by the Swedish Companies Act, (COP). The most recent update of SAS’s information was comthe Articles of Association, the Code of Conduct and the formal pleted in May 2016. The UN Global Compact is a pivotal compowork plan adopted by the Board each year. The Board’s work nent of the SAS Code of Conduct and the requirements imposed follows a plan intended, among other things, to ensure that the on the company’s suppliers. Board receives all necessary information. SAS has also identified the UN sustainability development At its meetings, the Board discussed the regular business goals that are material for SAS. Based on the analysis, the conitems presented at the respective meetings, including business clusion is that the goals: [5. Gender equality], [8. Decent work and market conditions, financial reporting and follow-up, and the and economic growth], [12. Responsible consumption and procompany’s financial position and investments. The Board also duction], and [13. Climate action] are the most material. SAS has discussed any sustainability-related information of material imactivities within all these areas and will further align its activities portance. to these goals. SAS Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016 7 SAS Sustainability Report | SAS sustainability agenda Sustainability-related business opportunities Environmental goals and risks Goals and goals attainment are disclosed on page 9. Management of sustainability-related risks is integrated with SAS’s comprehensive risk management. In general, it can be concluded that risks are reduced – and, indeed, certain opporSUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT tunities offer tangible business potential – by having a proactive and effective sustainability approach. Proactively working with SAS has a large number of suppliers providing the products and its environmental impact in a structured environmental manageservices SAS needs to compile the customer offerings. SAS is ment system provides a company with control and the capacity responsible to its customers for ensuring that sustainability isto deal rapidly with changing requirements in the business ensues are addressed in a correct manner, regardless of who provironment and those demanded by certain customer groups. A vided the product or service in the supply chain. detailed description of SAS’s opportunities and risk connected Sustainability-related issues are included in SAS’s purchasing to climate change is available in SAS’s CDP disclosure. policy, general terms and conditions, and purchasing process. In new contracts, sustainability screening and sustainability Code of Conduct criteria are incorporated in the contracts and the decision makTo summarize and clarify SAS’s stated priorities, promises, poling process for most purchased products and services. icies and other regulations, the SAS Board of Directors has isThe criteria depend on the type of product or service and sued a Code of Conduct that applies for all SAS employees. To where it is produced. For example energy efficiency, waste hanunderscore the Code’s importance, there are clear rules and dling, collective agreement (or equivalent), child labor, etc. structures for reporting and addressing suspected violations. SAS management plays a key role in implementing and following up the Code. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT An extensive training program supports the Code and the SAS has a long tradition of cooperation with a wide range of goal is for all personnel to participate in the program. The Code’s stakeholders and involvement in community-related issues. whistleblower function was used in eight cases. Four cases was From a sustainability perspective, SAS prioritizes cooperation dismissed without further action, one led to some investigations and collaboration with customers, authorities and suppliers in and action, and three are still under investigation. order to create the prerequisites to develop solutions to improve SAS’s or the aviation industry’s sustainability performance. VISION, STRATEGIES AND GOALS SAS also prioritizes dialog with parties that want knowledge, drive change or support SAS in different ways, for instance, emEnvironmental vision ployees, partners, experts, NGOs, researchers, the media, etc. SAS intends to be a part of the future long-term sustainable soExamples of issues may include aviation’s impact as an enabler ciety and support IATA’s vision of flying without greenhouse gas for globalization or different views on SAS’s sustainability peremissions by around 2050. formance. The media attention on aviation’s environmental impact is a Sustainable development strategies challenge for the entire airline industry. SAS has chosen to take SAS aims to: a leading role in the debate. • create a culture among its employees based on strategic deciSAS applies a principle that all stakeholders seeking contact sions and a commitment to environmental work. with SAS are offered the opportunity of a dialog with the company. • use documented sustainability appraisals as a basis for all deAn illustration with examples of stakeholder groups engaged cisions. by SAS is disclosed at www.sasgroup.net/sustainability/SR16. • engage in strategic sustainability communication with relevant Over the past few years, sustainability issues have gained stakeholders. greater importance for SAS stakeholders, primarily in the public • promote tomorrow’s solutions through alliances and proactive administration and business sector. The number of sustainabilidemands for better sustainability performance from our supty-related questionnaires from corporate customers and requests pliers and stakeholders. from on-site audits has increased over the years. SAS sees this as a possibility to initiate further dialog and development. The focus is to minimize sustainability-related risks and capture As an effort to create greater understanding of the terms and potential opportunities to avoid unnecessary costs, as well as to conditions for the aviation industry, SAS participates in national capture potential savings and differentiate SAS. industry or employee organizations. Through its commitment, documented activities and results SAS wants to be perceived as a company that takes CARE of its customers, employees, the environment and society at large. 8 SAS Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016 SAS sustainability agenda | SAS Sustainability Report MONITORING AND REPORTING In 2015/2016, SAS’s emissions from aircraft operations increased 8% compared to 2014/2015, while the production in Monitoring sustainability-related data tonne kilometer increased 10%. The growth primarily pertained SAS monitors relevant sustainability key performance indicators to long-haul flights. (KPI) on an ongoing basis. SAS use various parts of the LEAN In 2015/2016, only occasional fuel leaks were reported when methodology and follow-up of these KPIs are conducted within refueling aircraft with SK flight numbers. These were handled in the management system and reported weekly, monthly, quarteraccordance with established procedures. One in-air fuel dump ly or annually according to specific needs. was reported during 2015/2016. Read more on page 24. As preparation for external sustainability reporting, there are data collection processes in the management system covering Noise all areas of SAS’s sustainability agenda. The average noise per departure increased due to increased long-haul operations. SAS received 2 reports of noise violations GRI and CDP during 2015/2016, none of these led to financial implications. SAS’s sustainability reporting observes the guidelines of the The number of breaches has declined in recent years as a reGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI) and is reviewed by an external sult of fleet renewal and structured improvement activities, such auditor. The GRI is a framework designed for sustainability-reas specific flight simulator training including scenarios flying to lated information and performance. SAS reports to the CDP. In and from airports with strict noise regulations. 2016, SAS scored A-. Diesel/ Petrol SAS uses cars in conjunction with maintenance and ground-reENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY lated services within airport perimeters. SAS follows the airports’ regulations and strives to ensure a continuous transition Aircraft operations often account for more than 95% of the total to vehicles with lower environmental impact. At SAS main bases, environmental impact of an airline, this also applies for SAS. Onall vehicles are leased and follow-ups are conducted via conground emissions derive from diesel/ petrol consumption, enertracts and fuel bills. gy use in facilities, fuel and glycol spillages and waste. No significant emissions or spillages were reported in conBased on a materiality analysis the vast majority of SAS’s enjunction with ground handling or technical maintenance. vironmental impact comprises emissions from the consumption of non-renewable fuels. From a stakeholder perspective noise is Energy also perceived as material. Reduction of energy consumption is an ongoing project with SAS’s environmental responsibility is to comply with relevant continuous improvements. During 2015/2016, energy conlegislation and to minimize total long and short-term emissions sumption increased even though several improvements were and other environmental impacts. implemented, such as more efficient lighting and less buildings. Since 2010, SAS is certified according to ISO 14001 throughThis was due to method change. Read more on page 20. out the company. All key environmental metrics can be found on page 19. Waste SAS has no overall goal for this aspect. Both hazardous waste Environmental compliance and unsorted waste from ground-related operations are measNo severe incidents breaching any environmental permits were ured and followed up in order to detect unexpected trends. This reported in 2015/2016. year, the trend climbed due to major move activities from or between owned and leased buildings. Emissions and noise Hazardous waste is strictly controlled by national authorities Jet fuel and is internally controlled and evaluated by both the airline and SAS’ most significant environmental aspects derive from emissuppliers. sions from using non-renewable jet fuel in aircraft operations. Read more on pages 13-15. Environmental goals SAS will... Goal attainment 2015/2016 • reduce relative CO2 flight emissions by 20% in 2020 • SAS reduced its relative CO2 emissions per passenger compared with 2010. kilometer by 9.6% in 2015/2016 compared to 2010. • reduce noise on take-offs by 15% in 2020 compared • SAS reduced its noise on take-off by 14.2% in with 2010. 2015/2016 compared with 2010. • regularly use JET-A1 based on renewable sources. • SAS used approximately 90 tonnes of synthetic jet fuel. SAS Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016 9 SAS Sustainability Report | SAS sustainability agenda Halon Airline operations have a legal dispensation for the use of halon and submit annual reports to the authorities on its consumption, including leakage and storage. The reason for this dispensation is that there is no certified alternative to halon for extinguishing ppp sas supports fires in aircraft engines, cabins and aircraft toilets. Scandinavian MSEK the poluter pays Airlines has no reported usage of halon during 2015/2016. 842 principle EMISSIONS CALCULATION AND CO2 OFFSET The SAS emissions calculator, which is available on the SAS SAs external website, provides information about all SAS flights, with greenenvironmenthouse gas emissions presented separately. Most calculators on related costs the market calculate the emissions based on average fleet performance and a CO2 equivalent based on different greenhouse gas emissions. SAS has chosen not to do so, because there is no consensus on how to calculate NOx, particles and water vapor emissions to CO2 among scientists and experts. SAS offers the option of offsetting CO2 emissions from a specific flight in connection with the emissions calculator. SAS has Emissions Trading regulations (EU-ETS), which is an established chosen to offer energy efficiency projects in its offset portfolio. market-based measure. SAS’s opinion is that market-based The demand for this service is low. The offer is also available for measures should not distort competition, should address emisSAS Corporate Customers. sions targeted for reduction needs and should create an incentive for continuous improvement. SAS has supported the develFinancial aspects of environmental responsibility opment of a global, market-based solution for airline emissions SAS’s environmental work has several overriding purposes. Befor a long time. sides enabling resources to be more efficient and improving enThe UN aviation organization ICAO decided on a global marvironmental performance, it includes ensuring that the operaket-based measure for implementation by 2021 (CORSIA). The tions comply with environmental laws and regulations. Some key elements of a global solution should not distort competition of the most important financial aspects of SAS’s environmental and should incorporate the UN’s CBDR principles (Common But work are described below. Differentiated Responsibility). At present, no details are availaCivil aviation accounts for the cost of the infrastructure needble that enable SAS to calculate the potential cost connected to ed and used for flights, i.e. airports and air traffic control. The CORSIA. cost of security is also financed within the industry. Environmental taxes and charges are associated with noise, “PPP”, Polluter Pays Principle emissions and the number of passengers. The civil aviation secSAS supports the “PPP” and is prepared to take responsibilitor pays for its carbon emissions within the EU through the EU ty for its share. This assumes that any charges imposed on the company are based on scientific findings and that the total climate impact of competing modes of transport is taken into consideration. A320neo Environment-related costs In 2015/2016, SAS’s external environment-related costs were MSEK 842. These costs consist of environment-related taxes and fees that are often associated with the environmental performance of aircraft and are included in the landing fee. During 2015/2016, the Norwegian government introduced a passenger duty and a proposal for a similar passenger duty up for decision in Sweden in the coming year. These fees are not based on the amount of green house gas emissions and have no >15% steering effect on environmental performance. From SAS’s point of view that is a prerequisite for a meaningful environmental market-based measure. Lower fuel cosumption compared SAS has no known major environment-related debts or conwith the current A320 (A320ceo) tingent liabilities, for example, in the form of contaminated soil. The costs for EU-ETS were MSEK 88 for the 2016 calendar year. 10 SAS Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016 SAS sustainability agenda | SAS Sustainability Report Environment-related investment According to SAS’s guidelines, investments are to be both environmentally and economically sound, and thereby contribute to SAS’s value growth and help to ensure that SAS can meet the assumed future environmental requirements. During 2015/2016, no significant environment-related investments were conducted. This is because the preferred solution is leasing, rather than investing in aircraft, vehicles, computers, etc. An example of the use of leasing in recent years has been the replacement of aircraft. FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Every corporation has a responsibility to ensure profitable busiAlmost 600 cabin crew were recruited in 2015/16. ness, to comply with legal requirements and to maintain a high standard of business ethics as well as to ensure compliance with national policies and laws on financial responsibility. An analysis of SAS’s annual report indicates that major portions of revenue and expenses have an environmental and/or soproviding development opportunities as professionals and as cial perspective. In brief, the highest possible financial return is human beings. generated by the best possible resource utilization and manageAs a buyer, SAS uses the services of a number of subcontracment of the company’s assets, both human and financial. Optitors, thereby contributing to economic and social welfare in the mal resource utilization means flying more fuel-efficiently and countries and communities where its businesses operate. optimizing capacity for carrying passengers and freight. Lower As a supplier, SAS has a responsibility to deliver products and fuel consumption leads to lower fuel costs and at the same time services that ensure consumer health and safety, and are reliable, reduces the charges SAS pays for emissions. environmentally adapted and produced under decent conditions. The same applies to all other activities that have environmental or social considerations. There are always strong financial incenLabor practices and Decent work tives to reduce resource consumption or sick leave for example. Responsibility for labor practices and work conditions is very important and has been identified as a material aspect in this susProfitable Business tainability report. SAS is a large employer and has a major imAll aspects of SAS that promote long-term profitability are dispact on responsibility. Read more on pages 16-17. closed in the 2015/2016 Annual Report. Human Rights Business ethics and Anti-corruption Since SAS is a large buyer of products and services, SAS has a Business ethics and anti-trust issues are always very high on the responsibility to ensure that human right issues are addressed agenda for the aviation industry. SAS has an ongoing “Compein a correct manner. Human rights issues are included in SAS’s tition Law Compliance Program” that encompasses all relevant purchasing policy, general terms and conditions, and purchasemployees and is designed to ensure that SAS complies with ing process. Read more on page 8. laws, regulations and practices in its area of operation. The program adresses the most material risks connected to anti-corDiversity and equality ruption and the employees that are exposed to the risks in their In SAS there is a traditional split between female-dominated daily work. Regulations relating to bribery and other improper professions and male-dominated professions. Pilots, technicians actions are particularly strict. and aircraft maintenance staff are traditionally male-dominated and cabin crew and passenger service at the airports are primarily female-dominated. The Diversity Policy promotes equal treatSocial Responsibility ment of all employees and job applicants. Work on equal treatment includes promoting diversity and equality in all its forms. SAS’s social responsibility primarily encompasses its own emThe gender breakdown of pilots is 96% men and the recruitployees and the environment that is reliant on and impacted by ment base for female pilots is low because few choose the proSAS’s operations in a number of countries, mainly in the Nordic fession. On the other hand, 75% of cabin crew are women. region. Competition in the airline business in Europe is fierce. The Group Management currently comprises one woman and Employees play a key role in creating added value for the cussix men. SAS’s target for gender distribution in the company as tomer offering. a whole is 40% across the groups. As an employer, SAS’s responsibility is to ensure decent work In Denmark, SAS Cargo Group and Cimber, internal boards conditions and work environment. SAS is also responsible for are comprised to 25% respectively of women. SAS Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016 11 SAS Sustainability Report | SAS sustainability agenda Product Responsibility Charter flight SAS takes its responsibility for maintaining the highest standSAS performs a number of charter flights per year on a commerards regarding product responsibility. SAS has to follow strict cial basis for “Solgården”. The charter operator focuses on peopolicies and applicable legislation regarding safety, IT security, ple with different disabilities and SAS enables smooth air transfood, cargo, etc. port through a dedicated crew, the extra equipment needed on the flight and by providing space for bringing the equipment Flight Safety needed at the destination. Flight Safety is highly regulated. SAS is regularly audited both by external parties, partners and customers. Relevant authoriFinancial aspects of social responsibility ties review work conditions for airline personnel regarding workSAS’s first social responsibility is to its own employees and the ing hours for example. communities dependent on and affected by SAS’s operations. For employees, this includes issues concerning human resourcPunctuality and Regularity es development, pay and work environment. In addition, SAS is Punctuality and regularity are crucial aspects for the ability to to contribute to social progress wherever it operates and be a deliver passenger transport on time and as planned. SAS works respected corporate citizen. Air travel helps improve labor marcontinuously to monitor and improve punctuality and regularity, ket conditions in rural areas in the Scandinavian countries and and this is valued highly by SAS customers. The monthly report makes business travel easier in Europe and to other continents. received by SAS from Flight Stats is a receipt of how well we have Given increasing globalization, airlines facilitate business and performed compared with other global airlines/major airlines. other contact opportunities where efficient transportation to, from and within the countries is more or less a prerequisite for IT security and integrity economic development and progress. The airlines also contribIT security and integrity is more important than ever and SAS ute expertise and transfers of technology and make necessary has an extensive program to secure the high level of IT security investments in infrastructure. required. SAS‘s contribution to the economy Social involvement SAS creates employment and value. In 2015/2016, SAS paid Support to refugees wages and salaries totaling MSEK 6,566, of which social secuIn the ongoing refugee crisis in Europe, SAS conducted a numrity expenses were MSEK 2,072, with pensions totaling MSEK ber of activities to support the situation. One example was to al807 of this. SAS endeavors to achieve market pay for all employlow extra luggage free of charge on flights to destinations in the ee groups. affected area. Air transport pays the costs for the infrastructure it needs and uses to conduct flights, meaning airports, air traffic control and Preparedness for air ambulance operations security. During 2015/2016, these cost totaled MSEK 8,429 for SAS has an agreement on a commercial basis with the Swedish Scandinavian Airlines. Of this cost Scandinavian Airlines payed government to make two specially equipped Boeing 737s availMSEK 1,189 in security costs, which are financed by taxes for able as air ambulances within the framework of the Swedish Namost other modes of transportation. tional Air Medevac (SNAM) in case of emergency. A corresponding agreement exists with the Norwegian Armed Forces under Costs of sick leave and accidents which SAS is to make a remodeled ambulance service 737-700 Sick leave is a large expense for society. SAS’s own calculaavailable for medical evacuation within 24 hours, following the tion of costs for sick leave amounts to appoximately MSEK 216 same principle as with SNAM. If needed, a second aircraft must in 2015/2016. Sick leave can be both physically and mentally be made available within 48 hours. stressful for the employee and SAS works with various methods to prevent short and long-term sick leave. Christmas flight In December 2015, SAS supported the Norwegian “Christmas flight.” The Christmas flight is an aid campaign carried out by SAS employees, who cooperate with other volunteers throughMSEK out the year to collect goods and contributions from various partner companies and private individuals. SAS provides an MSEK 216 6,566 aircraft with full operational support, while pilots and crew volunteer in their free time and the fuel is sponsored by a fuel cost for supplier. This flight was also conducted in December 2016 with sick leave SAS support. total wages and salaries 12 SAS Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016 Greenhouse gas emissions | SAS Sustainability Report Greenhouse gas emissions Aircraft operations using non-renewable jetfuel account for the vast majority of SAS greenhouse gas emissions. Hence, SAS has decided to focus on this subject in its environmental program. SAS flight operations (flights flown under the SK prefix) used • Continuous aerodynamic, weight and efficiency follow-up and 1,309,000 tonnes of jet fuel in 2015/2016. This corresponds modification of SAS aircraft to 4,122,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide and the aircraft 17,800 • Environmentally adapted products tonnes of nitrogen oxide emissions. Compared with the previous • Alternative sustainable jet fuels 12-month period, this represents a increase of 300,000 tonnes • Stakeholder dialog/work with air traffic management, airports, of carbon dioxide and 1,500 tonnes of nitrogen oxide. aircraft and engine manufacturers In 2015/2016, SAS’s total emissions from aircraft operations increased 8% compared with 2014/2015 while the production FLEET RENEWAL in tonne kilometers increased 10%. The growth was primariSAS continues to replace older aircraft with newer. During ly on long-haul flights. SAS’s relative CO2 emissions decreased 2015/2016, Scandinavian Airlines introduced two brand new to 99 grams (101) or 1.7% per passenger kilometer compared A330E aircraft and one A320neo. At the same time three older with 2014/2015. The positive trend was primarily due to an inBoeing 737-600s were phased out. creased average flight length and fleet renewal. In 2015/2016, SAS’s long-term wet-lease operator introduced eight brand new CRJ900s and three ATR72-600s. SAS ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM The first Airbus 320neo (New Engine Option) arrived to SAS The method SAS uses to achieve its environmental goals is to in October 2016, the first of 30 that will join the fleet during the put its strategies into practice through activities conducted in coming years. Compared to the A320ceo (Current Engine Openvironmental programs within the environmental managetion), the A320neo uses approximately 15% less fuel, emits less ment system certified according to ISO 14001. Throughout noise, is equipped with six additional seats and a toilet adapted 2015/2016, numerous activities were conducted in a wide range for passengers with reduced mobility. of areas. The A330E is part of the order of eight A350s and four Since emissions related to the consumption of jet fuels are A330Es placed during 2013 with delivery in 2015-2021. The the most material environmental aspect, the activities focused A330E is marginally more fuel efficient than today’s A330 but on the goal of reducing flight CO2 emissions 20% by 2020 comdoes have an increased range, meaning that it can operate on pared with 2010. The prerequisites for all activities are that they routes currently served by the A340 at approximately 15% less are well within the limits of applicable legal requirements and fuel consumption per seat. When the A350 is introduced, it will flight safety limits, etc. SAS has defined environmental probe possible to reduce fuel consumption by approximately 35% grams within the following areas: per seat and generate 50% less noise compared with an A340. • Fleet renewal • More efficient planning of SAS aircraft • More efficient usage of SAS aircraft in day-to-day operations SAS Flight OPERATIONS, TOTAL CO2 EMISSIONS CO2 EMISSIONS per PK 4,500 110 108 4,000 106 104 3,500 102 100 3,000 98 96 2,500 94 2005 2010 2011 2011/ 2012/ 2013/ 2014/ 2015/ 2011/2012 2012/2013 2013/2014 2014/2015 2015/2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total CO2 emissions (000s tonnes) Tonne kilometers (millions) CO2 emissions (grams) SAS Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016 13 SAS Sustainability Report | Greenhouse gas emissions MORE EFFICIENT PLANNING OF SAS AIRCRAFT mizing the amount of products served and used based on analySAS currently operates aircraft of varying sizes and perforsis of actual demand. mance. SAS’s fleet ranges from 70 to 264 seats, capable of flyAn example of better technology is the ongoing engine uping routes for which the aircraft is airborne for between 20 mingrade program under the framework of the ordinary technical utes and more than 11 hours. The aim is to create conditions for maintenance of most of the Boeing 737NG fleet. In practice, this flying as profitably and energy-efficiently as possible depending entails that the engines are upgraded to a later version than that on demand, time of day and route. originally delivered. One example is to use aircraft of the appropriate size. For More than half of the fleet’s engines on the Boeing 737, which example, SAS has Boeing 737NGs and A320-family airwere delivered prior to 2006, have now been upgraded and the craft. They have 120, 141 and 183, and 141, 168-174 and 198 aircraft are more fuel efficient than when originally delivered. seats, respectively. This provides extensive flexibility according to demand, which enables the possibility to reduce the toENVIRONMENTALLY ADAPTED PRODUCTS tal emissions at any given time. Flying aircraft that are too large SAS strives to develop its customer offering in a more environgenerates unnecessary emissions even if it generates a better mentally adapted direction. This includes everything from locally theoretical result per available seat kilometer. produced and/or organic food to less material and ultimately, less waste needing to be sorted wherever customers encounter SAS MORE EFFICIENT USAGE OF SAS AIRCRAFT IN DAY-TO-DAY during the ground process, in the lounge or on board SAS aircraft. OPERATIONS Today, SAS offers organic breakfast on its flights and a numSAS has an extensive long-term fuel saving program integrated ber of organic items in its lounges. In connection with the develin its operations. An important aspect of increasing the fuel effiopment toward more electronic-based communication, less paciency is to make sure that all employees in SAS’s airline operaper is being used and the use of “green IT” is increasing. tions have the prerequisites and knowledge to be fuel-efficient. Sorting and waste disposal from service and products on This entails involvement of all employee groups that have an imboard is a focus area, but at the same time, represents a chalpact on the fuel consumption. Key functions are those functions lenge. The challenge lies in the fact that there is limited space reponsible for planning and all procedures, as well as the thouon board. There is also a restriction in disposing of meal sersands of employees in SAS operations conducting the flights. vice waste at airports because different national legislation is A large number of activities are constantly in progress, focusinvolved, making solutions complicated and, in some instancing primarily on established operational conditions, such as proes, impossible. In some cases, we are forced to fly waste back cedures and how they are implemented, and whether the availto Scandinavia (for example, from the US). Despite this, waste is able system support is sufficiently optimized for improved fuel an area in which efforts are being made to find the best possiefficiency. Naturally, all changes maintain a standard that meets ble solutions. For example, aluminum cans from most domestic the highest level of flight safety requirements. flights are recycled and a process has been initiated to further It is important to recognize that increased fuel efficiency and increase recycling. the reduced fuel cost must be balanced against other operational costs, such as maintenance costs and charges for using airALTERNATIVE SUSTAINABLE JET FUELS (bio fuels) space. During 2015/2016, SAS maintained the overall fuel effiFor the past decades, SAS has been working together with other ciency at the same level as in 2014/2015. stakeholders to accelerate the development and commercialization of more sustainable jet fuels. CONTINUOUS AERODYNAMIC, WEIGHT AND EFFICIENC FOLBio fuels can be produced from various raw materials. Some LOW-UP AND MODIFICATION OF SAS AIRCRAFT examples are forest and food waste. This is a so-called drop-in Over time, SAS continuously modifies its aircraft in order to fuel that can be blended with fossil fuels and does not require modernize to better technology, improve aerodynamics or reany changes to the aircraft itself and which is approved by the duce weight. Examples of improved aerodynamics include the aircraft manufacturer. The maximum limit of the interference is installation of winglets on Boeing 737NGs or sharklets on Airnow 50%. bus A320s. SAS has installed winglets on a number of Boeing During 2015/2016 this work has primarelly been within three 737NGs where it is profitable from a sustainability perspective. areas: Examples of weight reduction include the replacement to composite brakes or installing lightweight seats on a number Regular delivery of Boeing 737NGs and Airbus A320s. When older seats are reSAS received deliveries of bio fuel on a regular basis at Oslo Airplaced, approximately two kilos per seat are saved. port. The fuel was delivered under the first commercial contract Apart from modifying the aircraft, work is also constantly perof its kind. SAS is the only Scandinavian airline participating. formed to reduce the weight of all material and products includThe fuel was supplied from AirBP and distributed via the regular ed in SAS’s service offering. Examples include optimizing the fuel distribution system. SAS will continue to recieve bio fuel in amount of water filled for toilet use, replacing carts with lighter 2016/2017. versions, replacing glass bottles with a plastic alternative, opti14 SAS Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016 Greenhouse gas emissions | SAS Sustainability Report SAS has clearly indicated to existing and prospective producers CO 2 emissions from SAS’ flight 1.000s of jet fuels that there is a demand for bio fuels if the price is comoperations 2015/2016 tonnes CO 2 petitive and sustainability criterias are met. It is vital for SAS that Denmark the production of bio fuels does not compete with food producDomestic flights 27 tion or access to drinking water, and that it is produced under Flights to EU/EEA 417 socialy responsible conditions and that has minimal impact on Flight to outside EU/EEA 535 biodiversity. Norway Stakeholder engagement Domestic flights 479 SAS participated in various working groups on this topic during Flights to EU/EEA 306 2015/2016. Examples include the Nordic Initiative for SustainFlight to outside EU/EEA 62 able Aviation (NISA), Fly Green Fund and Sustainable Aviation Fuel User Group (SAFUG). Sweden Domestic flights 236 Possibility to upgrade to renawable fuel Flights to EU/EEA 328 SAS is working on the possibility of offering its customers the ability to upgrade from fossil fuel to renewable. Flight to outside EU/EEA 220 STAKEHOLDER DIALOG/WORK WITH Air Traffic Managment, Finland AIRPORTS, AIRCRAFT AND ENGINE MANUFACTURERS Domestic flights 0.5 Since the early 2000s, SAS has been working with the parties Flights to EU/EEA 38 responsible for air traffic control and airports in Sweden, Norway Flight to outside EU/EEA and Denmark in an effort to identify more efficient methods for controlling air traffic in the airspace and on the ground in these EU/EEA countries. Departing EU/EEA1 for Scandinavia and Finland 703 One example is the Continuous Descent Approach from Top Flights within EU/EEA1 0.5 of Descent that has become standard during low and mediDeparting EU/EEA1 for outside EU/EEA 0.1 um-peak traffic at an increasing number of airports. The Continuous Descent Approach from Top of Descent entails that air Outside EU/EEA traffic control allows the aircraft to approach in a continuous Departing from outside EU/EEA bound for Scandinavia/Finland 770 gliding descent without using unnecessary engine power. This is Departing from outside EU/EEA bound for EU/EEA1 common at small airports where there is no other air traffic close or outside EU/EEA1 0.3 by, but still uncommon at large airports where other air traffic Total 4,122 must be handled in parallel. This development derived from the 1) Excluding Denmark, Sweden, Norway and Finland that are reported separately. demonstrations conducted in the early 2000s and the feasible changes have been implemented in everyday operations at Swedish airports. In recent years, SAS has been heavily involved in the establishment of more advanced solutions using satellite-based Required Navigation Performance (RNP AR) rather than the traditional ground-based ILS. SAS is currently involved in activities in Scandinavia that aim to demonstrate short-term potential environmental improvements within the framework of existing systems and methods. Throughout SAS’s continuous environmental work, SAS maintains dialogs and discussions with relevant aircraft and engine manufacturers, as well as producers of interiors and other installations in the aircraft. Naturally, this is also the case in the decision-making process in which new aircraft are acquired for short and long-haul operations. The sustainability criteria are very important aspects for SAS’s choice of suppliers. Premiere flight from Oslo to Miami. SAS Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016 15 SAS Sustainability Report | Work conditions Work conditions SAS is a large employer. The responsibility associated with labor practices and work conditions is very important. SAS has good levels of cooperation with the union organizations that work with these issues. The civil aviation industry is moving toward new or re-shaped Cooperation with labor union organizations employment models to reduce costs and increase flexibility. For Cooperation in day-to-day operations with labor unions is mainly the last few years, SAS has been working with the unions to cut carried out nationally, where dialog is conducted with the labor costs and increase flexibility within the existing employment unions that have collective agreements with SAS. Cooperation model. Regardless of the employment model or were the emtakes place within the framework of national laws and agreeployees are based, it is crucial that the employer upholds its obliments affecting the unit concerned. gations regarding social responsibility toward society in general Employee representatives from the Scandinavian countries sit and its employees. on the SAS Group Board of Directors. The employees elect repIn the opinion of SAS, there is uncertainty concerning the resentatives from units in the Group’s Scandinavian operations. rules governing where employees are based and where the work In general, all SAS employees are covered by collective baris carried out. SAS’s position in this matter is clear. Society must gaining agreements. The main exception is senior management clarify and create the prerequisites for a level playing field withat Group level. in the industry, whereby employees are employed under local terms, where they are based and where their work is carried out. Contract negotiations and disputes When based in Scandinavia, employees should be covered by SAS conducted negotiations and discussions with various unScandinavian employment terms, work legislation and tax reions during 2015/2016, in order to reduce costs and increase gimes. the flexibility of existing union agreements. An organized strike occurred amongst pilots based in Sweden Cultural development in 2015/2016. Development of social responsibility is largely built on the SAS corporate culture. SAS focuses on increasing employee engageLeadership development ment, and increasing understanding of the values that form the SAS has approximately 480 managers at different levels in the basis for how the business is run. The goal is to generate posiorganization. More than half of the managers are located in daily tive effects in the relationship with customers and to strengthen operations with direct customer contact, such as sales, airport SAS’s competitiveness. services and on-board service. The managers’ skills development is based and evaluated on SAS’s role model for leadership. Organizational development A systematic evaluation process is continuously performed During 2015/2016, work continued with the process started in for existing managers, and also to identify individuals who may previous years on implementing a centralized and more streammeet the requirements to become managers in the slightly lined organization. longer term. The aim is for all potential managers to have an inThe process of outsourcing SAS Ground Handling (SGH) dividualized development plan. continued in 2015/2016. All locations in Norway, except Oslo SAS has integrated the Lean principles in our management Gardermoen, were outsourced to Widerøe Ground Handling. processes. At SAS, all employees work toward shared targets During 2015/2016 it was descided that SGH main bases in that are categorized under SQDEC, which stands for Safety, Oslo Gardermoen, Stockholm Arlanda and Copenhagen KasQuality, Delivery, Employees and Cost. The targets are foltrup should remain within SAS. The process to outsource SGH lowed up through clear action plans across all operations. SAS in Malmö Sturup and Gothenburg Landvetter continues and inis also strengthening leadership and increasing professionalism volves a potential buyer. through a number of forums, such as the SAS Forum 50, LearnA process to sell Cimber was initiated during 2015/2016 and ing lunch and a mentor program for leaders. Cimber was sold to CityJet in January 2017. Furthermore, a number of extensive training programs are carried out each year in the form of leadership programs, webRecruitments and redundancy based courses and practical training. During 2015/2016, more than 110 pilots and almost 600 cabin crew were recruited in Scandinavian Airlines. This is part of a long-term process and connected to the long-haul expansion. Cimber also recruited more than 80 pilots and 30 cabin crew. Redundancies in 2015/2016 were handled through negotiations with labor unions in compliance with national laws and agreements. 16 SAS Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016 Work conditions | SAS Sustainability Report Employee surveys Occupational injuries During 2015/2016, the SAS annual employee survey, ”PULS” In 2015/2016, a new standardized reporting method was implewas conducted and job satisfaction at SAS increased to 64. A mented for all three countries: Denmark, Norway and Sweden. new survey functionality was introduced via to several employee Efforts have been made to lower the number of occupational ingroups in order to conduct a more frequent follow-up. juries through prioritizing preventive actions. These efforts take place in collaboration with safety representatives, supervisors Human resource development and labor-management joint safety committees that cover all Human resources development is an important, ongoing activity employees in each country. The number of occupational injuries throughout SAS. Flight crew and operational ground staff are at SAS was 237 in 2015/2016. Examples of occupational injucovered by a number of license and competency requirements ries are straining or crush injuries that occur in connection with from EU-OPS and the IATA through the IOSA (IATA Operationbaggage loading. Ground handling has the highest occupational al Safety Audit). The mandatory training programs were carried injury frequency at SAS. out according to plan for different personnel groups regarding hazardous goods, passengers’ rights, IT security and food Company Health services safety, etc. The company health services or health, safety and environment (HSE) function that supports the whole organization, offers serCourses and training vices through in-house or outsourced resources with therapists, In order to retain and develop employee skills, extensive trainstress and rehabilitation experts, ergonomic specialists and ing programs are carried out each year. A major part is obligaengineers. The function also offers special services, including tory training like the code of conduct and SAS’s environmental aviation medicine, stress management, follow-up of sick leave, course, and during 2015/2016, SAS employees attended an health profiles, ergonomics and advice in handling chemicals. estimated 500,000 hours of training. Most of SAS’s employees Investments are made in large parts of the organization in difhave access to more than 100 different online courses. E-learnferent forms of health-promoting activities both in the workplace ing can’t always replace classroom instruction, but thanks to its and during leisure time. greater flexibility and availability, more courses can be offered at a lower cost. Performance management is used in day-to-day operations for all employees in order to set clear targets and influence employees. This is a process that essentially involves individual targets being coordinated with the company’s overall targets as defined in SQDEC. Performance management also allows our employees to influence their own targets, thus making them feel more committed and involved. Work environment Sick leave SAS’s goal is that the work environment should be as healthy as possible and that sick leave should be continuously reduced. Better follow-up, preventive measures and communications are activities that were conducted in 2015/2016. During 2015/2016, total sick leave at SAS (incl. Cimber) decreased to 6.2% (7.0%). Long-term sick leave, more than 14 days, accounted for 4.3% (4.9%) of the total sick leave at SAS (incl. Cimber). SAS’s new uniforms introduced in 2016. SAS Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016 17 SAS Sustainability Report | Key social metrics Key social metrics DK NO SE DK NO SE Scandinavian Airlines’ Flight Operations SAS Commercial No. of employees October reporting No. of employees October reporting fiscal year (head count) 1,599 1,843 1,604 fiscal year (head count) 28 45 274 of whom women, % 48% 55% 55% of whom women, % 61% 62% 60% Total sick leave, % 7.3% 8.3% 8.6% Total sick leave, % 0.3% 1.6% 1.9% Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days), % 4.6% 5.9% 6.2% Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days), % 0% 1.2% 1.4% Total No. of occupational injuries with Total number of occupational injuries with one day's sick leave or more 20 31 6 one day's sick leave or more 0 0 0 Occupational injury frequency lost Occupational injury frequency lost time-to-injury rate (H-value) 9 12 3 time-to-injury rate (H-value) 0 0 0 SAS Maintenance Production SAS Administrative functions and others No. of employees October reporting No. of employees October reporting fiscal year (head count) 451 281 416 fiscal year (head count) 72 67 383 of whom women, % 3% 6% 7% of whom women, % 64% 51% 45% Total sick leave, % 2.8% 4.1% 3.1% Total sick leave, % 1.8% 4.7% 2.1% Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days), % 1.7% 2.7% 2.2% Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days), % 1.1% 3.8% 1.6% Total No. of occupational injuries with Total number of occupational injuries with one day's sick leave or more 11 4 2 one day's sick leave or more 1 0 2 Occupational injury frequency lost Occupational injury frequency lost time-to-injury rate (H-value) 15 8 3 time-to-injury rate (H-value) 7 0 3 SAS Ground Handling Cimber No. of employees October reporting No. of employees October reporting fiscal year (head count) 1,728 1,331 1,554 fiscal year (head count), 250 of whom women, % 23% 29% 31% of whom women, % 39% Total sick leave, % 4.3% 7.7% 6.6% Total sick leave, % 3.9% Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days), % 2.8% 5.8% 4.2% Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days), % 2.1% Total No. of occupational injuries with Total No. of occupational injuries with one day's sick leave or more, 95 35 28 one day's sick leave or more 2 Occupational injury frequency lost Occupational injury frequency lost time-to-injury rate (H-value) 30 15 10 time-to-injury rate (H-value) 5 Total DK NO SE SAS SAS No. of employees October reporting fiscal year (head count) 4,226 3,592 4,245 12,063 of whom women, % 33% 41% 41% 38% Total sick leave, % 5.1% 7.6% 6.2% 6.2% Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days), % 3.2% 5.5% 4.2% 4.3% Total No. of occupational injuries with one day's sick leave or more 129 70 38 237 Occupational injury frequency lost time-to-injury rate (H-value) 18 12 5 12 18 SAS Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016 Key environmental metrics | SAS Sustainability Report Key environmental metrics Unit 2015 / 2016 2014 / 2015 2013 / 2014 Flight Operations Aspects CO2 total 1,000 tonnes 4,122 3,822 3,890 CO2 passenger share 1,000 tonnes 3,746 3,492 3,571 NOx 1,000 tonnes 17.8 16.3 16.4 Passenger kilometers million 37,771 34,613 35,604 Tonne kilometer million 4,496 4,084 4,164 Departures 1,000 1000 308 303 305 CO2 /passenger kilometer grams 99.2 100.9 100.3 CO2 /tonne kilometer grams 916.8 935.7 934.1 Aicraft Noise – takeoff 85db area in KM2 per departure 2.06 1.97 1.97 Ground Handling Glycol consumption (Deicing fluid) 1,000 liters 1,493 1,490 1,535 CO2 Vehicle Petrol tonnes 57 65 107 CO2 Vehicle Diesel tonnes 4,132 4,564 3,926 Fuel spills, instances instances 0 4 11 Maintenance Productions CO2 Vehicle Petrol tonnes 39 38 43 CO2 Vehicle Diesel tonnes 200 208 226 Fuel spills, instances instances 0 0 0 SAS Cargo Group CO2 cargo share flown 1,000 tonnes 375 330 319 Cargo Tonne kilometer flown million 719 623 604 CO2 /cargo tonne kilometer flown grams 521 529 528 CO2 /cargo tonne kilometer trucked grams 152 151 161 Energy, Waste and Water Energy GWh 110 116 125 As of electricity GWh 49 51 57 As of heating GWh 61 65 68 As of heating oil (included in heating ) GWh 0 0 0 Unsorted Waste tonnes 247 164 255 Hazardous waste tonnes 162 127 138 Water 1,000 m3 69 52 63 SAS Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016 19 SAS Sustainability Report | Accounting policies Accounting policies Accounting policies for Sustainability Reporting 2015/2016 fiscal year “SAS” or “The SAS Group” is used throughout the report when LIMITATIONS referring to the overall operations. The main principle for sustainability reporting is that all units In 2015/2016, SAS reports its general sustainability results diand companies controlled by SAS are accounted for. This means vided into the same segments as disclosed in the Annual Report: that sustainability-related data for divested companies owned by • Scandinavian Airlines comprises all operations in the SAS ConSAS during the period is reported wherever possible. The same sortium, including SAS Cargo Group (SCG) and Cimber. accounting policies as for financial information in the Annual Re• SAS Ground Handling (SGH). port are intended to be used for financial information in the Sustainability Report. For environmental responsibility, SAS strives to distinguish SAS has a number of production indicators (such as passenger between airline and ground operations. kilometers and tonne kilometers). There are differences between Accordingly, the following divisions have been made: the Annual Report and the Sustainability Report as regards the • Airline operations with an SK flight number. disclosure of the number of passenger kilometers. The Annual • Ground handling in SAS Ground Handling (SGH). SGH conReport uses revenue passenger kilometers (RPK) where paying ducts ground handling for Scandinavian Airlines and other passengers are included, while the Sustainability Report uses customers, such as other airlines. passenger kilometers (PK) where all passengers are included. • Technical maintenance in SAS Maintenance Production. SAS Standard definitions for environmental and social data have Maintenance Production conduct technical maintenance pribeen applied throughout SAS. None of the limitations are conmarily for Scandinavian Airlines but also for other customers, sidered to have any substantial significance. such as other airlines. • Freight and mail services within SAS Cargo Group A/S (SCG). CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND • Facilities owned or leased by SAS. CALCULATING PRINCIPLES The sustainability information in the Sustainability Report is afSAS continues to hold interests in Air Greenland but these are fected by the following changes: not disclosed since SAS is no longer a majority shareholder and As of 2015/2016 fiscal year, only occupational injuries which is divesting the current holding. SAS’s structure is presented on occured during scheduled work hours are included. Previouspage 45 in the SAS Annual Report, November 2015–October ly, occupational injuries that occured during transit to and from 2016. work were included in the calculations. As of 2015/2016 the organizational structure in the social SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING metrics is quality assured and improved within some areas. The SAS’s Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance improvements are primarily connected to automation of data colwith the SAS Accounting Policies for Sustainability Reporting. lection and distigtions between administration and operations. SAS has also applied the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Energy measurements have been changed from average enSustainable Reporting Guidelines, version 4 Core. GRI cross-refergy consumptions per m2 to accurate measurements obtained erences are available on page 19–20. These indicate where the by installed energy meters in the areas SAS uses. GRI indicators are found in the SAS Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016. The Sustainability Report also covPRINCIPLES FOR REPORTING AND CALCULATING ers all important principles in the UN Global Compact. ENVIRONMENTAL DATA Reported environmental information is based on the following SCOPE OF THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT calculations and/or factors: SAS’s Sustainability Report should contribute to the evaluation • Distance, based on WGS84 Great Circle Distance (GCD) calcuand understanding of SAS’s operations. The report is an overlations between airport reference points as defined in national view of SAS’s structured sustainability work. The goal of the SAS AIPs. Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016 is to dis• Passenger weight for TK calculations in 100 kg for any perclose all information necessary to provide the reader with a fair son with hand luggage and checked luggage transported. This overview of SAS’s environmental, social, and financial respondoes not including active crew. sibilities. SAS Annual Report November 2015–October 2016 • Cargo and mail, actual weight is used. includes a integrated general overview of SAS’s sustainability • Fuel density (kg per liter): efforts and the sustainability information in the Report by the – Jet A/A-11: Actual density or 0.8 Board of Directors on page 44. – Diesel: 0.84 The ultimate responsibility for SAS’s sustainability aspects, and – Petrol: 0.73 their integration in operational activities, lies with Group Man– Heating oil: 0.84 agement. The Sustainability Report was reviewed by SAS Group • CO2 factor (per weight unit of fuel): Management in January 2017. The SAS Group Board of Directors – Jet A/A-11: 3.15 submitted the Annual Report November 2015–October 2016 in – Diesel: 3.17 February 2017, and was informed of the Sustainability Report. – Petrol: 3.12 – Heating oil: 3.17 20 SAS Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016 Accounting policies | SAS Sustainability Report • Energy conversion of fuels (GWh per 1,000 tonnes): Even though there is no consensus regarding the weighting be– Jet A/A-1: 12.0 tween the effect of different greenhouse gases on total impact – Diesel: 12.0 on climate change, SAS has decided to base the calculation on – Petrol: 12.2 the assumption from, among others, Cicero that 1.5 is a reason– Heating oil: 12.0 able multiplier given the currently available knowledge. • Nitrogen oxides (NOx), factors (per weight unit of fuel): Read more about Cicero that provided basic data for IPCC, – Jet A/A-12 Between 0.00694 and 0.01932 for example, on www.sasgroup.net under the heading Sustainability. This gives a ratio of two parts carbon dioxide to one part 1)  uel density and CO2 factor for Jet A/A-1 is calculated according F other climate changing emissions such as nitrogen oxides, wato approved MRV plan. ter vapor and particulates. Nitrogen oxides have been chosen 2) Varies per aircraft/engine combination. as a non-CO2 indicator for the climate index. Every emission is reported separately until clearer directives are given regarding Carbon emissions per passenger kilometer and how the total climate effect is to be calculated. cargo tonne kilometer SAS has chosen to apply a calculation method to divide the Environmental aspect Weighting Production factor amount of fuel used for passenger and cargo transport before Carbon dioxide 67% Tonne Kilometer (TK) dividing the amount by passenger or cargo tonne kilometer. The method is based on the IATA Carbon Calculator Tool. The asNitrogen oxides 33% sumption is that fuel usage is proportional to weight. Passenger fuel usage is the ratio of total passenger weight to total weight The climate index is designed for SAS to present month-to-month multiplied by the total fuel used. The remainder is allocated to trends. This assumes that the methodology is not changed. cargo transport. PRINCIPLES FOR REPORTING AND CALCULATION OF SOCIAL DATA (Total Passenger Weight/ The following principles for calculating and reporting of social Total Passenger Total Weight) Fuel Usage = x data have been used. Total Fuel Used Occupational injuries (H-value) Total Passenger Weight Frequency of occupational injuries (H value) is calculated using Where, Total Weight = + the following formula: Total Freight/Cargo Weight No. of occupational injuries with minimum of one day’s absence x 1,000,000 total number of performed working hours per year (Number of Seats x 50 kg) Total Passenger = + Weight (kg) Number of employees (Number of Passengers x 100 kg) In the Sustainability Report, the number of employees is based The calculation method allocates 50 kg per seat to the prerequion the number of persons during the month of October and sick sites for passenger transport and the same weight per passenleave statistics calculated for the fiscal year. These are employger as used in all other calculations applied within the industry. ees having a budgeted or actual schedule and/or who were sick For cases when flights were conducted without passengers or during the period. freight/cargo transport, all carbon emissions were allocated as passenger transport. Sick leave Examples of these flights are training flights, positioning Sick leave is reported as the number of days sick in relation to flights between scheduled flights, and flights to/from maintenumber of employees multiplied by calendar days. For sick leave, nance, etc. The reason for this changed calculation method is to absence due to sick children is excluded. Long-term sick leave achieve more precise carbon emissions per production unit cal(more than 14 days) is reported as a percentage of total sick leave. culations. The previous calculation method essentially involved double accounting, with emissions per passenger kilometer inPRINCIPLES FOR REPORTING AND CALCULATION OF cluding the fuel used for freight/cargo transport and vice versa. EXTERNAL AND OTHER ENVIRONMENTALLY RELATED COSTS Where possible, environmentally related costs are based on inClimate Index formation directly from the accounting system. When this has SAS has chosen to construct an climate index for flight operanot been possible, for example, for calculations of certain chargtions. The most recent base year is the full-year 2011, which is es and taxes that are included in landing charges, estimates used to follow up progress connected to activities implementwere used based on the number of passengers to a certain desed in 2011. The climate index is calculated by using the quantity tination and the charge or tax per passenger. of emissions of carbon dioxide and nitrogen oxides in relation to production. SAS Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016 21 SAS Sustainability Report | GRI index global reporting initiative (GRI) SAS Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016 has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) guidelines, G4 Core. The following index shows where information on the GRI indicators can be found: this Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016 (SR16), the Annual Report November 2015–October 2016 (AR16). The entire report has been reviewed by PwC, please read the Assurance Report at page 20 for details. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Description Page reference Strategy & Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker. AR16 p. 6–7. SR16 p.3. Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of organization. SR16 back cover. G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services. AR16 inside front cover. G4-5 Location of the organizations headquarter. SR16 back cover. G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates. AR16 p. 12-13. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. AR16 p. 29-30 and 45. G4-8 Markets served. AR16 p. 12-13. G4-9 Scale of the organization. AR16 p. 58, 71 and 103. G4-10 Workforce disclosure. AR16 p. 71. SR16 p. 18. G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. SR16 p. 16. G4-12 Supply chain. SR16 p. 8. G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period. SR16 p. 14-27. G4-14 Precautionary approach. SR16 p. 7 and 13-15. G4-15 External charters, principles, or other initiatives. SR16 p. 7 and 10. G4-16 Memberships of associations. SR16 p. 8. Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated performance. AR16 p. 45-46. SR16 p. 2. G4-18 Process for defining report content and Aspect boundaries. SR16 p. 7. G4-19 Material aspects. SR16 p. 7. G4-20 Aspect boundaries within the organization. SR16 inside front cover and p. 20. G4-21 Aspect boundaries outside the organization. SR16 inside front cover and p. 20. G4-22 Effects of any restatements. Not applicable. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting period. SR16 p. 20. Stakeholder engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. SR16 p. 8. G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. SR16 p. 8. G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement. SR16 p. 8. G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders. SR16 p. 8. Report profile G4-28 Reporting period. SR16 front cover. G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. SR16 inside front cover. G4-30 Reporting cycle. AR16 back cover. G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding report. SR16 inside front cover. G4-32 In accordance option chosen. Core. G4-33 Assurance. SR16 p. 25. Governance G4-34 Governance structure of organization. AR16 p. 45-54. Ethics and integrity G4-56 Organization’s values principles and norms of behavior. AR16 p. 27. SR16 p. 8. 22 SAS Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016 GRI index | SAS Sustainability Report SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Material Aspects Description Page reference Comments/Omissions Environmental Emissions G4-DMA SR16. p. 6-10. G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1). SR16. p. 19. G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. SR16. p. 19. G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. SR16. p. 13-15. G4-EN20 Ozone depleting substance emissions. SR16. p. 10. G4-EN21 NOx, sox, and other significant air emissions. Incl. noise. SR16. p. 19. Waste G4-DMA SR16. p. 6-10. G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. SR16. p. 19. The most relevant indicators are disclosed. We do not collect data on waste method. Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-DMA SR16. p. 6-10. G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers screened using environmental criteria. SR16. p. 8. Social Labor Practices and Decent Work Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA SR16. p. 6-10 and 16-17. G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint managementSR16. p. 17. worker health and safety committees. G4-LA6 Injuries, lost days, absenteeism and fatalities and total number of workSR16. p. 18. related fatalities Training and Education G4-DMA SR16. p. 6-10 and 16-17. G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee. SR16. p . 17. Training hours are divided equally between men and women. Data is not broken down according to employee categories. G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career SR16. p. 16-17. development reviews. Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-DMA SR16. p. 6-10 and 16-17. G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and employee breakdown. AR16. p. 71-72. SR16. p. 11-12 and 18. Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-DMA SR16. p. 6-10. G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers screened using labor practices criteria. SR16. p. 8. Human rights Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-DMA SR16. p. 6-10. G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers screened using human rights criteria. SR16. p. 8. Society Anti-corruption G4-DMA SR16. p. 6-10. G4-SO3 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant AR16. p. 37. SR16. p. 7 SAS asses risks continuously based on risks identified. and 11. materiality and risk. A description is available in the annual report. Anti-competitive Behavior G4-DMA SR16. p. 6-11. G4-SO7 Anti-trust and monopoly court cases. AR16. p. 37. SR16. p. 7 and 11. Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety G4-DMA SR16. p. 6-10. G4-PR1 Assessment of health and safety impact of products. AR16. p. 38-43. Product and Service Labeling G4-DMA SR16. p. 6-10. G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. AR16. p. 102. SAS Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016 23 SAS Sustainability Report | Sustainability terms, definitions and concepts Sustainability terms, definitions and concepts Average number of employees is defined as the avEnvironmentally related investments Investments Jet A-1 is the common jet fuel specification outside erage number of employees expressed in full time in assets to prevent, reduce or restore environmenNorth America. Jet A and Jet A-1 are very similar and equivalents, excluding leave of absence, parental tal damage arising from operations and/or aimed at throughout this Sustainability Report the term “jet leave and long-term sick leave. This definition is also meeting upcoming, more stringent environmental refuel” is used to describe fuel used by the aviation inused in the financial reporting. Sometimes the term quirements. dustry. FTE (Full Time Equivalent) is used. Environmentally related taxes Taxes that, in contrast Kerosene is the common name for petroleum-derived Biofuels are solid or liquid fuel with biological orito other corporate taxation, are motivated by environjet fuel such as Jet A-1. Kerosene is one of the fuel gin. Liquid fuels for vehicle/ship/aircraft engines. To mental grounds. Examples are the environmentally sources that can be made by refining crude oil. It is various degrees considered carbon neutral. The EU motivated passenger charge in the UK and the envialso used for a variety of other purposes. renewables directive (2009/28/EC) and biofuels dironmentally related fiscal CO2 charge in Norway. rective (2003/30/EC) define the EU’s mandates on MRV Monitoring, Reporting and Verification of CO2 biofuels and degree of carbon neutrality. External environmentally related costs are the sum of emissions and production in tonne-kilometers in the environmental charges and environmentally related EU Emissions Trading Scheme. CAEP, Committee on Aviation Environmental Proteccharges and taxes. tion, technical committee of the ICAO (see definition) N-ALM The Nordic Working Group for Environmental charged with developing and establishing rules and Fossil fuels are fuels consisting of organic carbon and Issues in Aviation, composed of civil aviation, environrecommending measures to reduce the environmenhydrogen compounds in sediment or underground mental and communication authorities and airlines in tal impact of aviation. deposits – especially coal, oil and natural gas. the Nordic countries. Carbon dioxide (CO2) is a colorless gas that is formed Global Compact is a challenge from the former UN Nitrogen oxides (NOx) Formed during combustion in in the combustion of all fossil fuels. The airline indusSecretary General Kofi Annan to business and indusall in engines. For aircraft engines since the high temtry’s CO2 emissions are being reduced based on a try to live up to ten principles of human rights, emperature and pressure cause the atmospheric nitrochangeover to more fuel-efficient aircraft, something ployee rights, the environment and anti-corruption, gen and oxygen to react with each other, mainly durthat is also desirable from a financial standpoint since as formulated by the UN. www.unglobalcompact.org ing take-off and ascent when the engine temperature lower fuel consumption automatically means lower is at a maximum. costs. Glycol is an alcohol that is sprayed on the aircraft in cold weather to prevent ice formation. Today, a Noise are environmentally detrimental, undesiraCargo tonne kilometer, includes all freight and mail non-toxic propylene glycol is used. Some 80% of the ble sounds. The environmental impact of air traffic in (in metric tonnes) multiplied by the great circle disglycol runs off the aircraft when applied, and seeps the form of noise is primarily of a local nature. Noise tance flown for all flights performed. into the ground unless collected. A further 15% is is normally described and measured in dB(A), an emitted to the air and is thus dispersed in the vicinity A-weighted sound level. CFCs are a group of clorofluorocarbons that may also of the airport. The airports are responsible for collectcontain hydrogen and /or bromide. A class of stable ing the glycol runoff for reuse. NOx Nitrogen oxides (see definition). chemical compounds mostly known under the trade names Freon or Halon. Manufacture prohibited by GRI Global Reporting Initiative is an organization aimOccupational injuries is the number of injuries emMontreal Protocol because of negative effect, depleing to provide companies and organizations with a ployees incur by accidents at the workplace resulting tion of the Ozone Layer. Aviation has exception for use global sustainability reporting framework and thereby in at least one day of absence. under a critical use clause due to lack of approved alfacilitate comparisons between companies from a soternatives. Research for alternatives is ongoing. cial, environmental and economic perspective. www. PK (used in the sustainability-related reporting), pasglobalreporting.org senger Kilometers, includes all passengers (100 kg Charges for the infrastructure, imposed by the operper passenger including luggage) excluding active ators of the infrastructure and which are intended to Greenhouse effect Carbon dioxide and other gascrew multiplied by the great circle distance flown for cover operating and capital costs for airlines and air es trap and reradiate incoming solar radiation that all flights performed. traffic management. would otherwise be reflected back into space. Most scientists agree that heavy human use of fossil fuels PULS is the Swedish acronym for SAS’s employee CO2 Carbon dioxide (see definition). is causing global warming. Carbon dioxide is formed surveys conducted via individual questionnaires. in the combustion of all fossil fuels, but burning of biCO2 passengeror cargo share is the amount of carofuels only emits an amount of carbon equal to that RPK (used in the financial reporting) revenue passenbon emissions from passenger or cargo transport. absorbed during growth, producing no net emissions. ger kilometers, utilized (sold) capacity for passengers However, use of coal, oil and natural gas produce a expressed as the number of seats multiplied by the Code of Conduct is business ethics rules and guidenet increase, since they release carbon that has been distance flown. lines. bound in the earth’s crust. Other gases that contribute to the greenhouse effect are CFCs (see definition), SAFUG Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group. AviadB Decibel, a logarithmic unit of measurement that methane and nitrous oxide. tion industry organization focused on accelerating the expresses the magnitude of a physical quantity reladevelopment and commercialization of sustainable tive to a specified or implied reference level. Halons See CFCs. aviation fuels. Environmentally related charges are charges imIATA The International Air Transport Association Sustainable development means that when mankind posed by the airport operators to motivate aircraft represents, leads and serves the airline industry. Its satisfies its needs to today, it does so without limitoperators to operate aircraft with high eco-efficiency members comprise all major passenger and cargo ing the opportunities for future generations to satisfy with respect to noise and other emissions such as of airlines. theirs. NOx, as well as surcharges imposed by airport operators to motivate aircraft In-air fuel dump is used if an aircraft has to land prior Tonne kilometers are the number of transported metoperators to avoid take-offs and landings at night. In to its total weight has reached the maximum landing ric tonnes of passengers and cargo multiplied by the some cases, the environmentally related charges are weight. The process is regulated by responsible audistance flown. considered income-neutral, meaning that the total inthorities and conducted according to defined procecome of the airport remains unchanged by reductions dures. Weighted noise contour is calculated based on the in other charges. The methods for classifying aircraft number of takeoffs per day at a given airport, with differ between countries and airports within counISO 14000 is a series of international environmental regard to the aircraft types the airline uses at that airtries. Although the charges are differentiated based standards developed by the International Organizaport. The weighted noise contour defines the area in on the eco-efficiency of the aircraft, they are ultimatetion for Standardization. The general guiding princikm2 that is subjected to a noise footprint of 85 dB(A) ly balanced in such a way as to amount to the total ples for ISO 14000 are identical to those in the quality or more in connection with take-off. cost determined by the airport operator. standard ISO 9000. There are several environmental standards in the ISO 14000 family, such as for environmental management systems (ISO 14001), environmental labeling, environmental audits and life-cycle analyses. 24 SAS Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016 Assurance report | SAS Sustainability Report Independent Auditor’s Combined Assurance Report To SAS AB (publ) INTRODUCTION Our reasonable assurance engagement includes the following: We have been engaged by the management of SAS AB (publ) to a. Financial indicators (except environmental-related costs) undertake an examination of the SAS Sustainability Report for found on page 1, the year 2016. b. Jet fuel and carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions related to SAS flight operations Responsibilities of the Board and Management for the Sustainability Report The firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality ConThe Board of Directors and the Group Management are respontrol) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of sible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report in accordquality control including documented policies and procedures ance with the applicable criteria, as explained on page 22 in the regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional Sustainability Report, and are the parts of the Sustainability Restandards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. porting Guidelines (published by The Global Reporting Initiative, Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board GRI) which are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well of Directors and the Group Management as described above. We as the accounting and calculation principles that the Company consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sushas developed. This responsibility includes the internal control tainability Report. relevant to the preparation of a Sustainability Report that is free We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions below. Responsibilities of the auditor CONCLUSIONS Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the SustainabiliBased on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, ty Report based on the procedures we have performed. nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe We conducted our engagement in accordance with RevR 6 that the Sustainability Report is not prepared, in all material reAssurance of Sustainability Reports issued by FAR. The engagespects, in accordance with the criteria defined by the Board of ment includes a limited assurance engagement on the complete Directors and Group Management. Sustainability Report and audit of certain information as speciIn our opinion the information in the Sustainability Report fied below. The objective of an audit is to obtain reasonable aswhich has been subject to our reasonable assurance procedures surance that the information is free of material misstatements. have, in all material respects, been prepared in accordance with A reasonable assurance engagement includes examining, on a the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and Group Mantest basis, evidence supporting the quantitative and qualitative agement. information in the Sustainability Report. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and Stockholm, 1 February 2017 applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary PricewaterhouseCoopers AB in nature from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and other generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Hence, the conclusion based on our limited assurance procedures does not comprise the same level of Bo Hjalmarsson Isabelle Hammarström assurance as the conclusion of our reasonable assurance proceAuthorized Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR dures. Since this assurance engagement is combined, our conclusions regarding the reasonable assurance and the limited assurance will be presented in separate sections. SAS Sustainability Report November 2015–October 2016 25 NARVA www.sasgroup.net SAS AB (publ) Corporate Registration Number: 556606-8499. Registered office: Stockholm Street address: Frösundaviks Allé 1, Solna, Sweden. Postal address: SE-195 87 Stockholm, Sweden. Telephone: +46 8 797 00 00
