Part of CLX Communications Symsoft CSR Communication of Progress Period 2015-07-01 to 2016-12-31 Version 1.0 Contents 1. Introduction 3 1.1 Managing Director’s statement of continued support for 4 the UN Global Compact and its ten principles 2. Labor Practices 5 2.1 Assessment, policy and goals 5 2.2 Implementation 5 2.3 Measurement of outcomes 6 3. Human Rights 7 3.1 Assessment, policy and goals 7 3.2 Implementation 7 3.3 Measurement of outcomes 8 4. Environment 8 4.1 Assessment, policy and goals 8 4.2 Implementation 9 4.3 Measurement of outcomes 11 5. Fair Business Practices & Anti-Corruption 12 5.1 Assessment, policy and goals 12 5.2 Implementation 12 5.3 Measurement of outcomes 13 6. Sustainable Procurement 14 6.1 Assessment, policy and goals 14 6.2 Implementation 15 6.3 Measurement of outcomes 15 1. Introduction During the fiscal year 2015/2016 Symsoft has continued working actively on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) issues. Symsoft is part of the CLX Communications Group, during the calendar year it was decided to prolong the fiscal year to run from 2015-07-01 to 2016-12-31, in order to follow the calendar year starting from 2017. That is why this communication of progress report covers an 18-month period. Symsoft strives to develop the business with maintained sustainability and is committed to continuously working on environmental issues to make as small an environmental footprint as practicably possible. Symsoft believes that having excellent working conditions increases productivity and is important for our business conduct, as well as our partners and our supplier’s business conduct. Holding high standards is the best way forward for the continued success of our business. CSR is becoming more and more tightly incorporated into daily work practices and business needs at Symsoft. We believe that we have, and will continue to evolve and have good processes in place covering the areas of: Environment, Labor practices, Human Rights, Fair Business practices and Supplier management. Symsoft strives to develop the business with maintained sustainability 1.1 Continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles I am pleased to confirm that Symsoft supports the ten principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are integrating the UN Global Compact and its principles into the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and we are engaging in collaborative projects to advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. Symsoft also wishes to make this commitment clear to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the UN Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, so therefore have committed to report on progress within one year of joining the UN Global Compact and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy. This report includes: • A statement signed by the chief executive expressing continued support for the UN Global Compact and renewing our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. This is separate from our initial letter of commitment to join the Global Compact. • A description of practical actions (i.e., disclosure of any relevant policies, procedures, activities) that the company has taken (or plans to undertake) to implement the Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas (human rights, labor, environment, anti-corruption). • A measurement of outcomes (i.e., the degree to which targets/performance indicators were met, or other qualitative or quantitative measurements of results). Johan Rosendahl Managing Director 2. Labor Practices 2.1 Assessment, policy and goals Symsoft supports the ILO Core Conventions and will not do business with any organization that uses forced, compulsory or child labor. All Symsoft employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms, conditions and base compensation. All newly employed staff are presented with an Employee Handbook which includes information on standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, compensation for overtime work, flexible working hours, company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. The Employee Handbook is available at all times on the company intranet. Symsoft complies with all relevant health and safety legislation and provides relevant training to employees and other staff. Risk assessments are conducted and followed up regularly. Consultants are issued with contracts stating terms, conditions and requirements of their assignment and work under the same health and safety regulations as regular Symsoft employees. All Symsoft employees and other staff have the right to form and/or join labor unions and to bargain collectively, provided that this right is not in conflict with any local laws. 2.2 Implementation Symsoft has a range of Human Resource Policies which support best practice in terms of labor and employment, including the Symsoft Code of Conduct, Symsoft Anti-Harassment Policy, Symsoft Employee Health and Safety Policy, Symsoft Workplace Violence Prevention and the Symsoft Equal Employment Opportunity Policy. All Symsoft employees have regular performance and development talks with their manager, where objectives and expectations are set and followed up and individual development plans are created. 2.2 Implementation cont. For major organizational changes, union representatives are consulted unless this is in conflict with local laws. An employee satisfaction survey is conducted twice a year, where all staff can rate and comment on work environment, learning and development opportunities, management, business direction, internal communication and teamwork as well as social factors at the workplace. Symsoft has an Employee Health and Safety Policy. Health, safety and work environment are handled in a work environment committee with employee representatives. The committee has regular meetings and works systematically to sustain a good work environment on Symsoft locations. Risk assessments are conducted at least annually, and overtime work and sick leave are monitored continuously. Minutes from committee meetings are made available to all employees on the company intranet. 2.3 Measurement of outcomes All employees have had performance and development talks with their manager. Individual development plans have been created, and training requirements have been met, provided that they are in line with the company policy. Number of employees on The result of the annual employee satisfaction survey has improved long-term during the year, with an engagement level of 7.8 on a scale from 1 to 10 sick leave in December 2016. This is an increase of 7% compared to the survey issued in May 2016. Action plans are being created in collaboration with the teams, 0 to aim for an even better result in 2017. Achieved Gold Level in Overtime work and sick leave have stayed at a low level during the fiscal year, with EcoVadis CSR no employees on long-term sick leave. assessment Employee During 2016, people managers were trained in general employee health and satisfaction +7% in 2016 safety focusing on organizational and social work environment. Due to new recruitments in Stockholm, our headquarters are getting crowded 0 investigations resulting in disturbances in the work environment. Symsoft is looking for an or legal cases alternative office space to better fit the needs of a growing organization. Symsoft has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labor principles. Symsoft has not been subject to any health and safety statutory notices or prosecutions in the last year. 3. Human Rights 3.1 Assessment, policy and goals Symsoft actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We are convinced that our values, the way we treat our employees and counterparts and the way we act in the line of business will have a positive influence on other stakeholders and counterparts when it comes to human rights. Symsoft has policies for Anti-Harassment, Equal Employment Opportunity and Workplace Violence Prevention and is committed to ensuring that all employees are treated fairly and with respect. Symsoft will not tolerate victimisation, bullying or harassment in the workplace. 3.2 Implementation All Symsoft policies are easily available on the intranet for all Symsoft staff to access. All new employees are required to read through the policies and confirm their compliance in their contract of employment. As we expand our operations internationally, we make efforts to have a positive influence on human rights in other locations. Symsoft supports “Hand-In-Hand”, an organization helping female entrepreneurs in developing countries to start businesses. Symsoft has a range of Human Resources policies which reflect our proactive stance on human rights including the Symsoft Code of Conduct, Symsoft Anti-Harassment Policy, Symsoft Employee Health and Safety Policy, Symsoft Workplace Violence Prevention and the Symsoft Equal Employment Opportunity Policy. 3.3 Measurement of outcomes In the past year, Symsoft has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights. Symsoft’s system makes it possible to communicate without travelling or sending paper documents. Thanks to our systems, people can communicate via SMS, MMS or email, instead of sending letters, pictures or documents via postal services. Symsoft systems make it possible to have conversations between parties in 4. different cities or countries without having to travEnvironment el. In this way Symsoft helps others to reduce their negative impact on the environment. 4.1 Assessment, policy and goals Symsoft’s products and services make it possible to communicate without travelling or sending paper documents. Thanks to our solutions, people can communicate via SMS, MMS or email, instead of sending letters, pictures or documents via postal services. Symsoft systems make it possible for people in different cities or countries to have conversations without having to travel. In this way Symsoft helps others to reduce their negative impact on the environment. 4.1 Assessment, policy and goals cont. Symsoft is compliant with UN Global Compact: Principle 7 “Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental changes”; Principle 8 “Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility”; and Principle 9: “Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies” Symsoft complies with applicable local environmental laws and internationally recognized standards. Symsoft’s Code of Conduct also covers all CSR areas, including Environment & Sustainability. Symsoft has an Environmental Management System. Part of this system is to identify KPIs based on where we feel Symsoft might cause the greatest environmental impact. Symsoft is measuring and following up on these KPI’s and considers this an important part of the company’s journey of continuous improvement. 4.2 Implementation Symsoft’s Code of Conduct is easily available on the intranet for all Symsoft staff to access. A procedure is in place where all staff are required to read through the Symsoft Code of Conduct and sign to say that they’ve read, understood and agreed to follow our policies. The Symsoft Management Team, headed the by Managing Director, are ultimately responsible for making sure that the Symsoft Code of Conduct is followed in all parts including those relating to Environment & Sustainability. Symsoft strives to minimize its environmental impact and to ensure that finite resources are used responsibly and carefully. Symsoft promotes operational practices that reduce any environmental burden associated with our activities. Symsoft continuously improves and seeks innovative environmental friendly solutions in products and services. Whenever possible we meet over the phone or over internet based media rather than travelling. When travelling is required, we choose train when possible. 4.2 Implementation cont. Symsoft measures and monitors its energy consumption. Symsoft has taken actions to keep energy consumpton down, and will continue to work on this. One initiative we have taken is to fit innovative power saving features in offices. Symsoft has water saving features installed. Symsoft has recycling systems in place for paper, cardboard, aluminum, batteries and glass. Discarded electronic equipment is sent to licensed recycling stations. Symsoft thinks about sustainability and the environment when selecting suppliers and has accordingly chosen to rent office space from a very environmental conscious, company, Vasakronan. Vasakronan prioritizes the environment and climate highly, they are a carbon neutral company and also Sweden’s first property company to offer green leases and green offices. Vasakronan works according to the ten principals outlined in the UN Global Compact and has the following environmental certificates: BREEAM, Green Building, ISO 14001, LEED and Miljöbyggnad. 4.3 Measurement of outcomes Symsoft has enhanced company policies during the year and now our Code of Conduct is used by our sister company CLX Communications “Enterprise Division”. We have also had our policies and Code of Conduct documents and related reports reviewed by EcoVadis as part of the Corporate Social Responsibility assessment of Symsoft. We are proud to have reached Gold level in the EcoVadis CSR rating for the second year in a row. Symsoft is determined to keep on monitoring CO2 emissions with a view to keeping them as low as possible and to do whatever is reasonably practical to reduce them. Measurements over the years has shown that transportation costs go up and down, this is influenced by factors that the company cannot control. Symsoft is increasingly delivering solutions that can be installed in the Cloud on virtual servers, but on occasion we are required to deliver systems on traditional physical hardware in order to fulfill customer needs this often includes assistance/support with transport. One of our CSR goals this year was to invest in a Video conference system, aiming to reduce the need for travelling. This goal has been achieved and the new video conference system is now being used for internal meetings when we have teams in different locations. Symsoft is growing and we are very proud of our new office and team in Warsaw. Opening a new office always means more travelling for a period of time, partly due to staff from headquarters traveling to set up the new office, and partly due to new staff working at regional offices needing to travel to headquarters for training, transfer of knowledge etc. This is the main reason why travelling, when measuring per person, has gone up since the last period. Our goal was to reduce average CO2 emission/person/month by 3%. Instead, this KPI increased, mainly due to the reasons listed above. However, when measuring CO2 emissions related to revenue, this KPI went down by 1% when compared to last period. To minimize environmental impact, Symsoft encourages staff to choose train travel whenever possible rather than going by air, and to choose economy class, enabling more passengers to travel in the same airplane, rather than choosing business class when going by air. 5. Fair Business Practices & Anti-Corruption 5.1 Assessment, policy and goals Symsoft is compliant with UN Global Compact Principle 10; “Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery” Symsoft supports the UN Convention against corruption. Symsoft’s Code of Conduct clearly outlines what could be considered bribery in terms of business operation. The policy also covers gifts, hospitality, extortion and money laundering. Symsoft’s goal is to continue to have no cases concerning business practices, bribery or corruption. 5.2 Implementation The Symsoft Code of Conduct is easily available on the intranet for all Symsoft staff to access. All new employees are provided with the Symsoft Code of Conduct as part of their employee contract and are required to read it through. The Symsoft Management Team, headed by the Managing Director, is ultimately responsible for making sure that the Symsoft Code of Conduct is followed. 5. 2 Implementation cont. At Christmas time Symsoft has chosen to give a contribution to the charity organization “Hand-In-Hand”, instead of sending suppliers, customers, business partners etc. gifts. “Hand-In-Hand” reduces poverty through job creation via social mobilization, business training, access to credit and linking women entrepreneurs to markets. As Symsoft has grown, we have increased our contribution to “Hand-In-Hand”. Most of our suppliers and customers also donate to charity organizations rather than sending gifts to their business associates. If any gifts from suppliers or customers are recieved, they tend to be small items like chocolates for Christmas or pictures courtsey of candies for Easter Holidays, these are put on the coffee table for all employees to share. In this period, we have noticed less gifts and more charity donations. Symsoft has a separate Procurement Policy as well as a Procurement Process. When selecting suppliers, Symsoft has a Supplier Code of Conduct, which we expect our suppliers to comply with. See section 6 about Sustainable Procurement for details. 5.3 Measurement of outcomes Symsoft accounts are subject to a yearly external audit. This is one of the methods we use to find any suspicious business transactions. Symsoft has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption, extortion, money laundry or bribery. 6. Sustainable Procurement 6.1 Assessment, policy and goals Symsoft is compliant with the UN Global Compact 10 Principles. We expect our suppliers to run their businesses according to equivalent principles; this is described in the Symsoft Supplier Code of Conduct. Symsoft believes we have made, and will continue to make, proper provision for the Health, Safety and Welfare of our employees at work and of others who may be affected by Symsoft’s activities. Symsoft cares for the environment and is committed to good environmental practices. Symsoft strives to achieve high standards of business conduct and we expect the same approach from those with whom we do business. Symsoft mainly delivers software and services related to our software, however sometimes we also deliver hardware components needed to support the software. Despite hardware delivery only accounting for approximately 5% of our revenue, due to the nature of our business, hardware deliveries make up a larger part of the indirect environmental impact from our business. A majority of all non-software goods delivered by Symsoft are procured from external, wellrenowned manufacturers. Thus, Symsoft suppliers have an indirect impact on social, financial and environmental factors where we conduct business. Procuring goods and services in a sustainable way, keeping high standards and requiring the same from those we choose to work with, we believe Symsoft’s actions can influence the social, financial and environmental environment of our suppliers. To conduct our business, Symsoft procure goods and services both in the technology sector for IT infrastructure, primarily for re-distribution to customers, and from other sectors, such as facilities, office disposables, refreshments, etc. Our goal is to continuously work to evaluate new suppliers against the “Symsoft Supplier Code of Conduct”. We will insist that suppliers either meet or exceed these requirements and we will follow up regularly with existing suppliers to make sure that our main suppliers live up to our standards and expectations. 6.2 Implementation Symsoft’s Procurement Policy and Symsoft Procurement Process is used when selecting suppliers and subcontractors, no matter what type of product or service we are purchasing. This could be anything from call centers to data centers, IT equipment to any other internal equipment used, as well as products used to deliver to Symsoft customers. We are assessing our suppliers against the Symsoft Code of Conduct in order to make sure they measure up to our standards when it comes to Corporate Social Responsibility. 6.3 Measurement of outcomes To address this area Symsoft has reviewed where our main suppliers stand when it comes to Corporate Social Responsibility issues. Furthermore, we have developed a separate policy for this area – the Symsoft Supplier Code of Conduct and updated our Procurement Policy and Procurement Process accordingly. Assessed hardware suppliers follow the UN Global Compacts 10 principles or equivalent. In addition, our main suppliers are ISO 14001 certified. All major hardware technology suppliers that have a direct contractual relationship with Symsoft adhere to the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct or equivalent. All new major suppliers (3rd party suppliers for our solution and consultants) for the period have signed and committed to our Supplier Code of Conduct.
