KANGWON LAND Sustainability Report 2016 2016 강원랜드 지속가능경영 보고서 This report is printed on eco-friendly paper with soybean ink. About this report CONTENTS Overview Kangwon Land has been publishing sustainability reports since 2010 to disclose transparently our sustainability activities and major performances to stakeholders. This CEO Message 02 report is our seventh sustainability report and contains our economic, environmental, and 2016 CSR Highlights 04 social performances under the theme of ‘Highland Healing Resort’ which is our vision. Overview of Kangwon Land 06 Vision and Strategy 08 Stakeholder Engagement 10 Advisory Meeting with Stakeholder 12 Reporting Standards Business Competition This report is written in accordance with Core Option of the GRI G4 Guidelines, and referred the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) Framework. Introduction of Kangwon Land Business 16 Four Season Eco-friendly Healing Resort Development 18 Building Stayover Base for Tourists 20 Strengthening MICE and Inbound Business Competitiveness 21 Reporting Period Core Values & Issues This report discloses the business performances of Kangwon Land from January 1st, 2016 to December 31st, 2016. Quantitative performances of the last three years are disclosed to Materiality Assessment 24 share the trends. Depending on the significance of issues, some performances up to April 2017 are included. Creative Management for the Future 01. Fostering Engines for the Future Growth 26 02. Realization of Safe and Eco-friendly Workplaces 30 Reporting Scope Happy Management that Satisfies Everyone This report covers the business status and performances of Kangwon Land Headquarters 03. Realization of Customer Values 36 and operating worksites in Gangwon Province and contains some projects that we are 04. Creating a Happy Working Environment 42 promoting. The cases which differ from the reporting boundary and scope are explained with separate annotations. Performances of subsidiaries and affiliates are reported within Fair and Transparent Public Management the section of company introduction and only local community-related projects are 05. Realization of Win-Win Value with Local Community 46 partially reported. Core issues are selected through materiality assessment. Suppliers and 06. ‌Establishing Win-Win Partnership with Suppliers 50 the local community related to activities and performances, which are determined as one of the core issues, are described under revitalization of the local economy and win-win Sustainability Management activities with suppliers, respectively, depending on the influential level of Kangwon Land. Advancing Sustainable Management System 56 Promoting Systemic Risk Management 59 Report Assurance Tax Strategy of Kangwon Land 60 Sound and Transparent Corporate Governance 61 This report is assured by DNV, a third party assurance organization, to enhance accuracy Establishing Responsible Management through Ethical Management 63 and reliability of the outcome of the report. Complements and improvement areas Human Rights Management Pursuing Employees’ Value 66 suggested by the assurer are reflected in this report. Risks and Opportunities of Kangwon Land 67 Cover Concept Appendix Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 69 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 70 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 71 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 72 Consolidated Financial Statements 73 Statements of Comprehensive Income 74 Statements of Changes in Equity 75 Statements of Cash Flows 76 Social Sustainability Performances 77 Environmental Sustainability Performances 78 GRI G4 Index 79 Independent Auditor’s Report 82 GHGㆍEnergy Assurance Statement 83 The cover of this report represents the commitment Third Party Assurance Statement 84 of Kangwon Land towards ‘Highland Healing Resort’ UN Global Compact 86 through symbolic color and design. List of Membership of Associations/ Award Performances 87 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Publications 88 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report CEO’s Message Overview To become a sustainable enterprise, we are making a distinctive ‘Highland Healing Resort’. Kangwon Land is strengthening our corporate capabilities to prepare the foundation of sustainability upon the expiration of the Special Act on the Assistance to the Development of Abandoned Mine-neighboring Areas in 2025. With the goal of creating the best ‘Highland Healing Resort’, we are strengthening our competitiveness as a global resort complex by developing unique resort contents and improving our services. In particular, we are striving to differentiate our resort from other resort complexes by focusing on improving the facilities that are best suited to the natural environment which is the primary advantage of Kangwon Land. The Water Park facilities designed in accordance with the natural and climatic conditions of Gangwon Province are currently under construction, and the resort is transforming into a place where leisure and relaxation coexist by providing cultural and artistic spaces where exhibitions and performances are held throughout the resort. Along with this, we are providing various kinds of sightseeing and entertainment to our customers by strengthening healing contents that are harmonized with the nature such as Book Café, trekking with forest road, and healing spaces. We will concentrate our efforts on building global competitiveness by using ‘Kangwon Land where I want to visit again’ as our management slogan. Kangwon Land has been concentrating all our efforts to create a ‘resort where I want to visit again’ in order to prepare for the 02 intensified competition in the resort complex industry among Asian countries. Kangwon Land’s new management slogan, ‘Kangwon Land where I want to visit again’, means that we secure our core competitiveness by creating distinctive resort complex 03 by ourselves. To this end, we are developing killer contents and focusing on making unique things to see, eat, and enjoy. In addition, we are interested in expanding our network of similar industries, such as personal exchange with global resorts, in order to improve the customer service mindset and the service quality. We are also paying close attention to the changes in future leisure trends and not to fall behind the trends. This is so that we can learn from past lessons when famous resorts that had been spotlighted failed to anticipate the future and became ‘a place not to visit again’.Along with this, in conjunction with the ‘Creating Good Villages’ project that has been promoted so far, we are striving to expand the external network to develop things to see, eat, and enjoy when customers visit Kangwon Land. The ‘Creating Good Villages’ project, which utilizes the culture and history of the region, is an indispensable part of creating a ‘Kangwon Land where I want to visit again’. We will make our best efforts to become a leading resort complex that attracts domestic and international visitors by establishing tourism cluster that connects Kangwon Land to the surrounding areas. We will build safe and eco-friendly workplaces. Kangwon Land, with a priority on ‘building safe and clean workplaces’, endeavors to enhance our employees’ safety awareness and to form advanced safety-oriented corporate culture. In 2016, we acquired KOSHA 18001, the first case in the resort industry, by increasing the level of occupational safety and health activities and improving the safety and health management system. We are also practicing eco-friendly activities and continuously promoting environmental management. We have conducted various environmental activities including waste recycling, an increase of renewable energies, and building high-energy efficient facilities. Dear Respectable Stakeholders, We will firmly establish our position as a social enterprise by revitalizing the abandoned mine areas I am very pleased to have this opportunity of greeting our stakeholders through our seventh sustainability report. and contributing to the national public interest. Since Kangwon Land was founded in June 1998 based on the Special Act on the Assistance to the Development of Abandoned Mine-neighboring Areas, we have been striving to revitalize the abandoned mine areas. We are contributing to the economic Kangwon Land has never forgotten its original purpose of the organizational foundation, which is to reinvigorate the local economy of growth of the abandoned mine areas through the payment of the Abandoned Mine Areas Development Fund and direct and abandoned mine areas. Community-oriented social contribution activities focusing on the recovery of local communities and mutual indirect investments. We are also dedicating to the improvement of the quality of life for both local residents and public citizens growth in abandoned mine areas have been promoted intensively. Also, our win-win cooperation with local suppliers has strengthened based on various social contribution activities. In addition, we are leading activities to solve the addiction problem of various forms self-sustainability of the abandoned mine areas. Furthermore, Kangwon Land is promoting sustainability activities while we aim to including gambling addiction and their side effects while operating the only domestic casino in Korea. increase both profitability as a public company and as a public institute. We will continue to raise CSV (Creating Shared Value) by 2016 was the year that Kangwon Land renewed our integrity and transparency based on new organizational culture by eliminating the promoting fair and transparent public-interest management and demonstrating synergy to generate profits as a company. We will cronyism culture which was the source of corrupt practices in the organization. In particular, as the result of proactive building antido our best to enhance the national status of Korea and revitalize the local economy as we proactively support the Pyeongchang corruption and integrity ecosystem and promoting our integrity policy across the organization, Kangwon Land has been selected as the 2018 Winter Olympics to be held in Gangwon Province. I look forward to the continued interest and encouragement from all our Excellent Organization for the two consecutive years in the Anti-Corruption Initiative Assessment, hosted by the Korea Anti-Corruption stakeholders. & Civil Rights Commission. In addition, we are continuing our position as a sustainable global company by being included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) World Index, ranked by S&P Dow Jones, the world’s leading financial information company, for the Thank you very much. fourth consecutive years. Kangwon Land will continue to be revitalized as a model public corporation that earns the public trust through CEO, Kangwon Land strengthening compliance and responsible management and implementing sound management activities. Ham Seung-Huie 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report 2016 CSR Highlights Overview Assessed as Excellent Institute (Level 2) in the Participated in the ‘UN Global Compact’ 2016 Kangwon Land’s Fund Transferring Ceremony for ‘Anti-Corruption Initiative Assessment 2016’ membership Project of Public Ideas for School Kangwon Land was assessed as Excellent Institute (Level 2) in the AntiIn order to improve the corporate transparency through continuous The ‘2016 Kangwon Land’s Fund Transferring Ceremony for School’s Autonomously Corruption Initiative Assessment both in 2015 and 2016. anti-corruption activities and to practice corporate social responsibility Contested Project’ was held with 50 representatives, including Ham Seung-Huie, Kangwon In particular, we demonstrated our excellence in anti-corruption practices including environment protection, human rights protection, and Land CEO, and four heads of municipal and county education districts, school principals, as we were assessed Level 1 in four sectors out of a total of six sectors. compliance with labor standards, we have officially participated in the and teachers in charge from abandoned mine areas. In April 2016, Kangwon Land delivered UN Global Compact. the fund KRW440 million to 21 schools, including one model school and 20 general schools selected through the project competition. Signed a business agreement between Kangwon Land and the Korean Small & Medium-sized Enterprises Managers Association 04 In October 2016, Kangwon Land signed a business agreement with the Korean Small & Medium-sized Enterprises Managers Association. These two organizations will work 05 together to foster SMEs and create more jobs, especially, for youth in the abandoned mine areas through this agreement. The first meeting of the National Gaming Control Public Institute Integrity Cluster Establishment of ‘Emergency Operation Center ‘, Enterprise Disaster and Safety Accident Control Tower To diffuse integrity culture, Kangwon Land established Integrity Cluster together with four National Gaming Control Public Institutes, including The Kangwon Land Emergency Operation Center was opened in February 2017 to protect the Korea Racing Authority (KRA), Grand Korea Leisure, and Korea Sports the safety and lives of our customers. The Center monitors the whole areas of the resort, Promotion Foundation. And we discussed how to expand integrity culture intensively inspects for vulnerable factors, and supports early response to incidents. across the organization effectively at the 1st meeting in June 2016. The Center also acts as a control tower to supervise disaster response works that can preemptively prepare for disasters such as typhoon, heavy rain, and heavy snow. Attracting Global Large-sized Convention Events 2017 Korea HRD Winner for Human Resources Development Kangwon Land demonstrated our competitiveness in MICE* industry by attracting various global events, including a Despite the adverse education environments such as geographic location incentive event of Zhulian(Thailand) Ltd., in February 2016, and shift work schedule, Kangwon Land has invested continuously successful hosting of the World Meditation Congress, and in education and established a 24/7 education system for shift work a incentive event of Indonesian `Herbal Life’, in which 900 employees. This original education operation was evaluated as a best related people participated. practice for employee education system, so we were named the winner of *A concept that is made with each first letter of Meeting, Incentives, 2017 Korea Human Resources Development Award. Conventions, and Events & Exhibition. It means a complex industry including conventions, which means international conferences, rewarding tourism, exhibitions, and fairs. Establishment of Foundation for City Restoration Project led by Private Sectors and Local Residents Listed in DJSI World Index for four consecutive years We are planning to continuously promote residents’ As the first case among public institutions in Korea, Kangwon Land has been listed in participatory city restoration project even after the expiration the World Index, DJSI, developed jointly by S&P Dow Jones Index and RobecoSAM, of the Special Act in order to continue development of local for four consecutive years. This achievement demonstrates our performance economy and enhancement of the residents’ lives. Through on implementing social responsibilities and our world-class level of sustainable the Creating Good Villages Forum and building of the City management. Restoration Support Center, we are exploring alternatives to help the local communities to rely less on Kangwon Land and build their own self-sustainability. 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Kangwon Land Overview Overview Introduction of Kangwon Land Brand Portfolio ‘The Representative Eco-friendly Resort Complex Leading Happy Leisure and Culture in Korea’ Kangwon Land brands have the motif of `Terrain’ and `Petals’ describing high mountain peaks and lowland connected naturally under the sky. Our brand portfolio consists of High1 Resort, as the main brand and the symbol Kangwon Land was established in June 1998 on the basis of the Special Act on the Assistance to the Development of Abandoned MineC.I. of the eco-friendly mountain resort, Kangwon Land Convention Hotel, Kangwon Land Casino, Kangwon Land neighboring Areas. We aim to develop the balanced development among regions and enhance the local communities’ livelihood by Hotel, High1 CC, High1 Hotel, High1 Ski, Valley Condominium, Hill Condominium, and Mountain Condominium. reinvigorating the economy of the abandoned mine areas due to the decline of the coal industry. We are creating a healthy gaming culture as we operate the only casino where domestic people are allowed access, and building sightseeing attractions which everyone C.I. B.I. wants to visit, through developing leisure products coupled with beautiful natural surroundings and cultures fully equipped with hotels, condominiums, ski resort, and golf course among others. Operating Facility Status High1 Resort Kangwon Land in Genaral Kangwon Land Hotel 477 rooms, Kangwon Land Convention Hotel Hotel 250 rooms, High1 Hotel 197 rooms, Company name Kangwon Land Co., Ltd. High1 Condominium 903 rooms CEO Ham Seung-Huie 200 Game tables, 1,360 Slot Casino machines Industry Casino and Resort KANGWONLAND KANGWONLAND KANGWONLAND HIGH1 HIGH1 HIGH1 HIGH1 06 High1CC 18Holes CONVENTION HOTEL CASINO HOTEL CC HOTEL SKI CONDOMINIUM Established in June 29, 1998 Golf (Par 72, extending over 6,592m) Type of organization Public institute 07 High1 Ski (3 gondolas, 6 lifts, 773 Establishment basis The Special Act on the Assistance to the Development of Abandoned Mine-neighboring Areas (June 12, 1995) Ski snowplows, 2 ski houses) Organizational Structure VALLEY HILL MOUNTAIN CONDOMINIUM CONDOMINIUM CONDOMINIUM Total asset KRW 3,978,988 million Revenue KRW 1,696,533 million Kangwon Land reorganized the company into four headquarters, 17 departments, 54 teams, two centers and one Operating profit KRW 618,616 million group by aligning them with business strategic directions so we can respond proactively to external environmental Net profit KRW 454,534 million changes and secure our future growth drivers. This organizational change would clarify teams’ roles and responsibilities and respond timely to changing environments by empowering ownership in each team. Functional Number of employees 3,512 persons adjustments of departments would further improve our strategy execution. Headquarters address 265 High1-gil, Jeongsun-kun, Gangwon-province, Korea Audit Commitiee CEO Audit Office Secretariat Business Overview Executive Vice President · Audit 1 Team · Audit 2 Team · Integrity Audit Team Kangwon Land Strategic Planning Department Management & Support Department Casino Department Resort Department Planning & Future Strategy Human Resources Financial Casino Casino Hotel Leisure Coordination Office Office Management Office Management Office Management Office Operations Office Operations Office Operations Office · ‌Management · ‌Business Strategy · ‌General affairs · ‌Finance Team · ‌Casino · ‌Table Games · ‌Hotel Management · ‌Leisure Planning Team Team team · ‌Accounting Team Management Team Management Team Team Management · ‌Budget Team ·N‌ ew Business · ‌Human Resources · ‌Chips Operation · ‌Table Games · ‌Rooms Team Team · ‌Contracts Team · ‌External Development Team Team Team Operations Team A · ‌Food and Beverage · ‌Condo Operations Cooperation Team · ‌Employee Well· ‌Casino Customer · ‌Table Games Team Team Convention · ‌Investment being Team Team Operations Team B · ‌Culinary Team · ‌Leisure Operation Ski Management Social Contribution · ‌Exchange Team · ‌Table Games Team Team Office Operations Team C · ‌Casino · ‌Social Contribution Development Team · ‌Machine Games Team · ‌Resort Hotel Operations Team Development Team · ‌Regional Cooperation Team Casino Business Leisure Business Hotel Business · ‌Partner Company Golf Cooperation Team Condominium Legal Public Relations Human Resources Facility Security Service Affairs Office Office Development Center SurveillanceTeam Marketing Office IT Office Management Office Office KLACC Subsidiaries · ‌Compliance ·P‌ ublic Affairs · ‌Marketing · ‌IT Security Team · ‌Facility · ‌Security Team Team Planning Team · ‌IT Operation Management Management · ‌Litigation Team · ‌Public Relations · ‌Sales Team Team Team Team Team · ‌MICE Team · ‌Construction · ‌Resort Security High1 Choo Choo Park High1 SangdongTheme Park High1 Entertainment ·C‌ ustomer Management Team Satisfaction Team Team · ‌Casino Security · ‌High1 Sports · ‌Facility Team Operation Team · ‌Industrial Safety Team 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Vision and Strategy Overview Business Strategy and KPI Management System Core Values As the representative eco-friendly resort complex in Korea, Kangwon Land has established business vision and strategic goals, and Kangwon land practices our established code of conduct and ethics, which every employee must follow, as our shared values in order promoted the tasks derived from the vision and goals in order to contribute to regional economic development and community livelihood to accomplish our organizational vision. Further, we provide guidance to all employees to develop themselves by defining good leader’s improvement in the abandoned mine areas. We also defined three management guidelines, which are ‘Fair and Transparent Public attitudes with leading by example, initiative and response, humble and support, and listening and volunteering. Under our shared goals Management’, ‘Creative Management for the Future’, and, ‘Happy Management that Satisfies Everyone’ and core values, which are and directions, Kangwon Land is striving to realize our vision, the Korea’s representative eco-friendly resort complex. ‘Passion’, ‘Trust’, and ‘Change’. As we share our management guidelines and core values with our stakeholders, we will grow as Korea’s representative sustainable resort complex that leads development of the abandoned mine areas and leisure culture. Core values 01. Passion 02. Trust 03. Change We do not give up even We treat each other and We actively participate in Vision 2025 when we face a failure but cooperate together based on the process of change for double our effort and achieve fairness. continuous innovation and excellence. dynamic growth. Establishment of the Right Leadership 08 + + Missions Development of Promotion of Tourism Industry Contribution to Social Needs Core Values and 09 Abandoned Mine Areas My Leadership Position Right Leadership KEYWORDS Passion Contribute to local economic development and improve community livelihood in the abandoned Customer/Community mine areas as well as enhance the public happiness through our social contribution Work Core values Listening Public Interest-oriented Management 나 KEYWORDS Initiative Humble and Management and Shared values Core values Passion / Trust / Change Creative Management Colleagues and Servant guidelines Supportive Happiness Management Responsible Supportive Change Trust Initiative and Responsible Leader Humble and Supportive Leader Listening and Servant Leader He/she is decisive and takes He/she raises the expectation of employees He/she listens to customers and Vision The Representative Eco-friendly Resort Complex Leading Happy Leisure and Culture in Korea responsibility for the results so as to inspire them to face challenges and serves them with care. eliminates obstacles Sustainability Index Visitors Anti-Corruption Initiative Business goals Revenue KRW 3.2 trillion (maintain listing in the DJSI 13.08 million Assessment (Level 1) World) Contributing to regional Renewing the business Strategic directions Advancing competitiveness of the existing businesses Fostering engines for the future growth development and enhancing fundamentals to achieve Future Vision Indicators social contribution public good Kangwon Land as the representative four season eco-friendly resort complex in Korea has continuously grown and has set a goal to attract 1. ‌Increase the 1. ‌Create unique contents 1. ‌Stimulate a cooperative 1. ‌Establish new corporate 10 million customers by 2025. All of our employees are striving to achieve this goal. competitiveness of for resort complex local economy culture existing businesses 2. ‌Expand to new markets 2. ‌Strengthen the social 2. ‌Establish strategic 2. ‌Establish an outstanding to overcome local contribution system management promotion Strategic tasks service system limitations 3. ‌Renew brand value with system (14 tasks) 3. ‌Develope a 3. ‌Establish new business regard to public interest 3. ‌Build performance-oriented comprehensive crosspromotion system 4. ‌Establish eco-friendly organization operation linked marketing management system system 4. ‌strengthen business infrastructure Action plans 9 tasks including attract new customers and upgrade 6 tasks including develop of new attractions for 9 tasks including create selfsustaining foundation for 13 tasks including deploy a future-oriented 4.5 million 9.25 million 13.08 million (37 tasks) customer management customers local economies organizational culture system 2010 2020 2025 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Stakeholder Engagement Overview Main channels Value creation and distribution · ‌Customer communication channel (Voice · ‌Set a budget of KRW 56.9 billion for of Customer, Customer Panel, and etc.) deployment of a healthy gaming culture · ‌Customer survey (customer satisfaction · ‌Received and managed 1,222 suggestions Main channels Value creation and distribution index, user behavior, and etc.) and complaints from customers ·P‌ ublic Institute Workshop hosted by the · ‌Abandoned Mine Areas Development · ‌Various public offering projects for the · ‌High1 Customer Panel 2nd batch (15 Ministry of Strategy and Finance Fund* KRW 166.5 billion general public members) conducted improvement ·M‌ eeting headed by Chief director of · ‌Tourism Promotion and Development activities in 2016 (368 cases) Planning Office for Public Institutions, the Fund** KRW 162.2 billion Major issues · ‌Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) from Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy · ‌Individual Consumption Tax*** KRW 80.7 Kangwon Land customers was 86.1 points · ‌Regular meeting by the National Gambling billion · ‌Pursuant of customer satisfaction based on summer and autumn customer Control Commission · ‌Gambling Prevention and Recovery management behavior surveys · ‌Korea Casino Association workshops Charges of the National Gambling Control · ‌Identify customer needs and reflect their Commission**** needs in the company policies Major issues KRW 4.6 billion · ‌Deploy a healthy gaming culture · ‌Exchange industrial trends Customers · ‌Minimize the governmental control Main channels Value creation and distribution * ‌In compliance with the Special Act on the Assistance to the Development of Abandoned Mineneighboring Areas, we have paid 25% of earnings before tax to the Development of Abandoned · ‌General Shareholders’ Meeting, IR road · ‌Dividend KRW 200.7 billion show, conference, frequent meeting, IR Governments Mines Areas Fund in order to revitalize the economy of the abandoned mine areas. ** ‌According to the rules of the ‘Tourism Promotion Act’, we have contributed to the national 10 representative phone, public disclosure, Kangwon Land’s website Shareholders finances by paying a certain amount of money, within the scope of 10% of our sales, to the Tourism Promotion and Development Fund. Major issues *** ‌Since 2012, we have paid 4% of casino sales as an individual consumption tax and 30% of the 11 individual consumption tax as educational expenses. · ‌Increase of shareholders’ values **** ‌Since 2012, we have paid Gambling Prevention and Recovery Charges within 0.5% of net sales in accordance with the National Gambling Control Commission Act. Main channels Value creation and distribution Main channels Value creation and distribution · ‌Board of directors of subsidiaries · ‌Invested in High1 Sangdong Theme Park ·R ‌ egular and temporary meetings of the · ‌Sharing culture KRW 700 million · ‌Council for operating subsidiaries KRW 42.4 billion Social Contribution Social Contribution Committee · ‌Local events KRW 1.9 billion · ‌Invested in High1 Entertainment KRW 64.7 Subsidiaries ·B ‌ riefing session for local communities about · ‌Local welfare program KRW 9.0 billion Major issues billion Beneficiary our social economy supporting projects · ‌Local revitalization KRW 4.5 billion · ‌Invested in High1 Choo Choo Park KRW 75 ·S ‌ atisfaction survey for beneficiary of social · ‌Scholarships KRW 4.2 billion · ‌Generate more profit in subsidiaries billion contribution programs · ‌Other supports KRW 2.5 billion Major issues · I‌ mprove the livelihood of marginalized community people ·C ‌ ontribute to revitalization of local economy Main channels Major issues · ‌Labor-management committee/ collective · ‌Improve management and organizational bargaining/ labor-management working cultures group Main channels Major issues · ‌Deploy corporate culture that employees · ‌In-company Employee Welfare Fund participate in ·E‌ xternal expert consultation for hospital · ‌Minimize social side-effects Counsel · ‌Build mutual respect culture between labor Employees NGO treatment business · ‌Build sound environment at the resort · ‌Labor-management co-workshop/ business and management ·S‌ upport partner NGOs’ activities information session · ‌Jointly solve current issues ·S‌ ocial rehabilitation support · ‌Operation of labor-management joint ·P‌ revention, healing and counseling committee office to improve working Value creation and distribution program conditions ·N‌ ature protection events in the resort · ‌Salary KRW 230.3 billion · ‌Retirement allowance KRW 22 billion · ‌Eco-tourism event · ‌Welfare and benefits KRW 17.3 billion · ‌Educational-industrial environment council · ‌Environmental information disclosure Suppliers Local Main channels Value creation and distribution Communities · ‌Mutual cooperation workshop for suppliers · ‌Hired 1,580 local residents from the Main channels Major issues · ‌Conference with middle managers and abandoned mine areas ·L ‌ ocal community Engagement Management · ‌Solve local issues reasonably working group and Execution Council · ‌Promote development together with local · ‌Meeting for quality improvement of ·P ‌ artner group (local social groups) meetings communities suppliers’ service ·W ‌ orkshops for coexisting with local communities Value creation and distribution Major issues · High1 ‌ point use KRW 27.2 billion in 2016 · ‌Promotion of on-site management · ‌The number of local High1 Point · ‌Profit sharing and mutual growth membership shops 1,363 shops 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Advisory Meeting with Stakeholder Overview “‌We are sharing Kangwon Land’s Summary of Stakeholders’ Meeting Participants of the Stakeholder Advisory Panel Meeting sustainability issues with our stakeholders” Category Contents No Name Position Organization School of Economics, 1 Lee Jeong-Hee Professor Topic Suggestions to Kangwon Land sustainability activities Chung-Ang University Kangwon Land is the only casino allowing access to domestic people in Korea. As it is a public institute established to revitalize UN Global Compact Network 2 Lee Eun-Gyeong Team Leader Korea the local economy of the abandoned mine areas, we carry out our roles not only by promoting balanced growth with the local Purpose 2015 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report reivew Seoul National University 3 Kim Soo-Wook Professor Listening to the stakeholders’ opinion on our Business School communities but also implementing the public institute’s social sustainable management system and activities, and The Institute for Industrial responsibilities. To enhance Kangwon Land’s sustainability development directions 4 Park Jeong-Eun Director Policy Studies activities, we held an advisory panel meeting with stakeholders from different expertise background. Korea Corporate Governance 5 Yoon Jin-Soo Team Leader Service Date April 07, 2017 Sungshin Women’s 6 Kim Gyeong-Shin Professor University 12 13 1 2 3 4 5 6 Q. “‌Kangwon Land’s own unique issues “‌Connect Kangwon Land businesses “‌Include long-term perspectives, plans “‌Report its efforts to demonstrate “‌Efforts providing fair opportunities to should be dealt deeply” to SDGs and report its performances and specific performance indicators in sustainable vision and responsible female employees and listening to its deeply” the sustainability report” business management” stakeholders are needed” To improve its sustainable Kangwon Land is required to constantly Kangwon Land operates a business that Kangwon Land has reported its activities Global leading companies have competitiveness, Kangwon Land reports improve its corporate image to the public offers an opportunity to enjoy relaxing for the development of abandoned mine increased female employees’ ratio at its efforts on economic, environmental and due to the nature of its casino business. In lives such as casino, resort, and leisure areas along with other business and the management and board level for fair Which parts do you think Kangwon social activities as well balanced. Also, the addition to expanding a corporate role to programs. On the flipside of the positive sustainability issues. In addition to it, it opportunity and diversity perspectives. As Land should focus on in order to core issues derived from the materiality solve social and environmental problems, aspect, this business has inherited risks. would be a great sustainability report when the female employees of Kangwon Land enhance sustainability reporting level assessment are reported intensively Kangwon Land needs to strive for creating This leisure industry may be affected Kangwon Land adds its communication consist of 38% of total employees, and and to develop overall sustainable well. However, I suggest Kangwon Land values even from the process of solving by population changes and eco-friendly efforts with its stakeholders regarding the hiring rate of female candidates for management? emphasize issues that are connected to problems. I suggest Kangwon Land to issues, therefore, it is important to respond the abandoned mine areas in its entry level is increasing, Kangwon Land its business industry, such as human disclose its business performances that to the new social and environmental report. Furthermore, as the demand for needs to listen to the opinions on fostering Lee Jeong-Hee, Professor rights, labor, environment, anti-corruption, contributed to resolving the global social trends. Also Kangwon Land needs to responsible investment is forecasted to and promoting women leaders. I suggest and local community development in its and environmental issues such as UN respond to sustainable management grow due to the recent introduction of Kangwon Land includes the stories in its report. And I also recommend Kangwon SDGs. For example, to achieve the 15th from mid-to-long term perspectives by the stewardship code in Korea, Kangwon report, on its performances on women Land to share and communicate its annual goal of SDGs, utilizing its location in the identifying industrial trends and reviewing Land needs to communicate with domestic rights’ improvement such as the promotion improvement on these issues with its mountainous area, Kangwon Land can opportunity and risk factors. When and foreign institutional investors. When of welfare programs for women, the stakeholders. Lastly, I suggest Kangwon report its various efforts to protect forest Kangwon Land continues to manage Kangwon Land includes its own unique operation of the Women’s Committee, and Land include its activities on Sustainable resources and contribute to ecosystem sustainability KPIs and issues raised by its sustainability vision and efforts to do realization of a great workplace culture. Development Goals (SDG), the latest recovery. stakeholders together, I think Kangwon responsible business management, its Lastly, I propose Kangwon Land listens sustainable management trend, together Land would promote even more trusted stakeholders would have more trust in to its stakeholders’ opinions actively and with its major sustainability issues. sustainable management. Kangwon Land’s sustainable management. manages the raised issues systematically with stakeholders’ feedback on progress. Lee Eun-Kyung, Team Leader Kim Soo-Wook, Professor Park Jeong-Eun, Head of Research Yoon Jin-Soo, Team Leader Kim Kyung-shin, Professor Business Competition Introduction of Kangwon Land Business Four Season Eco-friendly Healing Resort Development 16 18 Building Stayover Base forTourists 20 Strengthening MICE and Inbound Business 21 Competitiveness 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Introduction of Kangwon Land Business Business Competition Business of Kangwon Land 1. Revenue(Net sales) 2016 2017 Goals 2025 Strategic Goals Kangwon Land, based on casino gaming, owns three hotels and three condominiums in the Kangwon Land resort complex and operates golf courses and a ski resort. Our sales in 2016 reached KRW 1.6965 trillion. Casino Casino business, hotel business, and leisure business recorded KRW 1.619 trillion, KRW 25.1 billion, and KRW 52.4 billion, business KRW 1.619 trillion 1.6002 trillion KRW respectively. In particular, we are trying to increase non-casino sales through the introduction of leisure activities. The total number of visitors to Kangwon Land in 2016 was 5.12 million, which consists of 4.97 million domestic people and 150,000 foreigners. As we implement a focused marketing campaign on major customers while the Hotel CEO gathers interest in sales road show, the number of foreign visitors increased 18% compared to the previous year. business KRW 25.1 billion 25.1 billion KRW KRW 3.2 trillion Kangwon Land is engaged in a variety of social contribution activities for the local community in order to achieve our goal of the economic revitalization in the abandoned mine area. We are making efforts to solve problems Leisure in the local community and to build a virtuous cycle structure by doing practical contributions to beneficiaries through fostering future talents, creating jobs, and eliminating welfare grey areas. In addition, we are pursuing business KRW 52.4 billion KRW 53 billion mutual growth activities that reflect the needs of our suppliers by promoting communication processes and winwin cooperation programs for the suppliers. Furthermore, as a public corporation that operates a casino, we are promoting various policies with the Kangwon Land Addiction Care Center to minimize social side effects and establish a healthy game culture. 16 2. Visitors 2016 2017 Goals 2025 Strategic Goals 17 Domestic visitors 4.97 million persons 5.21 million persons 13.08 million persons Foreign visitors 150,000 persons 170,000 persons 3. Revitalization of local economy 2016 2017 Goals 2025 Strategic Goals Contribution rate to mutual growth of abandoned 26.19 % 27.2 % 37 % mine areas 4. Social contribution 2016 2017 Goals 2025 Strategic Goals Investment in social contribution KRW 22.8 billion KRW 27 billion KRW 41.6 billion 5. Prevention of gaming addiction 2016 2017 Goals 2025 Strategic Goals Number of customers in gambling 2,157 persons 1,760 persons 1,000 persons immersion 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Four Season Eco-friendly Healing Resort Development Business Competition Four Season Always Pleasant Resort Kangwon Land explores to make differentiation at the ‘Four Season Always Pleasant Resort’ eco-friendly healing resort through seasonal themed contents that combine healing, cultural and entertainment resources with highland tourism resources. The Four Seasons Theme Festivals include <Spring, Flower Festival> under the theme of wild spring flowers, <Summer, Music Festival> under the theme of music, <Autumn, Mountain Sports Festival>, the time various highland leisure sports are available alongside Haneul Forest Path, and <Winter, Magic Festival> under the theme of magic. During the Four Seasons Festival, various multi-products with contents such as performances, exhibitions, experiences, food, and trekking are provided. Flower Festival Music Festival In spring, High1 is covered with white High1 is filled with a variety of music wildflowers called Shasta Daisy. The concerts and events in every summer Flower Festival is held under the theme holiday season. In the open air, Creating Haneul Forest Path of Shasta Daisy that blooms around where cool breeze blows during the skiing slopes and resorts, and various midsummer night, large concerts such Flower Festival The Haneul Forest Path means a events such as <Shasta Daisy Flower as K-pop, classical, rock, and hip-hop are 春 trekking route in the plateau forest Event>, <Wildflower Cart Tour>, and held several times, and big and small extending 264km that connects high <Walk in the Haneul Forest Path> are events and fringe performances are held Walk in the Haneul Forest Path mountains in Southern Gangwon held. across the resort. In particular, the ‘Top Shasta Daisy Flower Event Province. Kangwon Land has signed a of the Mountain Concert’, held on the work agreement on development and Local Restaurants Contest first Saturday of August every year, has creation of Haneul Forest Path with the established itself as the High1’s original Acoustic Performance Korea Forest Service, four cities and 18 counties, and Mt. Taebaek National cultural brand with the participation of thousands of customers. Park Office. After the creation, we plan 19 to introduce healing courses amidst the beautiful nature in the southern part of Gangwon Province through joint promotion and marketing. Music Festival 夏 Cool Summer Concert Top of the Mountain Concert DJ Festival Fringe performance 春·夏 秋·冬 Mountain 秋 Sports Festival Trekking Nordic Walking Light Trekking Event Trail Running Kangwon Land Local Restaurant Mountain Sports Festival Contest Located in beautiful natural Kangwon Land strives to revitalize surroundings, High1 Resort created the local economy and enhance Magic Festival 冬 Haneul-gil, a beautiful and pristine effects by finding local representative Magic Festival forest path, around the resort. restaurants in four cities and counties Magic performance This Haneul-gil has been loved by For family members visiting Kangwon in response to the latest trend. We customers who are tired of city lives. In Land during the holiday season, held a local restaurant competition Food Festival particular, Untangodo, which used to a magical performance is held at over the year by visiting Jeongseon, be a ‘high way to transport coal” in the Casa Cinema on the third floor of the Taebaek, Yeongwol, and Samcheok, past, is a flat road located on a plateau Kangwon Land Hotel. In particular, and in December, each local winner that is hard to find in other parts of in 2016, the ‘Asian Magic Association gathered to decide the final winner. Korea. It is used for trekking as well Championship’ was held so worldCustomers, food experts, and as mountain sports such as MTB and class magic performances may be broadcasting companies attended mountain marathon. In the autumn enjoyed in one place. The trick art this event and expressed their strong season, we will hold a mountain exhibition, which combines magic interests. We will hold more upgraded sports festival to enjoy these various and exhibition was held to provide a local restaurant competitions with mountain and leisure activities. myriad of spectacular displays. various themes in 2017. 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Building Stayover Base for Tourists Strengthening MICE and Inbound Business Competitiveness Business Competition One-Stop Tourism Platform Strategic Selection and Focus for the Future A new tourism platform would be established when the marketing resources of Kangwon Land and external marketing resources meet. Kangwon Land aims to lower the proportion of casino in our business portfolio for the future. We have continuously expanded MICE First of all, Kangwon Land has been developing multiple products by enhancing our own resort contents and local tourism spot linked business as hosting large events strengthens our MICE competitiveness. We are also trying to improve the perception that this is the resort products. In this way, Kangwon Land will be utilized as a hub for local tourism. We have also established a long-term plan to develop tour for Koreans only, by attracting more foreigners through overseas networks. In particular, we plan to expand marketing activities related to products that are created through cooperation with famous brands, public institutions, and overseas corporations. Through this plan, the PyeongChang Winter Olympic Games held in 2018, thereby attracting international events and expanding MICE business and attracting Kangwon Land will establish a tourism platform where our customers can enjoy a brand-new experience. foreigners based on Olympic sales. Development of New MICE Markets Expanding Programs to Attract Foreigners The resort complex surrounded by nature is the point that Kangwon Land differentiates our MICE venue (from the others located in a city), where it has a convenient infrastructure In order to break the public prejudice that for transportation and shopping. Our resort complex is surrounded by magnificent natural Kangwon Land is the resort for Korean surrounding which is how Kangwon Land differentiates our MICE venue from our urban people, we have utilized our surrounding competitors who have convenient transportation infrastructure and access to shopping. We tourism resources to attract foreigners. strive to develop our own advantages for MICE venue and attract various MICE projects by First of all, we have attracted foreign utilization of marketing networks. In particular, we emphasize our strength by focusing on customers stably by focusing on the environmental sectors, such as the Korean Society of Climate Change Research, the Korea foreign countries with higher records of 20 Society for Energy Engineering, and the World Forestry Congress. visitors. In addition to Hong Kong, we have been targeting Southeast Asian Development of Major Achievements countries such as Singapore, Malaysia, 21 Development of local tourism spot Strengthening brand •February 2016: Held the World Meditation Congress (WMC) 2016 (4,000 participants) Indonesia, and Thailand as our key multi-product with linked products alliance •‌A  ugust 2016: Held the East Asian Chess Championship and the World Youth Mind Sports customers. And then we have linked resort contents Fair (1,800 participants) Korean (Hallyu) drama contents to our JTYS (Jeongseon·Taebaek·Y Alliance of operating brands •October 2016: Held the World-OKTA Convention (2,500 participants) resorts. As individual Chinese tourists Expansion Multi-product with culture contents eongwol·Samcheok Cluster) Networking with public •February 2017: Held the Korea International MICE Congress 2017 (1,500 participants) are increasing, we strive to meet these Branding •February 2017: Held HCI Korea 2016 (2,000 participants) customers’ needs by introducing new of marketing Multi-product with healing contents institutions Linked product with specialized Local tour products Alliance with overseas contents such as music and medical platform services. During the winter season, we contents Local festival linked products corporations design various programs and promotion activities and advertise Kangwon Land to foreigners who have a preference for High1 Ski Resort. Major Achievements •February 2017: China Activation •February to March 2017: Indonesia Indosat Internal resources Local resources External resources •March 2017: Indonesia Philips Top of the Mountain Concert JTYS Branding Brand Alliance Kangwon Land has held Top of the Mountain JTYS is a tourism brand that we created We have explored various branding activities Concert under the theme of the harmony to revitalize the local tourism industry by for the win-win strategy by cooperation with between nature and music. In August 2016, commercializing the organically connected brand alliance to enhance our brand value. the concert offered classical music, musicals, tourism resources across four cities and The branding activities include a wellness and film music. counties in the abandoned mine areas with program operating under the alliance with Strengthening Marketing for PyeongChang 2018 Kangwon Land as a hub. <Healience Seonmaeul>, a premium MICE Book Café service program promoted with <Jaguar Local tour in four cities and counties Landrover>, and Kids Floor and Kids Library Targeting various global companies that will sponsor the Olympic Winter Games Kangwon Land opened a Book Café under running with the alliance with <WoongJin the theme of relaxation and healing. This Kangwon Land has been actively utilizing Pyeongchang 2018, Kangwon Land is promoting proactive marketing. In addition, we try ThinkBig>. Book Café, opened in January 2017, has five local tour products of four cities and counties. to build an image as the Olympic Winter Games Pyeongchang 2018 representative resort libraries, a theater room and an outdoor Examples are Samtan Art Mine in Jeongseon, Events with public institutions through image marketing based on the national sports team. Furthermore, we will grow as the patio, so in addition to reading books, drama ‘Descendants of the Sun’ filming site most beloved resort among foreigners by attracting a variety of international events during listening to music and watching movies are in Taebaek, Yeongwol Gossi Cave, Gohan Kangwon Land has promoted new tour events through strategic cooperation with the Olympic period. available options. Detective Theater, and Samcheok Choo Choo Park. other public institutions. Together with the Korea Tourism Organization, we promoted Snowmobile tour ‘Spring Travel Week in May’ and we held TV Major Achievements Kangwon Land operates a snowmobile tour Link with local festivals drama partnership events together with the Korea Railroad Corporation. •September 2016 ~ January 2017: Publicity campaign for where visitors can enjoy the snow-covered Kangwon Land is striving to revitalize the landscape. The tour programs are offered local economy through product development PyeongChang 2018 (sculpture installation and events) twice a day at sunrise and at sunset to linked to existing local festivals. We utilize Japan APPI Resort Affiliate Program •December 2016: Invited designated schools of provide beautiful resort scenery. local cultural and natural characteristics, PyeongChang 2018 publicity Since 2007, Kangwon Land has partnered including Mt. Taebaek Snow Festival, with APPI Kogen Resort in Iwate, Japan. We Jeongseon Arirang Festival, Samcheok are receiving a favorable response from our Jeongwol Daeboreum Festival, and skiing customers through the free ski resort Yeongwol Donggang Festival. program for ski pass holders. Materiality Assessment 24 Core Values &  Creative Management for the Future 01. Fostering Engines for the Future Growth 26 02. Realization of Safe and Eco-friendly Workplaces 30 Issues Happy Management that Satisfies Everyone 03. Realization of Customer Values 04. Realization of values for employees 36 42 Fair andTransparent Public Management 05. Realization of Win-Win Value with Local Community 46 06. ‌Establishing Win-Win Partnership with Suppliers 50 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Materiality Assessment Core Values & Issues Kangwon Land complied with the four principles offered in GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) that are ‘sustainability context, materiality, Results and Reporting of Materiality Assessment stakeholder inclusiveness, and completeness’ and sufficiently reflected them in this report. In order to continue identifying issues that may arise in the course of business, we are listening to various stakeholders and selected 26 core issues through global standards analysis, As a result of materiality assessment, we selected 11 material issues of the economic, environmental and social aspects to be reflected in media research, benchmarking of advanced corporates, and survey while drafting this report. Among these core issues, we derived 11 this report. material issues upon the assessment on the extent of stakeholder interests and business impacts. Enhancement of communication Enhancement of Impact on businesses with stakeholders ethical management Systemization of social contribution activities Fostering talent and fair compensation for achievements Materiality Assessment Process Advanced Labor-Management Employees’ safety/health activities Respect of diversity and relationship prohibition on discrimination Guarantee customer safety and health ‌ Reinforcement of customer satisfaction Revitalization of local activities economy ‌Reinforcement of mutual growth activities Transparent procurement practices Worklife balance Step1 Step2 Step3 Reinforcement of water management Improvement of suppliers’ sustainability Enhancement of responsibility as casino business owner ‌Establishment of ‌Creation of direct economic Response to climate change eco-friendly resort achievements Composition of Conducting materiality Selecting material Enhancing waste Strengthening Reinforcement of human rights management compliance Improvement of labor conditions issue pool assessment issues management 24 ‌Ecosystem Securing new growth drivers preservation 25 activities Enhancement of environmental management system Social impact Core Issues Reporting Boundary Internal and external Core issue assessment Internal review and reflection No GRI Aspects Core issues Shareholders Local Reflecting reporting contents environment analysis of in the report Employees Customers Suppliers & Investors Communities Kangwon Land Core issues derived from internal and external enviornments analysis are Final 11 material issues among the Enhancement of ethical Establish responsible management via 1 Anti-Corruption ● ● ● management ethical management In order to understand sustainabilityconducted materiality assessment in core issues were selected through related issues of Kangwon Land consideration with social concern and final internal review process and Systemization of social Realization of win-win value with local 2 Local Communities ● contribution activities community throughout a whole year, we business impact. reported in a balanced way within this reviewed management strategy, report. Enhancement of Stakeholders’ participation and business plan, company newsletter 3 Added Aspect communication with ● ● ● ● ● Business Impact stakeholders advisory meetings and so forth. In addition, we selected a Indentifed impacts to the sustainable total of 26 core issues after conducting management during the operation of Reinforcement of 4 Added Aspect customer satisfaction ● ● Realization of customer values global initiatives analysis, media corporate businesses activities analysis, benchmarking of advanced •Internal stakeholder survey Occupational Health Employee Safety/health Realization of safe and eco-friendly companies, a survey of internaland ‌Sustainable management related • 5 ● ● ● and Safety activities workplace external stakeholders, assessment of issues in the past interviews, and so forth. Indirect Economic Revitalization of local Realization of win-win value with local •‌Intenal management assessment 6 ● Impacts economy community results 7 Employment Work-life balance ● Realization of values for employees Identification of sustainable management issues Social Concern Enhancement of Deployment of a healthy gaming 8 Added Aspect responsibility as casino ● ● ● Identified impacts to the sustainable culture •‌Analysis of international standard business owner management by reflecting indicators : GRI G4, DJSI, ISO 26000 stakeholders’ social concerns Introduction of Kangwon Land •Advanced company benchmarking business (sales) and financial •External stakeholder survey Economic Creation of direct 9 ● statements (consolidated balance •Media research ‌External stakeholders’ social • Performance economic achievements sheet, consolidated statements of •‌Review of internal sustainable concern assessment: comprehensive income and etc.) management related issues Advanced ‌ company benchmarking, Establishment of eco10 Energy ● ● Establishing eco-friendly infrastructure media research friendly resort Economic Securing new growth 11 ● Fostering engines for the future growth Performance drivers 01 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Our Strategy Why is it important? Core Values & Issues • Establishment of Mid-to-long Term Resort Master Plan Sustainable growth can be achieved when we respond to rapid changes in external • Contents Development and Enhancement environments and adopt new businesses to such changes. Kangwon Land recognizes the • Development of Business Model for Regional Development expiration of the Special Act in 2025 as a crisis as well as a new opportunity. We will strive to secure new growth drivers for the future and enhance the value of Kangwon Land. 2016 Highlight • Launching of High1 888 Brand Our Approach • Opening of Book Café and High1 Science Museum • ‌Maturity of JTYS (Jeongseon·Taebaek·Yeongwol·Samcheok Kangwon Land aims to be a Eco-friendly Resort Complex and seeks to realize the midCluster) Branding to-long term resort master plan. Moreover, we have established a basis for sustainable Creative Management for the Future growth based on the non-casino businesses, while enhancing our resort operational 2017 Focus competitiveness that we have built already. Fostering Engines for the • ‌Implementing Short-term Projects of the Resort Master Plan • ‌Specification of Creative Agri-Science Project and City Future Growth Restoration Project • Promotion of Yeongwol’s New Regional Projects Performance (unit: KRW million) ‌ •Sales of Casino Business 1,619,016 26 ‌•Sales of Hotel Business 25,125 27 •Sales of Leisure Business 52,391 Fostering Engines for the Future Growth Designing Concept of Central Garden As the customers’ interests in flora increase, we are planning to Establishing a Solid Business Foundation transform the existing Lake Park into a Central Garden interwoven While it is important to develop new businesses, making with flowers and trees. In 2017, we will also review the construction Establishment of Resort Master Plan of underground parking lots as a way to connect the existing existing businesses more robust is also very important in terms of business continuity. Therefore, Kangwon Land is striving to Theme Park to the Water World. Kangwon Land established a new master plan for the resort in Designing Resort Master Plan reinforce new contents to provide richer attractions to see and 2016. We carried out a comprehensive examination from the enjoy. Aerial View of Central Garden perspective of space, time, and contents, in order to seek ways to secure our self-sustainability after the expiration of the 『Special Act on the Assistance to the Development of Abandoned Mines Areas』 (“Special Act”) in 2025., the scope of space we set includes New Contents the resort of 3.44 million pyeong and areas in Gohan and Sabuk. The plan time period starts from 2017 and ends in 2025 when the Preparing for the Successful Opening of the Water Park Special Act expires. And we divided the period into short-, midKangwon Land has reflected expected requirements that would and long-term in three year segments. At last, for the purpose incur during the operation of the Water Park in the design of the of “re-arrangement of resort facilities,” “development of main Water Park Project to prevent problems such as waste of budget Review of Introduction of New Transportation contents” and “zoning the resort and local community areas,” we and delays. In addition, we have established a basic operation plan One of the main complaints of our customers has been the are planning to make detailed project plans and complete them. for computerized systems and business parts. In these ways, we inconvenient transportation. Thus, we examined various are preparing for the opening of Season Water Park in 2018. means of transportation for the roads connecting to the hotels, Creating Guidelines for the Master Plan Reviewing Short-term Business Projects condominiums, and attractions, and sought to increase the convenience and accessibility to visitors. Moreover, we will Aerial view of Water Park Kangwon Land seeks to improve the functionality and We identified the projects that should be urgently reviewed in make everyone move freely and easily inside Kangwon Land by convenience of the resort through the master plan and to respond terms of customer convenience and set short-term tasks that aim removing any physical obstruction. to the future business environments and changes of customer to be completed by 2019 in the master plan. needs by developing new and creative attractions. For these, we Obstruction Removed Road have analyzed internal and external conditions and established (illustration) Monorail (illustration) Review of Previous Theme Park Remodeling Plan goals of the master plan guidelines from a long-term perspective. The reopening of the existing Theme Park after remodeling it in We set the guidelines by a longitudinal axis that connects areas order to increase external brand awareness on Kangwon Land of the summit of Mt. Baekun and Coal Mine Culture Village has been planned. However, we decided to postpone the review and latitudinal axis that connects areas of High 1 Hotel and of remodeling until after examining customer needs after the Kangwon Land Hotel. These areas will be divided into five opening of the Water Park in 2018. regions and developed as two leisure-sports zones, healing zone, entertainment zone and culture zone. 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Fostering Engines for the Future Growth Core Values & Issues Coal Mine Culture and Tourism Village Project Diverse Contents for Exhibition and Performances Business for Regional Development Revitalization Project of the Tourism Cluster in Kangwon Land plans to create a ‘Coal Mine Culture and Tourism Abandoned Mine Areas Village’ utilizing the local heritages in Sabuk region. Actual coal Kangwon Land provides various performances, including magic We believe that we have reached the limits of supporting mine facilities will be restored, coal mine exhibition halls, mine shows, musicals, and puppet shows at our auditorium called Casa local communities through independent tourism business in We are marketing the brand of ‘JTYS’ to attract customers to tunnels, and mine tubs will be prepared, and the values of the coal Cinema throughout the year. We hold the arts and photographic tandem with resort development. Thus, we will identify suitable four cities and counties (Jeongseon, Taebaek, Yeongwol, and industry heritage will be preserved. exhibitions at our lobby (5F of Convention Hotel) on a regular business models with consideration for local characteristics that Samcheok) in southern Gangwon province. JTYS is one of our In 2016, the 550-meter-long of the 650 Tunnel was completed its basis in order to offer things to see to our customers. In 2016, we can substantially improve the quality of life of the community major tourism projects that builds a basis for ‘Stayover Base for repair and rehabilitation construction and is ready to allow tourists displayed colorful cultural contents by holding seven exhibitions, residents. Tourists centering’ around High1 Resort. This is the business to experience the tunnel used for the past coal production. In five regular performances, and 14 cultural performances. model that clustering stagnant abandoned mine areas into one addition, we are promoting reinforcement work of underground tourism group and Kangwon Land supports this business model to Creating Foothold of ‘Creative Agri-science’ waterway culverts near the Coal Mine Culture and Tourism Village Music Festival Exhibition of Korean Film 100Year Posters be commercialized. We have raised the brand awareness of JTYS for a safer development of the Village. We have been promoting ‘Creative Agri-science’ business to by opening permanent promotion booths, as well as advertising In the future, once the reinforcement work of the waterway culvert produce native plants suitable for abandoned mine regions in by connecting various local festivals, events and fairs. Moreover, and the repair work of the main facilities such as the main building southern Kangwon province, to extract and process high-valuewe formed a regular council with tourism board representatives and the winding room are completed, this place will be created added natural anti-aging substances from the plants and to build from those four cities and counties and representatives of the as a facility for experiencing modern history and introducing the a platform to commercialize these substances. The interest in antirespective local attraction sites, in an effort to discuss and improve local coal mining culture through the exhibition coal artifacts and aging substances has greatly increased as Korea’s population diverse matters, including product development and concerns. various experience facilities. shifts to an aging society. Moreover, Kangwon province has In 2017, we ventured into more aggressive JTYS business by been evaluated as the most appropriate place for the production creating an online platform for product development and sales Operation of High1 Science Museum and appointing a professional operating agency. 28 of natural anti-aging substances due to its high elevation. In order to offer an attraction at nighttime within the resort, we Thus, Kangwon Land reviewed the feasibility of Creative AgriJTYS Promotional Booths Promotion at Major Local Festivals created High1 Science Museum on the rooftop of Mountain Plaza. Healing Contents 29 science business, made efforts to discover botanical species and High1 Science Museum, as the first scientific facility in the resort, invited other companies to participate in the business in 2016. will operate experiential-based learning programs. Opening Book Café As a result, we have developed a business model for natural We opened a Book Café in response to the needs of customers anti-aging substances and secured six botanical species for High1 Science Museum who want to relax with their family and use it as a form of healing. commercialization and three participating companies. Customers can choose to read or watch from among 2,000 books and 100 videos. We are planning to host various events, including Business Model for Natural Anti-aging Substances a conversation with authors, mini-concerts, commemorative publication gatherings held at the library, theater, and outside Business for Economic Revitalization Projects in Abandoned Mine Natural Anti-aging Areas patio, so that customers can enjoy a wide variety of content. Substances Donghae ➌Research, Management Book Café ➊Production, Cultivation Kangwon Land has been running the local community projects Jeongseon Samcheok ㆍ‌D  evelop anti-aging materials for the revival of the abandoned mine areas in southern Gangwon ㆍSupply crop cultivation ㆍ‌S  upport cultivation ㆍGAP certification ➋Distribution, Processing technics province. Though we explored various projects since 2009, we have ㆍFarmers’ organization ㆍ‌M  anage genetic resources (agricultural ‌ Yongwol ㆍ‌1 st and 2nd processing ㆍ‌S  upport for certification to admit that the effect of the projects on local economic revitalization (extraction of natural cooperation, etc.) ㆍTourism resources substances) acquisition was weak, and the failure was repeated due to deteriorated ㆍ‌G  MP facility profitability. To avoid any similar mistakes we made earlier, we are certification ㆍSupply to companies planning to promote local community projects. But this time we will High1 888 prioritize sustainability and profitability and clearly separate projects We selected eight instances each of attractions to see, eat and for public interests and for profits. For the successful promotion of enjoy in Kangwon Land Resort. And then branded them as “High1 Laying the Foundation for City Restoration Project new business in Sangdong region of Yeongwol, we have reviewed 888”. High1 888 consists of 8 kyeong, which means eight sites, the business feasibility and received internal and external opinions We have started planning ahead for the City Restoration Project in 2016. Based on the feasibility review and opinions, our board of 8 mi for eight dishes and 8 lak for eight activities. The brand of Creation of Meditation Resting Place and Meditation in order to create mid-to-long term development plans for the directors will make a final decision. High1 888 assists the resort customers to find relevant information Walkway Kangwon Land has developed unique and serene highland healing abandoned mine regions and to improve the life quality in these easily. communities after the expiration of the Special Act. The City Stakeholder’s Interview elements that offer peace and tranquility to busy urbanites. In particular, the Meditation Forest Path and the Meditation Shelter in Restoration Project is aimed at upgrading and revitalizing the overall “‌Realization of sustainable management through continuous Fireworks, Unamjeong, Mountain Top, Haneul-gil, where hand printings from famous meditation gurus functions of the communities, including economy, society, and generation of growth engines for the future” 8 Sites Meditation Shelter, Do-rong-yi pond, culture in addition to physical environment, ledby the local residents. Kangwon Land is a company striving continuously for the sustainable around the world are displayed, are loved by customers for their Untangodo, Wild flowers, High1 Hotel Trail To this end, Kangwon Land composed an external advisory panel growth so it is the company expected with a bright future. Particularly, unique healing spots. and hosted a forum ‘Creating Good Villages’. Approximately 600 with the opening of the Water Park in 2018, Kangwon Land will be able [Unamjeong] Gomchwi (ragwort) cold noodle to further advance to become one of the best resorts in Korea with the [World Fusion] Buffet, [OV] Gomchwi walnut The World Meditation Congress people from local governments and local residents attended this growth engine of the four-season resort complex. High1 Choo Choo Park bread, [The Grill] Roasted octopus pasta, [Pansy] forum and were encouraged is also striving to grow with the Kangwon Land. After the inauguration 8 Dishes Creating Good Villages Forum Wild vegetable and mushroom bulgogi, [Orien] to share empathy, support, of the new CEO in 2016, the management and sales structure has been Omakase course menu, [La Vista] Tomahawk steak stabilized by improving profit structure and strengthening of marketing and cooperation for the City and 1340 wine through improvement of management structure. Restoration Project. To operate I hope that both companies will continue to be growth-oriented Ski, Golf, Music Festival, Haneul-gil Trekking, the city restoration project further companies that are not satisfied with present accomplishment, and hope Casa Cinema, Book Café, gondolas, Alpine and promote detailed projects, to be the best resort in the country that contribute to the mutual growth 8 Activities Coaster (summer season) and snow activities City Restoration Supporting Center and community development through continuous cooperation. (winter season) Jeong Han-Il, Corporate PlanningTeam Lead, High1 Choo Choo Park was established in April 2017. 02 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Our Strategy Why is it important? Core Values & Issues • Establishment of Disaster Response System Kangwon Land, a proprietor of multi-use facilities, has to conduct systematic disaster • Enforce Health and Safety Preventative Measures/Practices management for the safety of customers and employees. We are also keen on local • Acceleration of Green Management environmental issues and respond to priorities such as biodiversity and climate change. 2016 Highlight • ‌Zero Occurrence of Serious Disaster in the past Three Our Approach Consecutive Years Our CEO expresses his strong commitment for a safe and pleasant workplace and tries to • Received Level A for Health & Safety Symbiotic Program create an enterprise-wide safety awareness and an advanced safety culture. Moreover, we •‌Selected as Excellent Corporate in Emotional Labor Project aim to be an eco-friendly resort complex and consistently advance green management • Expanded Activities for Ecological Environment Preservation Creative Management for the Future • ‌Variety of Energy Saving Measures activities in accordance with our environment management strategy. (including Installation of LED Lights) Realization of a Safe and 2017 Focus Eco-friendly Workplaces • ‌Reduction of Occupational Accident Rate and Zero Occurrence of Serious Disaster • ‌Implementation of Corrective Actions to Enhance the Results of Industrial Safety Risk Assessment • Reinforcement of Basis for Eco-friendly MICE Infrastructure • Enhancement of Eco-friendly Energy Management Performance •Number of Improvement 30 Cases from Disaster Prevention Inspection (unit: case) 55 31 •Occupational Accident Rate (unit: %) 0.37 •Greenhouse Gas Emissions (unit: tCO2-eq) 71,449 Establishing an Advanced We can quickly monitor any disastrous event at our Emergency Operation Center by monitoring all data taken from various mediums We developed disaster safety regulations as a foundation and created disaster prevention guidelines, disaster review, and Safety and Health System including 2,000 CCTVs installed all over the resort, mobile phones and drones. Moreover, we are equipped to minimize damages for any monitoring system. We have published and distributed disaster and safety incident response manual which is classified into nine Emergency Operation disaster by real-time fire detection system that is connected to fire Center types such as fire, gas poisoning, epidemic, terrorist attack, storm, detectors and early weather warning system connected to weather and flood. In addition, we have prepared relative equipment Monitoring disaster sensors that monitor temperature, humidity and wind speed. signs and supplies in a proactive way by procuring thirty-one kinds of medicines, obtaining additional automated external defibrillators Affiliated Communication and Endeavor in Establishment of Disaster organizations report of disaster signs (AEDs) and acquiring forest fire extinguishing equipment. Response System Enhancing Inspection for Disaster Prevention Emergency assembly As the largest multi-purpose property in Kangwon province Disaster Prevention and with five million annual visitors and five thousand employees, it Head of Safety In order to prepare for natural disasters such as typhoon and Response Headquarters is crucial for Kangwon Land to operate the business safely in its landslide and man-made disasters including fire, we enhanced business operation since it is likely there may be huge loss of life in safety inspection measures especially for the regions vulnerable to Situation case of occurrence of a disaster. Cooperation awareness natural disasters. During summer time, we checked the predicted Therefore, we are equipped with state-of-the-art instruments and and risk regions in preparation for typhoon, flood, and landslide and supporting facilities and we have enhanced safety competencies through in the winter, we intensely inspected snow removal equipment, training and education of employees and by building crossIssuance of warning icy roads, and emergency evacuation lights. Especially, in the functional cooperation system with relevant organizations. thawing season, we are proactively responding to the occurrence of Level 2: Level 3: negligent accidents by examining any hazard regions vulnerable to dangerous serious Establishment of Disaster Safety System cracks and collapse and frequent accident areas of street furniture, Establishing Enterprise-wide Emergency Operation Kangwon Land created the Occupational Safety Team, which tunnels, condominium and hotels within the resort. We established Taking countermeasures Taking countermeasures Center incorporates and controls enterprise-wide occupational safety an alarm system for critical situations in case of occurrence of natural management, and at the same time, we appointed each disasters and tightened up the disaster response procedures by the introduction of the state-of-the-art disaster management system, Security Service Office Security Service Office In order to effectively manage disasters at the enterprise level, department head as a management supervisor who is responsible we established an Emergency Operation Center. In this Center, for taking safety measures to prevent any occupational accident. solidification of the emergency contacts, reviews and expansion of Wartime Crisis Action Crisis ActionTeam on-site connected disaster training. Team we operate a real-time monitoring system to assess vulnerable The management supervisors can determine the best approach elements within the resort complex and support the initial on-site to complete the work based on their experience, knowledge Security Guards All Suppliers responses to any incidents. and risk factors. They also manage and advise safety and health This Center also plays a role as a control tower which can proactively related matters including safety inspection on all sorts of facilities, react to disasters such as typhoon, flood, and heavy snowfall. reporting occupational accidents, and safety and health training. 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Establishment of an Advanced Safety and Health System Core Values & Issues Enhancement of Safety and Health “Zero” Occurrence of Resort Accident Operation of Healthy Workplaces Operation of Health Improvement Project Related Risks Prevention Activities We reinforced incident prevention activities in order to secure safety and prevent harm to customers such as threats by unruly About 70% of employees of Kangwon Land work in shifts and at We solely invited ‘Health Improvement Project’ in use of ICT customers and illegal soliciting. First of all, we improved standard technology among public institutions so that we could support Acquired the First Safety Health Management nighttime. These work patterns may expose the workers to loss of patrol courses and enlarged intensive or occasional patrols in employees to improve their life style and dietary formula and System Certificate in the Resort Industry appetite and exhaustion due to their irregular lifestyles. We created order to have effective preventive patrols. In 2016, we had 366 an organization dedicated to promoting health and safety in March encourage them in health improvement. We secured a foothold Kangwon Land acquired the first Safety Health Management cases of joint investigation of illegal activities and 1,028 cases of 2016. We have been performing an enterprise-level health promotion for voluntary health management of our employees, with the System (KOSHA 18001) certificate from the Korea Occupational plain clothes stint and surprise investigation on employees, which program as part of our ‘Happy Management that Satisfies Everyone’. provision of wearable devices, as we measured the body vitality Safety and Health Agency (KOSHA) in the resort industry. We believe led to the discovery of 18 cases of illegalities and appropriate legal index such as body fat and sleep pattern and enabled personal this confirms our effort towards safety assurance. We, together with actions were taken. In addition, we secured capability for customer history management by installation of stress kiosks. Implementation of Outreach Health Service 29 subcontractors, participated in the Health and Safety Symbiotic safety services by setting up the corresponding process for Program operated by KOSHA and performed activities to improve each critical situation, performing emergency response training Moreover, for the cultivation of mental consultation ability of For the physical and psychological health of our employees, subcontractors’ safety and health and occupational accident and acquiring new equipment. We try to ensure a safe resort middle managers at the workplace, we offered the curriculum we have been exerting our efforts in the creation of a healthy prevention measures. In 2016, we were evaluated as a level A environment by conducting regular inspection of facilities and of qualification for the post of industrial psychological counselor working environment by running a psychic counseling room and performer which is only given to the top 10% of all companies. deter the occurrence due to criminal elements. and 18 people obtained the certificates. We conducted online providing physical therapy services. The psychological counseling stress evaluation tests targeting all employees and estimated clinic (called Employee Happiness Healing Center) was opened the extent of their work stress and emotional labor. Based on the in November 2016 and operates the same hours as the Health test results, we supported various mental treatments for stress Inspection on Safety Facilities in the Resort Promotion Center. In addition, we are operating an outreach health management such as mind coaching, art therapy, and meditation program in parallel for those employees who have difficulties to 32 Safety and Health techniques. We will continue to support our employees to relieve access our counseling room or Health Promotion Center. Policies their psychological disorders generated from emotional labor and make efforts to improve. 33 Operation of Outreach Health Service Work Stress and Emotional Labor Level Test Management Planning Review In February 2017, we started performing ‘Outreaching Mental •Period: November 29 to December 10, 2016 Counseling Service’ for the employees of headquarters for the •Test content: Level of Emotional Labor and Extent of the Anger Index, purpose of managing work stress. We are planning to provide and the Depression Inventory. Continuous this service on a monthly basis. Especially, Taebaek Welfare •Result: Estimated 43.5 points in average which is higher than those of Improvement Center offers the mental counseling services to the families other ordinary workers. of the employees including a children aptitude test, juvenile consultation, and family conversation program. We, In addition, we have been visiting each workplace and office and opening Stakeholder’s Interview Inspection and Execution and ‘Musculoskeletal Disorder Prevention School’ for relieving Corrective Action Operation “‌Securing workforce competitiveness by strengthening musculoskeletal disorder symptoms. employee health activities” Enhanced Preemptive Safety Management of Casino I participated in the ‘Employee Health and Wellness Program’ after I was We have been continually modifying the safety management diagnosed as ‘a person who has metabolic syndrome risk factors’ in a system to prevent incidents and eliminate illegalities which may Operation 2014-2015 2016 2016 health exam. Reinforced Safety and Health Inspection at the occur in the course of casino operation. We enhanced safety Operation period ‘14.12 ~ ‘15.3 ‘16.11 ~ ‘17.3 Even though I was overweight at over 100 kg due to irregular eating Workplaces habit and lack of exercise since I started working, I was able to get down management systems such as personal information protection and Female employees to my normal weight of 75 kg after I participated in the program by Target for use All employees In response to the inherent risks in the workplace, we have been entry control and reinforced operational responsive infrastructure (1,100 person) improving my lifestyle and monitoring my health condition. administering regular internal and external safety inspections. In by securing relevant equipment in case of emergencies. To No. of stress test I had failed my diet attempts several times, but I was able to regain my 211 728 health without giving up because the program’s comprehensive nature, 2016, we received a two-month safety audit from an external safety protect our customers from exposure to epidemics and terrorist participants such as checking my health status using a wearable band and 12-week inspection institute. Based on that audit result, we repeatedly checked acts we have revamped our preemptive response system by Operation of stress Twice a month care service. the same section to check for gray areas that could be overlooked. strengthening entry screening procedure and taking preemptive relief program I think employee health and occupational health and safety are crucial All hazardous and risky findings discovered in the inspection report measures on suspected infectious disease carriers. We are making factors for the company’s competitiveness. If Kangwon Land continues every effort to ensure the safety of customers by performing to actively manage employee health and preventive care programs, a were corrected. Moreover, we conducted comprehensive safety stable workforce will be realized and it will be a great foundation to our and health inspections at our workplaces to eliminate hazardous and hazard detection activities using gas detectors and by operating a sustainable management. risky issues and to improve their level of safety and health. Through hazard surveillance team to monitor new types of illegal activities. quarterly safety inspections, we provided field guidance and We raised incident response capacities and safety awareness Han Chang-Soo, Management PlanningTeam Manager, Kangwon Land remedial actions and made various efforts to reduce occupational of the employees by repeated emergency training, enhancing accidents such as modifying dangerous facilities, supplementing measures to prevent employee sexual harassment during patrol protective equipment and broadening safety education. In particular, and posting of safety-related promotional videos and notices. we promote safety culture by providing various safety information such as regulations and enhancing safety related communications through holding monthly health and safety council meetings. Conducted a Total of 148 Safety Checks at Facilities No. of No. of on-site No. of No. of joint laborNo. of industrial safety immediate exemplary management inspection on inspection correction inspection inspection subcontracts 70 11 17 10 40 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Establishing Eco-friendly Infrastructure Core Values & Issues Establishing Eco-friendly Management Compliance with the Government’s Environment Establishment of Green Resort Waste Management System Guidelines Kangwon Land has been maximizing resource management Indoor Air Quality Management To realize our environment management targets of ‘Minimization Kangwon Land has complied with the guidelines on the via separation of recyclable materials at the Integrated Selection of Environmental Destruction and Recreation of Eco-friendly rationalization of energy implementation for public institutions To create a pleasant indoor work environment, we conducted Center. Further, we are encouraging recycling with regular inBusiness,’ Kangwon Land selected core tasks, which are: the and submitted to the government agency our annual energy an outsourced environment examination to understand what house promotions targeting employees who are informed of how establishment of a green resort, response to climate change, consumption target and future plans. To encourage energy needs to be improved. From the examination results, we have to separate wastes. In 2016, 2,348 tons of household waste were protection of ecosystem and biodiversity. We have been striving reduction activities, we established the Energy Saving Promotion taken corresponding measures over the matters requiring recycled and a number of recycled materials after separation to put in our best efforts to build an eco-friendly resort complex. Committee and the Energy Hunter programs. In 2016, we strived environmental modification and have been offering the more process was about 542.4 tons, which was 23.1%. By separating for an enterprise level energy saving by expanded installation pleasant indoor environment to our customers and employees. household waste more specifically in the future, we plan to Minimization of Environmental Destruction and of LED lights, the introduction of eco-friendly automobiles, We manage the indoor air quality in accordance with the minimize waste while simultaneously increasing waste recycling. Recreation of Eco-friendly Business equipment repairing and machinery cleaning. Throughout these ‘Indoor Air Quality Control in Public Use Facilities, Etc. Act’ and Response Establishment Protection of efforts, we saved energy consumption expenses amounting to periodically measure the air quality and actively manage it. The Let’s Reduce Food Waste!! to climate of green ecosystem and KRW 1.9 billion. result of an investigation of 10 pollutants in 2016 revealed that the change resort biodiversity Due to the increasing number of visitors, we forecast that food Supply Ratio of Eco-friendly Automobiles level of pollutants is within the tolerance range. The result of each waste will increase. Therefore, Kangwon Land has been continually such investigation has been disclosed to the local government in a reducing food waste by a campaign of reducing leftover food, transparent manner. To ensure stringent management, we test the enforcing separate garbage collection for restaurants and hotels, •‌Optimization of •‌Introduction of •‌Preservation of ecosystem greenhouse gas and renewable energy and compliance with Small cars air quality twice a year. and building a cold storage facility. In 2016, 810 tons of a total of 1,349 energy •‌Securing water resource •‌Eco-friendly construction and establishment of the Convention on Biodiversity 19 % tons of food waste were composted, while the rest of the 539 tons were used as livestock fodder for local farmers. 34 high-efficiency energy •‌Ecological education 36 % Water Resources Management facilities •‌Nature protection SUV •‌Increasing waste activities Hybrid cars 35 44 % recycling •‌Ecosystem retoration 14 % 22 (no. of eco-friendly cars) / 62 (total no. of cars) Kangwon Land has started various water saving activities to tackle Restoration of Ecosystem and Endangered Species Electric cars the global water shortage issue and proactively respond to water Response to Climate Change 3% scarcity risk stemming from our geographical characteristics. To minimize the negative effect on the ecosystem from our Sedan We formulated water resources management measurements for business operation and to restore the ecosystem that was Optimization of Greenhouse Gas and Energy 20 % efficient water management, and two reservoirs (total capacity of damaged by the mining industry, we have been conducting Management 240,000 tons) have been autonomously supplying the necessary ecosystem conservation activities. In 2017, for the purpose water. In particular, in 2016, we improved the existing sewage of restoring the natural environment damaged by the resort To promote systematic environmental management and energy treatment facilities to improve the utilization of gray water, and construction, we held a tree planting event and planted 1,000 Nut control, we sustained the Energy Management System (EMS) an we have been using gray water for various purposes including Installation of high efficiency LED lights Pine Trees with the Jeongseon National Forest Office of Eastern international standard and this helped us systematically reach cleaning, not limited to landscaping only. In 2017, we plan to Local Korea Forestry Service. In the winter of 2016, for protecting environmental targets. We will introduce and maintain the EMS In relation to the government’s installation business of LED lights increase our daily treatment capacity from 500 to 690 tons to wildlife habitats near High1 Ski Resort, we held a ‘Wild Animal in accordance with a business agreement signed with the Korea of public institutions, we are in the course of replacing with efficiently handle the increased wastewater after cleaning, and to Feeding Campaign’ with the Wonju Regional Environmental Office Energy Agency in 2016. Regarding the greenhouse gases (GHG) LED lights in every workplace. We reached 73.33% of the LED enhance the quality of water quality management by building a and the Federation of Wild Animal and placed 200 kg of hay and 50 Emission Trading Scheme, we have been taking preemptive action, installation rate by surpassing the target of the government, that is, 70% as of 2016 and we are aiming to reach 80% in 2017. We will water quality analysis system. kg of mineral blocks at 10 feeding sites around Mt. Baekun. such as the approval of early reduction amounting to 50,098 tons. introduce an automatic energy monitoring system for effective Since June 2015, Kangwon Land has been participating in the Projects Main Achievements Future Plans demand analysis for the operation and we are updating them Environmental KPI restoration of endangered species (the Manchurian Trout and Presentation of •‌Presented borrowing of GHG with high-energy efficiency components to improve low-energy 2014 2015 2016 2017 Goals Red-dotted Butterfly) for the three consecutive years together with •‌Deficit in allowances for 2016 to GHG Emission EmissionTrading Scheme 2017 efficiency equipment. four institutions, the Ministry of Environment, Jeongseon County, Trading (decrease in purchasing expense, GHG emissions 72,347 71,204 71,449 72,000 → Application for additional allowances (unit: ton) Fishes Research Center of Kangwon National University, and Scheme implementation of GHG Emission Kangwon Land’s LED Installation Status Compared to Targets of Public of early reduction (January 2017) (2015) Trading Scheme) Institutions Holoce Ecological Conservation Laboratory and will continue the Collecting rate •‌Enlarging Use of Specificationof recyclable •‌Submission of Specification 23.5 24.3 23.9 23.8 project. We are in the process of discharging 1,000 Manchurian related Index of 2015 resources trout (and 3,000 Chinese minnows which are prey fish) and 20 73.33% Compliance and Monitoring Plan → Prevision of Sustainability Report (unit: %) Yearly LED 62.20% with the → Utilization of Certification from (DJSI evaluation), Green Company installation target of Red-dot Butterfly and creating survival/living environment via 51.76% Regulation Authorized Institutes Certification, Environmental 70% 70% public institutions Own production (2016) Securing Early Reduction in GHG Information Disclosure, and 60% 60% of water 354.412 347.474 400.209 380,000 planting Kamchatka stonecrops, which are food plants. We 50% (new building) (unit: ton) EmissionTrading Scheme Management Announcement 40% are accumulating a database through monitoring surveys and (Green Management) Yearly LED supply •‌Continuing reduction of energy target of public reporting, which are done three times a year. institutions intensity and renewal of ISO (existing building) 50001 Feeding Activity for Wildlife •‌Selection of energy intensity Installation ratio in •‌Introduction to Energy Kangwon Land Acceleration of consumption cost as a Management System Based on 2014 2015 2016 Management performance evaluation Achievement Evaluation criteria •‌Business agreement with Installation of High Efficiency LED Lights the Korea Energy Agency (December 2016) (unit: KRW 1,000) Expense for Energy Gross Sales of Consumption Category Consumption Kangwon Land Ratio 2014 26,945,327 1,492,291,000 1.81 2015 23,963,865 1,630,977,000 1.47 2016 22,104,362 1,694,575,000 1.30 03 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Our Strategy Why is it important? Core Values & Issues • Enhancement of Service Competitiveness Customer satisfaction is the fundamental element for strengthening competitiveness and • Reinforcement of Customer Communication sustainable growth of a company. It is vital to foster active communication and customer • Improvement of Responsible Gambling System service capabilities in order to meet the needs of customers that are increasingly diverse • Proliferation of a Healthy Gaming Culture and dynamic. In addition, as a sole domestic casino operator in Korea, Kangwon Land is • Gambling Rehabilitation, Treatment, and Recovery Project responsible for the deployment of a healthy gaming culture and responsible gambling practices, and for its contribution to the eradication of gambling addiction. 2016 Highlight • Defined Core Service Characteristics and Conducted Service Education • ‌Conducted Customer Usage Pattern Research in Order to Grasp Our Approach Customer Needs Through diverse channels, Kangwon Land is actively gathering customers’ opinions and Happy Management that Satisfies • ‌Introduced Cooling-Off System for Casino Customers with is striving to provide customers with quality services and satisfaction by standardizing Excessive Entries Everyone • Expanded Advertisement of Non-Drug Addictions customer services. In addition, as a public corporation that operates a casino, Kangwon Land is promoting various policies with the Kangwon Land Addiction Care Center to Realization of Customer 2017 Focus • ‌Re-establishment and Fulfillment of Customer Satisfaction minimize social side effects and deploy a healthy gaming culture. Values Management System on An Enterprise Level • Strengthening the ability to implement restructuring policies • Enhancing Effectiveness of Program based on Data Performance 36 •Customer Satisfaction Index (unit: point) 86.1 •Number of received Voice of Customer 37 (VOC) (unit: number of cases) 186 •Number of Applicants for Voluntary Entry Restriction (unit: persons) 2,138 Improvement of Customer the original case by our employees who are empowered depending on their positions and proactively address customer dissatisfactions Establishment of Bad Consumer Response System Customer Service 1:1 Coaching Satisfaction based on the standardized compensation guidelines. As the number of bad consumers who maliciously raise complaints and demand excessive compensation increases in recent years, We operate ‘Customer Service 1:1 Coaching’ to objectively diagnose and improve service levels for employees who communicate Implementation of Measurement to Address the the physical and mental damage to our employees increases. directly with customers. Starting last year, the CS specialist advised Upgrade of Customer Satisfaction System Grievance Raised by Customer Accordingly, we have established a bad consumer response system employees working at the ski resort’s customer service center and in Kangwon Land is upgrading its customer satisfaction system to including setting up a response procedure and are preparing the 2016 the specialist provided 1:1 and group consulting based on his/ improve the quality of customer service. We operate a customer In order to proactively resolve any complaints from our customers, we support system for employee protection. Also we are striving to her observation of basic service attitudes and customer handling of satisfaction team to survey customers’ feedback and identify their established the ‘Process for Addressing the Complaints Raised from improve our employees’ responsiveness in similar situations in 21 pit bosses who manage the business of the casino. After service needs and quickly reflect them throughout the service site and the Service Field’. In the case of any dissatisfaction despite adequate the future by providing situational response script and holding a coaching, employees’ habitual acts were improved and the program management activities. We are also striving to enhance service on-site response, Customer Satisfaction Team intervenes/mediates seminar. was evaluated as an effective service competency reinforcement competitiveness through monitoring of service quality, improvement in the situation and provides solutions so as to restore the active program since 70% or more of the employees responded positively of service environment and operation of Customer Satisfaction Leader. customer service and increase the concentration on sales by on-site in the program satisfaction survey. employees. Further, in order to prevent the repeat complaints, we Strengthening Customer Service Capacity Operation of Customer Satisfaction Committee identify and improve the cause of the complaints by sharing how to Satisfaction Level for Customer Service 1:1 Coaching in 2016 handle and resolve the complaints through case development. Operation of Customer Satisfaction Leader We operate the Customer Satisfaction Committee which is the main body to resolve any threats to customer satisfaction. The committee Receipt of Customer Unresolved On-site Resolution of Customer Satisfaction Leader (“CS Leader”) is a leader who connects Complaints Complaints is composed of the chairperson (taken by the Vice President), the customer satisfaction policies with field offices, communicates Satisfaction for coaching Willingness to consistently members (by executive directors) and assistant administrator (by the Procedure for resolution program participate in advanced program Reasons of complaint · ‌fact investigation (such smoothly through seamless communication, and ultimately transfer manager of the Customer Satisfaction Team). Any dissatisfaction Reasons of complaint as watching CCTV and solves the service problems and helps the customer’s satisfaction. of customers revealed from customer complaints or monitoring of service field will be reviewed by the committee, which aims to · sales policy/operation · product/facility · customer handling · ‌unskilled complaint handling by employee · i‌ nvalid claims and seeking legal advices) · ‌preparation of complaint handling scenario Through the monthly workshops, we collect and improve customer 70 % 71 % excessive compensation complaints and actively listen to customer voices in various ways to demand by customer · ‌handling (by phone or facilitate a quick and appropriate response. face to face) solve customer inconveniences by developing a response manual Customer handling Transferring to Customer Customer complaint handling by a point of contact and analyze and actively reflect them in the (service field) SatisfactionTeam (phone or face to face) Implementation of Customer Compensation Standards · ‌1st step: on-site · Filling ‌ out the demand ·H ‌ andling and resolution development of new services. In 2016, we proactively responded employees application for customer ·‌Finding and applying · 2nd step: managers complaints handling improvements to customer complaints and contributed to the improvement of We will continue to improve our relationship with customers. As part ·M ‌ anaging data service quality of customer contact through various activities such Level of contribution for Willingness to recommend to improvement of job competency other colleagues of the program, we implemented a plan for ‘Enterprise Customer as revision of Service Quality Index, finding application cases of CSI Score (unit: point) Compensation Guidelines’ that provided a systematic compensation for the customer in the event of a dispute with the customer. We strive Year 2014 2015 2016 benchmarking of advanced service sites, the creation of service UCC (User Created Contents) and holding customer satisfaction events. 70 % 76 % to resolve any secondary dissatisfaction caused by delays in resolving Score 83.1 85.0 86.1 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Establishing a Healthy Gaming culture Core Values & Issues Service Competency Strengthening Training Establishment of Strategy for Deployment Improvement in Responsible Gambling Performances of High1 Partners of a Healthy Gaming Culture System We conducted ongoing service education to improve employee service levels and raise customer handling skills. First of all, we In order to contribute to ‘protection of users and deployment of For the responsible operation of the casino businesses, Kangwon have developed video clips related to the service mind and had a healthy gaming culture through countermeasures of gambling Land has established and reinforced various institutional devices our employees watch them before an enterprise level training addictions’, Kangwon Land is actively proceeding with gambling to prevent the customers from excessive immersion and addiction such as special lessons from prominent figures. The video clips addiction prevention project and treatment and rehabilitation in games. consisted of 12 episodes and about 300 employees watched them projects and executing strategic projects by each business. We and were educated. In addition, in order to strengthen the handling Reinforcing Customer Communication Channels have established a three-tier roadmap to ensure our ability to Cooling-Off System for Casino Customers with competence toward dissatisfied customers, we trained 104 on-site systematically achieve a healthy gaming culture. To listen to the various voices of customers, we have enlarged and Excessive Entries service managers in relation to the restoration of service between In particular, in 2016, we introduced the entry limit (cooling-off) customers and employees, customer compensation standards reinforced our communication channels. Especially, in 2016, to prevent repeated complaints during peak seasons, we implemented Project for Deployment of system for the first time in the world to enhance the effectiveness and transfer procedures, based on the actual complaints raised a Healthy Gaming Culture of regulation of casino customers with excessive entries. Basically, by the customers in the past. In addition, in order to resolve the the Early Forecast of Customer Complaint to analyze customer complaints raised in the previous year and share the results with we decreased the permitted days of casino entry from 180 to 148. complaints and prevent the recurrence, we conducted training for GamblingTreatment To improve the previous policy which offers only a compulsory the respective departments. As a result, complaints raised during Gambling Addiction 944 employees in the departments with poor services revealed by and Prevention education to the customers with excessive entries, we introduced an internal and external CS surveys and telephone monitoring with peak season decreased by 62% from 186 in 2015 to 70 in 2016 and Rehabilitation Project accumulation system for entry restriction. compliments increased from 25 to 41. Project tailored training materials. Moreover, in order to collect opinions from customers who do not Contents of Compulsory Entry Restriction System use internet, we run an offline channel called Voice of Customer ‘VOC’ Performance Contribution in protection of users and deployment of 38 and register any on-site complaints in the integrated VOC system a healthy gaming culture through countermeasures of Category Previous policy Improved Policy Target Strengthen Customer Communication and systematically manage them. gambling addictions Upon entry for Entry allowed after Accumulation system 39 15 days in two taking 2 hours consecutive months education of entry restriction* + previous policy Operation of High1 Partners •‌Innovative modification to •‌E  ffort of improving Registration Status of VOC in 2016 responsible gambling system Upon Entry for Entry restricted for 14 Accumulation system of achievement of treatment and Registered •‌E ffort in proliferating a healthy Strategic rehabilitation project more than 30 days days of the second entry restriction* + entry numbers Main Content gaming culture Tasks •‌E  nsuring reliability of policies in two consecutive half of following allowed after taking 30 After selecting the first customer panel, that is ‘High 1 Partners’, •‌S trengthening employee of KLACC (Kangwon Land quarters month minutes education Complaints 464 Customer handling, operation of awareness about gambling in 2015, we are currently running the second partner group Addiction Care Center) workplace, facility/environment of addiction prevention * ‌Accumulation system of entry restriction is applied by imposing an entry limit of 1 month for the first time, which then increases to 2 months period for the second and to consisting of 15 members. As a quarterly task, the customer workplace 3 months for the third and so forth. panel conducts general monitoring of facilities, services, events Mid-to-LongTerm Roadmap for Establishment of a Healthy Gaming culture Inquiries 514 Reservation of rooms (hotel/ and other special occasions and offers suggestions by way of condominium), event information Short-term Mid-term Long-term Enhancing Self-Control System Project (‘16~’17) (‘18~’20) (‘21~’22) submission of experience-based comments, running promotion We equipped ourselves with systems that help customers to Suggestions 110 Operation of workplace, facility/ •Improvement •Strengthening blogs, recommending excellent employees and participating in environment of workplace in strong Entry expertise in control themselves when they are concerned about their gambling •‌Increase in global conferences. We relay their opinions to the respective department Gambling Restriction gambling exchange immersion. First of all, we have the system for self-control of game Compliments 134 Customer handling, facility/ System addiction Addiction •‌Proliferating a management •‌Acceleration amount, in which customers put their cash and credit cards at the for further improvements. In 2016, a total of 368 opinions were environment of workplace Prevention in responsible Project healthy gaming •‌Improvement gambling deposit box and enter the casino with a specific amount of game received from the panel and 146 cases were successfully completed. culture through in responsible promotion gambling environment money in order to take control of their game money. In particular, activities practices in 2016, we enhanced the enforcement ability by reinforcing In addition, we regularly conduct Focused Group Interview (FGI) and High1 Partners’ Monitoring Cases regarding Facilities and Services •‌Participation the incentives for self-control system of casino entry days by proceed with follow-up measures with regard to on-site monitoring •‌Increase in policy in certified (unit: number of cases) •‌Enhancement which customer voluntarily limits their entry into the casino. To Total Review In-progress Completed Not applicable and suggestions from customers. In 2016, 40 out of 50 tasks to be Gambling reliability via international of international reinforcement conference and effectively enforce the responsible gambling system, we have been improved were completed. We communicate with our customers Addiction of research and presentation competitiveness 2015 203 47 8 127 21 Treatment on addiction modifying our policies including 1) providing financial incentives through other various media such as our homepage, SNS pages and study of examples of prevention 2016 368 33 171 146 18 •‌Improvement in Kangwon Land to the customers who voluntarily reduce the maximum days of and Kangwon Land Story (monthly newsletter). Rehabilitation treatment and •‌continuous •‌Advancement Project of data-based entry from 15 days a month to any number of days smaller than rehabilitation development program the aforementioned and 2) increasing the supporting fund for project of differentiated programs returning home which have been given to voluntary entry restriction applicants. CASE CASE We have come to Kangwon Land to learn about gambling addiction prevention activities. Development of Core Service Characteristics and Definition In March 2017, the respective officers of the Establishment Preparation Office of Resort The characteristics of service and level of customer needs of each business in Kangwon Land are different. They are also distinct from each point Complex Area Alignment Promoting Headquarters, Cabinet Secretairat who are in charge of contact with customers. As a result, a standardized service training cannot cover the entire spectrum of the different service characteristics and of policies for approval of casino business in Japan visited us in order to benchmark our customer needs. Kangwon Land created the definition book for core service characteristics and service teaching plan in order to provide satisfactory gambling addiction prevention activities. Six delegates including Mr.Toshiya Morishige, services to meet the customer needs by developing differentiated service characteristics based on the characteristics of each department and establishing an effective service training system. First of all, from the analysis of VOC and customer survey results, we derived our core service Head of the Establishment Preparation Office, deputy ministerial level, paid keen attention characteristics of expertise, agility, cleanliness, kindness, and responsiveness. Subsequently, we defined such attributes in accordance with our to various operation know-hows and prevention measures of side effects, which may arise service environment, established the definition book of the core service characteristics comprising of key point analysis and behavior indicators and out of gambling addiction, of KLACC (Kangwon Land Addiction Care Center) that is the produced service teaching plans for each point of contact. Based on those, we conducted online training, and corporate education for CS Leaders only organization run by a gambling operator in the world. Mr. Toshiya Morishige showed and in-house service instructors and we strive to achieve a much higher level of customer satisfaction by way of deployment training for the appreciation and said that they learned a lot about Kangwon Land including operation of departments with the point of customer contacts. KLACC, its development progress as a resort complex and its coexistence policy. 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Establishing a Healthy Gaming culture Core Values & Issues Expanding Gambling Addiction Preparation of Various Gambling Rehabilitation Programs 2014 2015 2016 Main activities Contents Results Number of Applicants for 1,703 2,086 2,138 Prevention Training for Employees Kangwon Land offers a variety of support measures to help Joint campaign those who are addicted to gambling to return to a healthy and Voluntary Entry Restriction People People People Supporting KLACC counsel Self-diagnosis test with Korea Center member. 4 runs of field and other participants: successful life. We have been supporting the gambling addicts On Gambling Employees working in the Casino are required to have a strong counseling campaign 635 people In addition, if a voluntary entry restriction applicant wishes to Problems to recover their mental health by assisting in their hospitalization awareness of gambling addiction and social responsibility. withdraw his/her application after application period expires, or out-patient treatment and by assisting with the addict’s Kangwon Land provides a field-based systematic prevention of such applicant is required to take compulsory education on Overindulgence Encouraging high risk addicts 3,186 participants and vocational rehabilitation training and paying a certain amount of gambling addiction education for its employees to improve their overindulgence prevention (2 hours) after selecting between type prevention (8 points or higher CPGI)to field 703 people received money as life stability fund for six months to foster their financial campaign counseling field counseling awareness of gambling addictions and to proactively identify 1 and type 2. independence. In addition, Kangwon Land provides practical help customers who may become addicted to gambling. In 2016, the number of educated employees increased by 21% from the to the addicts by offering financial and legal assistance during the Visiting and promoting the Compulsory education on overindulgence prevention Korea Casino Association, previous year to a total of 9,711 by extending various online and recovery process. Promoting and Cycle & Motorboat Racing 19 visits, 1,093 Select visiting related Business Division and Catholic persons off-line education courses, including onsite visits and lecture Rehabilitation Support Program Process Accessible days by organization Type 1 Type 2 Priests’ Association for sessions by KLACC specialists. Type Addiction 1st 2st 1st 2st Type 1 2014 2015 2016 01 Selecting addicts who need intensive care consultation Education Education Education Education Number of employees in gambling 6,604 8,047 9,711 02 Session Session Session Session Countermeasures against Illegal Activities around the addiction prevention education persons persons persons Accessible 15 days Request to ban casino entry permanently per month Casino In addition, employees are participating in TFM (Trained Field 3 Education Session st We are conducting campaigns to minimize customer damages Mediator) programs, which invites the employees to directly Over four sessions of psychological rehabilitation/ 40 May and negative impact on the local communities caused by illegal participate in prevention of gambling addiction, to prevent the 03 over ten sessions of visiting counseling Over 50 hours of program enter after Type 2 private lending around the casino. We operate the reporting applying Withdraw adverse effects of the casino and minimize gray areas. In 2016, Support hospital treatment / vocational 41 for voluntary voluntary entry limit system Accessible 9 days per month for over 6 center and 24-hour supervision team and have established a joint monitoring system with The National Gambling Control we have strengthened the meetings, gatherings, and training to promote TFM, and performed campaigns to prevent addiction 04 rehabilitation support Financial counseling · legal support entry limit months Commission, Financial Supervisory Service, Gangwon Provincial system and searching possible addicted customers at local areas such as Accessbibility to the Office, Yeongwol Branch Office, Jeongseon County, Jeongseon In addition, Kangwon Land supports and works with specialized casino the local bus terminal. and Taebaek Police Station. In addition, we conducted campaigns hospitals and professional rehabilitation centers for alcoholic through various media outlets such as video clips, High1 websites, addictions and patients with mental disorders, such as the Vision and other campaigns resulting in exposure of 51 illegal loan Enhancing Gambling Rehabilitation, Training Center, around the nation. Treatment, and Recovery Project Proliferating a Healthy Gaming culture solicitations during the year 2016. Illegal Private Loan Report Center and 24-hour RegulationTeam Kangwon Land aims to fulfill our social responsibility to help Promotion of Responsible Gambling and Exercise of customers who are addicted to gambling to return to normal life CASE Campaign General organization Report center ➊ Report center ➋ by implementing various gambling rehabilitation, treatment, and During the time casino operates, we expanded the operation ㆍInspection Team (off-line) recovery projects. Various programs such as music, art, healing, of the on-site monitoring activities from 3 a.m. to 7 a.m. during 112 ㆍCasino Support Team (online) 123 meditation, mountain climbing, performances, and exhibitions are which long-term visitors and excessive visitors frequently enter Assisting in Recovered Addict’s Return to Society by Supporting being operated. and Fostering Gambling Addiction Prevention Experts the casino. The members consisted of the rehabilitators from gambling addict are supporting promotional activities and on-site Major Rehabilitation Programs Resort Safety Team Casino Safety Team Security Partner Through gambling rehabilitation programs, Kangwon Land counseling for Responsible Gambling System. Additionally, we Program name Program contents 2016 Results supports rehabilitation and economic revival for addicted are expanding promotional activities by using joint campaign with 6 people 9 people 15 people (Healing·meditation·forest/ Simple meeting such as Finding Seeds of gamblers, and support programs for rehabilitated addicts to the Korea Center On Gambling Problems and the over indulgence Long term stay) meditation, trekking, selfHope: 174 people become preventive instructors for gambling addiction. Kangwon ‘Finding Seeds of Hope’, control, lecture by recovered Strengthening land fully supports all of the tuition, practical exercise fees, prevention campaign which encourages high-risk addicts to have ‘Motive Strengthening Camp’ gambling addict, etc motive: 70 people academic activity fees and membership fees for rehabilitated on-site counseling, and by attracting the participation of CPGI selfTwo sessions of class per addicts or their spouses to become a preventive partner for 24 hour patrol (Music therapy/Long term stay) diagnosis campaigns. week and participating in gambling addiction. Through these efforts, we expect not only ‘Music Therapy and Hope 110 times cultural activities, such as Band’ regional festivals past gambling addicts to use their experience to help others in rehabilitation, but also for them to become financially independent (Female only/ Visual art therapy/ in their profession. In 2016, two people passed the qualification CASE Maintaining recovery from gambling addict) ‘Traveling Meeting’, Member’s choice of opening exhibition, Kimchi Making service 47 times exam for addiction prevention instructors. ‘Danbi Gathering’ Training and Supporting Gambling Addiction Prevention Experts Increased Promotion of Non-drug Addictions (Behavioral Addiction) (Long term stay/Volunteer Process service) ‘Volunteer Service Local welfare facilities and 11 times Team’ consisting of casino organizations once a month Targeted recruitment Rehabilitated addicts or their spouse customers Kangwon Land, as a public institute, is actively expanding its social responsibility and Supporting bond with creating social value by actively participating in non-drug addiction such as gaming (Maintaining recovery from family members to maintain Training addiction prevention instructor level 2 (education + gambling addict) KLACC 163 people Educational support and mobile phone addiction not limited to gambling addiction. In 2016, our CEO, as a recovery from gambling learning + studying + activity + practical exercise) keynote speaker, emphasized the need to raise awareness of the seriousness of non‘Family Camp’ addiction drug addictions and expressed our will to help to solve such addiction at the Conference Completion of for Seeking Solution for the Non-drug Addiction Treatment which was supported by us. Completion of education and qualification exam education In addition, we organized the International Mind Sports Forum and explored possibilities of addiction treatment by use of mind sports such as chess, and the game of Go to seek Skill improvement Inviting professional counselors, improving counseling skills a way to use mind sport for the purpose of eliminating the adverse effects of non-drug training through education addictions. We are trying our best to contribute to solving all kinds of addiction problems by operating various non-drug addiction rehab programs, such as non-drug addiction prevention healing camp and a program of living without smartphones and games. Activity development Working as addiction prevention instructor and counselor 04 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Our Strategy Why is it important? Core Values & Issues • Competency-based Fair Recruitment Companies are expanding their investment in time and resources to secure competent people • Human Resource Development and Fair Evaluation who are the source of long-term corporate competitiveness. In addition, as a desire for self• Best Working Place realization increases in society , a corporate culture that guarantees the work-life balance and • Cooperative and Communicative Labor-management Culture self-improvement is becoming an important factor for competent people when choosing a desirable company to work with. 2016 Highlight • Development and Operation of Competency Assessment Program Our Approach • ‌Establishment of Healing Center for Employees’ Happiness Kangwon Land recruits fairly, based on the competency of the candidates and contributes • ‌Establishment of Joint Labor-Management Committee to revitalize the local economy by job creation. Furthermore, we keep on improving our Happy Management that working environment for everyone’s satisfaction through fair evaluation of job performance, Satisfies Everyone 2017 Focus building a communicative corporate culture and opening Healing Center for the health of our employees. • ‌Improving Employee Satisfaction on Working Environment Realization of • ‌Establishing a New Personnel Management System which is Fair and Transparent • Establishment of a Competency-based New Education System Employees’ Values • ‌Creating Collaborative Labor-Management Culture Based on Principles Performance 42 •‌Training Expenses per Employee (unit: Thousand Won) 910 43 •‌Female Manager (above Level 3) (unit: Persons) 105 •‌Employees Who Opted for A Flexible Working Hours Scheme (unit: Persons) 396 Creating a Happy Reinforcement of Competency of Employees Establishment of a Customized Competency Diagnosis System teaching plan and, in 2017, we are working on a specialized in-house job training of our own. Kangwon Land selected 61 job experts to establish the education system for each of 6 job positions and 122 Workplace We established a mid-to-long term strategy for human resource development based on our management strategies and ideal talent Based on Kangwon Land Competency Dictionary, we developed competency diagnostic questions and established a customized jobs, and constructed a 1-5 level roadmap and profile based on the national competency standards (NCS) and job descriptions. Through type, and built a training system by competency (basic/leadership/ reinforcing competency program that would match the training this, we have completed the development of on-site instructional Competency-based Fair Recruitment job related/global). In particular, to achieve our business strategy and courses for insufficient competency [by job position]. Through drafts. We have also trained experts in the company as instructors to overcome our geographical limitations, we have been enhancing this, we diagnosed the competency of all of our employees and conduct specialized job training. competencies of our employees by opening and expanding support established the operating foundation for the personally customized Kangwon Land classified the necessary competencies according regarding new global education courses. In addition, we completed competency training system by strengthening the connection Enhancing Global Competencies to the attributes of the jobs based on the National Competency between competency and career development path. Standards (NCS) and conducted fair and competency-based strategic human resource development by updating the education In the past, the overseas job training was limited to experience recruitment process. We also achieved fairness in recruitment and system each year connecting to business strategies and reflecting the Competency Diagnosis Program Process extension or benchmarking. We changed the contents and selection process by excluding candidates’ personal information needs of our employees. To enhance the career development and composition of such training into a new systematic one by Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 such as photo, gender, hometown, name of attended schools and special expertise of our employees, we established and operated the Defining Competency Application of Taking Training conducting internal contests among employees with the themes of leading education program and system such as Human Resource Competency Diagnosis Training Program the development of new businesses or improvement of pending any certificates irrelevant to the applied job position when receiving Development Center opened in 2017. In recognition of these efforts issues, selecting trainees and sharing the outputs from the training. job applications, and by executing blind application examination As a result, we improved the purpose and contents of the overseas and interview in order to prevent interviewers from learning such and achievements, we were honored with the award of “2017 Korea Basic competency/ Diagnosis of Matching of training that is practically connected to our business, resulting in 28 personal information of the candidates. Furthermore, to promote HRD Winner for Human Resources Development.” Leader competency/ competency of all employees, and reinforcing insufficient Taking the cases of creating new menus and improvement in services, sharing reinforcing program social equity in employment and contribute to revitalizing the Common competency for all individual instruction of insufficient competency program and applying for and evaluation of the training results in the case of promotion of new projects, local economy of Gangwon province, we are giving 50% of the jobs competency such program and supporting advisory panel. In addition, to respond effectively to growing foreign customers, we develop and offer customized employment quota to the local talent during recruitments, and we Besides, in 2016, we officially conducted a qualification test for language courses based on the fields and actual works and operate have no discrimination against the candidates on the ground of casino employees that completed our internal verification in 2015 full-time language courses considering the needs, the working hours handicaps, non-college degree, and gender. and a total of 275 people were granted the qualification scaling over and environment of the learners such as regular language courses five levels, dealer 1 to 3 level, casino manager, and casino master. and courses over the telephone. By such active personalized study New Hires of Regular Employees (unit : Persons) In the future, this qualification system will be operated as a private management and feedback, there were significant improvements 2014 2015 2016 registration qualification from 2017 and a private certification from in academic achievement performances in foreign language course Total 133 442 90 2019. from 43 points,prior to learning to 71.6 points after learning. Resort Casino Hotel Common Expressions Promotion Female 46 116 27 Strengthening Job Professionalism Disabled 4 We selected 61 job specialists for setting up a systematic job training Local Talent (Non-capital Region) 116 381 70 system based on various types of jobs and duties, and established High School Graduates 35 145 13 our training system based on the NCS and job descriptions, and also Science and Engineering Majors 10 112 19 built a road map and profile after dividing 122 units of job duties into five levels. Through these, we are in the process of developing our Customer guides (information regarding business sites and business hours), Response (manual based, safety regulation), Common Information (bus operation, introduction of business sites) 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Creating a Happy Working Environment Core Values & Issues Strengthening Leadership Competency Fair Performance Evaluation 2016 2016 Operating Various Labor-Management 2016 Communication Channels 4,569 396 Kangwon Land actively supports our management and executives 2015 72.1 To achieve our corporate goals and strategies, we have been to develop their management ability and leadership competency We operate various communication channels for the labor and by establishing a mini-MBA course for executives and managing concentrating on and strengthening the competence of the 66.6 2015 management to build an advanced labor-management relationship organization and our employees. We strive to establish a 1,677 staff (level of head of department/team leader) in 2016. For this, 2015 and improve employees’ working conditions. In particular, we performance-based organizational culture in which the employees we executed leadership competency diagnosis for 93 persons 99 established the Labor-Management Committee in 2016 as a receive just compensation through fair and transparent who are senior managers or higher and opened a leadership performance evaluation. Use of Annual Leave (%) Use of Half-day off (case) Flexible Working Hours representative consultative body for improvement of working competence improvement course based on the result of such Scheme (persons) conditions. We conduct activities for improving organizational To achieve this, in 2016, we made a performance-based annual diagnosis. In addition, capacity building education consisting salary system applicable to employees working in the back office, culture and arranging a mutual agreement (or draft) between labor Communicational Corporate Culture of 15 sessions covered marketing, finance/accounting, human continued to carry out improvement activities to ensure fairness and management by operating the committee with a Secretary resource organization/leadership and strategic management was To establish a corporate culture of the best working place through General taking on the central role and constructed the hot-line and rationality of the competency and job performance evaluation conducted for a total of 71 executives and managing staff. improvement of employees’ communications and encouraging between the head of the Union and the CEO. During the year 2016, system. Further we have strived to build consensus from all activities, we organized an Employee Happiness Task Force we held 43 employees’ meetings . Through the meetings, we employees through communications such as public hearings and and are developing and/or offering programs for field-centered discussed various contents including mutually agreeable measures workshops. communication and employee satisfaction. We build positive for adoption of performance-based annual salary system and communicating culture by conducting casual meetings with our conducted improvement activities for problems and difficulties Evaluation System CEO and receiving anonymous mails and voices of employees raised by our employees. In addition, we are protecting the rights (“VOE”) and holding in-house communicator meetings and of our employees and improving the working conditions through 44 + = workshops; which contributes to the establishment of the positive various communication channels between labor and management, Performance Evaluation Competency Evaluation Comprehensive Evaluation communicational environment and prompt resolution of various and establishing an advanced win-win labor-management Supporting Self-directed Learning VOEs. Furthermore, by operating programs for encouragement relationship with the labor union which understands our managerial 45 and harmony of employees such as employee encouragement pending issue and cooperates with us. Ratings We enhance the individual competencies of our employees events, sports events, and Family Love Trip, we inspire employees Operating Performances of Joint Labor-Management Committee and satisfy their desire for self-improvement by providing selfto harmonize together and build a sense of belonging and pride. directed learning system and strengthening the system which Performance Competency Comprehensive Evaluation Rating Evaluation Rating Evaluation Rating reflects their needs. In particular, we have expanded our mobile (S, A, B, C, D) (S, A, B, C, D) (S, A, B, C, D) Communicating and Cooperating Culture 48 times 90 times 35 times 55 times and online learning infrastructure by actively reflecting the needs of our employees. We furnished individually customized training Raising of an Objection of Labor-Management Utilization Mitigation Committee Deliberation Mid-to-long term programs which operate through self-diagnosis in Kangwon Employees’ Received Resolved The labor and management of Kangwon Land together have Meeting problems problems improvement Land e-Campus system, and expanded the mobile accessible tasks •Raise in annual salary been putting in efforts to create an advanced labor-management training courses from 1,324 to 1,680 resulting in 53% increase in Education and •‌Promotion/Career Payment of bonus Management(New culture by establishing a win-win relationship through productive Status of Operating Major Labor-Management Communication Channels the number of average visitors per day from 387 to 591, compared training assignment to a position) consultation, joint efforts of labor-management for solving any Channels Description Performances to the previous year. In addition, we have implemented diverse pending managerial issues, and substantial cooperation program. •‌Labor-Management Quarterly regular labor-management Quarterly learning channels such as telephone-based foreign language Committee consultation committee In 2016, we conducted various cooperation activities with the goal classes, after-work school, and online courses to reflect shift work Best Working Place of the creation of a new labor-management culture. •‌Labor-Management Consultation on pending issues 14 times schedule, and enhanced employee satisfaction and participation Committee for among the respective working-level Pending Issues at people representing the labor and the by expanding selective education courses by time. Supporting Compatibility between Work and Family LaborCreation of new labor-management culture to establish Working Levels management management After-work School Program e-Campus goal in 2016 an advanced labor-management relationship •‌Human Resource Screening consultations on human 2 cases We implement diverse employee welfare and benefits program Affairs Committee resource affairs to encourage employees to boost their morale and support the Establishment of an •‌Women Committee Sharing women’s care policy regarding 11 times Expansion of cooperative female employees advanced labor-management compatibility between work and family. We designated every partnership relationship Promotional •‌Labor-Management Trust building through harmony of labor 9 times Wednesdays as Family Loving Day and urge the employees strategies Harmony and management Enhancing joint labor Hanmadang Festival to leave work on time and refrain from having company getActivating win-win and productivity of laborcommunicating culture togethers. Furthermore, we support our employees to have a management •‌C  onsultation on Human Resolving employees’ HR-related 71 times Resource Affairs Matters happy time with their family by providing various family activities In addition, to vitalize the self-directed learning system, we select programs such as camping, making chocolates, experiencing High1 Science Museum, and so on. CASE We also operate a flexible working hours scheme to modify Mental Clinic for Employees: ‘Healing Center for Employees’ Happiness’ and ‘Healing Camp’ high achievers of training scores and excellent departments and the long work hours culture, resulting in increased number of grant them CEO awards and gifts, and motivate our employees to employees who used the flexible commuting hours scheme* from participate in the learning program by strengthening our incentive 99 in 2015 to 396 in 2016. Furthermore, we are trying to lessen our In 2016, Kangwon Land paid attention to employees suffering from emotional stress and depression, system including expansion of education courses with credit employees’ child care burden by furnishing day care centers in the and established a mental counseling center called ‘Healing Center for Employees’ Happiness’ within recognition. the company. The counseling center is staffed with professional counselors specialized in clinical workplace and providing parental leave up to three years. experience with more than 10 years of clinic experience and it provides the best counseling and Telephone-based Language Book Learning After-work School Program Classes healing to individuals after diagnosing the employee’s level of anger, depression, and so on with 528 1,708 499 * ‌Flexible commuting hours scheme: allowing employees to alter the start of a test. In addition to counseling, the center provides various collective treatment programs on a 1,400 monthly basis, including psychological coaching, visual art therapy and meditation study method working time as long as they work 8 hours per day. 291 290 for relieving emotional stress for employees engaged in the department, working closely with the customers. Furthermore, we contributed in relieving our employees’ work stress by jointly operating an experience-based camp called ‘Healing Camp’ with our labor-management for relieving work 81% 22% 72% stress of sales personnel. 4th quarter of 4th quarter of Year 2015 Year 2016 2015 (YTD) 2016 (YTD) year 2015 year 2016 (monthly average) (monthly average) 05 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Our Strategy Why is it important? Core Values & Issues • Elevation of Social Contribution System Public corporations are demanded to fulfill social responsibilities to contribute not only to the • Supporting Community-based Social Welfare local community but also to the nation. Recently, public corporations focus not only on giving • Supporting Local Economy Vitalization donations but also on making achievement in the creation of shared values which satisfies 2016 Highlight both corporate’s interest for profits and social values while reflecting the characteristic of the • Identifying and Promoting Representative Social Contribution Projects business. • Supporting ‌ the Patient with Pneumoconiosis to Narrow the Gray Areas Our Approach from Government’s Support • Sharing through Volunteer Work and Talent Donation of Employees Kangwon Land is moving to the next step from merely making donations, to actively making • ‌Fulfilling Social Responsibilities Using the Institutional Characteristics a social contribution in the community to help the community and recover the economic • ‌Tailored Support for Schools / Fostering the Creative Talented / distress of the abandoned mine area. Particularly, Kangwon Land promotes genuine social Fair and Transparent Public Supporting Activities for the Socially Neglected and Disadvantaged contribution activities that can contribute to creating community shared values by actively Classes reflecting the needs of local community. Management 2017 Focus Realization of Win• ‌Extension of Social Contribution Activities in a Form of Investment in Local Community • ‌Building Social Credibility through Reinforcement of Social Win Value with Local Responsibility • Undertaking Cross-national Social Contribution Activities Performance Community •‌Amount of Social Contribution (unit: KRW 100 million) 228 •‌Social Contribution Beneficiary 46 Satisfaction Level (unit: point) 86.4 •‌Job Creation Result in Private 47 Sector (unit: case) 26,547 Average per Total Hours of ‌ Performance of Volunteer • person Voluntary Works Works by Employees (unit: hours) 24.3 / 88,456 Identifying and Promoting Representative Social [Smart Utilization of Smartphone] Program Realization of Vision for social contribution Making an established company with good reputation that contributes to local community Contribution Projects Win-Win Value Three Principles Closer We join our neighborhood and Deeper We do our best to solve the root Farther Away We aim toward the next Kangwon Land is promoting social contribution activities and community. cause of the problems. generation and the future. forming a national consensus by actively developing and with Local Social Establishing the foundation for self-sustainable growth of promoting broad rehabilitation business as our representative social contribution project to deal with not only gambling addiction, Community Contribution goal local economy and improving social contribution activities which inevitably appears in casino business but also smartphone Extending business and Expanding welfare support and addiction and other kinds of behavioral addictions. In 2016, the Promotional Improving ways to run directions volunteer service activities in helping to create jobs in the company implemented a combined humanities healing program education business other abandoned mine regions abandoned mine area aiming at preventing and rehabilitating children and juveniles from Elevating Social Welfare for the Pneumoconiosis, Support for regional customized smartphone immersion which was considered as a serious social Contribution System Priority tasks supporting the disadvantaged class, employee volunteer jobs, preventing gambling addiction, social rehabilitation Educational support including fostering future human resource problem in recent years. Such project has led juveniles, who were services and talent donation programs addicted to internet games, to art, leisure sports and other hobbies, Strategic System to Boost which also contributed in solving the employment problems of Social Community KL Welfare KL Hope Social Contribution Contribution Team Cooperation Team Foundation Foundation young people as it utilized these respective majors. •Support for social We are planning to promote a combined humanities healing pilot contribution/foundation •Pneumoconiosis To be recognized as a company with Promotion support •Supporting cultural and welfare, welfare for the •Supporting regional program for children and juveniles in the future, and gradually organization social groups disadvantaged group, economic vitalization a good reputation that contributes to •‌P roviding educational •‌C  reating local expand diverse businesses through general public participation. scholarship/sharing welfare cooperation •High1 Bakery business customized jobs the local community, Kangwon Land culture/public business subscription set three principles of ‘Closer’, ‘Deeper’ Preventing and and ‘Farther Away’ and is striving to Gambling KLACC Rehabilitating Improving the Effectiveness of Social Contribution addiction Gambling achieve them. Addiction Projects Leading change into a sustainable abandoned mine areas by participation and sharing of employees and executives + Kangwon Land continues to strive to improve the effectiveness of Behavior Preventing and addiction Social Combined promoting social contribution projects by modifying the way to rehabilitating Evolved other than Contribution non-drug addiction Humanities Roadmap for Social Contribution Activity System Team Healing undertake such projects. We made a qualitative improvement to gambling addiction the social contribution project by modifying the way to run 8 social 2012 2013~2015 2016~2020 Social contribution ‘Smartphone’ Introduction of Kangwon contribution programs, including school programs by inviting Forest based on business (internet + game + Land’s inherent special Education Forest public participation, scholarship programs, and Boat School for shopping) prevention and Reorganizing social contribution system through Expanding representative social contribution activities Establishing sustainable management system Healing Foundation rehabilitation program the Creative Talented, and by improving the efficiency of each selection and concentration on a nationwide scale and branding connected to business Center program. 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Realization of Win-Win Value with Local Community Core Values & Issues Supporting Community-based Social Supporting Local Economy Vitalization Results of Fulfilling Social Responsibilities Using the Institutional Characteristics 14% from the previous year amounting KRW 27.2 billion. Kangwon Category Main Activities and Results Welfare •‌Created jobs for senior and disabled citizens: 12 sites (KRW 348 Land works to vitalize local economy not only by improving the Supporting customized million) Kangwon Land has set three major goals by 2022 and has been system but also by supporting the promotional activities and Supporting the Patient with Pneumoconiosis to “Happiness Job” for − Supporting jobs of 134 people in abandoned mining area services for local partners. the disadvantaged pursuing a local economic vitalization strategy to establish a Narrow the Gray Areas from Government’s Support − Supporting cafes, sales of regional products, farming business Creating jobs for customized support system for local producers, such as small and •‌Hope Job business for the socially vulnerable group in Kangwon Land strives to spread the warm-hearted sharing culture socially vulnerable community (senior citizens): 58 people employed mid-sized businesses in abandoned mine areas. by improving living conditions and supporting the healthy lives of the group Realization of Win-Win Values with Local patients suffering from pneumoconiosis, who sacrificed themselves Establishing and developing business •‌Supporting new self-employed businesses: 2 sites, KRW 30 million •‌Supporting the existing businesses to grow: 15sites, KRW 449 Strategies for Local Economy Vitalization Community in the industrial front for the sake of economic development. To by support million (distributed locally) Build customized support system for local producers and small and •High1 Bakery offering employment at bread factory (13 people) Vision this end, we are providing practical support to the patients with mid-sized businesses Result of Contribution to Local Community Supporting gambling •‌High1 Bakery support by purchasing manufactured goods (KRW pneumoconiosis, including support for patients’ medical expenses and addict’s return to 570 million) To spend KRW 500 To expand use of To expand items of for winter preparation and operation of vacation program and inpatient society •‌Rehabilitation program: “Hope-dream” (Self-settling, support million per annum for local food products companies in our In 2016, the hours of social contribution activity of Kangwon Land Goals rehabilitation programs. We are supporting pneumoconiosis patients self-employed business) using local merchants and spend KRW 5 business sites and (2022) averaged at 24 hours per capita, which is longer by 26% than •‌Issuing quarterly magazine for preventing and healing gambling and zero occurrence billion per annum to achieve annual sales at home with supplemental assistance, hospitalization costs and winter of wrongful use. purchase of KRW 10 billion addiction Again, dream (8,000 magazines) the overall average (19 hours) of all companies in South Korea. preparation as well as recreational programs and oxygen treatment Preventing casino •‌Newly printing comic book preventing gambling addiction programs. We are helping such patients to receive various kinds of To accelerate the local To expand purchase To vitalize store This reflects the determination of our employees’ willingness to customers from “DoshinX”: 1,000 books Strategic tasks of regional direct operation of regional support through funding the programs of the pneumoconiosis-related gambling addiction •‌O ver indulgence prevention campaign for casino customers: 22 times use of High1 Point products product communicate with the local community and to fulfill the culture of •‌Practicing free basic health examination and gambling addiction sharing. Furthermore, Kangwon Land built a consensus of values of organization. In the case of inpatients suffering from pneumoconiosis, interview: 4,121 cases •To expand associated •‌To operate the •‌To expand space for we are supporting them by providing individual comfort packages business to foster preferential regional specialties social contribution activities and increase voluntary engagement by local franchise purchasing system sales and relaxation and cultural performance programs, while also advertizing introduction and results of the volunteering programs Improving the Educational Environment •‌To create standard for local products •‌To foster social 48 actively supporting the patients with pneumoconiosis in Mungyeong, for Future Human Resources measurement to •‌To build cooperative economy-connected through HighNuri system. Kangwon Land has escaped from Boryeong, Hwasun and other abandoned mine areas. Promotional tasks calculate ripple relation and companies in our effect in regional distribution system business sites nominal volunteer celebrations and created a sense of unity with community •‌To develop •‌To establish fair the local community by the participation of the company, suppliers, 49 2016 Results of Pneumoconiosis Support Kangwon Land is making efforts to improve the educational •‌To establish environment for local selection process for Support for Patients Support for Patients Institutional · delivery (ex. mass companies in our employees and families and the residents in the culture of sharing. Suffering from Suffering from Support for Other environment which fits its business characteristics for the purpose Pneumoconiosis Pneumoconiosis Abandoned Mine systematic sound use production) business sites Even though in 2017, we excluded required volunteer work from (treated at home) (convalescence) Areas of improving such environment and fostering the local talented persons through student support in the abandoned mining area. the organizational evaluation, we will plan to actively support the Persons 7,845 964 2,789 volunteer works of our employees who are willing to participate with Operation of Local Use of High1 Point Amount a passion for sharing. (KRW million) 2,801 172 620 Tailored Support for Schools The High1 Point system is a regional economic vitalization system Volunteering Performance of Employees (unit: hours) Sharing through Volunteer Work and Talent In 2016, Kangwon Land supported the development of 21 that was introduced in the year 2004 which allows points to be 2014 2015 2016 Donations of Employees schools, 106 sports teams (18 districts in Kangwon Province) used not only in our own resort business facilities but also in the Average per person 20.0 23.7 24.3 from elementary school to high school, including 4 schools in local shopping district. For 12 years, we have supported a total of Employees of Kangwon Land have organized 27 the matic Total volunteering abandoned mine area, and eight student-athletes. Additionally, KRW 140 billion for regional economic vitalization, and in 2016, the hour 71,989 86,198 88,456 volunteer groups and 40 teams volunteer groups to make Kangwon Land has sent social workers to schools to help children opportunity to register for small and medium sized businesses has talent donations to the socially disadvantaged people such as manage their mental health through counseling. expanded by easing the membership registration standards. In community child care centers and senior citizens who live alone, Result of Creating Jobs in 26,547 aiming to improve their living and educational environment. addition, to prevent wrongful use of High1 points, we are developing Private Sector Fostering the Creative Talented (unit: number of persons) 86.4 Kangwon Land is striving to provide secure and stable welfare fraud prevention system using internal and external collaboration, Beneficiary Satisfaction Level 80.1 services to residents who are legally and systemically neglected including technical consultation, legal review, and analyzing (unit: point) 228 228 18,534 and those who reside in the welfare gray areas. In addition, Through operation of the ‘High1 Expedition’, Kangwon Land has effectiveness. Also, the regional management committee was Amount of Social 163 11,224 Kangwon Land participates in and supports various activities for provided overseas trips and open topic research projects to middle Contribution formed to organize the management. Reflecting the local demand, local communities such as main local festivals and events. and high school students in abandoned mine areas, to give them (unit: KRW 100 million) an incentive and opportunity to study and help them establish the number of regional stores in 2016 increased by 20% from the 2016 Results of Volunteer Work andTalent Donation of Employees their dreams and goals. In 2016, 40 students of the third ‘High1 previous year totaling 1,363 stores, while local usage increased by Supporting Local 2014 2015 2016 Thematic Volunteer Team Volunteer Expedition’ visited Ivy League schools with the topic of ‘Finding Group Group Festivals and Events * Conducting beneficiary satisfacton survey since 2015 My Dreams in the Global Education Center’. The expedition gave Number of 6,483 9,127 4,113 opportunities to the students living in abandoned mine area volunteers Hours spent to experience the outside world by visiting Harvard, Yale, and 22,775 35,595 30,062 volunteering University of Pennsylvania and conducting cultural exploration Fulfilling Social Responsibilities Using the Institutional Characteristics tours at major institutions such as the U.S. Capitol for 9 days. In addition, Kangwon Land provided opportunities to 30 students to Special Case experience East Asian history and the environment through the Boat School for the Creative Talented. Local Restaurant Contest Kangwon Land strives to do our social responsibilities at best including job creation and treatment of gambling addictions in Kangwon Land organized a ‘Kangwon Land Local Restaurants Contest’ in response to the latest trend in celebrity cooking shows, as part of the local the abandoned mine areas, using our institutional characteristics. Supporting Local Talents and Multi-cultural Families economic revitalization of four cities in abandoned mine areas through integration and promotion of tourism infrastructures. The contest started Particularly, we create jobs for socially disadvantaged such as from 2015 and restaurants from Jeongseon, Taebaek, Yeongwol, and Samcheok participated in this Kangwon Land actively supports the socially neglected and contest and showed a variety of menus including local foods. The contest is held by each region on a senior and disabled citizens living in abandoned mine areas, and quarterly basis and each local winner gathered at the banquet hall of Convention Hotel in December contribute to resolve problems in the hollowed communities disadvantaged classes in abandoned mine areas, to train talented 2016 to decide the winner. In the final round, professional entertainers, the customer panels appointed through revitalizing the local economy by promoting new venture individuals by giving scholarships and opening a library. In 2016, through SNS of the resort, participants, judges and customers all joined and enjoyed the contest for businesses and supporting the growth of the existing businesses Kangwon Land gave scholarships to 477 middle and high school making and eating the dishes. The contest was showcased and promoted by the resort home page, in the community. Further, Kangwon Land supports the successful students, supported 24 children libraries in the abandoned mine SNS, newspaper and broadcast ads, and especially the final round was joined in by celebrities like Big areas, opened a toy library in Samcheok city and supported Mama, Hye-jeong Lee and Young-gu Jo, with the production of the program being broadcasted locally. return of the rehabilitated gambling addicts to society by providing These efforts provided the opportunity to promote small and medium-sized businesses in four cities in educational support for rehabilitated gambling addicts, creating NIE(Newspaper In Education) Program and event of inviting parents abandoned mine areas, benefitting and giving vitality to the local economy. job opportunities, and supporting self-employment. from home country for multi-cultural families. 06 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Our Strategy Why is it important? Core Values & Issues • Enhancement of Win-Win Corporation System Our advanced mutual growth activities not only improve our public image but also support • Proliferating Win-Win Corporation Culture our suppliers to respond to various risks. Through mutual growth for our suppliers, Kangwon • Establishment and Operation of Contract System for Suppliers Land implements its social responsibilities and contributes to the revitalization of the local 2016 Highlight economy. And these dedications would become a foundation for realizing a fair society which • Improving Unfair Services, Practices, and Systems leads each other’s growth. • ‌Establishing Communication Process and Feedback System with Suppliers • Service Evaluation to Improve Customer Satisfaction Our Approach • ‌Preparing Standards for Private Contracts, and Creating a Contract Kangwon Land pursues sustainable mutual growth with suppliers with an advanced winFair and Transparent Public Condition to Prevent from Transferring Business Location win cooperation system and constructed partnership by reflecting suppliers’ needs through building a feedback communication within the win-win program. In addition, for the purpose Management 2017 Focus of mutual growth and development of our company and suppliers, we provide our suppliers • ‌Expansion of Establishing an Ethics Code for Suppliers with financial support and additional capacity building training. Establish Win-Win • ‌Encouraging Employment of Residents through Stricter Standards of Private Contracts Partnership with Suppliers Performance 82.9 •Customer Satisfaction Score of Suppliers (unit: point) 1,107 •Purchasement from the Abandoned Mine Areas (unit: KRW 100 million) 50 •SME Purchasing Performance (unit: KRW 100 million) 1,982 182 51 •Female Business Purchasing Performance (unit: KRW 100 million) Improving Unfair Service, Practice, and Relevant Establishment of Communication Process with Suppliers Establishing Win-Win Policies into mid-to long-term work plans. We enhanced the satisfaction of the suppliers’ employees on work process by reflecting their In order to facilitate effective communication with suppliers, demands including improvement of work efficiency and better Partnership with Suppliers Kangwon Land has strengthened its partnership with suppliers by Kangwon Land holds working group meetings and workshops and working conditions and treatment in the identified improvement finding unfair services, practices, and systems, and taking corrective operates daily field support channels. In 2016, we listened to the tasks. action. First, we have disclosed information on orders and bidding difficulties from our suppliers’ employees and proceeded to improve Enhancement of Win-Win Corporation in advance. In this way, we have successfully introduced the fair the communication process to resolve the difficulties. Our respective Mutual Communication Performances in 2016 Program competition system. In addition, we have enhanced transparency department in charge of the related work has been joining the Category Improvements by mandating the real-name system for a private contract. And we working-level conferences which were originally held between our Working group meeting Expansion of working group meeting with each Kangwon Land seeks to be the Korea’s best eco-friendly resort with suppliers supplier tier (2015: 19 times → 2016: 35 times) could increase the external reliability of our contracting system with general managing department and suppliers only, the complex and establishes a mutual growth culture with suppliers an increase of the advanced payment rate and standardization of the Identify and resolve Identified 62 tasks (24 tasks completed, 14 tasks in communication has become broader and the working conference difficulties at work sites progress as mid-term tasks, 24 tasks assigned as and revitalizes the local economy. In 2016, Kangwon Land founded penalty procedure against unfair contract partners. which was mainly operated for simple complaints and requests has long-term tasks) a contract system for suppliers, based on the establishment of a In addition to these institutional improvements, we revamped the been changed to have in-depth discussion about specific topics by Encourage suppliers’ Supporting Suppliers’ Employees at their Work Site win-win cooperation system that reflects the needs of the suppliers’ operational practices by enhancing the budget execution more sharing advanced notice of the conference agenda. employees at work sites and Providing Refreshment employees. We are practicing win-win cooperation by expanding appropriately and inspecting outsourced service cost planning, benefit sharing, strengthening win-win cooperation and protecting and disguised outsourcing and illegal dispatch of workers. We also Opinion Exchange and promoting local companies. Performance Measurement and Establishment of contributed to increase work reliability and secured fairness between Feedback System for Win-win Cooperation Program suppliers and us by maintaining fair contracting and upgrading Korea’s Best Eco-friendly Resort Complex Vision Leading to Mutual Growth assessment of contract by negotiation. Suppliers Department in In 2014, we established a system to measure the current win-win Charge 2016 Inspection and Improvement Performances on disguised outsourcing and Deriving cooperation program for our suppliers, and we incorporated the Establish a Mutual Growth Culture with Suppliers and Expand Illegal Dispatch Results Goal Contribution to Revitalization of Local Economy feedback from the supplier satisfaction survey in the program. The Increased training on the rules and Addressing Addressing satisfaction survey on the win-win cooperation program shows Expanded inspection targets of Topics Topics Proliferating profit Strengthening win-win Protecting and promoting regulations of outsourcing for related that the program scored average 3.21 points (out of 5) which is sharing to suppliers partnership with suppliers local companies outsourcing practices departments Supplier moderate, and the respondents mainly requested for expansion of 2016 •Improvement of Service 21 •‌Activation of Employee •‌O peration of Private Cooperation Level Agreement (SLA) 1 2015 welfare program, including raise of an amount for holiday gifts. In Business Communication Channels Contract Standards for outsourcing companies in Plan Policy •Introduction of •‌Extension of Win-win Local Residents Inc. •‌Improvement of local time in 2015 Team response, in the short-term, we increased the amount for holiday Performance Sharing Cooperation Program System with Service Operation competitive bidding Evaluation system gifts and expanded the support of providing rooms in resting places Operation of Communication Channels Analysis and/or Finding Issues to improve Taking Action and Feedback 2 time in 2016 24 outsourcing companies in 2016 In addition, through finding improvement tasks, works to be carried on as follow-up, and feedback on the management (once a half on weekends. In the long-term, we are planning to provide housing fund, scholarship, and childcare expenses through establishing a Feedback ‌Meeting with Suppliers • ‌Improvement of • year), we created an effective communication channel for improving joint employee welfare fund for suppliers. In this way, Kangwon ‌Analysis of Needs and • 10 System (twice a month) Operating System •Satisfaction Survey of Operational Performance ‌Establishment of • Revision of Outsourcing Risk factor inspection cases our work. In 2016, we found 62 improvement tasks through working Land is pursuing sustainable mutual growth with suppliers by Welfare Program (once a ‌‌Collecting Opinions from • Strategies Reflecting Manual (included Relevant Departments group meetings. We completed 24 improvement tasks and will measuring the performance of win-win cooperation program and 20 year) Improvements practitioners’ inquiries and the latest legal cases) Legal counseling on contracts cases continue to work on the remaining 38 tasks, which were converted establishing an objective feedback system. *SLA : Service Level Agreement 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Establishment of Win-win Partnership with Suppliers Core Values & Issues Proliferation of Win-win Cooperative Establishment and Operation of Suppliers Also, we are going to contribute to the enhancement of our Creation of Contract Provision to Prevent Relocation Culture suppliers’ service quality by examining the customer satisfaction Contract System level of suppliers through external expert group and by Kangwon Land created a special contract provision of local bidding implementing Sharing System with Service Evaluation that system to protect and foster local suppliers in the abandoned mine Improving Welfare Programs for Suppliers’ Establishing Private Contract Standards provides incentives to the suppliers based on the survey results. areas and to prevent paper company problems which mean that Employees In 2016, we awarded incentives totaling KRW 174,432,000 to 824 of To enhance the effectiveness of private contracts, Kangwon Land a non-resident company transfers its business location within the In order to establish a continuous win-win cooperation system six suppliers’ employees who received high customer satisfaction prepared detailed guidelines and management criteria for Private abandoned mine areas right before bidding and transfers out from with suppliers and strengthen mutual companionship with level. Contract Standard drafted in 2015. Such detailed guidelines (Private such location after winning the bid. Kangwon Land included a its suppliers, Kangwon Land is supporting welfare benefits to Contract Standards) were based on specific contract requirements contract provision that forces the suppliers to specify the location of suppliers’ employees. As we support medical check-up expenses, in order to encourage suppliers to increase their local contributions. the main office during the contract term and to submit documents for SLA Evaluation Indicators the suppliers’ employees may have the medical check-up at The reinforced standards have seven requirements and five eligibility evidence and, in a case of any violation such as false representation, Transparency of payment management, Strengthening job discounted to 80% of original price. And we send funeral flower competency education, Minimization of occurrence of industrial requirements, including minimum employment rate of 70% local we would impose the sanction on such partners by revoking the Environmental Common accidents, Evaluation of deductive factors (preventing corruption contract and designating it as unfair contract parties. This is the only arrangements to suppliers’ employees and their immediate family Indicator and creating a transparent corporate culture, rational labor residents from abandoned mine areas and limit the shareholding members in case of their death. In addition, we are making efforts management, occurrence of incidents) rate to 3% of shares with voting rights. special contract provision in Korea to block non-resident companies to enhance the employees’ morale and increase their awareness on Submission and implementation of business plan / Cleanliness / from participation in bidding and, in the case of selecting local Cleaning Minimization of customer complaints / Compliance with lost article Suppliers Private Contract Standards companies, to contribute to local tax revenues. Kangwon Land has companionship by providing discount coupons for season ticket and management regulations / Work cooperation level Foundation for accommodation discounts of Kangwon Land Ski Resort. establishment Eligibilities Main contents made efforts to protect and foster local companies by creating a Analysis of work data / Implementation level of instruction/ Early Minimum employment rate of 70% local special contract provision of the local competition bidding system, Process Security countermeasure work / Kindness, Appearance, Attire, Cleanliness / Creating jobs Implementation Year Welfare Program Benefits residents from abandoned mine areas which resulted in zero paper companies in 2016. Indicator Improvement of safety hazard factors / Work-post operation status Holiday gifts (New KRW 60,000 per person (each KRW Include the purpose of public interest 52 Year,Thanksgiving) 30,000 for NewYear andThanksgiving) Substitute plan for personnel vacancy / Strengthening industrial in the articles of association, and verify 2015 Public interest safety management / Maintainance of emergency operation plan / actual execution details of the public Stakeholder’s Interview Operating total 1,000 rooms, KRW Facility Summer rest places Improvement of facility management / Strengthening response to interest 53 120,000 per room work process / Suspension of service work 70 % or more of the shareholder must be “‌Mutual growth through cooperation and communication” Holiday gifts (New KRW 100,000 per person (each KRW residents in abandoned mine areas Year,Thanksgiving) 50,000 for NewYear andThanksgiving) Result South Gangwon Local Residents Inc., provides personal services mainly Customer satisfaction level Regional based 100 people or more of the shareholder Indicator Details of the cleaning and security services to Kangwon Land and maintains a stable Operating total 1,000 rooms, KRW contract Article 26 must be residents in abandoned mine employment and creates local jobs by prioritizing hire of unemployed 140,000 per room Paragraph areas Summer rest places people in the mining industry, their family members, and local residents. (Expanded the number of rooms 1 of Point 1 2016 Survey Result of the Suppliers’ Customer Satisfaction Level (Unit: Point) Autonomy of limit the shareholding rate to 3% of Kangwon Land has contributed to the welfare improvement of suppliers assigned in weekends) (Private Contract) Category 2014 2015 2016 residents shares with voting rights such as providing incentives for performance sharing, overseas training, Send funeral flower Sent in case of death of the employee arrangements and immediate family members Submit external audit report at the time the operation of resort facilities, and employee health checkups for the Suppliers’ customer satisfaction level 71.0 78.3 82.9 of signing contract mutual growth with its suppliers. Also, Kangwon Land has improved Overseas 30 selected exemplary service staff suppliers’ difficulties by listening to suppliers’ opinions through training program from suppliers Transparency One-third or more of external stakeholders and employee diversified communication channels such as mutual growth workshops. Expanding Small and Medium-sized Enterprises representatives attend in the Board of Directors meetings. I hope Kangwonland to continue its sustainable development and Supporting Suppliers’ Capacity Building (SMEs) and Women-owned Businesses become a resort where everyone can enjoy through sustainable To inspect suppliers pursuant to the Private Contract Standards, investment and R&D as well as providing stable jobs, implementing To encourage the development of local community and revitalize Kangwon Land advised the suppliers by conducting three labor welfare and contributing to the local community through mutual To grow together and cooperate with its suppliers, Kangwon Land SMEs, Kangwon Land continues to expand its purchases from sessions of legal consultation, three sessions of meeting and cooperation and active communication. is providing suppliers’ employees with opportunities to participate in SMEs. In 2016, our purchase amount from SMEs was KRW 198.2 frequent interviews and completed the compliance of the Private workshops and overseas training. In 2016, Kangwon Land presented SongTae-ho, General Manager, South Gangwon Local Residents Inc. billion which was an increase of 10.5% over the previous year and Contract Standards. Despite the implementation of fairly new topical lectures on communication, team building, and customer comprised 80.12% of the total purchase amount in the same year. In standards, Kangwon Land employed 97 percent of its employees service training to build competencies of suppliers’ employees by addition, our purchase amount from women-owned businesses was from local residents and spent extra KRW 400 million in projects holding a two-day win-win cooperation workshop. We also invited KRW 18.2 billion in 2016, which was an increase of 26.9% over the return profits to local communities in 2016. them to the Alpensia Resort to enrich their experiences. In addition, previous year. By continuously increasing our purchases from SMEs in 2016, Kangwon Land introduced an overseas training program for and women-owned businesses, we are contributing to the mutual exemplary service staff. We selected 29 suppliers’ employees and Inspection Results of Suppliers’ Private Contract Standards growth, and further, to revitalizing the local economy. provided them an opportunity to experience and learn from best Eligibility to Contract Suppliers Inspection Results Renewal in 2016 practices of Creating Good Villages in Nagoya, Japan (Nagahama South Gangwon Local village and Takayama village) and to benchmark excellent companies Residents Inc. (Nagashima Resort and Trust Resort) for four days. Purchasement from SMEs and Women-owned Businesses (unit: KRW million) Completion of Woori Local Residents Inc. Implementing Private Eligible for signing of Year on year private contracts Category 2014 2015 2016 increase rate Youth Local Residents Inc. Contract Standards Implementing Performance Sharing System with Purchasing amount Seok Kwang Corp. 174,471 179,382 198,169 10.5% Service Evaluation from SME (A) SME Total purchasing Implementation Performances of Private Contract Standards Purchasing 203,400 206,173 247,339 20.0% amount (B) In order to enhance customer satisfaction level through improving Performance Creating jobs Hired 97 percent of its employees from local residents our suppliers’ customer service, Kangwon Land has promoted a Purchasing rate 85.78% 87.01% 80.12% 6.89% (A/B) Sharing System with Service Evaluation for 28 service suppliers, Public interest Spent KRW 400 million in projects return profits to local Women-owned communities such as cleaning, security, and facilities. Above all, we are business purchasing 10,310 14,331 18,180 26.9% Womenevaluating the level of service implementation with the established owned amount(A) Regional based 93 % of the stockholders were local residents in abandoned mine areas Service Level Agreement (SLA) system, which is to manage business Total purchasing 203,400 206,173 247,339 20.0% Autonomy of Adjusted shareholding rate for all shareholders the ESG risks and improve the service quality of suppliers. Any purchasing amount (B) performance residents no more than 3 percent suppliers received less than 85 points, the baseline, as a result of Purchasing rate 5.07% 6.95% 7.35% 0.4% (A/B) Performed external audit and external stakeholders and the evaluation, are imposed penalty. Transparency employee representatives attended the Board of Directors meetings Sustainability Advancing Sustainable Management System 56 Management Promoting Systemic Risk Management Tax Strategy of Kangwon Land 59 60 Sound and Transparent Corporate Governance 61 Establishing Responsible Management through Ethical Management 63 Human Rights Management Pursuing Employees’ Value 66 Risks and Opportunities of Kangwon Land 67 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Advancing Sustainable Management System Sustainability Management Sustainable Management Value Creation of Sustainable Strategic System Management Sustainable Management Strategy Advancing Strategic System Creating Values in the Value Chain Listed in DJSI World Index Kangwon Land established sustainable management strategic The ultimate goal(ideal) of Kangwon Land is to grow into a The active sustainable management activities of Kangwon Land has Kangwon Land continues to prioritize balanced local economic directions and three promotional strategies aligned with our sustainable corporation to boost the local economy and change resulted in being listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), development and promoting the improvement of lives of local business guidelines and sustainable management vision in order the local communities to a level of self-sustainability. Therefore, the globally renowned sustainability index, for four consecutive community residents through reinvigorating the stagnant economy to accomplish our strategic vision and mission. Particularly, we are working on to establish a ‘Sustainable Management years. This performance is not only the first case both in Korean of abandoned mine areas. For this goal, we have proactively we aim to create values and drive the balanced development Strategy System’ which is integrated with midtolong-term resort industry and the public sector but also demonstrating the promoted win-win growth projects in those areas and conducted of our various stakeholders by implementing 15 sub-tasks management strategies, and then applying them to management. sustainability excellence of Kangwon Land to the world. social contribution activities that provide practical support to the according to our promotional strategies. Furthermore, we Once the strategy system is completed, the meaning of the current beneficiaries. Furthermore, Kangwon Land has responded to will complete sustainable management systems to actively stand-alone sustainable management strategic framework will climate change by introducing energy management to become the MEMBER OF integrate sustainability trends in our system to maximize value naturally be faded. creation. We will maximize the values that we provide to our Kangwon Land will continue to strengthen our strategies and representative eco-friendly resort complex in Korea. We will grow Dow Jones stakeholders by undertaking our social responsibilities through organizational structure to internalize sustainable management as the best representative resort in Korea through continuing to play Sustainability Indices transparent and responsible management and lead sustainable diverse sustainability activities and deriving various sustainability until 2020 when Kangwon Land becomes a global leading In Collaboration with RobecoSAM management as a public institute. performances from our business strategies. sustainable company. 56 2020 2012 2010~2011 Global leading Main Tasks Major Achievements KPI(Key Performance Indicator) Establishing Vision 57 ~2009 Building an sustainable sustainable Integrated Sustainability Active environmental management management company Business strategy and Business environmental management system • ‌Usage of Onnuri gift certificate for traditional • ‌Contribution rate of Win-win Growth for system Management activities and a foundation Sustainable management Invigorating Local markets abandoned mine areas 26.19% for sustainable Economy in Mutually(1% from previous year) • ‌Expansion of support to High1 Point management Former system Changed system • ‌Contribution to mutual development of Sustainable management strategy Maximize sustainability and benefited and registered shops • ‌Introduction of prior purchase program of abandoned mine areas linked to the business strategy business performance through Cooperative Ways agricultural products from abandoned mine integrated sustainability and areas business management • ‌Preparation of City Restoration projects promotion for abandoned mine areas • ‌Development of representative social • ‌Decide Kangwon Land’s Representative Vision Growing to a Global Leading Company Creating Stakeholders’ Values Advancement of contribution projects Social Contribution Projects Social Contribution (prevention of non-drug addiction) • ‌Improvement of Social Contribution • ‌‌Extension of beneficiary targets Beneficiaries’ Satisfaction Activity System (80.1 points in 2015 86.4 points in 2016) ‌(Four cities and counties in abandoned Sustainable mine areas Kangwon Province, Other management Business for Happy Society and Clean Environment by Growing Together with All Stakeholders abandoned mine areas) approach • Improvement ‌ of social contribution ownership (outsourcing direct management) Promotional Enhancement of strategy Securing New Growth Drivers and Realizing Green Resort Complex by Implementing Social Responsibilities Public-oriented ‌ • Sustainability report publication and DJSI • ‌Selected as Excellent Institute (Level 2) Maximizing Corporate Values Eco-friendly Management through Proactive Communications Brand Value response in the ‘Anti-Corruption Initiative • Participated ‌ in the UN Global Compact Assessment’ • Established ‌ National Gaming Control Public • ‌Four Consecutive Years Listed on the Institute Integrity Cluster DJSI World Index • Strengthening ‌ enterprise risk • ‌Strengthening Connection between • ‌Introducing International Level management Environmental and Economic of Human Rights Business Forming Performances Management • Re-organizing ‌ sustainability related Eco-friendly decision making structure • ‌Establishing Investment System for • ‌Improving Employees’ Satisfaction Promotional ‌ • Building business ethics organization Eco-friendly Business • ‌Managing and Reporting Systematic Management • ‌Verification of Energy Management System • ‌Saved KRW 1.9 billion of energy cost (7.6% tasks and information disclosure principles • ‌Developing Environmental Social Performances System • ‌Comply with GHG Emission Trading Scheme reduction compared to previous year) Performance Management System • ‌Promoting Community-oriented • ‌Advancing monitoring and transparency of anti-trust compliance • ‌Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Social Contribution • Strengthening ‌ customer retention • ‌Strengthening Environmental • ‌Supporting Suppliers’ Sustainable and repeat customer management Efficiency Management Management 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Sustainable Value Creation Promoting Systemic Risk Management Sustainability Management (unit : KRW million) Strengthen Risk Response Strengthening Information Security Category Profit/Loss Values in amount Management System Kangwon Land operates a monitoring and evaluation system to cope Earnings Fianncial values Net profit 454,534 with the risks that may arise as the business environment changes Kangwon Land has established an information security strategy rapidly. In addition, we are actively managing risks from prevention in conjunction with our corporate vision in order to implement the Investors’ values Dividend + 200,712 perspectives by strengthening follow-up management through audit national information security policy for cyber safety. Through this, activities and continuously improving internal control system. Kangwon Land is striving to protect customer information and Salary/welfare/talent secure the stability of the operation system. Employees’ values + 312,018 development Core Risk Classification Contribution to the national Strengthening Administrative Security National tax/local tax/fund + 638,500 Kangwon Land manages financial risks at the Strategic Planning Division finance and Management & Support Division. Non-financial risks are managed We strengthened the information security evaluation by reinforcing Purchasement and support in a comprehensive manner by the Comprehensive Control center in security education, e-mail simulation training, security checks, and + 274,563 response to social and environmental changes such as climate change establishing PC security level and received ‘Excellent’ rating from Social and economic suppliers values and cyber terrorism. Financial risks are classified into liquidity risk, malicious e-mail simulation of the National Intelligence Service. Local community profitability risk, investment risk, and operational risk, and are managed In addition, we will strengthen information security management Social contribution (including development + 18,639 cash donation) systematically. Non-financial risks are classified into information security, control from 2017 to 2019 by establishing a master plan for environment, disaster response, and corruption and are managed enhancing information security, improving security regulations and Local community investment + 4,500 through various activities including emergency protection system, guidelines, and expanding IT security team and security budgets. resource saving activities and facility safety inspections. 58 Gambling Prevention and + 8,144 Enhancing Technical Security Recovery Charges Liquidity Profitability Investment Operation Gambling addiction 59 Financial Responding to risks Improving resort’s Improving revenue by Precautionary audit, In order to improve the technical aspects of information security, Social cost 58,660 Risks through maintenance revenue through revenue reflecting the opinions prevention of accounting of no-arbitrage structure improvement of external experts and fraud, and improvement unregistered USB inspection space has been added and IT Room access condition and diversifying investment execution and cost reduction investment assets of transparency control has been reinforced. Security vulnerable areas are systematically Energy reduction (pallet/solar Renewable energy use + 72 managed through quantification of Cyber Security Index, automated PV) Information · Security Environment Disaster · Safety Corruption inspection of IT infrastructure vulnerability, and automation of PC security Establishing Complying with the Released endangered NonStrengthening the environmental occupational safety and Reinforcing inspection level check. As a result, the score of Cyber Security Index increased 8 financial ability to prevent for implementation of Ecosystem restoration species (Red-dotted Butterfly, + 50 personal information management guidelines health act by performing the code of conduct and points (62 points to 70 points) over the previous year. We have operated Risks to become an eco-friendly safety facilities inspections Manchurian Trout) infringement through resort (energy and and completing safety laxity of discipline special APT attack response system, firewall using VPN technology, and self-simulation training service Environmental resource reduction) checklists malware distribution defense system to achieve ZERO security incident GHG emissions GHG emissions 1,393 including external hacking and cyber penetration. values Air emissions PM/Sox/Nox 5,764 Strengthen Risk Management Strengthening Response Capacity to Personal Information Infringement Water system impact Wastewater treatment 1,100 Kangwon Land has strengthened its risk management by operating an internal control system. In 2016, we enhanced the early warning In order to improve the response system against personal information Waste impact Waste treatment 1,473 system by utilizing the e-audit system, strengthened the internal infringement, the Legal Team was added to the Responding Team, and monitoring system through introducing anonymous reporting incident response simulation training was strengthened from twice in True Earnings Financial profits and social/environmental net value creation 1,843,342 system, and established solicit registration system. In addition, 2015 to three times in 2016. As a result, we received 6.31 points superior we have improved the contract structure for purchasing contracts to the public institution average in the personal information management and revised the audit regulations, such as appointing external diagnosis of public institutions category. In addition, we have improved professional auditors and visiting auditors at important business the level of security consciousness of employees by conducting site inspections. Moreover, we strengthened our own safety and comprehensive education on personal information protection, such as (unit : KRW million) health inspections to ensure customer safety as we have multi-use online training for all employees, and external professional training for Earnings Social and economic values Environmental values True Earnings facilities, and conducted preliminary risk management activities personal information protection officers and persons in charge. by establishing rigorous workplace disciplines such as conducting General Manager 1,843,342 service inspections at disaster vulnerable times (national holidays). Privacy Officer Coordinator Risk Management Process Infringement Handling Officer Privacy Officer 638,500 454,534 Personal Information Protection Officer by Field 312,018 Obtain Evidences 297,702 200,712 (Surveillance Team) Personal Information Legal 72 50 Handling Officer System Officer PR Team Affairs Office External Expert Risk Risk Identification Establish Response Accidents Information Media Risk Suppression Department Security Officer Representative Legal Acceptance and Diagnosis Strategy (if necessary) 1,100 Personal Information (in the event of a Representative 1,393 1,473 Information System Officer major accident) 5,764 Handing Officer 50,516 Request Cooperation from NO Possibility of Relevant Organizations Self-Processing Personal information management level diagnosis results 6.31 points Result of action YES higher than Public Institution Average 83.45 points average Net profit Investors’ Employees’ Contribution Local Gambling Renewable Ecosystem GHG Air Water system Waste Financial profits Build Risk Database Management Policy Risk Management Risk Control and values values to the national community addiction energy use restoration emissions emissions impact impact and social/ finance development environmental Post-management Feedback Assessment Response Kangwon Land 89.76 points net value creation 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Special Sound and Transparent Corporate Governance Sustainability Management page Tax Strategy of Kangwon Land Kangwon Land is a comprehensive tourism/leisure center with the nation’s only inbound casino and fulfills its legal obligations to meet the purpose of Board Composition and Roles Activation of Board of Directors and establishment. We operate a casino business with the aim of public interest and return a large portion of our profits to society in various ways. In particular, Strengthening Competencies we strive to dedicate ourselves to the public interest by faithfully fulfilling a taxpayer’s obligations to the local government and the Gangwon provincial The board of directors (BOD), the highest decision-making body, government. In 2016, we paid a total of KRW 638.5 billion in taxes and other funds, including national and local taxes and other funds. This amounts to 38% determines strategies and policies for major issues across the In response to the internal and external business environments, of total sales, and Kangwon Land is striving to grow together with Korea. economy, society, and the environment sectors, and roles of Kangwon Land has established operational plans including control and supervision of management activities. The BOD activating the BOD and strengthening their roles, operating subconsists of ten people including two executive directors, two noncommittees, non-executive directors’ management participation executive directors, and six non-executive independent directors. and of active utilization of non-executive directors’ expertise and expanding support to them. Through operating sub-committees Composition of Directors As of March 30, 2017 and supporting non-executive directors, we activate the function Classification Title Name Career of management support and Audit Committee and Executive Nomination Committee role the function of internal control. Contribution to Public Finances CEO Ham SeungRepresentative lawyer at Daeryook & Aju Law Firm (Former) Huie Member of the 16th National Assembly (Former) Executive Director Vice Kim GyeongMBC Duputy Director (Former) Independence of BOD President Executive Vice President of BR Korea (Former) Jung Kangwon Land’s profit contributes to the Tax Reporting Tourism and Marketing Director, CultureTourism and Sports Division, Gangwon Province (Former) In order to control and maintain balance of management, the Oh economic revitalization of the abandoned Won-Jong Head of Economy Promotion Bureau, Gangwon Province BOD of Kangwon Land is composed of professors, accountants, mine area and promotion of domestic Non-executive (Present) and government officials who are qualified with independence Director tourism industry. As the tax paid by Global Investment andTrade Division, Gangwon Province and expertise. The BOD appoints directors in pursuant to the Kangwon Land is seeking to communicate with Shin Director of Support at Lego Land (Former) 60 Kangwon Land is recognized as important, various stakeholders by disclosing publicly Joo-Ho Vice County Governor of Jeongseon County (Present) Article 542, Paragraph 8-4 of the Commercial Act and secure the we are actively working to fulfill our tax Chairman of Korean Academic Society of Business directors’ independence. The independence of BOD operating the taxes paid through an audit report. If there Han Administration (Present) procedures is specified in the BOD provisions and the articles of 61 obligations faithfully. First of all, we review and reflect the is a difference between the expected tax rate In-Goo Professor at KAIST Business School (Present) enactment and amendment of the tax law every year, and strive to incorporation. The appointment procedure of directors is also and the actual tax rate in the process of paying Kim Head of Strategic Industry Division, Economy Promotion proceeded objectively and fairly by the Independent Director and pay the correct amount at the correct time. In addition, in the case Independent Director Department, Gangwon Province Office (Former) corporation tax, the details of the difference (Audit Committee) Sang-Il Vice County Governor ofYeongwol County (Former) Executive Director Nomination Committee. of new amendments related to the convenience of Kangwon Land are recorded in the audit report and we regularly disclose this Office of Planning and Coordination,Tongil Group Planning users, we notify them promptly so that there will be no disruption information to the public to enhance the transparency and Choi and AuditTeam Lead (Assistant Executive Director) (Former) Don-Yong Head of Management Planning Division (Executive Article 382-3, Commecial Act to the facilities. accuracy of the tax payment. Director), Boryung Media Co., Ltd. (Present) Outside directors are directors who are not engaged in the regular business In addition, the assets and liabilities recorded in Statements of Head of Maritime and Port Division, Gangwon Province East of the relevant company, and do not correspond to any of the following Han Sea Rim Headquarters (Former) subparagraphs. Where any outside director falls under any of the following In addition to national taxes and local taxes, we contribute to Financial Position, as well as the revenues and expenses, are Seung-Ho Vice Mayor of Samcheok City (Former) subparagraphs, he/she shall be removed from office. various other funds. In order to develop the abandoned mine area, reasonable for each item and fulfill the duty of a sincere taxpayer Deputy Director of Network Co., Ltd. (Former) 1. ‌‌‌Directors, executive directors and employees who are engaged in the Cha we pay 25% of the annual pretax profit to the Abandoned Mine without taking any tax reduction measures. Independent Director Dong-Rae Korea Reclamation Corporation Head of Coal Mine Region regular business of the relevant company, or directors, auditors, executive Promotion Headquarters (Former) directors and employees who have engaged in the regular business of Areas Development Fund. Also, to activate the national tourism the relevant company within the latest two years; Choi Vice President of Sabuk Prosperity Corp. (Former) industry, we pay 10% of casino sales to the Tourism Promotion GyeongChairman of Gohan-Sabuk Nam-myeon Shin-dong 2. ‌ The principal, his/her spouse, lineal ascendants, and lineal descendants, and Development Fund based on the Tourism Promotion Act. In Sik Revitalization Joint Committee (Former) in cases where the largest shareholder is a natural person; addition, as Kangwon Land operates the gambling industry under 3. Directors, ‌ auditors, executive directors and employees of the corporation, in cases where the largest shareholder is a corporation; the public interest purpose, we are working to minimize gambling 4. ‌The spouses, lineal ascendants, and lineal descendants of directors, addiction in various ways with our awareness and responsibilities. Appointment of Board Member and Independence auditors and executive directors; To contribute to solving the gambling industry addiction problem Tax Risk Management of the BOD 5. ‌The directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of a parent company or a subsidiary company of the relevant company; not only in the casino but also from a national aspect, we pay Kangwon Land appoints directors in a transparent and fair manner 6. ‌Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of a corporation around amount of 0.5% of casino sales as Gambling Prevention which has a significant interest in the relevant company, such as business and Recovery Charges in accordance with the ‘National Gambling at the general shareholders’ meeting. The executive directors are relations with the company; We anticipate the effects of the enactment and appointed among candidates nominated by the Executive Director 7. Directors, ‌ auditors, executive directors and employees of another Control Commission Act’. amendment of the accounting standard every Nomination Committee. Independent directors are appointed in a company for which directors, executive directors and employees of the relevant company serve as directors and executive directors. year and make efforts to help stakeholders fair manner by the Independent Director Nomination Committee, and shareholders make decisions. Through which consists of more than half of independent directors. The the internal accounting management system, Audit Committee consists of three or more members. More Expertise and Diversity of Board of Directors Tax and Fund payments  (unit: KRW 100 million) we are improving reliability and accuracy of the tax reconciliation than two-thirds of the Audit Committee members are appointed process and accounting process. By setting controlling items in among independent directors. The rest non-independent directors Kangwon Land, in principle, does not have any restrictions on the system, we manage unreviewed or undeclared amounts in are appointed in accordance with Article 542 Paragraph 10-2 of the gender, race, nationality, or age when appointing directors. We Commercial Act. At the time of appointing the Audit Committee 6,385 advance. In addition, we manage tax reporting data to be kept and are strengthening our management expertise by appointing non6,191 maintained for a certain period of time. member, shareholders who hold more than 3/100 of the total executive directors with expertise in five sub-areas under the four 5,584 number of issued voting shares are not allowed to exercise their corporate strategy directions. voting rights to maintain independence. No. of NonKangwon Land works diligently on regular tax investigations and 4,763 executive actively responds to the unfair tax imposing cases. For example, Strategic direction Expertise Director Independent Director Executive Director Increasing Competitiveness of Current Tourism Marketing 1 Person unreasonable taxation, such as denial of tax exemption benefits Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Businesses regarding an additional tax-free allowance of reduced acquisition Securing Growth Engines for the Future Press and PR 1 Person tax, was resolved through tax appeal process. In addition, we Contributing to Regional Development Regional Development 4 Persons actively respond in consultation with related organizations to General Shareholders’ Meeting and Enhancing Social Contribution Policy Financial Management 1 Person prevent an excessive increase in tax burden. Renewing the business fundamentals Strategy Establishment 2013 2014 2015 2016 for enhancement of the public interests and General 1 Person Independent Director Executive Director Management 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Establishing Responsible Management through Ethical Management Sustainability Management Support System for Activating Board of Directors Ownership Structure and Legal Form Ethical Management Promotion System Result of Anti-Corruption Initiative Assessment by the Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Commission To activate the BOD, we actively support new directors to enhance For the publicness and efficiency of casino business and as Kangwon Land has established an ethical management system their understanding of management activities through site visits per the Article 11 Paragraph 2 of 『Special Act on the Assistance to realize fair, transparent, and ethically clean Kangwon Land as and sub-committee and explain their main duties and BOD to the Development of Abandoned Mine-neighboring Areas』, the leading representative eco-friendly resort complex for happy 2014 2015 2016 operation at the orientation. In addition, we also actively support Mine Reclamation Corp. (36.27%), Gangwondo Development leisure and culture in Korea. In particular, we have established management activities of non-executive directors by providing Corporation (5.86%) and four municipalities (Jungsun, Taebaek, a strategy for ethical management aligned with our VISION individually customized briefing sessions for meeting agenda in Yeongwol, and Samcheok, 8.88%) are accounted for more 2025 and then selected follow-up action plans. For this, we have advance to BOD meetings, particularly regarding unfamiliar topics so that they can propose valuable business suggestions and raise than 51% of public shareholders of Kangwon Land. In addition, foreigners (28.53%), domestic institutions and individuals (15.22%), established a monitoring and feedback system. In 2016, under the ethical brand ‘High Clean,’ we pursued ethical management Class 5 Class 2 Class 2 more opinions. and treasury stock (5.24%) own the stakes. with the aim of acquiring the trust of people through sharing the corporate culture with integrity. As a result, we achieved the New Providing Supporting Feedback Director Business Management Professionalism Stockholder Distribution (As of December 2016) highest grade of anti-corruption policy evaluation for the two Orientation Information Activities consecutive years and became the first Korean public company to Ethics Management Committee and Dedicated • ‌General Status • ‌CEO Management • Operating ‌ Sub• ‌Management be included in the DJSI World Index for the four consecutive years. Organization • ‌Major Business • Key ‌ Management committee Suggestions from Non• ‌Method for Data • Conducting ‌ executive Directors Kangwon Land operates the Ethics Management Committee as Ethical Management System Operating • ‌On-site Visit agenda briefing • ‌Review by Department in the Board of session Charge and Integrate the the highest decision-making body on anti-corruption integrity Directors Reviews into Business ethics policy. The committee consists of the chairman, the audit Management Public Sector Foreigner 62 VISION 2025 System office (advisory consultant), four general managers, an integrity 51.01% 28.53% auditor, and five employee representatives known as Hi Clean leaders. In 2016, a total of four ethical management committee 63 Comprehensive Support for Improvement of Job Performance of NonVISION The Representative Eco-friendly Resort Complex Leading executive Happy Leisure and Culture in Korea meeting were held to establish an anti-corruption promotion plan. The committee selected Integrity Mileage, integrity model prize, Fair and Creative Happy Management Main Content Improvement Management Transparent Public Management for that Satisfies and voluntary ethics management practice task project to operate STOCKHOLDER Guidelines Introducing overview of the Management the Future Everyone in Kangwon Land. In addition, we have strengthened our dedicated Orientation STATUS company to new directors organization by transforming permanently the Integrity culture TF (%) Ethical Realization of Fair and Transparent Kangwon Land as an Integrity Audit Team. We have also increased the Hi Clean Support with Dedicated personnel and in•‌Enhanced Vision human services and house information network understanding of Promotion Team from existing 52 to 83 government officials. materials accessibility support tourism industry Moreover, we have operated the integrity citizen auditor program Support to identify •‌In-depth Domestic institution High Clean (Pursuit of Coexistence and Cooperation with Major and management deliberation of Treasury Stock Ethics Stakeholders and Corporate Social Responsibility beyond four times, striving to implement ethical management by executing and understand and Individuals Brand management issues issue report meeting agendas 5.24% Legal and Business Ethics Compliance) regulations on personal information, supplementing detailed •‌Improved 15.22% Provision of agenda and standards for Integrity Mileage, and conducting integrity lectures. Review and support understanding of supplementary materials in major business Goal in Acquisition of National Trust by Proliferating for agenda advance 2016 Achievements of Organizational Culture of Integrity Ethical Management Organization Chart Field communication and Field visit support inspection CEO Operating Performance of Board of Directors Major Subsidiaries Ethics Management Social Contrubition Organic Ethical Management System Audit Office Committee (Chairman: Committee through Integrity Ecosystem Executive Vice President) 2014 2015 2016 Together with the Mine Reclamation Corp., the largest shareholder, Promotion Number of Board Meetings Strategies Systematic Internalization of Strengthen Ethics Management 12 7 5 Code of Conduct Social Contribution (Number) Kangwon Land operates seven subsidiaries and owns shares Management of Ethical Organizational Ethical Management Officer Department (Integrity Office Management System Culture with Integrity Practice Audit Team, 6 persons) Resolution * (Case) 22 18 17 for eight affiliates including, Mun Gyeong Leisure Town Co., Ltd., High1 Clean Promotion Kangwon Land Welfare Ratio of Amendment Resolution (%) 24 18 12 High1 Entertainment Co., Ltd., High1 Sangdong Theme Park, and ·Systematic and ·CEO’s Commitment ·Conduct Voluntary Team Foundation Continuous Practice Program High1 Choo Choo Park. Improvement of and Internalization of · Improvement of Board Meeting Attendance Rate (%) 71 73 78 Ethical Management High 1 Hope Action Code of Ethics ·Sustainable Execution Level High1 Clean Leaders Plan ·‌System Maintenance through Promotion Foundation Non-executive Director Operation of Ethical 75 70 73 (As of December 31, 2016) Reflecting System with Internal Attendance Rate (%)  Institutional Management and External Kangwon Land Social System Characteristics Cooperation Volunteer Corps *‌The preliminary deliberation rate for the BOD agenda is 100% for the three Classification Ownership (%) consecutive years Inspection and Diagnosis Control and Monitoring Mungyeong Leisure Town Co., Ltd. 27.3 External Creating Clean Organization Culture Internal Evaluation and Remuneration of Board of Directors Donggang Cista Co., Ltd. 24.1 Monitoring ·KL E Audit System, · ‌Integrity Citizen Controller, Integrity Mileage Red Whistle (Anonymous Kangwon Land strives to create a clean corporate culture through · ‌Ethics Management Committee, Corruption Report) various ethical traning contents and organizational systems. The remuneration for the directors is approved during the general Daecheon Resort Co., Ltd. 28.6 Audit Committee ·Government Agency Audit We have strived to enhance our employees’ ethical awareness shareholders’ meeting for the appropriateness and motivation in Vario Hwasun Co., Ltd. 30.5 Incentive Evaluation and Feedback by adding more integrity education contents of Kangwon Land compensation for their contribution to business performance. eCampus, and mandating ethical education for employees. We Among the independent directors, public officials are not paid High1 Entertainment Co., Ltd. 100 Internal External · ‌Anti-Corruption Initiative also held Ethics Day and Week and expert invitation lectures, and their salary in accordance with the relevant laws. The bonuses for Feedback · ‌Reflecting Internal Organization Evaluation and Assessment, Customer Kangwon Land executives’ pledge on integrity. Further, we are System the executive directors are determined based on comprehensive High1 Sangdong Theme Park Co., Ltd. 100 Integrity Activities (5 points) Satisfaction Survey · ‌Excellent Best Practice Award for · ‌Government Management giving motivation to the employees to build a voluntary integrity management performance and are approved by the BOD. For Excellent People with Integrity Evaluation Feedback, DJSI High1 Choo Choo Park Co., Ltd. 99.6 culture through operating Integrity Mileage and incentive programs. reference, the total amount of remuneration for the directors in Evaluation 2016 was the same as last year to meet the government’s policy. * Black Valley CC Co., Ltd., is not legally affiliated so is not listed 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Sustainability Management Internalization of Ethical Management Strengthening Roles through Fruitful Management of Preventing Corruption Sources through PDCA-based Audit Strategy System Awareness Promotion System for Ethical Management Institutional Improvement Establishment of Audit System Supporting Sustainable Management Base through Kangwon Land promotes fruitful internal and external ethical Sharing Commitment toward Anti-corruption and Improving Norms based on Legal Environment Audit Vision Advanced Audit management. In 2016, we tried to improve the level of ethical Integrity Culture Changes awareness through effective management of each organization including ethics management committee, High Clean promotion Trustworthy Kangwon Land through Establishing Kangwon Land’s anti-corruption initiative plan is being As the legal environment changes, institutional internal norms team, citizen integrity controller, Korean Network on AntiPublic Discipline and Integrity Culture strengthened by the direct participation of the CEO. In 2016, a and institutional improvement must be continuously pursued. Audit Goal Corruption and Transparency and Public Institute Integrity Cluster. strong commitment to the CEO’s integrity policy, including the Therefore, Kangwon Land reviewed and improved the irrational enhancement of the anti-money laundering system and the Number and corruption-inducing factors through external professional Strengthen Preemptive Strengthen elimination of privileges for specific groups, was reflected in Classification Member Role of Events Result organizations, and as a result, a total of 122 regulations and 99 Audit Risk Internal the plan. We also listened to the voices of our employees by rules were reviewed in 2016 including the articles of association, Three Strategies Capacity Management Control (Reported Matter) Anti-corruption strengthening communication channels between employees and Promotion Plan Report, Improper rules and regulations, detailed rules, guidelines etc. In the case Solicitation and Graft Act, Response the CEO, such as Integrity Casual Date, an integrity talk with CEO, Six executives Report Etc. Monitoring such as of the system for fair integrity contracts, we operate Contact • ‌Prevention• ‌Strengthen Audit Ethics including Top Decision4 times / Inspecting Ethical Management Activities based communicator meetings, and the voice of employees. The CEO Management chairperson (vice making Body Year Policy Promotion Contents Review Committee, expand the e-bidding system to 100%, and • Securing ‌ Audit oriented on Rules and Committee president), six Preemptive Risk and executives are taking the initiative to create a culture of antiemployees (Deliberation) Revision of the Code disclose bidding information in advance to prevent corruption Independence Regulations of Conduct, Improvement of the Tasks Management corruption and integrity in Kangwon Land. preemptively. We have also revised guidelines and manuals on the and Expertise • ‌Job Inspection Integrity Mileage System, and • ‌Establishment of and Public Reward for Best Integrity Improper Solicitation and Graft Act, which was an issue of 2016, Work Discipline Reporting Check 2016 Communication Channel Performance between CEO and Employees (Meeting) Anti-corruption Promotion and promoted the recruitment system and personnel evaluation Plan Establishment Meeting, SubExpanded committee Meeting etc. system for transparent personnel management. 64 High Clean Promotion Government Operation of All Field-based Practice 5 times / Year (Education) Propagation Education Team Departments (52 Organization on Improper Solicitation and Graft Integrity Casual Dating Communication Meeting Workshop 83 persons) Act and Public Whistleblower, Efforts to Prevent Vulnerable Areas Notification Transitional Transitional Audit Experience Training about Confucian of Audit Progress Result Feedback Result 65 5 7 1 Integrity Cultural Result Monitoring Confirmation Disclosure (Reported Matters) Policy Check, Kangwon Land is striving to prevent vulnerable areas such as times meetings / workshop including Revision of the Code money laundering and various casino accidents. In 2016, we •‌Forwarding •‌Audit •‌Receiving •‌Audit Result •‌Intranet of Conduct and Selection of Disposal System Action Plans Evaluation Disclosure Outstanding Project revised the management guidelines in accordance with the Korea Request Registration •‌Execution •‌Reflecting •‌Sharing Surveillance, (Deliberation) Financial Intelligence Unit (KoFIU) security standards, expanded Form Result Incomplete a total of Voice of Employees Anonymous mail 1Q: Reflection of Three Opinions, ‌Appointing Monitoring Evaluation Items for 16 Cases Citizen Civil Society Observation, including Review of Action Plan the suspicion of money laundering surveillance to four levels, and Action Progress •‌Confirmation Following including 101 12 Recommendation 4 times / Revision (Draft) and Strengthening Integrity Experts and Consultation Year of Personal Information Protection conducted external fostering education to prevent illegal money Period etc. and Year’s Audit Violations Controller (3 persons) cases received cases of External 2Q: Reflecting Two Opinions on the laundering. Based on these efforts, Kangwon Land achieved Conclusion Plan of Code of Experts Standards of Clean Mileage Conduct and 3Q: Reflecting Three Opinions, the “Excellent” rating of the anti-money laundering system in Acceptance including Opinion on Executive and Employee Training before government’s comprehensive evaluation 2016. of Briberies Enactment of Improper Solicitation and Graft Act In addition, for the prevention of fraud accidents in the casino, we Operation of Customized Ethics Education System Korean ATotal of 40 Two Attendances in Meetings of published and distributed fraud casebooks, conducted simulation Securing Independence and Expertise of Audit Network organizations the Steering Committee and Joint on Antiincluding Public Information Twice / Campaign Events Etc. exercises to prevent accidents such as counterfeit chips, and Organization Sharing and Through various contents including integrated education system Corruption /regional / Cooperation Year Participation in the Gangwon and professional Transparency Social Network and cooperated with relevant agencies such as police to crack down (e-campus) and offline education, all employees of Kangwon Land Transparency organizations Meeting The audit body should ensure professionalism based on on illegal private loans, and operation of whistleblower reward take customized ethics classes. In 2016, we conducted basic and transparency and independence in its role. Kangwon Land has Gambling Industry 1st (Jun. 23): Hosted by Kangwon program, all of which were efforts to restore the gambling industry. professional courses for the training of the 4th Integrity ethics Four Public Public Institution PolicyLand, sharing anti-corruption policies established an independent auditing system by eliminating (KL/ Korea Racing sharing and and corruption cases In addition, we are striving to create a healthy casino industry Instructors. We also trained high-clean leaders through education Agencies’ Authority (KRA) Cooperation Twice / 2nd (Sep.23): Hosted by the Korea external factors that interrupt the independence in fields, such as Integrity among Public Year by blocking the need for illegal favors in the region, such as the on the illegal appeal and anti-money laundering campaigns, and Cluster / GKL/ Korea Racing Authority (KRA), sharing personnel, evaluation, budget, and management, and strengthened Sports Promotion Institutions preparation and response directions establishment of a taskforce team for procurement system and self-education for the protection of whistleblowers. In addition, Foundation) for Improper Solicitation and Graft Act the expertise of the audit body by securing professional manpower improvement of the process of the direct purchasing process. we improved ethical awareness among our employees through and participating in auditor training programs. enhancing learning infrastructure, orientation for new employees, integrity education curriculum recommended by the AntiStrengthening Ethical Management Practice Preemptive Risk Management through Audit System Corruption and Civil Rights Commission, compulsory education for employees with misbehavior, and integrity education for leaders. Auditing Strategies and Systems for Kangwon Land manages key audit related risks through the Ethical management should be supported not only by raising Sustainable Growth strong operation of the internal control system. We enhanced awareness through various programs and education but also the early warning system by utilizing the e-audit system and 2016 Customized Ethics Education Performances by efforts to practice it. Kangwon Land enables employees to Audit Strategy System and Internal Control System strengthened the internal surveillance system by activating public voluntarily practice ethical management through ethics day, ethics Classification Performances Operation whistleblower reporting, including the stable operation of Red week, clean mileage, Improper Solicitation and Graft Act response Training for Integrity Whistle, an anonymous reporting system. In addition, we have • Completing basic and specialized courses, 1 person programs, and etc. We are also strengthening our practice of ethical Ethics Instructor Kangwon Land has established an effective audit strategy system created a standard manual for each audit to improve the quality of management by strengthening the internal and external cooperation • ‌Education and deployment of preventing illegal request based on PDCA and operates a PDCA-based internal control internal audits and have established Financial Asset Management system. In 2016, through three inspections and consulting, we drew Training for High and money laundering, 3 times system. According to the vision of ‘ Establishment of Audit System Committee that includes outside stakeholders to overcome the Clean Leaders • ‌Self-education and deployment of protecting recommended projects to improve ethical management system Supporting Sustainable Management Base through Advanced limitations of internal expertise. In addition, we conduct preemptive whistleblowers, 2 times and promoted the improvement of the autonomous system. We are Audit,’ we have set three strategies of strengthening audit capacity, risk management activities through preventive audit system through • ‌Improvement of learning infrastructure also trying to spread ethical management through various support preemptive risk management, and strengthening internal control. evaluating the operation of internal accounting management • ‌Introductory training for new employees (4 hours) programs, such as encouraging the ethical weekly operation of We implemented projects based on the strategies so that we can system, improving contract system related to a procurement Customized • ‌All employee’ integrity education course recommended suppliers and subsidiaries and supporting integrity education. Integrity Education by Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission establish public disciplines and integrity culture. As for the results contract, expanding the scope of contract review, and revising audit Meanwhile, Kangwon Land operates and promotes public for All Employees • ‌Compulsory Integrity Education for employees with of audits, we monitor the results after they are reported, check regulations. Kangwon Land will continue to pursue advanced audits misbehaviors (10 hours) whistleblower system on the corruption through an outsourcing the results of the implementation, collect feedback, and finally through efficient audit activities based on rules and regulations and • ‌Integrity education for leaders (6 hours) agreement with ‘Red Whistle’. disclose the improved results on the intranet. will lead the way in establishing a sustainable integrity culture. 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Human Rights Management Pursuing Employees’ Value Risk and Opportunities of Kangwon Land Sustainability Management Human Rights Management Realization of Employment and Personnel without Risk Nature of Risk Potential Impact Kangwon Land’s Countermeasure Discrimination Human Rights Management Promotion Status • Kangwon ‌ Land, a sole domestic • ‌We will nurture new value-added businesses in Kangwon Land strives to prevent grievances caused by casino operator in Korea that was anticipation of the expiration of the special act. To • ‌We shall create a new driving force discrimination in employment and personnel decision based on established pursuant to Special Act this end, we will improve the sales structure which Human rights management is becoming an integral part of to generate profits through various on the Assistance to the Development is focused on the casino business and will actively our diversity and human rights respect organizational culture. of Abandoned Mine-neighboring businesses in preparation for the undertake new businesses with the use of our sustainable companies, such as spreading awareness of corporate Entering into a expiration of the special act. We do not limit applicants’ academic background at the time of Areas, is facing the expiration of the existing facilities such as MICE business. social responsibility and global human rights initiatives, including monopolistic act in 2025. • There ‌ exists a risk of the decrease recruitment and we do not post separate recruitment post to • ‌We aim to be a ‘Highland Healing Resort’ and ISO 26000 and UN SDGs. Kangwon Land makes efforts to build competition market in profits if Kangwon Land fails to • Factors ‌ for a decrease in profit procure competitiveness according to our master discriminate against high school graduates. We are continuously raise such as increased demand for secure differentiated competitiveness plan. Especially, we will diversify and maximize a culture of respect for diversity without discrimination on sex, in a case of a transition to real increasing the number of female managers according to the domestic casinos in other regions and the activities and amusements of the resort so education, and age. In particular, along with the introduction increased competition among large competitions. as to increase the factors for inducing customers government’s policy to increase the number of female managers. of human rights management, we have joined the UN Global multiplex resorts throughout the year. In 2016, the number of female managers above Grade 3 was 105, Compact in 2016, an international convention on corporate social an increase of 9.5% over the previous year. In addition, Kangwon responsibility, and have adhered to the ten principles of 4 sectors • ‌We established ‘Emergency Operation Center’ to Land has made reasonable efforts to ensure that high school such as human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. monitor the company-wide crisis situations and graduates, contractors, and irregular workers are not treated • As ‌ the natural disasters such as enhanced our responses thereto by integrating strong wind, forest fires, earthquakes, industrial safety management functions which were differently from regular employees in terms of remuneration etc. increase, there exists a risk of Practice of Human Rights Respect Culture • ‌Due to the business attributes, separately performed. and welfare benefits. As a result, the remuneration and welfare large-scale accidents due to the special management is required as attributes of our business. • ‌We conducted comprehensive health and safety programs for these groups in 2016 were maintained at the same a variety of factors can put in danger Kangwon Land is committed to promoting the interests of various Increased accidents ‌ • Considering the attributes of the our employees, executives, business assessement by a third party to find potential level without discrimination from regular employees. hazards and risks in our workplaces and acquired the stakeholders of our employees and local communities. We support casino and resort business, a partners and customers in physical KOSHA 18001 certification for safety and health of thorough safety inspection and and psychological forms. job creation for socially marginalized groups such as disabled people our employees. management of the facilities is 66 in abandoned mine areas, and we support socially-disadvantaged Strengthenning Policies for Supporting Female required and customer risks exist. • ‌We inspected the overall safety management Employees process in terms of hardware and software and groups by improving the poor educational environment in improved the aspects in need. 67 abandoned mine areas. Through the Women’s Committee, we Kangwon Land has held the Women’s Committee meeting 11 operate an integrity mileage and incentive system that honors • Preservation ‌ of natural environment • ‌As we built various facilities through times. The operational performances of the meetings were employees with excellent ethics. We are also striving to establish a is particularly of importance the use of natural environment • ‌We provide high quality content that combines analyzed and improvements raised in the meetings were made in as we established facilities and of Gangwon Province and run natural environments and cultural factors and are culture of ethics through education programs to improve employees’ 13 categories, including a system for raising female employees’ infrastructure and run the business tourism and casino businesses, any striving to minimize any environmental impacts ethical awareness. In addition, we provide support for violation in the place blessed with the natural environmental destruction occurring arising during the course of business. To this end, rights and fostering talents. In addition, we provided lectures on Increased need of cases of human rights through a dedicated grievance channel, and beauty of the Gangwon Province. in the course of business may have we undertook various environment preservation women leadership, employee briefings, women’s conferences, environmental risks • Global ‌ consensus on the decrease negative impacts on our image and activities such as forest and river preservation, we conduct management activities and performance measures that and mentoring programs to continuously improve the work in GHG emission was made after the reputation. planting trees and feeding wildlife. take into account the human rights impact of our business. management Paris Climate Change Agreement. • ‌As GHG emission trading system • ‌In order to run eco-friendly business, we renewed environments for female employees. Furthermore we resolve In case corporates fail to take active comes into force, corporates will face qualifications for the energy management system the maternity leave issue that employees on their maternity leave measures to reduce GHG, they will financial burdens such as penalties and comply with GHG emission allocation through Handling Grievance through Activating face economic loss as well as damage if they fail to meet the requirements energy efficiency strategy and reducing efforts. period were at a disadvantage while being evaluated although Communication Culture to reputation. regarding GHG emission. they did not work during the evaluation period. We changed the HR system to categorize maternity leave period the same as Kangwon Land evaluates its communication channels through • ‌Thorough protection of customers’ • ‌We established an effective information protection parent leave period so that female employees would be excluded environmental analysis and promotes communication culture • Cyber ‌ security threats including personal information becomes a management system and secured safety of from the individual evaluation during their leave. Ransomware and APT attacks prerequisite to casino business as personal information and business system (such as through operation of four major communication channels. In Enhanced need continue to increase. social issues regarding the leak of improvement in malicious email response system particular, we have revised the rules of the grievance handling Kangwon Land Ethics Charter • Increased ‌ need for utilizing customer personal information are raised due and in cybersecurity index and building automated system to improve sexual harassment handling process and for Information information for the purpose of to hacking and virus infection. inspection system) established a Grievance Compensation Committee to deal with protection target marketing and a need for new • ‌There needs to be a measure against • ‌Going through our own drills, we enhanced a Kangwon Land supports UN Global Compact 10 Principles and technology such as cloud computer cyber-attack or hacking as corporates response ability regarding personal information employee complaints. Sexual harassment issues are handled and smart working. face inside information leak accidents infringement accident and managerial and UN SDGs. To comply with these international standards, we by the sexual harassment grievance counselor assigned in each in recent years. technological security. established Kangwon Land Ethics Charter that comprehensively department and, among the received issues, the ones with high includes human rights respect, fairness, integrity, and severity are handled by the Grievance Compensation Committee • ‌We enhanced the activities to eradicate the environmental protection. Furthermore, we have expressed our after being reported to a department head. • ‌Faced business crisis due to gambling • ‌A preventive measure is required with illegalities through enlarging the reporting center commitment of Jeong-Do Management through activities like and strengthening the supervising team. addicts’ lack of will to rehab. regard to illegal activities inducing Establishment of Personnel Grievance Council for Securing Expertise on holding ‘High Clean Day’ on Kangwon Land Ethics Day in June • Gambling ‌ addiction risks exist for casino users as serious second We also strived to minimize the risks of gambling addiction to people working in casino industry Personnel Grievance Management 2016. Increased employees who work in the frontline damages may occur. by providing them a regular gambling addiction of the gambling business and deal • ‌In case any event or accident caused More than 90% of grievance applicants are willing to transfer to accountability of with cash, chips, and credits. by gambling addiction occurs within prevention education. Issues other department due to illness, casino business ‌ • Risks for accidents occurrence due to the place of the casino business, a • ‌In order to minimize any adverse effects caused Lack of expertise among grievance handling persons in regards Kangwon Land Ethics Charter negative impact may be generated by the use of casino, we will enhance effective its inherent attributes in the course with the illness of casino business such as money against our purpose of establishment supports for a successful return to society through for the public interest. enhancement of the gambling addiction prevention Ensuring objectivity and reliability of the grievance processing laundering and casino accidents. program and undertaking treatment and rehab Improvement through establishment of a council that HR Team executives and program for gambling addicts. external experts (medical personnel) are attending Applying Grievance Counselling with the • ‌There are concerns about the Personnel Grievance Counseling person in charge • ‌We will activate business in the off season, establish decrease in casino performances, Processing • The ‌ world economy has stagnated the foundation of stayover base for tourists and Employee lodged a Persons in charge which can lead to a stagnant grievance (HRTeam) due to the worldwide growth expand the internal and external marketing platform economy in the local community such slowdown in recent years and the by undertaking a consistent customer persuasion as lodging and restaurants. Overcoming global expansion of isolated trade system in policy through systemization of four season 2016. • The ‌ average number of foreign marketing strategy. [Establishment] economic recession tourists, including casinos, has stayed Report the • Visits ‌ of Chinese customers were • ‌We will reinforce overseas network by setting up Follow-up Personnel Grievance Council at about 110 thousand people a year, (Hold meeting twice a year) counseling results stagnant due to domestic and foreign an overseas sales office and enlarge the attraction and we need to increase positive instability. of global customers through marketing activities External experts + Head of perceptions by creating a favorable Reflect the results of Personnel Support connected to Pyeongchang Winter Olympics in 2018. Management & Support environment for foreigners. the Council meeting Head Department 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Consolidated Statements of Financial Position Appendices 2016: As of December 31, 2016 2015: As of December 31, 2015 2014: As of December 31, 2014 Appendix Kangwon Land, Co., Ltd., and Subsidiaries Category Assets 2016 2015 (unit: KRW million) 2014 Ⅰ. Current assets 1,809,513 1,750,420 1,371,826 Cash and cash equivalents 92,998 105,718 101,995 Trade and other receivables 4,334 4,941 5,359 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 69 Inventories 1,310 1,622 1,205 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 70 Other current financial assets 1,696,041 1,622,461 1,252,743 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 71 Other current assets 14,830 15,678 10,524 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 72 Ⅱ. Non-current assets 2,169,474 1,940,372 2,003,302 Investments in equity-accounted investees 53,101 53,072 52,803 Consolidated Financial Statements 73 68 Property, plant and equipment 1,315,716 1,353,561 1,387,585 Statements of Comprehensive Income 74 Intangible assets 1,855 2,535 3,214 69 Statements of Changes in Equity 75 Deferred tax assets 169,474 159,379 161,757 Statements of Cash Flows 76 Other non-current financial assets 617,233 358,138 382,689 Social Sustainability Performances 77 Other non-current assets 12,095 13,687 15,254 Total assets 3,978,988 3,690,792 3,375,127 Environmental Sustainability Performances 78 Liabilities GRI G4 Index 79 Ⅰ. Current liabilities 718,893 664,600 624,517 Independent Auditor’s Report 82 Trade and other payables 111,863 100,038 104,328 GHG·Energy Assurance Statement 83 Accrued expenses 443,183 421,357 376,217 Income tax payable 83,506 83,165 82,071 Third Party Assurance Statement 84 Other current financial liabilities 6,432 715 6,450 UN Global Compact 86 Other current liabilities 73,909 59,326 55,450 List of Membership of Associations/ Award Performances 87 Ⅱ. Non-current liabilities 7,367 28,437 45,253 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Publications 88 Trade and other payables 204 249 373 Liabilities for defined benefit plan 5,253 21,224 44,308 Other non-current financial liabilities 864 6,551 537 Other non-current liabilities 106 412 36 Total liabilities 726,260 693,037 669,770 Equity Ⅰ. Equity attributable to owners Company 3,252,522 2,997,494 2,705,081 Share capital 106,970 106,970 106,970 Share premium 127,784 127,784 127,784 Retained earnings 3,190,265 2,935,281 2,641,994 Other capital (172,498) (172,542) (171,668) Ⅱ. Non-controlling interests 205 261 2772 Total equity 3,252,727 2,997,755 2,705,357 Total equity and liabilities 3,978,988 3,690,792 3,375,127 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity Appendices 2016: From January 01, 2016 to December 31, 2016 2016: From January 01, 2016 to December 31, 2016 2015: From January 01, 2015 to December 31, 2015 2015: From January 01, 2015 to December 31, 2015 2014: From January 01, 2014 to December 31, 2014 2014: From January 01, 2014 to December 31, 2014 Kangwon Land, Co., Ltd., and Subsidiaries (unit: KRW million) Kangwon Land, Co., Ltd., and Subsidiaries (unit: KRW million) Category 2016 2015 2014 Share Share Retained Other Non-controlling Total Category capital premium earnings capital interests equity I. Revenue 1,696,533 1,633,717 1,496,541 Balance at January 1, 2014 106,970 127,784 2,456,118 (173,474) 297 2,517,696 II. Cost of sales 785,177 759,646 722,298 Total comprehensive income for the period III. Gross profit 911,355 874,071 774,244 Profit for the year 359,364 (15) 359,349 Other comprehensive income for the year IV. General and administrative expenses 126,216 116,967 117,711 Defined benefit plan actuarial losses (25,488) (0.3) (25,489) V. ‌Contribution to Closed Coal Mine Areas 166,523 161,704 143,360 Development Fund Share of other comprehensive loss of equity (4) (4) accounted investees VI. Operating profit 618,616 595,400 513,172 Loss on valuation of available-for-sale 1,805 1,805 financial assets VII. Non-operating income 3,619 3,738 5,917 Total comprehensive income for the year 333,876 1,800 (15) 335,660 VIII. Non-operating expenses 65,955 48,022 48,156 70 Transactions with owners of the Company, recognized directly in equity IX. Finance income 41,271 42,751 45,237 71 Variation of equity ownership of subsidiary 5 (5) X. Finance costs 741 254 252 Dividends to owners of the Company (147,999) (147,999) XI. ‌Share of loss of equity-accounted 50 269 (19,983) Balance at December 31, 2014 106,970 127,784 2,641,994 (171,668) 277 2,705,357 investees, net Balance at January 1, 2015 106,970 127,784 2,641,994 (171,668) 277 2,705,357 XII. Profit before income tax 596,861 593,883 495,935 Total comprehensive income for the period XIII. Profit for the year 454,534 441,629 359,349 Profit for the year 441,645 (16) 441,629 Profit attributable to owners of the 454,590 441,645 359,364 Other comprehensive income for the year Company Defined benefit plan actuarial losses 23,970 (0.03) 23,970 Profit attributable to non-controlling (56) (16) (15) Share of other comprehensive loss of equity (0.6) (0.6) interests accounted investees XIV. Other comprehensive income (877) 23,097 (23,688) Loss on valuation of available-for-sale (873) (873) financial assets Items that will not be reclassified to (877) 23,969 (25,493) profit or loss Total comprehensive income for the year 465,615 (873) (16) 464,726 Share of other comprehensive loss of (0.6) (4) Transactions with owners of the Company, equity-accounted investees recognized directly in equity Variation of equity ownership of subsidiary Defined benefit plan actuarial gain (1,181) 31,635 (33,601) (loss) Dividends to owners of the Company (172,328) (172,328) Related income tax 325 (7,665) 8,112 Balance at December 31, 2015 106,970 127,784 2,935,281 (172,542) 261 2,997,755 Balance at January 1, 2016 106,970 127,784 2,935,281 (172,542) 261 2,997,755 Items that are or may be reclassified (873) 1,805 subsequently to profit or loss Total comprehensive income for the period Loss on valuation of available-for-sale (1,151) 2,381 Profit for the year 454,590 (56) 454,534 financial assets Other comprehensive income for the year Related income tax 279 (576) Defined benefit plan actuarial losses (857) 0.4 (856) XV. ‌Total comprehensive income for the 453,656 464,726 335,660 Share of other comprehensive loss of equity 44 44 year accounted investees Share of other comprehensive loss of (65) (65) Total comprehensive income 453,712 464,742 335,676 retained earnings accounted investees attributable to owners of the Company Total comprehensive income for the year 453,668 44 -55 453,656 Total comprehensive income (55) (16) (15) attributable to non-controlling interests Transactions with owners of the Company, recognized directly in equity XVI. Earnings per share (KRW) 0 Dividends to owners of the Company (198,684) (198,684) Basic and diluted earnings per share 0.002 0.002 0.002 Balance at December 31, 2016 106,970 127,784 3,190,265 (172,498) 205 3,252,727 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Statements of Financial Position Appendices 2016: From January 01, 2016 to December 31, 2016 2016: As of December 31, 2016 2015: From January 01, 2015 to December 31, 2015 2015: As of December 31, 2015 2014: From January 01, 2014 to December 31, 2014 2014: As of December 31, 2014 Kangwon Land, Co., Ltd., and Subsidiaries (unit: KRW million) Kangwon Land, Co., Ltd. (unit: KRW million) Category 2016 2015 2014 Category 2016 2015 2014 I. Cash flows from operating activities 596,487 574,982 510,413 Assets I. Current assets 1,799,027 1,736,168 1,349,602 1. Net cash provided from operating activities 707,382 686,036 622,459 Cash and cash equivalents 91,359 103,417 93,386 (1) Profit for the year 454,534 441,629 359,349 Trade and other receivables 4,247 4,831 5,133 (2) Adjustment 242,554 222,577 237,360 Inventories 1,310 1,622 1,205 (3) Changes in assets and liabilities 10,295 21,830 25,750 Other current financial assets 1,687,490 1,610,901 1,240,396 2. Interest received 40,854 45,056 31,489 Other current assets 14,621 15,397 9,482 II. Non-current assets 2,176,953 1,951,892 2,030,860 3. Income taxes paid (151,741) (156,110) (143,535) Investments in equity-accounted investees 124,262 167,751 187,077 72 II. Cash flows from investing activities (411,462) (398,949) (427,373) Property, plant and equipment 1,254,129 1,253,601 1,284,799 73 1. Net cash provided in investing activities 2,102,656 1,703,276 923,301 Intangible assets 24 31 42 Decrease in other current financial assets 1,913,921 1,693,286 885,595 Deferred tax assets 169,474 159,379 161,757 Decrease in other non-current financial assets 187,929 9,883 37,165 Other non-current financial assets 617,038 357,637 382,184 Decrease in other non-current assets 205 58 272 Other non-current assets 12,027 13,491 15,000 Total assets 3,975,980 3,688,060 3,380,462 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and 601 45 209 equipment Liabilities Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 3 60 I. Current liabilities 717,426 662,837 619,817 Trade and other payables 110,772 98,751 100,059 2. Net cash used in investing activities (2,514,118) (2,102,225) (1,350,674) Accrued expenses 443,134 421,308 376,180 Increase in other current financial assets 1,462,545 1,703,105 695,497 Income tax payable 83,506 83,165 82,071 Increase in other non-current financial assets 976,730 358,710 574,701 Other current financial liabilities 6,262 545 6,450 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 74,610 40,394 80,191 Other current liabilities 73,753 59,069 55,057 Acquisition of intangible assets 10 16 284 II. Non-current liabilities 5,816 27,781 44,469 Increase of other non-current assets Trade and other payables 204 249 373 Liabilities for defined benefit plan 4,642 20,568 43,524 III. Cash flows from financing activities (197,744) (172,328) (147,999) Other non-current financial liabilities 864 6,551 537 1. Net cash proivded in financing activities 940 Other non-current liabilities 106 412 36 Increase in borrowings 940 Total liabilities 723,242 690,618 664,287 2. Net cash used in financing activities (198,684) (172,328) (147,999) Equity Dividents paid 198,684 172,328 147,999 Share capital 106,970 106,970 106,970 Share premium 127,784 127,784 127,784 IV. Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (12,720) 3,704 (64,959) Retained earnings 3,190,486 2,935,190 2,653,051 V. Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 105,718 101,995 166,943 Other capital (172,503) (172,503) (171,630) VI. Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 19 11 Total equity 3,252,738 2,997,442 2,716,175 VII. Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 92,998 105,718 101,995 Total equity and liabilities 3,975,980 3,688,060 3,380,462 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Statements of Comprehensive Income Statements of Changes in Equity Appendices 2016: From January 01, 2016 to December 31, 2016 2016: From January 01, 2016 to December 31, 2016 2015: From January 01, 2015 to December 31, 2015 2015: From January 01, 2015 to December 31, 2015 2014: From January 01, 2014 to December 31, 2014 2014: From January 01, 2014 to December 31, 2014 Kangwon Land, Co., Ltd. (unit: KRW million) Kangwon Land, Co., Ltd. (unit: KRW million) Category 2016 2015 2014 Share Share Retained Other Total Category capital premium earnings capital equity I. Revenue 1,694,575 1,630,977 1,492,291 Balance at January 1, 2014 106,970 127,784 2,462,643 (173,435) 2,523,963 II. Cost of sales 782,104 754,752 713,324 Total comprehensive income for the period Profit for the year 363,816 363,816 III. Gross profit 912,471 876,225 778,968 Other comprehensive income for the year IV. General and administrative expenses 121,063 110,637 109,290 Defined benefit plan actuarial losses (25,409) (25,409) V. ‌Contribution to Closed Coal Mine Areas 166,523 161,704 143,360 Loss on valuation of available-for-sale financial assets 1,805 1,805 Development Fund Total comprehensive income for the year 338,407 1,805 340,212 VI. Operating profit 624,885 603,885 526,318 74 Transactions with owners of the Company, recognized directly in equity VII. Non-operating income 2,972 3,528 5,712 75 Dividends to owners of the Company (147,999) (147,999) VIII. Non-operating expenses 70,888 66,881 75,858 Balance at December 31, 2014 106,970 127,784 2,653,051 (171,630) 2,716,175 IX. Finance income 41,087 42,410 44,478 Balance at January 1, 2015 106,970 127,784 2,653,051 (171,630) 2,716,175 Total comprehensive income for the period X. Finance costs 731 227 247 Profit for the year 430,460 430,460 XI. Profit before income tax 597,325 582,714 500,402 Other comprehensive income for the year XII. Income tax 142,327 152,254 136,586 Defined benefit plan actuarial losses 24,009 24,009 Loss on valuation of available-for-sale financial assets (873) (873) XIII. Profit for the year 454,999 363,816 293,129 Total comprehensive income for the year 454,468 (873) 453,595 XV. Other comprehensive income (1,019) 23,136 (23,604) Transactions with owners of the Company, recognized directly in equity Items that will not be reclassified to (1,019) 24,009 (25,409) profit or loss Dividends to owners of the Company (172,328) (172,328) Balance at December 31, 2015 106,970 127,784 2,935,190 (172,503) 2,997,442 Defined benefit plan actuarial gain (loss) (1,344) 31,674 (33,521) Balance at January 1, 2016 106,970 127,784 2,935,190 (172,503) 2,997,442 Related income tax 325 (7,665) 8,112 Total comprehensive income for the period Items that are or may be reclassified (873) (873) 1,805 Profit for the year 454,999 454,999 subsequently to profit or loss Other comprehensive income for the year Loss on valuation of available-for-sale (1,151) (1,151) 2,381 financial assets Defined benefit plan actuarial losses (1,019 ) (1,019) Loss on valuation of available-for-sale financial assets Related income tax 279 279 (576) Total comprehensive income for the year 453,980 453,980 XVI. Total comprehensive income for the year 453,980 453,595 340,212 Transactions with owners of the Company, recognized directly in equity XVII. Earnings per share (KRW 1) Dividends to owners of the Company (198,684) (198,684) Basic and diluted earnings per share 0.002 0.002 0.002 Balance at December 31, 2016 106,970 127,784 3,190,486 (172,503) 3,252,738 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Statements of Cash Flows Social Sustainability Performances Appendices 2016: From January 01, 2016 to December 31, 2016 Employee Status (unit: person, %) 2015: From January 01, 2015 to December 31, 2015 Category 2014 2015 2016 2014: From January 01, 2014 to December 31, 2014 Total number of employees 3,227 3,482 3,576 Kangwon Land, Co., Ltd. (unit: KRW million) Existing employees 3,048 3,467 3,512 Category 2016 2015 2014 Regular retirements 12 10 I. Cash flows from operating activities 600,687 574,982 510,413 Voluntary resignations 7 1. Net cash provided from operating activities 711,765 686,036 622,459 Undefined contractors 8 8 13 (Direct employment) 535 155 115 (1) Profit for the year 454,999 441,629 359,349 Non-regular employees Indirect employment 1,687 1,702 1,683 (2) Adjustment 245,815 222,577 237,360 (outsourcing, dispatched, and etc.) Female employees 46 116 27 (3) Changes in assets and liabilities 10,951 21,830 25,750 Disabled employees 4 2. Interest received 40,676 45,056 31,489 Local talent 117 381 70 New (non-capital region) 76 3. Income taxes paid (151,755) (156,110) (143,535) permanent hire High school graduates 36 145 13 77 II. Cash flows from investing activities (414,060) (398,949) (427,373) Vocational high school graduates Engineering graduates 21 112 19 1. Net cash provided in investing activities 2,085,024 1,703,276 923,301 Total 220 758 129 Internship 48 Decrease in other current financial assets 1,897,006 1,693,286 885,595 Contractors 1 7 9 Decrease in other non-current financial assets 187,689 9,883 37,165 Contractor Part-timers 4 9 4 hire Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and 329 45 209 Undefined contractors 21 14 13 equipment Total 26 30 74 No. of female employees/ ratio 1,124 (31.3%) 1,099 (31.2%) 1,108 (31.7%) 2. Net cash used in investing activities (2,499,084) (2,102,225) (1,350,674) Ratio out No. of female employees above of total 1 (0.03%) 2 (0.06%) 4 (0.11%) Increase in other current financial assets 1,448,695 1,703,105 695,497 senior managers/ratio incumbents No. of disabled employees/ ratio 68 (1.9%) 79 (2.2%) 70 (2.0%) Increase in other non-current financial assets 976,730 358,710 574,701 Increase in investment equity securities Employee Status (unit: person, %) Gangwon Province Employment Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 73,426 40,394 80,191 Other Category Abandoned Total rate of Gangwon Others Sub-total regions Province residents mine areas Acquisition of intangible assets 10 16 284 Regular employees 1,798 526 2,324 1,188 3,512 66.2% Kangwon Land III. Cash flows from financing activities (198,684) (172,328) (147,999) Non-regular employees 22 12 34 81 115 29.6% Suppliers 1,580 37 1,617 66 1,683 96.08% 1. Net cash proivded in financing activities 2. Net cash used in financing activities (198,684) (172,328) (147,999) Procurement Status by Regions (unit: KRW million, %) Dividents paid 198,684 172,328 147,999 Category 2014 2015 2016 Abandoned mine areas 73,456 (27.6%) 100,130 (56.2%) 116,932 (47.7%) IV. Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (12,058) 3,704 (64,959) Gangwon Except abandoned mine areas 6,172 (2.3%) 9,929 (5.6%) 69,350 (28.3%) Province V. Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 103,417 101,995 166,943 Sub-total 79,628 (29.9%) 110,059 (61.8%) 186,282 (76.0%) Other regions 187,082 (70.1%) 67,962 (38.2%) 58,936 (24.0%) VI. Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 91,359 105,718 101,995 Total 266,710 (100%) 178,021 (100%) 245,218 (100%) 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Environmental Sustainability Performances GRI G4 Index Appendices Environmental Performance Data General Standards Disclosure Category Aspect G4 Indicators Assurance Page 비고 2014 2015 2016 Indicator Sub-category Unit G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker • 2~3 Strategy and Waste generation and disposal status Analysis G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 67 Waste synthetic resin, G4-3 Report the name of the organization • General waste ton 4,820 4,838 4,270 and etc. G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services • Designated waste Waste acid ton 196 132 116 G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters • Total ton 5,016 4,970 4,387 Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either G4-6 the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics • Waste recycling covered in the report 6~7 Domestic waste ton 2,512 2,606.2 2,347.5 G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form Waste segregation ton 593.0 632.5 543.2 G4-8 Report the markets served and types of customers • Waste segregation rate ton 23.6% 24.3% 23.1% G4-9 Report the scale of the organization • Water use Organizational G4-10 Report the total number of employees • Profile As of the end of 2016, the Tap water ton 1,626,140 1,764,903 1,536,947 number of labor union G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements • membership 2,756 (the union Recycled water ton 22,014 27,939 45,290 membership rate: 75%) 78 Groundwater ton 46,730 47,985 51,350 G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain • 50~53 Mine purified water ton 716,685.0 610,124 607,880 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, G4-13 ownership, or its supply chain 6, 52~53 79 Total ton 2,411,569 2,450,951 2,241,467 39~41, 59, G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization • Chemical usage Type 63~67 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to Liquid kg 494,520 479,140 337,080 G4-15 • Water treatment which the organization subscribes or which it endorses 87 chemicals Solid kg 44,060 45,650 42,050 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy G4-16 organizations of which the organization is a member • Liquid 72,323 95,102 82,485 G4-17 List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents • Laundry detergent Solid kg 5,100 4,491 6,006 Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries and how the organization G4-18 has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content • Actual usage kg 611 631 747 Pesticide usage G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content • 24~25 Identified Pesticides efficacy 201 212 221 Material G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization • Greenhouse gas emissions Aspects and Boundaries G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization • Scope 1 (Direct) tCO2-eq 27,976 26,234 25,084 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for No significant G4-22 such restatements N/A change No Scope 2 (Indirect) tCO2-eq 44,370 44,970 46,365 significant leak of hazardous Sub-total tCO2-eq 72,347 71,204 71,449 G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries N/A substances Energy use G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization • Electricity use kw 95,165 96,450 99,443 G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage • 10~11 Stakeholder Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by LPG (propane) ton 8,968 8,305 7,496 Engagement G4-26 type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken • specifically as part of the report preparation process Vehicle LPG ton 2.5 3.8 2.6 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the Diesel 425 425 336 G4-27 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report • 24~25 the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns Gasoline 157 168 104 G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided • Kerosene 46 41 36 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) • LNG 1,000 m3 14 4 753 0 Report G4-30 reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) • Wooden pallet ton 1,460 1,306 • Profile G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Expense and investment in environmental protection G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option of the GRI Index the organization has chosen • 0, 79~81 Total environmental investment KRW million 1,094 917 3,600 Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the G4-33 report • 0, 84~85 Investment in environmental facilities KRW million 353 369 3,600 Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance Green procurement KRW million 741 455 363 G4-34 body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social • Governance impacts 61~62 Discharged pollutants in 2016 BOD SS TN G4-38 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees Industrial wastewater Laundry factory ton 0.17 0.12 0.46 G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of • conduct and codes of ethics Hotel & Casino ton 0.81 1.56 3.41 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and Ethics and G4-57 • matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines 63~65 Domestic wastewater High1 Ski ton 0.13 0.28 0.93 Integrity Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful High1 Hotel ton 0.04 0.08 0.20 G4-58 behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity (escalation through line management, • whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines) 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report GRI G4 Index Appendices SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURE Environment Economic Aspect G4 Indicators Assurance Page 비고 Aspect G4 Indicators Assurance Page 비고 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source • 78 DMA Report the evaluation of the management approach • 26~27 Water EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water • 35, 78 10~11, 16~21, EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused • 35 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed • Economic Performance 26~29 Biodiversity EN13 Habitats protected or restored • 35 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) • 78 EC2 • 10~11, 34 Emissions organization’s activities due to climate change EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) • 78 DMA Report the evaluation of the management approach • 46~47 Indirect Economic EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination • 78 Performance Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of EC8 • 10~11, 46~49 EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method • 78 impacts Effluent and Waste No significant leak of EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills • hazardous substances Products and Services EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and • 34~35 services Environment Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonNo violation of Aspect G4 Indicators Assurance Page 비고 Compliance EN29 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and • environmental issues regulations DMA Report the evaluation of the management approach • 30~31, 35 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and Transport EN30 other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and • 34 Energy EN3 Energy consumption within the organization • 34, 78 transporting members of the workforce 80 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption • 34, 78 Overall EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type • 78 EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental • 52 81 Supplier Environmental criteria Assessment Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in EN33 the supply chain and actions taken • 52 Society Aspect G4 Indicators Assurance Page 비고 Society Labor Practices and Employment Aspect G4 Indicators Assurance Page 비고 DMA Report the evaluation of the management approach • 30~31 Labor Practices and Employment Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by LA5 management–worker health and safety committees that help • 30, 33 LA9 employee category • 42 Occupational Health monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Training and Education and Safety Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, LA10 the continued employability of employees and assist them in • 42~44 managing career endings LA6 and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by • 30 region and by gender Diversity and Equal Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per LA12 employee category according to gender, age group, minority group • 61 DMA Report the evaluation of the management approach • 42~42 Opportunity membership, and other indicators of diversity Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices • 52 LA1 • 42, 77 Supplier Assessment criteria turnover by age group, gender and region Employment for Labor Practices Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided LA15 the supply chain and actions taken • 52 LA2 to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of • 44~45 operation Labor Practices Number of grievances about labor practices field, addressed, and LA16 resolved through formal grievance mechanisms • 66 Grievance Mechanisms Society Human Rights DMA Report the evaluation of the management approach • 46~47 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or Percentage of operations with implemented local community Investment HR2 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to • 66 SO1 • 46~49 operations, including the percentage of employees trained Local Communities engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Non-discrimination HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions • 66 Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on taken SO2 • 46~49 local communities Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for Child Labor HR5 incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the • N/A DMA Report the evaluation of the management approach • 63~65 effective abolition of child labor Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks Forced or Compulsory Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for SO3 • 63~65 HR6 incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute • N/A Anti-corruption related to corruption and the significant risks identified Labor to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and Human Rights Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, SO4 • 63~65 HR12 and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms • 66 procedures Grievance Mechanisms Society SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for • 52 Supplier Assessment impacts on society for Impacts on Society Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the Other Indicators SO10 supply chain and actions taken • 52 Economy Product Responsibility Product and Service Aspect G4 Indicators Assurance Page 비고 PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction • 10, 36 Labelling Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of Procurement Practices EC9 • 50~53 Customer Privacy PR8 customer privacy and losses of customer data • 59 of operation 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Independent Audit Report Greenhouse Gas and Energy Verification Statements Appendices To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of As Kangwon Land Inc., was designated as a subject of the Greenhouse Gas ∙ Energy Target Management Scheme, the Korean Standards Association (KSA), which is the verification body designated by the Ministry of Environment, has verified Kangwon Land, Inc. the statement provided by Kangwon Land. We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Kangwon Land, Inc., and its subsidiaries. The Reasonable Level of Assurance consolidated financial statements include the consolidated statement of financial position as of December 31, 2016 and The verification of the Greenhouse Gas·Energy Target Target Management Scheme has applied a mean deviation of ±5.0%, 2015, and the related consolidated statements of comprehensive income, changes in shareholders’ equity and cash flows the Materiality Assessment standards as specified in the guidelines, to ensure the reasonableness of the verification result. for the years then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. Subject of Verification Management Responsibilities for the Consolidated Financial Statements KSA proceeded with verification of the statements, internal data, and documents provided by Kangwon Land and found The management is responsible for preparing and describing fairly the consolidated financial statements in accordance that KSA and Kangwon Land are maintaining their fairness. with the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether Verification Standars due to fraud or error. We carried out the verification based on the guidelines for the Emission Trading Verification, Greenhouse Gas ∙ Energy 82 Target Management Operation (announced by the Ministry of Environment), and etc. For items other than those defined in Auditors’ Responsibilities the guidelines, KSA performed the verification based on KS Q ISO14064-1 and -3. 83 Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Korean Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we comply with ethical Materiality Assessment requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial As Kangwon Land has completed all the corrective measures recommended by the verification team, the Materiality statements are free from material misstatement. Assessment is applied as less than 5%. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk Limitations of Verification assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of the consolidated financial The verification team has performed the verification of the statements and relevant documents presented by Kangwon statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose Land using sampling and complete enumeration methods. As the greenhouse gas emission information has numerous of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the limitations, it may contain reasonable judgments because of the different views of interpretation of the guidelines. appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as Therefore, the verification report might contain errors, omissions, or false statements that were not detected during the well as evaluating the presentation of the consolidated financial statements. verification. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Verification Results and Overall Opinion Opinion Kangwon Land has carried out corrective measures on the main issues identified by the verification team through In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Group documentary review and on-site inspection, and the team has confirmed those measures. (Refer to 3. Findings in the as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 and its consolidated financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in Verification Report) accordance with the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards. As no cases of non-conformance were found in the statements presented by Kangwon Land, and the required level of the guidelines has been satisfied, the verification team presents opinion as ‘appropriate’. 2913, Nambusunhwan-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul February 21, 2017 BDO Daejoo LLC CEO Kim Jin-Ho March 6, 2017 This audit report is effective as of February 21, 2017, the independent auditors’ report date. Accordingly, certain material subsequent events Verification Body: Korean Standards Association or circumstances may have occurred during the period from the auditors’ report date to the time this audit report is used. Such events and circumstances could significantly affect the accompanying financial statements and may result in modifications to this report. Chairman and CEO: Baek, Soo-Hyun 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Appendices Introduction ● Stakeholder Inclusiveness Kangwon Land, Inc.(“Kangwon Land”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. (“DNV GL”), part of DNV Kangwon Land has identified internal and external stakeholder groups such as Customers, Shareholders,Employees, GL Group, to undertake independent assurance of the Sustainability Report 2016 (the “Report”). The directors of Kangwon Suppliers, Local Communities, NGO(Non-governmental organization), Social Contribution, Governments. Kangwon Land have sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report. The responsibility of DNV GL in performing the assurance Land engages with the stakeholders at the company and business unit levels through various channels. The examples of work is to the management of Kangwon Land in accordance with the terms of reference. DNV GL’s assurance engagements approaches to engagement with selected stakeholders are described in the Report. In the future, Kangwon Land could are based on the assumptions that the data and information provided by the client to us as part of our review have been present the reasonable expectations and interests of stakeholders and report corresponding actions taken in the Report. provided in good faith. ● Sustainability Context Scope of assurance The Report covers the performance of the key issues under the context of sustainability. Kangwon Land addresses how material issues grouped into 11 material issues are managed and what was achieved in 2016, which would help the The scope of assurance included a review of sustainability activities and performance data over the reporting period 1st stakeholder understand the management approaches toward the material aspects. Especially, the report covers Kangwon January to 31st December 2016. This also included: Land’s impact and contribution at the aspects of economic, environmental and social, depending on the geographical • ‌Evaluation of the principles for defining the sustainability report content in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) context of the closed mine area in Gangwon Province. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 4.0 • ‌Evaluation of the process for determining material aspects for reporting and the management approach to material issues and the process for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative and qualitative data in the Report. ● Materiality 84 Kangwon Land has conducted materiality assessment to prepare the Report. The relevant issue pool is formed by analysing the key issues from the global sustainability initiatives and standards, the topics which industry peer group considers 85 Basis of our opinion material and the subjects covered by mass media. The issues in the pool are rated by stakeholders via survey in terms of We performed our work using DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustainTM1, which is based on our professional the impact for the prioritization. Kangwon Land has grouped the material issues into 11 material issues and presented its experience, international assurance best practice including International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE management approaches in the Report. The audit team has reviewed the materiality assessment process. 3000). We applied the limited level of assurance. The audit was carried out in April and May 2017. The site visits were made to Kangwon Land head office. We undertook the following activities as part of the assurance process: ● Completeness • ‌challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the The Report covers sustainability aspects of economic, environmental and social impacts. Kangwon Land discloses underlying data management system, information flow and controls; information on its activities and decisions on the key sustainability issues for the reporting period. Nothing comes to our • ‌interviewed representatives from the various departments; attention to believe that the Report does not cover material issues derived from materiality assessment. • ‌conducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated reporting system and associated reporting systems as they relate to selected content and performance data; ● Report quality: Accuracy and Reliability • ‌reviewed the outcomes of stakeholder consultation report and the materiality assessment report; The audit team has sampled data and tested accuracy. Based on the test, the intentional error or misstatement is not noted from the data and information disclosed in the Report. Data owners were able to demonstrate the origin and interpretation Limitations of the data in a reliable manner. The data was identifiable and traceable. The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of Kangwon Land’s associated companies, subsidiaries, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. DNV GL did not Competence and Independence interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Economic performance based on the financial data is cross-checked with internal documents, the audited consolidated financial statements and the announcement disclosed DNV GL Business Assurance is part of DNV GL Group and a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and at the website of Korea Financial Supervisory Service (http://dart.fss.or.kr) as well as Kangwon Land’s website (kangwonland. training services, helping customers to build sustainable business performance. Our environmental and social assurance high1.com). These documents, financial statements and the announcements are not included in this Assurance specialists are present in over 100 countries. The assurance work was performed by independent team which meets DNV Engagement. Limited depth of evidence gathering including inquiry and analytical procedures and limited sampling at GL’s competence requirements. DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the lower levels in the organization were applied. The baseline data for Environmental and Social performance are not verified, Report except for this Assurance Statement. The audit team has complied with DNV GL Code of Ethics during the assurance while the aggregated data at the corporate level are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or coengagement. responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. Opinion and Observation On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly describe May 2017 Seoul, Korea information and data in the Report and the adherence to the Principles for defining report content in GRI G4 nor is prepared ‘in In Kyoon Ahn accordance’ with GRI G4 Core option. The verification team has observed that there is general awareness of sustainability Country Representative context across all different levels of the organization. Further opinions with regards to the adherence to the following DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd Principles are made below; 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report UN Global Compact List of Membership of Associations/ Award Performances Appendices Kangwon Land announced its compliance with the UN Global Compact 10 Principles, Status of Membership of Associations (unit: KRW thousand) which cover the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption, by Association Membership Fee 2016 Association Membership Fee 2016 participating in the UNGC in 2016. And our compliance performances of each area are disclosed in this 2016 Kangwon Land Sustainability Report. Kangwon Land promises Korea Employers Federation 21,060 Korea Judo Association 3,000 to proliferate the UNGC Principles to the society as expanding the related activities to diverse stakeholders as well as complying with the Principles. Gangwon Employers Federation 2,400 UN Global Compact 5,000 Ski Resort Business Samchok CCI 192,000 41,567 Association of Korea Korea Listed Companies Korea Golf Course Business 13,510 4,078 Category Principles Related activities Page Association Association Businesses should support and respect the protection of · ‌Human Rights Management Pursuing 1 66 Korea Exchange 14,853 Gangwon Association 5,000 internationally proclaimed human rights; and Employees’ Values Human Rights Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human · ‌Human Rights Management Pursuing 2 66 The Institute of Internal rights abuses. Employees’ Values Gangwondo Tourism Association 30,000 1,200 Auditors Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the · ‌Human Rights Management Pursuing 3 66 86 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Employees’ Values PATA(Pacific Asia Travel Association) 200 Korean Network on Anti2,500 Korean Branch Corruption and Transparency Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced · ‌Human Rights Management Pursuing 4 66 87 and compulsory labour. Employees’ Values Labour Gangwon Environmental Korea Casino Association 300,000 2,000 · ‌Human Rights Management Pursuing Engineer Federation 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. 66 Employees’ Values National Council on Problem Green Companies Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in · ‌Human Rights Management Pursuing 2,940 2,000 6 66 Gambling Association of Wonju Region respect of employment and occupation. Employees’ Values Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Korea MICE Association 1,000 2030 Eco Forum 1,000 7 · Establishing Eco-friendly Infrastructure 34~35 environmental challenges. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Environment 8 · Establishing Eco-friendly Infrastructure 34~35 environmental responsibility. Award Performances Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of 9 · Establishing Eco-friendly Infrastructure 34~35 environmentally friendly technologies. Award institution Award name Year AntiBusinesses should work against corruption in all its forms, · ‌Establishing Responsible Management Korea HRD Association 2017 Korea HRD Winner for Human Resources Development March, 2017 10 63~65 corruption including extortion and bribery. through Ethical Management Anti-Corruption & Assessed as Level 2 (Excellent) in the Anti-Corruption Initiative February, 2017 Civil Rights Commission Assessment 2016 October 2014 Social Contribution KPI Connected to the UN SDGs Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI World Index 2016 (4 consecutive years) UN SDGs Business KPI Social KPI 2016 Acheivement Improving the quality of life Satisfaction level of the social contribution for the underprivileged and beneficiaries 86.4 points No Poverty Brand awareness satisfaction level of the social contribution beneficiaries (Incresed 6.3 points from the previous year) Increase rate of the number Applicants 1,001 persons Quality Education Hiring rate of local talents of applicants (Incresed 492 persons from the previous year) Sales KRW 4,185 million Decent Work and Increase rate of the resort Sales and employee number (Incresed 10% from the previous year) Economic Growth visitors of social enterprises (Incresed 10% from the previous year) (Incresed 35 persons from the previous year) Kangwon Land Sustainability Report Publications Appendices 2010 2011 2012 88 89 2013 2014 2015
