2016 GLOBAL SOCIAL IMPACT P E R F O R M A N C E Good things are happening. Our 2016 Global Social Impact Performance report marks our progress as a company, one that’s performance-driven through the lens of humanity. Thanks to the efforts of more than 330,000 partners in 75 countries around the world, we’ve exceeded many of our goals to help the communities we serve, while achieving another year of record financial performance. Our enduring strategic partnerships with organizations like Conservation International and Feeding America as well as hundreds of community service partners around the world enable us to use our scale for good. We’ve made this progress together by being purposeful in our decisions and our collective actions, and we have bold, new aspirations for the years ahead. Kevin Johnson president and ceo The way forward. We will focus in four areas where our commitment and scale can make the biggest impact: SUSTAINABLE • M  aking coffee the world’s first sustainable agricultural product by doing our part to improve the lives of 1 million people in C O F F E E C O M M U N I T I E S around COFFEE 4 the world  uilding and operating the world’s largest G R E E N R E T A I L B U S I N E S S • B • C  R E A T I N G P A T H W A Y S to employment for 1 million people GREENER • S  T R E N G T H E N I N G C O M M U N I T I E S by welcoming all and creating impact on issues that matter RETAIL 8 CREATING OPPORTUNITIES 11 STRENGTHENING COMMUNITIES 15 starbucks.com/social-impact 4 Our future in SUSTAINABLE COFFEE Starbucks is proud to have reached the milestone of 99 percent ethically We will work in collaboration with Conservation International (CI) and our sourced coffee. partners on the ground and will share what we learn across the industry, to ensure that other farming communities that need to replace their trees However, we are not done yet. We will continue to work with that last can benefit from this program. 1 percent to bring producers along on this journey with us, like we do with Starbucks Reserve® Eastern D.R. Congo Lake Kivu coffee, where The Starbucks Global Farmer Fund is a $50 million commitment to we are working with farmers to expand our ethical sourcing effort. provide financing to coffee farmers. Through these loans, farmers have the ability to support agronomy, restoration and infrastructure We believe we can increase the prosperity and resiliency of 1 million improvements. This work directly influences coffee quality, sustainability farmers and workers who grow our coffee in coffee communities around and the economic benefit for the specialty coffee industry. the world. We will do this by investing in coffee communities, sharing our technical coffee knowledge and innovating with new approaches. To support critical issues coffee communities are facing, the Starbucks Moving beyond our 100 percent ethically sourced commitment, we are Foundation partners with organizations with local expertise to build joining with others to make coffee the world’s first sustainable agricultural sustainable solutions. Since 2014 the Starbucks Foundation has awarded product. origin grants to support smallholder-farming families in coffeeand teagrowing communities, reaching approximately 47,000 direct and indirect INVESTING IN FARMERS beneficiaries. By 2020 the Foundation plans to reach 250,000 people. Thanks to our partners and customers, more than 25 million trees have been donated to coffee farmers. This effort began in September 2015, In 2016 Starbucks began funding a new project in Oaxaca, Mexico, when Starbucks launched the One Tree for Every Bag Commitment to with Conservation International, focused on delivering a net positive help ensure the long-term supply of coffee and the economic future of model to reestablish coffee as a livelihood. Oaxaca was once a globally coffee farmers. Its goal was to raise enough funds by the end of 2016 important origin for high-quality specialty coffee, but productivity has to plant 20 million coffee seedlings that will replace trees declining in declined significantly due to climate change, lack of market access, productivity due to age and disease such as coffee leaf rust. With the poverty, migration and other challenges. CI will work with local partners help of our customers, we exceeded this goal in just over a year. to improve farmers’ shade-management systems and increase alternative income streams—with the aim of stabilizing farming communities in To build on that success, Starbucks will quadruple its commitment Oaxaca and enabling farmers to continue growing coffee. CI will also train by providing 100 million healthy coffee trees to farmers by 2025 by producers in water conservation to protect freshwater resources and will leveraging our green coffee purchases in coffee-growing communities work to ensure the active participation of women, indigenous farmers and most impacted by climate change. their families. 5 SHARING COFFEE KNOWLEDGE ISSUING OUR FIRST SUSTAINABILIT Y BOND Starbucks currently operates eight Farmer Support Centers in key coffeeIn May 2016, we issued our first U.S. Corporate Sustainability Bond. producing countries around the world, from Indonesia and Rwanda to The company will use the net proceeds from the offering of $500 million our newest center in Mexico. Our open-source agronomy approach will to enhance its sustainability programs around coffee supply chain give farmers in these regions free access to the latest findings of our management through eligible sustainability projects. top agronomists, including new varietals of disease-resistant trees and advanced soil-management techniques. Building on traditional growing MORE THAN COFFEE methods will help farmers continue to improve both the quality and yield We are committed to 100 percent ethically sourced tea and cocoa. To learn of their crops and help increase profitability, ensuring the future of highmore about our commitment and progress, visit starbucks.com/social-impact. quality coffees for everyone. With this global network, we aim to train 200,000 coffee farmers by 2020. WORKING WITH OTHERS TO MAKE ALL COFFEE 10 0 PERCENT SUSTAINABLE We know that greatest challenges in coffee can be solved faster if we collaborate and share solutions. That’s why Starbucks is one of the founding members of The Sustainable Coffee Challenge, a diverse industry coalition led by Conservation International with the call to action of making coffee the world’s first sustainable agricultural product. The Challenge began in 2015 at the United Nations climate talks in Paris and has grown to more than 60 members across the industry, including other roasters, non-governmental organizations and the governments of Mexico and Rwanda. The Challenge is now pulling together the industry precompetitively to develop innovative solutions to ensure the prosperity and well-being of farmers, workers and communities, sustained supply of coffee and conservation of nature. At Starbucks, we have an opportunity to partner with others and go beyond our own commitment of 100 million trees. Through the Sustainable Coffee Challenge, the industry is coming together to commit to 1 billion trees, while developing shared principles for responsible renovation. We invite our partners and customers to share the journey with us and to follow the Challenge at sustaincoffee.org. 6 SUSTAINABLE GOALS COFFEE SOURCING COMMITMENT 100% Ethically Sourced Coffee STARBUCKS GLOBAL FARMER FUND Invest $50 Million in Funding for Farmers by 2020 PLANTING TREES OPEN-SOURCE AGRONOMY Provide 100 Million Trees Train 200,000 Coffee Farmers to Farmers by 2025 by 2020 starbucks.com/social-impact 7 FROM OUR FARMERS One Tree for Every Bag Commitment Catalina Pacheco, a second-generation coffee producer and loving grandmother, methodically roasts a small batch of coffee from her farm, La Finca San José, tucked into the hillsides of Guatemala. Her husband, Carlos Lima, and grandson, Kevin, proudly guide us to their more than 25-year-old coffee farm and the more than 5,700 newly planted Marsellesa coffee plants received through the One Tree for Every Bag Commitment. Kevin runs ahead of the group and hovers over a new leaf rust-resistant Marsellesa coffee tree. He turns to glance at his grandfather who is in the middle of a discussion. Kevin proudly says, “One day I will run this farm.” Carlos Lima kneels down to the new coffee tree and says with a soft smile, “This program has been a gift for our family.” An even-bigger smile spreads across Kevin’s face. He stands up and leads us back to their home where Catalina shares freshly ground coffee prepared with sugar and served with sweet bread. There is a sparkle in both Catalina’s and Carlos Lima’s and their grandson’s eyes while we all savor the fresh cup of coffee from their farm. As we sip, we are reminded of the generations of families, culture and craft impacted by the One Tree for Every Bag Commitment. We see a promising future of opportunities presented to the next generation with each coffee tree. To date the One Tree for Every Bag Commitment has provided 25 million coffee trees to coffee producers in Mexico, Guatemala and El Salvador. These coffee regions were devastated when about 40 percent of coffee trees were killed by coffee leaf rust. Many farmers had to leave their farms, but now with the One Tree for Every Bag Commitment, we see a renewed hope in the future of their farms that their families have cultivated for generations. Together with Conservation International, we are creating positive opportunities for the next generation of coffee farmers. 8 Leading the way in GREENER RETAIL Celebrating a 30-year legacy of recycling in all of our company-owned markets. Our goals for 2022 are designed to accelerate progress to achieve a greener cup. 1) We aim to environmental leadership, we have long double the recycled content in the hot cup and explore alternative materials understood that the planet is our most for cold cups. 2) We remain committed to recycling and will work to double the number of stores and communities with access to cup recycling. important partner. Our approach toward 3) We will promote and incent the use of “for here” and reusable cups. green retail continues with ambitious INVESTING IN GREENER POWER goals for 2020 and beyond. Since 2005 Starbucks has invested in renewable energy and achieved a milestone last year by purchasing the equivalent of 100 percent of global GREENER STORES company-operated stores' electricity consumption, primarily utilizing Starbucks is proud to have built more than 1,200 LEED® (Leadership Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) from the U.S. and Canada and through in Energy and Environmental Design) certified stores in 20 countries. green electricity-supply contracts across Europe. Starbucks is the numberWe are the largest builder of green stores in our sector and our stores one purchaser of renewable electricity in its sector on the EPA’s Green account for 20 percent of the LEED®-certified retail projects globally. Power Partnership National Top 100 list. Last year Starbucks joined Now Starbucks will deepen its commitment to environmentally friendly The Climate Group's RE100, a coalition of some of the world’s largest retail by developing a store verification program to drive innovation, businesses committed to using renewable electricity. As we look to the sustainability and efficiencies throughout the store portfolio. Our goal of future, Starbucks will focus on identifying new, geographically relevant achieving 10,000 greener retail stores by 2025 will encompass new and ways to buy renewable energy and bring new renewable projects onto the existing stores by evaluating and developing building standards, utility grids of the countries where we operate around the world. efficiency targets and partner engagement. This new program positions Starbucks to truly leverage its scale for good and delivers on our ambition EMPOWERING GREENER PARTNERS to become the world’s greenest retailer. We are focused on galvanizing our partners (employees) who are passionate about sustainability to inspire and teach. In 2016 we piloted the Greener INNOVATING A GREENER CUP Apron™ program with both retail and nonretail partners—a voluntary Starbucks has made significant progress to green up the cup and certification program that helps partners learn about environmental recognize that there is still a long way to go. We were the first company sustainability through three short modules co-created with Arizona State to offer a discount to our customers who bring a reusable cup, the first University’s School of Sustainability. More than 1,100 partners participated to include 10 percent post-consumer fiber (PCF) in our hot cups and we when we launched the pilot. In spring 2017, we will expand the program have led the industry in advocating for increased recycling infrastructure. for partners in the U.S., Canada, the U.K. and The Netherlands. Our goal While we can recycle the cup in many communities today, we will is to engage 10,000 partners globally by 2020 and create a network of continue to advocate with local governments and stakeholders to increase sustainability champions. 9 GREENER GREENER STORES RETAIL GOALS Build and Operate 10,000 Greener Retail Stores Globally by 2025 GREENER CUP Double the Recycled Content, the Recyclability and the Reusability of Our Cup by 2022 GREENER APRONS Empower 10,000 Partners Worldwide GREENER POWER to be Sustainability Invest in 100% Renewable Energy to Champions by 2020 Power Operations Globally by 2020 starbucks.com/social-impact 10 FROM OUR PARTNERS Forging Greener Business Practices Tawny Villain has been a Starbucks partner for 10 years, in three different states. Most recently Tawny has found herself in Austin, Texas, where the sun is shining year round and she can pursue her passions: sustainability and opportunities to learn. Tawny’s interests have led her in many directions, but what continues to hold her attention is the impact humans have on the environment we live in and how important it is for all people to understand the roles they play. The Greener Apron™ program, offered in partnership with Arizona State University (ASU), has been one outlet for her to continue her sustainability education and gives her the opportunity to offer her expertise to fellow store partners and customers. Tawny is among the many partners enrolled in the Starbucks College Achievement Plan (SCAP) at ASU. She chose to pursue a degree in sustainability. This particular degree is the only SCAP degree that requires students to complete an internship in the field prior to graduation. The Global Social Impact and Public Policy team jumped at the opportunity to benefit from the academic rigor of the program and offered a pilot Sustainability Fellowship for these scholars. Tawny, in addition to two other partners, has been completing her internship requirement remotely with the Sustainability team at Starbucks, focusing her work on mapping and understanding the waste landscape in Austin, which will to serve as a case study for the company as we look to improve waste management. “The fellowship, in hand with the ASU sustainability program, has raised my awareness about sustainability and what that means,” said Tawny. Visiting the Starbucks Support Center in Seattle and seeing firsthand the projects that teams are working on so closely linked to the things that I care about is so exciting, and it has made me even more proud to be a partner. I’m thankful for this professional experience, built on my barista background.” 11 CREATING OPPORTUNITIES Helping people achieve their dreams. As a leader in hiring great talent, Starbucks has and will always look to create opportunities for our partners and customers in the communities we serve. EMPLOYING OPPORTUNITY YOUTH Starbucks is embracing and employing tens of thousands of youth, 18 months early and have expanded our goal to 25,000 by 2025. ages 16–24, who are disconnected from work and school, to help them Our commitment extends beyond hiring. It includes the ability for achieve their dream and our shared future. Starbucks led the launch of partners who are current members of the U.S. Armed Forces or the 100,000 Opportunities Initiative with 50 other employers in 2015. veterans to extend their College Achievement Plan benefit to a spouse As the country’s largest employer-led coalition committed to creating or child. We're also establishing places for our veteran and military pathways to meaningful employment for young people, the coalition has family communities to connect with one another, creating volunteer reached its goal of hiring 100,000 Opportunity Youth—two years ahead opportunities and leveraging their unique leadership experiences to of schedule. positively shape our company and our world. Starbucks is committed to hiring 100,000 Opportunity Youth by 2020 WELCOMING REFUGEES and the coalition is now aligning with the cross-sector goal of creating Refugees represent a population who seek a chance to rebuild their 1 million opportunities by 2021. The group will continue to share new lives and have a fresh start in the face of extraordinarily difficult recruiting and human resources practices tailored to hiring, retaining circumstances. In keeping with our longstanding history to create and advancing Opportunity Youth. opportunity for all and to invest in the people who are a part of the communities where we do business, Starbucks is leading a global effort In the U.S., we are also opening stores in lowto medium-income over the next five years to welcome and employ 10,000 refugees whose communities that are equipped with training centers where we work with talent, experience and resilience will enrich the communities we serve local nonprofits to provide job-skills training to young people. Around the around the world. In the U.S., we will focus on interpreters, personnel world, we offer training and support to young people in ways relevant to and their families who served alongside American armed forces. their needs and opportunities. E XPANDING STARBUCKS COLLEGE HIRING VETERANS AND MILITARY SPOUSES ACHIEVEMENT PLAN Hiring and honoring veterans and military spouses allows us all to By the end of 2016, we had more than 6,000 partners participating in benefit from their leadership, experience and sense of service. In 2013 the Starbucks College Achievement Plan program with 227 graduates. Starbucks committed to hiring at least 10,000 veterans and military In March 2017, we announced the Pathways to Admission, a program spouses by 2018. In March 2017, we announced that we met our goal that provides partners the ability to work toward admission tuition-free. 12 CREATING GOALS OPPORTUNITIES STARBUCKS COLLEGE ACHIEVEMENT PLAN Graduate 25,000 Partners by 2025 and VETERANS AND MILITARY SPOUSES Increase Accessibility Hire and Honor 25,000 Veterans and Performance and Military Spouses by 2025 REFUGEES OPPORTUNITY YOUTH Welcome and Employ Embrace and Employ 10,000 Refugees 100,000 Hires by 2020 Globally by 2022 starbucks.com/social-impact 13 FROM OUR PARTNERS More Accesible Pathways to Education For Hagar Johnson, the decision to join Starbucks was based on more than a supportive work environment and a steady paycheck, it was also about the ability to earn a college education. “I attended an Opportunity Fair and Forum in Chicago and Starbucks drew me in with their conversation about paying for employees to go to school through the Starbucks College Achievement Plan,” said Johnson, a shift supervisor in Englewood. “I was hired on the spot and was excited to finally finish my degree.” Prior to Starbucks, Johnson had attended Georgia Southern University, but health challenges caused her to drop out. Once on board at Starbucks, she applied for the College Achievement Plan. Unfortunately, her grades didn’t meet requirements. Johnson is one of an estimated 15,000 Starbucks partners who have a desire to earn a degree, but do not qualify for admission to the company’s College Achievement Plan, which offers all eligible U.S. partners full tuition reimbursement for an undergraduate degree from Arizona State University (ASU) online. To help these partners reach their goals, Starbucks and ASU launched Pathways to Admission in March 2017, a program that provides partners the ability to work toward admission tuition-free. Because of the Pathways to Education program, Johnson is now happily on her way to earning admission to ASU. “Not everyone goes straight to college. Some people have obstacles and setbacks that prevent them from building their skills and continuing their education,” Johnson said. “Starbucks cares enough to help me grow to be that future business leader or doctor or whatever it is I want to be.” 14 FROM OUR PARTNERS Learning Through Apprenticeship Many Starbucks partners are under the age of 24—an age group facing the most significant challenges in gaining fulland part-time work. Through training and employment initiatives, Starbucks aims to help young adults prepare for and secure jobs. The Starbucks Apprenticeship Programme, launched in 2012 in the U.K., offers young people an opportunity to learn about a retail management career and build the transferable skills needed to further their individual goals. In March 2016, Starbucks expanded the effort to include those with higher degrees, allowing for apprenticeships in a range of disciplines such as digital, law and management. With this change, Starbucks began offering professional services apprenticeships in its U.K. Support Center in addition to opportunities in the company’s stores. Eighteen-year-old Zain Bedar learned about the Starbucks Apprenticeship Programme at a career fair in London earlier this year. He is now nine months into a two-year Level 4 apprenticeship as a financial analyst. “My apprenticeship allows me to combine studying on the job while gaining practical work experience and skills in a professional environment,” he said. “I am pleased that I made the decision of vocational training through my apprenticeship rather than going to university, and I am very excited about my future career prospects.” In addition to earning a salary, he will obtain a Chartered Institute of Management Accountant (CIMA) qualification at the end of his training with Starbucks. 15 STRENGTHENING COMMUNITIES The world is our neighborhood. Every Starbucks store is a part of a COMMUNITY SERVICE We have always believed Starbucks can—and should—have a positive impact community, and we’re committed to on the communities we serve. Community service reflects our mission strengthening neighborhoods wherever and values, who we are as a company and one of the single biggest ways we individually and collectively come together to help fill a need in the we do business. communities where Starbucks operates. DONATING RE ADY-TO -E AT ME ALS We launched Global Month of Service in April 2011 to honor our 40th In the spirit of our mission and values, partners across the country anniversary with a monthlong dedication to service, and in April 2016 alone, advocated for a solution to donate unsold food to the communities more than 50,000 partners served together in their local communities. we serve. Through a new and unique strategic partnership with Feeding Starting in 2017, we are launching our year-round commitment and are excited America, we will rescue 100 percent of food available to donate from to announce our new community service goal: 100 percent of Starbucks® stores all of our U.S. company-owned stores by 2020, positioning Starbucks across the globe will annually participate in service by 2020. We aspire to have as the sector leader in food rescue. every participating store around the world engaged in community service by encouraging partners to lead and take part in projects that link to our global By partnering with Feeding America, we are leveraging the largest social-impact efforts in sustainability, hunger, youth, veterans and refugees. domestic hunger-relief and food-rescue nonprofit network in the U.S. to redistribute unsold food to families and individuals struggling with THE STARBUCKS FOUNDATION food insecurity. As of March 2017, we have donated 1 million meals. The Starbucks Foundation supports communities around the globe in areas Once the program rollout is complete, we expect to increase our aligned with its social-impact priorities: donations exponentially to 50 million meals annually. Opportunity for Youth To enable food donation in the U.S., Starbucks is providing financial In 2016, 63 partnerships in 10 countries directly supported more than support to food banks to invest in program infrastructure, which includes 20,000 young people in developing job and leadership skills and connecting refrigerated vehicles that can safely transport rescued food. them to employment. The FoodShare program donates meals and also connects our partners Supporting Coffee, Tea and Cocoa Communities with their local food banks to donate their time through service projects. Our commitment to communities extends beyond our stores to include the In addition, the partnership with Feeding America not only invests in the regions that supply our coffee, tea and cocoa. The Foundation invests in food bank network, but also allows Starbucks the opportunity to lend programs designed to strengthen local economic and social development. support to advocacy efforts around hunger relief programs at the national We work collaboratively with non-governmental organizations that have and local levels. Through food donation, community service, financial experience and expertise in working with farming communities in the countries investment and advocacy efforts, the FoodShare program is working to where coffee and other agricultural products are raised. Projects include help end hunger from all sides. improving access to education and agricultural training, microfinance and microcredit services, improving biodiversity conservation, and increasing levels of health, nutrition and water sanitation. 16 STRENGTHENING COMMUNITIES Our board of directors is now one of the most diverse corporate boards in the country. At the end of 2016, 43 percent of our U.S. partners were minorities; 66 percent were women. Of our U.S. vice presidents, 19 percent DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION were minorities and 48 percent were women. Among our top 60 leaders The success of our business relies on the innovation that results from in the U.S., defined as senior vice president or higher, 18 percent were bringing together the diverse experiences, perspectives and backgrounds minorities and 32 percent were women. of the people who work with us. To further those efforts, we created the Starbucks Inclusion Council, comprising executives from key areas of We continue to strive to do more to increase our diversity. That is why our enterprise, who set the strategic vision for Starbucks inclusion and we have established goals to increase the number of women and minorities diversity efforts. That vision includes creating opportunities for historically at the most senior levels of the company and continue to evaluate our underrepresented populations both in our hiring and in our supply chain. efforts in this regard. In addition, we will continue to engage and welcome It includes a tenacious focus on pay equity, to ensure all our partners diverse job candidates and partners from all backgrounds to ensure we have are paid fairly for the work they do. It also strives toward accountability a workforce that furthers our success. that our most senior leaders represent the diversity of our partners and customers. Whether we are looking to enter new markets, grow in existing DIVERSE SUPPLY CHAIN ones or continue to drive innovation across our business, focusing on Starbucks Supplier Diversity Program strengthens our supply chain and diversity and inclusion is a business imperative. serves as a critical component of our commitment to ethically source our products. Our program focuses on developing business relationships INCLUSIVE WORKPLACE with companies that are at least 51 percent owned and operated by a There is no higher priority for our business than to attract, develop and minority, woman, LGBT, veteran or person with a disability. By actively retain talented partners. To accomplish this, we need to treat each other seeking diverse suppliers, we both support our business and invest in the with respect and dignity, and create a culture of belonging where everyone communities in which we do business. This not only helps us identify and is welcome. Those are two of our highest values. When our partners can deliver high-quality, innovative products and services across all business come to work, be fully themselves and do their best work, we consider that channels, but also to drive value and economic development. success. Our nine partner networks, each highlighting an area of diversity, represent the broad spectrum of our partners’ backgrounds and provide Since first reporting our spend with diverse suppliers in 2000­—then totaling an opportunity for people at all levels to connect, speak up and take on $38 million—our program has grown to almost $700 million annually. This leadership roles. accounts for approximately 10 percent of our total spend in the U.S. and Canada. We have set year-over-year growth targets with an ultimate goal of Additionally, we offer the opportunity to build a career and support our achieving 15 percent of spend with diverse suppliers. partners’ personal goals through comprehensive benefits for both our fulland part-time partners ranging from health care and parental leave This comprehensive approach to supplier diversity ensures our program to stock and the chance to earn a tuition-free college degree. Through and goals are part of the foundation of our strategic sourcing process. community outreach, as well as by partnering with nonprofits, civic leaders In addition to setting purchasing targets reflected in our supply chain goals, and diverse professional associations at the local and national level, our sourcing team proactively supports diverse supplier development. we are working to make sure a diverse pool of talent has access to the Beyond simply identifying strong candidates, we actively coach and develop opportunities we offer. suppliers who meet our diversity standards. 17 STRENGTHENING COMMUNITIES GOALS FOODSHARE Rescue 100% of Food Available to Donate by 2020 in U.S. Company-Owned Stores COMMUNITY SERVICE Have 100% of Our Stores Worldwide Annually Participating in Community Service by 2020 starbucks.com/social-impact 18 FROM OUR PARTNERS Helping to End Hunger in the Community As a seven-year-old girl, Esther Ortega-Johnson often woke up early on weekends during cold weather, bundled up in warm clothes and made her way to downtown Los Angeles with family members. Their journey was for a special purpose: to provide a hot meal to anyone in need on the streets. “My dad would organize my extended family to make tacos and hot chocolate and pass the food and beverages out to anyone looking for something to eat,” said Ortega-Johnson, a store manager and Navy spouse now living in San Antonio, Texas. “That was my first experience with homelessness and hunger.” Soon more family members and friends learned about the effort and joined in. “We weren’t working for any particular organization, we were simply helping people in need,” she said. “That’s how my parents raised me and my siblings. If you’re able to provide for other people, then it’s your responsibility to make sure that you do.” That experience as a child had a decided impact on OrtegaJohnson, who is one of several Starbucks partners supporting the company’s effort to expand its FoodShare program in San Antonio and Houston. Through a strategic alliance with Feeding America, Starbucks has set a goal to rescue 100 percent of food available to donate from their more than 7,000 U.S. company-operated stores. When the program rollout is complete, Starbucks estimates that partners in company-operated stores will be able to provide 50 million nourishing meals each year. starbucks.com/responsibility 19 FROM OUR PARTNERS Giving Back Through Service Starbucks partners have a long history of giving back to their communities through community service. For more than nine years, partners in Beijing have supported Cinema for the Blind, a charitable project aimed at helping the blind better enjoy both local and foreign films, by having volunteers narrate the onscreen details. As a Starbucks partner who lives and breathes the Starbucks mission and values, Zheng Tao, an 11-year partner, is not only an accomplished Coffee Master in the Starbucks North China region, he also has always felt compelled to extend a helping hand to the underprivileged around him. He has been volunteering with the project for six years to effectively narrate and share more than 40 movies and contributing more than 9,000 hours. “When my supervisor told me about Starbucks involvement supporting the Cinema for the Blind project in Beijing, I jumped immediately at the opportunity,” recalled Tao. “It was amazing to be able to be the eyes for the blind, and to help them enjoy a movie as I do.” In September 2016, Zheng Tao was honored, among some of China’s most influential business leaders, entrepreneurs and technologists, as one of China’s top 50 innovators for his contributions and commitment to Cinema for the Blind in Beijing. This annual award, organized by China’s leading business publication, CBN Weekly, is today one of the most important ranking for Chinese leaders in business, brand, technology and design, and aims to recognize, encourage and celebrate their innovation-led pursuits and aspirations. 20 GOALS Summary AREA OF IMPACT GOAL F Y16 APRIL 2017 PRO GRESS SOURCING COMMITMENT 100% ethically sourced coffee 99% 99% ethically sourced coffee 25 million trees donated through our One Tree for Every Bag PLANTING TREES Provide 100 million trees to farmers by 2025 9M Commitment initiative GLOBAL FARMER FUND Invest $50 million in farmer loans by 2020 $21.3M We have $21.3 million currently committed or invested in farmer loans OPEN-SOURCE new We offer current training to farmers through our eight Farmer Support AGRONOMY Train 200,000 coffee farmers by 2020 goal Centers and will begin reporting impact in the FY17 report Our cups currently contain 10% post-consumer fiber (PCF), Double the recycled content, recyclability and new GREENER CUP we have front-of-house recycling in over 50% of our U.S. company-owned reusability of our cup by 2022 goal stores and 1.4% of our beverages are sold using a reusable cup Build and operate 10,000 greener stores GREENER STORES 1,000 Over 1,200 LEED ®-certified stores in 20 countries globally by 2025 We have purchased Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) to cover 100% Invest in 100% renewable energy to power new GREENER POWER of our electricity usage in global company-owned stores, and in April 2017 operations globally by 2020 goal we announced an investment in a 260-acre solar grid in Robeson County, N.C. Empower 10,000 partners worldwide to be GREENER APRONS 1,120 We have officially launched our Greener Apron™ program in four markets sustainability champions by 2020 VETERANS AND Hire and honor 25,000 veterans and military In March 2017, we met our initial goal of 10,000 hires and 7,745 MILITARY SPOUSES spouses by 2025 expanded the goal to 25,000 STARBUCKS COLLEGE Graduate 25,000 partners by 2025 and More than 400 partners have graduated to date with over 227 ACHIEVEMENT PLAN increase accessibility and performance 6,500 partners participating in ASU’s online degree programs In 2015 we set a goal to hire 10,000 Opportunity Youth; Embrace and employ 100,000 Opportunity OPPORTUNITY YOUTH 32,096 we surpassed this goal within the first year and expanded Youth by 2020 our goal to 100,000 by 2020 In January 2017, we announced our commitment to hire Welcome and employ 10,000 refugees new REFUGEES 10,000 refugees across the 75 countries we serve; we will globally by 2022 goal share our progress in the FY17 report Rescue 100% of food available to donate new The FoodShare program was announced in FY16 and began FOODSHARE by 2020 in U.S. company-owned stores goal its rollout; to date, we have donated over 1 million meals Have 100% of our stores worldwide annually new We established our baseline of 25,000 stores and will track COMMUNITY SERVICE participate in community service by 2020 goal progress going forward 21 CONSERVATION THE CLIMATE GROUP INTERNATIONAL FEEDING AMERICA INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE “RE100 members like Starbucks “Launching this partnership “Providing healthy trees to farmers are going beyond simply ‘meeting “The IRC is thrilled to partner with Starbucks has been a in coffee-growing regions makes a target’—they are rewriting the with Starbucks on their powerful watershed moment for our food existing lands more productive rulebook for energy purchasing. and impactful commitment to rescue efforts. We are committed and keeps us from expanding Starbucks investment in solar hire 10,000 refugees globally to identifying innovative into forests. We’re proud to stand infrastructure and breakthrough over five years. One of the best solutions for sourcing food. alongside Starbucks in this longgreen tariff demonstrate the ways for a refugee to integrate Programs like FoodShare are term endeavor to ensure that both compelling business case for into a new community is through a step in the right direction.” livelihoods and nature around the renewable electricity. Their employment, and Starbucks world are vibrant and healthy.” dynamic, collaborative and pledge to provide these muchDiana Aviv innovative approach is setting needed jobs will be a critical first ceo Dr. M. Sanjayan an example to businesses and step toward our clients’ selfexecutive vice president and utilities across America, while sufficiency.” senior scientist showing millions of customers that Starbucks is serious about David Miliband slowing climate change.” president and ceo Sam Kimmins head of RE100 starbucks.com/social-impact 22 About this report. SCOPE Our report for fiscal 2016 focuses on our performance against the goals with our coffee purchases, currently represent the most significant we set in three key areas: ethical sourcing, environmental stewardship segment of Starbucks social, environmental and economic impacts based and community investments. We’ve also included links to information on the percentage of revenue and the number of stores covered. Provided and resources publicly available at starbucks.com regarding our financial, information pertains to the coffee sold and served by all global Starbucks corporate governance, workplace and diversity policies, and performance brands and company-operated or licensed retail stores. because these commitments are directly tied to our business. In developing this report, we’ve covered topics and issues that are important Starbucks uses the CRedit360 program to manage our sustainability data to Starbucks and our stakeholders based on year-round engagement with for the purposes of reporting on and tracking key performance indicators, and feedback from advocates and investors, and via easily accessible providing ongoing visibility into our operations and impacts enterprisecustomer and Starbucks partner tools such as My Starbucks Idea, wide, as well as for approval and audit purposes. We continue to work to Starbucks social media channels (Starbucks and Starbucks Partners validate and improve our global reporting efforts, so we can consistently Facebook, Twitter, Instagram) and our Customer Service team. These and accurately report on our performance. efforts are complemented by industry and trend analysis conducted by REPORTING YEAR the strategic advisory firm SustainAbility and Edelman public relations, Starbucks fiscal year 2016 (September 28, 2015–October 2, 2016), along with direct conversations with the many organizations we work with. unless otherwise noted. Ensuring both internal and external engagement is a critical component of how we do business—we help ensure our programs, policies and the CURRENCY content of this report are material to our business and stakeholders. All references to currency are in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise noted. BOUNDARIES PREVIOUS REPORTS As with previous global responsibility reports, this year’s report highlights Starbucks has produced an annual report since 2001. Previous years’ the work we are doing in ethical sourcing, community investments and global responsibility reports are available on our website. environmental stewardship. These areas are critical to our business and are also where we know we can and do have the greatest impact. INFORMATION INTEGRIT Y Based on our stakeholder-engagement efforts, we also believe these Starbucks management is responsible for the preparation and integrity areas are important to our customers, our partners, non-governmental of the information reported for fiscal 2016. Through a system of internal organizations (NGOs) and investors. In addition, issues related to health controls, including a comprehensive verification process involving internal and wellness and workplace policies are vital elements of our business subject-matter experts, we believe this information accurately represents and of considerable interest to key stakeholders. While our commitments our global responsibility activities and performance results for the fiscal are global, our reporting—with the exception of our coffee purchases—is year 2016. External verification is provided by Moss Adams LLP. focused largely on Starbucks U.S. and Canada company-operated retail All infographics related to our goal performance are visual representations stores and global supply chain operations. These operations, together of progress and not to exact scale. 23 FORWARD -LOOKING STATEMENTS Our reporting on global responsibility for fiscal 2016 includes forwardlooking statements about the company’s business and its future business plans, initiatives, goals and objectives. These forward-looking statements are based on currently available operating, financial and competitive information and are subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties. Actual future results may differ materially depending on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, coffee, dairy and other raw material prices and availability; successful execution of the company’s blueprint for growth and other strategies; cost reduction and other initiatives; fluctuations in U.S. and international economies and currencies; the impact of competition; the effect of legal proceedings; and other risks detailed in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the “Risk Factors” section of Starbucks Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 2, 2016. The company assumes no obligation to update any of these forwardlooking statements. We are in business to inspire and nurture the human spirit, one person, one cup and one neighborhood at a time. It’s our role and responsibility to stay true to our mission and values. To act with purpose and conviction, every day, in every community we serve. starbucks.com/social-impact We invite you to share your ideas with us at MY STARBUCKS IDE A © 2017 Starbucks Coffee Company. All rights reserved. SBX17-257498
