Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Contents 1. Introduction 4 1.1 Introduction by Gilbert Van Hassel, CEO and chairman of the Executive Committee of Robeco 4 1.2 Our ambitions at a glance 5 1.3 Robeco at a glance 5 1.4 About this report 5 1.5 Financial results 6 1.6 Robeco Strategy 6 1.7 Core values 6 1.8 Risks 7 1.8.1 Operational risk 7 1.8.2 Regulatory risk 7 1.8.3 Financial risk 7 1.8.4 Reputational risk 7 1.9 Market developments 8 1.10 Innovation 8 2. Client-centered 10 2.1 Knowing our clients 10 2.2 Client research and satisfaction 10 2.3 Operational excellence 11 2.3.1 Customer service 11 2.3.2 Recognition 11 2.4 Complaints 12 2.5 Products and services 12 2.5.1 Product and service approval 12 2.5.2 Product solutions 12 2.5.3 Product monitoring 13 2.5.4 Transparency 13 2.5.5 Security and privacy 13 2.6 Knowledge-sharing 13 2.6.1 Client events 13 2.6.2 Publications 13 3. Sustainability Investing 15 3.1 Active ownership 16 3.1.1 Focus on stewardship 16 3.1.2 Voting 16 3.1.3 Public policy engagement 17 3.1.4 Engagement equity and credits 17 3.1.4.1 Value engagement 17 3.1.4.2 Enhanced engagement 18 3.1.5 Exclusions 18 3.1.6 Active ownership in Asia 18 3.1.7 Engagement focus areas in 2016 18 3.1.7.1 Engagement case study: Human Rights 19 3.1.7.2 Engagement case study: Freedom of association and right to collective bargaining 19 3.1.7.3 Engagement case study: Forced labor and hiring discrimination 20 3.1.7.4 Engagement case study: Forced labor and child labor case study 20 3.1.7.5 Engagement case study: Environmental performance 21 3.1.7.6 Engagement case study: Bribery and corruption 21 3.2 ESG integration by Robeco 22 3.2.1 Global equity 22 3.2.2 Quantitative equity 24 3.2.3 Emerging markets equity 24 3.2.4 Asia Pacific equities 25 3.2.5 Trends investing 25 2 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 3.2.6 Credits 26 3.2.7 Sovereign bonds 27 3.2.8 Private equity 28 3.2.9 Corestone 29 3.3 Promoting the implementation of sustainability investing 30 3.3.1 Sustainability initiatives 30 3.3.2 Publications on sustainability investing 30 4. Governance 32 4.1 Mission 32 4.2 Supervisory Board and Executive Committee 32 4.2.1 Supervisory Board 33 4.2.2 Executive Committee 34 4.2.3 Governance changes 2016 34 4.2.4 Diversity in Robeco’s statutory management and Supervisory Board 34 4.3 Risk Management 35 4.3.1 Governance 35 4.3.2 Audit & Risk Committee 35 4.3.3 Enterprise Risk Management Committee 35 4.3.4 Robeco Control Framework and ISAE 3402 35 4.3.5 Compliance with laws and regulations 36 4.4 Code of Conduct 36 4.4.1 Whistleblowing policy 36 4.4.2 Regulations regarding private investment transactions 36 4.4.3 Bribery and corruption 37 4.5 Robeco’s tax policy 37 4.5.1 Robeco as an asset management company 37 4.5.2 Taxation of investment funds 37 4.5.3 Robeco as an active owner 37 5. HRM 38 5.1 Key figures 38 5.2 Employee Value Proposition 38 5.2.1 Remuneration 39 5.3 Employee engagement 39 5.4 Personal and organizational development 39 5.4.1 Leadership 39 5.4.2 Human-capital development 39 5.5 Health and vitality 40 5.6 Working environment 40 5.6.1 New offices in FIRST 40 5.7 Diversity 41 5.7.1 Talent to the Top Charter 41 5.7.2 PinkCapital 41 5.8 Stichting Pensioenfonds Robeco 41 6. Environment 42 6.1 Energy and water use 42 6.2 Waste 42 6.3 Paper-independent workplace 42 6.4 Responsible purchasing 43 6.5 Mobility and public transport 43 6.6 Carbon footprint compensation 43 7. Society 44 7.1 Social sponsoring 44 7.1.1 Social commitment 44 7.1.2 Christmas donations 44 7.1.3 Robeco Summer Nights 45 7.1.4 Beleggr 45 7.2 Roparun 45 7.3 Academic activities 45 7.3.1 Netspar 45 Glossary 46 UN Global Compact 48 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 3 1. Introduction 1.1 Introduction by Gilbert Van Hassel, CEO and chairman of the Executive Committee of Robeco Robeco has been at the forefront of sustainability investing (SI) since the 1990s, and in my first year at the company I have experienced how deeply SI is interwoven with our core processes and how strongly our employees are committed to the topic. We have a strong belief that integrating environmental, social and governance factors leads to better-informed investment decisions and enhances the long-term, risk-return profiles of our investment portfolios. Thanks to our expertise and track record in the field of SI, and the comprehensive ESG database, foresight and research of our sister company RobecoSAM, we have become a world leader in SI. Obviously we strive to practice what we preach. Robeco has maintained a long-term approach since the very beginning in 1929, helping the company to grow in a sustainable way, to weather storms in the financial markets and to anticipate future client needs. However, in the last decades our corporate responsibility efforts have become more targeted and comprehensive. This corporate responsibility report provides an overview of where we stand today. It also serves as our official disclosure document in terms of our commitment to the UN Global Compact and provides insight into our contributions to the UN Sustainable Development Goals for 2030. Looking back at 2016, I see another good year for sustainability investing. In every conversation I have had with clients, the topic comes up in the first 15 minutes. For many of these investors, Robeco’s SI expertise is an important reason to entrust us with their money. A recent example is France’s state pension fund FRR’s decision to select Robeco to manage its ‘Optimized Equity index strategy with an ESG approach’, together with RobecoSAM. It is my firm belief that sustainability is an ever-growing theme in our industry, driven by investor demand and society as a whole. In today’s turbulent world it is more relevant than ever and it will help us to be successful at what matters the most: taking care of our clients, our performance and our people. Gilbert Van Hassel CEO and chairman of the Executive Committee of Robeco 4 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 1.2 Our ambitions at a glance 1.3 Robeco at a glance Client-centered We are an international asset management company that – To maintain a dialogue with clients, to learn from those offers active management services in an extensive range discussions, and to act upon our lessons so that we may of investments, including equities and bonds. Research, continue building long-term partnerships sustainability investing, quantitative techniques, and – To increase our understanding of client satisfaction constant innovation lie at the heart of everything we do. across the organization Our ‘pioneering but cautious’ approach has been a part of – To strive continuously for operational excellence in the our DNA since our founding in Rotterdam in 1929 as the interest of our clients ‘Rotterdamsch Beleggings Consortium’. Our head office is located in Rotterdam, the Netherlands. As at 31 December Sustainability Investing 2016, Robeco had EUR 137 billion in assets under – To promote to clients the benefits of sustainability management (AuM). investing – To increase the number of assets that incorporate ESG Today, we are a subsidiary of Robeco Group, which is the criteria center of asset management expertise for ORIX Corporation, – To improve corporate behavior and the risk/return Robeco Group’s owner based in Tokyo, Japan. Within the profile of investments group we can combine our strengths and leverage on each – To increase the assets under voting other’s expertise. For example, Robeco actively applies – To increase the assets under engagement the sustainability data gathered and research produced by sustainability investing specialist RobecoSAM. For value Governance equity investing propositions, we team up with the experts – Continuous optimization of the effectiveness of our in this field at Boston Partners. And we also work closely internal controls in the interest of our clients with CanaraRobeco in India and Robeco Group subsidiary – To operate in a model where accountability and a Transtrend, drawing on their specific investing expertise. balance of power can be demonstrated These are just a few examples of how Robeco takes advantage of its partners’ skills to the benefit of its clients. HRM – To hire, grow and retain diverse talent 1.4 About this report – To invest in the personal and professional development This corporate responsibility report describes Robeco’s of our staff progress in and commitment to corporate responsibility – To support and promote the health and vitality of our throughout 2016. The report’s publication date is employees 31 March 2017. The report includes and aggregates all – To score higher than the benchmark on employee assets under management under the functional scope of engagement Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. (Robeco). Environment Where applicable, the report provides more detailed – Conscious in our use of resources information on the scope of the policy pursued and the data presented (e.g., divergent approaches in local Society market practices and different divisions, and the resulting – To provide funds and time to employees and initiatives data variances). In our reporting process we focus on the throughout Robeco for meaningful, diversified and local aspects identified as having the greatest materiality: clientcommitment to programs that benefit society centricity, sustainability investing and human resources. We have identified these three topics with a two-dimensional materiality assessment, taking into account the importance Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 5 per topic for stakeholders weighed against the importance 1.6 Robeco Strategy for Robeco. Its aim is to provide an understanding In 2016, Robeco Groep N.V. separated its activities into and insight into the topics dealt with in this corporate Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V., under the responsibility report. name Robeco, and Robeco Group. Robeco would get its own Supervisory Board and executive management to emphasize Each year, we distribute questionnaires within the its position as an autonomous global asset manager. This organization to gather the required information. The new structure reflects current global industry and market survey that was carried out to produce this report is based trends, guaranteeing continued expertise in investments, on surveys used to assess materiality, and on the Global distribution and client servicing. Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines. Having received the feedback, the input was checked and validated against In March 2014, Robeco Group introduced its strategy for the existing data, where possible. Our ambition for each 2014-2018. This strategy is based on the growth ambitions reporting year is to further upgrade and enhance the quality of Robeco Group and its shareholder ORIX and builds on the of the internal data that we receive and the reporting on foundations laid in the previous strategy period. these data. The 2014-2018 strategy focuses on growth in three regions, This corporate responsibility report has not been audited by the US, Europe and Asia. In these regions, Robeco Group and an external auditor. ORIX have a strong presence and foundations upon which further expansion can be realized. Growth is expected to 1.5 Financial results come from existing and new activities expanding from its Robeco is a subsidiary of Robeco Group. In the table below current base. is a summary of the financial results and the assets under management of Robeco Group. Building on the existing 2014-2018 strategy, a new Robeco strategy is currently being prepared to reflect the governance 2016 2015 changes and to set new priorities. Assets under management (EUR x billion) 281.4 268.1 1.7 Core values Our core values embody the essence of Robeco and serve Financial Results (EUR x million) as a touchstone for our day-to-day work. They forge a clear, Management and performance fees 1,398 1,435 shared identity for all executives and employees, which helps us execute our strategies in the best interests of our clients at all times. Those core values require us to be: Operating income 1,060 1,052 Operating expenses -711 -692 Client-centered Operating result 349 360 Our clients justify our existence. We consistently think and Non-operating result 7 -4 act in their best interest. In all we do, we ask ourselves Taxes -117 -119 what the added value is for our clients. We show a genuine Net result 239 237 interest in our clients and make an effort to understand their situation and goals. We deliver on our clients’ expectations Attributable to: and we set our sights on a long-term relationship. In the end, the results we achieve for our clients are the only Shareholders of the Company 240 238 measure of success. Non-controlling interests -1 -1 6 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Innovative 1.8.2 Regulatory risk The world is constantly changing, and every day poses new Regulatory risk is the risk of failure by Robeco to meet its challenges for our clients and our organization. We meet regulatory requirements or manage changes in regulatory these challenges with a broad and long-term view, an requirements with respect to new legislation, resulting inquisitive mindset, an inclination to challenge the status in investigations, fines or regulatory sanction. Regulatory quo, a strong commitment to thorough analysis and the will pressure on the asset management industry has continued to take the lead. since the financial crisis in 2008. Similarly, new and yet-tobe-defined regulations, often with unclear implementation Sustainable timescales, impose additional burdens. Hence, the risks We are convinced that companies with sustainable business stemming from the regulatory environment have increased. practices are more successful. We seek sustainability in everything we do and we anticipate future developments. To manage these risks, we participate in national and Our actions are based on a long-term view and a thorough international policy development processes from an early approach, both to investing and client relations. We factor stage, both directly and through representative associations in the long-term impact of our actions. We carefully manage such as the European Fund and Asset Management risks and we are conscious of the costs and the resources we Association (EFAMA) in Europe and the Dutch Fund and Asset use. Management Association (DUFAS) in the Netherlands. We also conduct monitoring activities and impact analyses of Connecting planned regulations and policies. Relevant departments Robeco is an organization of specialists, each with their own initiate and/or monitor the subsequent implementation of unique expertise. We actively share our knowledge and work new or revised laws and regulations. together to leverage the organization’s collective genius and skills in order to achieve the best possible results for 1.8.3 Financial risk our clients. We show each other respect, treat others as we Movements in the financial markets have a direct and wish to be treated ourselves and we think and act in the best indirect impact on Robeco. The direct impact stems interests of Robeco as a whole. primarily from our balance sheet positions. To reduce direct risk exposure, we hedge and mitigate these risks where 1.8 Risks necessary. This includes the hedging of balance sheet The main risks currently known to Robeco are highlighted positions of major subsidiaries using foreign exchange below. However, this overview does not include all the forwards. The indirect impact can arise through changes in potential risks that may ultimately affect Robeco. our AuM, and thus affect the level of fee income generated. 1.8.1 Operational risk In order to limit the impact of changes in specific markets We define operational risk as the risk of loss resulting from (asset classes or countries/regions) on AuM and fees, we either inadequate or failed internal processes, people and maintain a diversified portfolio of products and services. systems, or from external events. We manage a large range Furthermore, our policies prescribe the careful selection and of services and products for different client types in various monitoring of financial counterparties. In order to mitigate regions in the world. This means exposure to risks linked to liquidity risk, cash positions are closely monitored by the operational errors and potentially high operational costs. Finance department. The financial risks in client portfolios In order to mitigate these risks and achieve operational (funds and mandates) are managed and controlled excellence, we continually seek opportunities to reduce thorough our financial risk management policies. complexity. We also rely on the Robeco Control Framework (see chapter 4) to continuously assess the effectiveness of 1.8.4 Reputational risk controls. A company’s reputation is its most valuable asset. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 7 Reputational risk is the risk of damage to Robeco’s range is proof of this. Practice shows that there is a growing reputation that could lead to negative publicity, costly interest in the combination of Quant and ESG analysis from litigation, a decline in the customer base or the exit of large institutional investors. key employees and therefore directly or indirectly to a loss of revenue. Reputation is a wider concept than brand We believe there is room for both active and passive alone, impacting ethics, trust, relationships and the ethos investment strategies in investing and in capital markets. of Robeco. We closely monitor our reputation and have As an active manager, we have a strong belief that active measures in place to protect and enhance our reputation. managers can beat the market. Truly active asset managers can deliver long-term performance that both exceeds their 1.9 Market developments benchmarks and show conviction in their investment ideas. The macro-environment may be one of low growth, with It is up to active managers themselves to prove that active modest returns for a long time. Both slow growth and fee management pays off. pressure will force global asset managers to look at their business models. Following the emergence of digital, 1.10 Innovation robo-based alternatives and greater transparency, clients Innovation is what drives organizations to succeed. For demand clarity in fees and performance and the value for Robeco, innovation – one of our four core values – is key. fees charged. The trend towards passive investments versus It provides room for employees to breathe and grow. debate is also changing the asset management industry. Innovation is about linking Robeco’s investment solutions to our clients’ objectives. Innovation is a prerequisite for Regulators are increasingly putting pressure on asset asset growth for our clients, e.g. by listening to clients and managers, urging them to keep up with the sheer volume delivering on their needs. of regulatory requirements and updates in today’s environment. Asset managers find themselves under Since our inception in 1929 innovation has been part of increasing regulatory pressure to redefine their IT, reporting Robeco’s DNA. We were one of the first asset managers to and internal systems. pioneer investing in emerging markets, one of the first to take sustainability investing seriously, and one of the first Fintech investments are also fueling the competitive to adopt quantitative investing using advanced research landscape. Fintech firms and super brands such as Google, techniques. Today, we are integrating sustainability investing Amazon and Alibaba, provide competitive services and as a standard, while constantly developing new techniques continue to optimize their client service delivery. Clients may in a range of fields including factor investing, equity trends benefit from robo-advisory solutions. Digitization can help and high yield bonds. optimize the customer experience by leveraging the benefits of data analysis, machine learning and artificial intelligence. Innovation is embedded throughout the entire organization In each and every sector, millennials are driving change. – within sales, investments, product development, IT – and Most of them are not invested in stock markets. However, will continue to rank high on our agenda, either driven by over the next decades, the financial and non-financial assets client needs or market developments or driven by our own will be passed from baby boomers to millennials. dedicated and highly skilled research teams. With passive investing on the rise and the pressure on fees increasing, Robeco is constantly monitoring markets and analyzing the investor mindset. What are the underlying client needs and objectives? Responding to these questions can lead to innovation by proving that alternatives can be effective and low-cost. Our successful quantitative product 8 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 9 2. Client-centered Ambitions Highlights To maintain a dialogue with clients, to learn from those discussions, – In addition to our many regular client contacts, numerous client and to act upon our lessons so that we may continue building longevents were organized and several reports, magazines, and term partnerships research papers were published to support our clients in making their financial decisions To increase our understanding of client satisfaction across the – Client feedback is embedded into the organization by sharing organization client satisfaction scores and survey results with all relevant departments and management levels within Robeco –R  obeco Retail in the Netherlands has introduced a feedback tool to measure the quality of our (online) services. Results are discussed within the team on a regular basis To strive continuously for operational excellence in the interest of our – Client servicing has introduced the follow-the-sun principle to clients service clients in different time zones – A dedicated helpdesk was set up to unburden clients in ‘Know Your Client’ (KYC) and anti-money laundering (AML) processes – More capacity was geared towards bespoke client reporting to satisfy specific client information requirements – We implemented best-in-class systems for straight-through processing of our trades We think and act in the best interest of our clients at all we provide clients with transparent information on times. Our focus is on enabling clients to achieve their developments relating directly to their own portfolio and to financial objectives through superior investment returns and other relevant services and products. We meet frequently solutions. with major clients to listen to their feedback and discuss their objectives and needs. Number of clients 2016 2015 2014 Institutional 454 462 318 2.2 Client research and satisfaction Distribution 1055 978 619 Keeping pace with market trends and client needs is Total business clients 1485 1440 937 paramount. Via both bespoke and syndicated market research, we remain alert to market trends and client Total retail accounts needs. In addition, we ensure intensive personal interaction (approx.) 223,000 226,000 219,000 between institutional clients and distribution partners and Robeco’s senior management, account managers, client 2.1 Knowing our clients servicing teams and portfolio managers. We ensure that we know as much as we can about our clients’ financial situation, investment objectives, risk profile, To improve servicing of our wholesale distribution and and other relevant background data so that we can identify institutional clients, we either perform in-house studies or suitable products and services. A good match between our buy ad-hoc surveys on specific topics. Important research products or services and our clients’ profiles is fundamental topics in 2016 included factor investing, ESG integration to our approach. and active versus passive investing. For repetitive clientsatisfaction research we prefer to join syndicated research In addition to monitoring changes in client portfolios, initiatives together with other asset managers. We embrace 10 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 such industry initiatives as an effective way for both our these processes have become stricter, which requires us to clients and ourselves to obtain independent feedback on our gather more information and documents from our clients. products and services and to obtain insight into areas where We acknowledge that clients are experiencing this as an we could potentially improve. increasing administrative burden which can impact their experience in working with Robeco. Therefore, we have Per end 2016, over 30 pension funds submitted evaluations set up a dedicated client services helpdesk which acts as a of more than 45 mandates via the Pension Plan Perception single point of contact for dealing with KYC and AML related Program. More than 95% of the clients who submitted an questions. We also implemented a tool which delivers us a evaluation for both equity and fixed-income mandates part of the required information. recommended Robeco. Robeco’s evaluation scores are higher than the market average on all areas. The results We also enhanced the digital service delivery to our of these evaluations are shared with relevant client-facing distribution clients by extending our collaboration with the departments within Robeco to embed feedback into relevant Paperboy platform, Fundinfo’s document dissemination client processes. platform. Fundinfo is the leading international platform for information and mandatory publications of investment For our retail distribution clients in the Netherlands, we use funds. In 2015, we already made all our mandatory third-party client panels, ad hoc surveys, and continuous information and documents available via this platform. feedback loops on our website to obtain feedback on Since we believe this initiative increases the transparency our products, services, and client needs. In 2016 we also and accessibility of information – which is important for our added a feedback tool to determine the perceived quality clients – we added static fund information as well. In this of our e-mails and largest publications and we have used way, Robeco also delivers the content-management building a consumer panel to get their opinion on new services blocks for our distribution clients’ systems. before implementing them. Based on client feedback, we have invested in the mobile friendliness of our service Furthermore, we have extended our client-servicing team and introduced e-mandates, a technology to replace ‘wet’ with two delivery managers for Official Institutions. We have electronic signatures, to improve a clients’ experience during also adapted the follow-the-sun principle so that clients can their onboarding process. be serviced irrespective of their time-zone. 2.3 Operational excellence Lastly, more capacity was geared towards bespoke client Based on intensive client contact, client research and the reporting. This resulted in almost no requests for additional processes described above, we identify concrete actions and information from clients. Clients have perceived the projects to constantly improve our servicing. investments in reporting systems and clients servicing staff as positive by awarding us higher scores. In general, but certainly in the interest of our clients, we have completed a project to improve straight-through 2.3.2 Recognition processing of our trades. This project resulted in the upgrade – In August 2016, Fund Buyer Focus placed Robeco in to a best-in-class supply system and process improvements the top 10 in Europe in terms of brand preference, up for the trades performed on behalf of our clients. from 18th position in 2014. The Robeco brand was recognized for ‘innovation’, ‘client-oriented thinking’, 2.3.1 Customer service ‘investment expertise’, and ‘appealing investment In 2016, our client-servicing improvements mainly focused strategies’. One brand attribute dominated – on the KYC and AML processes, thus unburdening new and no European asset manager scored higher on existing clients in the challenges they have in supplying sustainability. information. The regulations and requirements around – In its 2016 European Investment Management Awards, Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 11 Institutional Investor proclaimed Robeco the Investment client interest, performance, financial and operational risk, Management winner in the Pan-Europe Corporate Fixed regulatory requirements, reputation, and liability. Income category. – Robeco’s Investment Solutions department won the The development and approval procedure accelerates the Savvy Investor award for ‘Best Investment Paper 2016’ development process of new or revised products and services for its latest five-year outlook ‘Expected Returns 2017by ensuring that relevant assessments are performed at 2021: It’s Always Darkest Just Before Dawn’. In January the right time and that decisions are made by those in the 2016, Robeco won the award for ‘Best Asset Allocation right positions. It also enables us to address all matters that Paper 2015’ by research hub Savvy Investors for its influence our business model, client offerings and/or risk ‘Expected Returns 2016-2020’. levels. Clearly, we ensure that all products comply with the – In 2016, Robeco Spain was selected Second Best applicable laws and regulations. Asset Manager in Spain by Funds People, a reference community of professionals in collective investment and 2.5.2 Product solutions asset management in Southern Europe (Spain, Andorra, Co-creation with our clients is an excellent method of Portugal and Italy) and Latin America. Early 2017, finding marketable solutions that benefit all. Therefore, we Robeco was voted best asset manager 2017. often create mandates, funds, and other products in close – A research paper published in June 2016 by investor cooperation with our clients. A few examples of the solutions services provider CACEIS established Robeco as the we achieved in 2016 are listed below. fastest riser in social-media rankings for asset managers. – A one-size-fits-all strategy is not always suitable for all Since 2013, Robeco has moved up 45 places to 8th investors. For institutional clients we therefore continued worldwide, being one of only three European asset to customize investment solutions to match the managers in the top 10. client’s unique investment objectives on risk & return, – In October 2016, our Global Multi-Factor Credits fund sustainability and investment-universe dimensions. In was a runner-up for the ‘European Fund Launch of the 2016, the possibilities to tailor these bespoke solutions Year’ award at the Funds Europe Awards 2016. were extended even further with the ability to integrate specific hedging requirements into their Core Quant 2.4 Complaints portfolio. One of these tailor-made hedge solutions was Everyone at Robeco is appreciative of and alert to complaints designed for a large institutional client in Germany last and other signals from clients because they provide valuable year. input for improving our products and client service levels. – In 2016, we also realized a client-centric fund solution We have procedures in place to ensure that complaints are together with one of our large distribution partners. handled promptly and appropriately and are followed up This has resulted in the inclusion of a multi-factor fund with suitable measures. Senior managers receive complaint solution in Rabobank’s fund management portfolio. reports regularly. Our audit program assesses regularly the – There is growing client demand for lower footprint, effectiveness and efficiency of our complaints procedures, a higher sustainability profile of the underlying and indicates areas for improvement. investments and a longer list of exclusions. In December 2016, Robeco, in close cooperation with RobecoSAM, 2.5 Products and services launched the Robeco QI Global Sustainable Conservative 2.5.1 Product and service approval Equities fund. The fund builds upon the successful The quality of the products and services that we develop conservative equity strategy and aims to provide equity is paramount. Consequently, before a product or service returns at lower risk by exploiting the low-risk anomaly. is introduced to the market, it is subjected to a thorough – Besides bespoke/client-centric solutions for our clients, we and decisive productand service-approval procedure. This also invested in strategic partnerships with our clients. In evaluates the product or service from the perspective of 2016, we have been working on a strategic partnership 12 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 with a government entity in Africa, which included 2.6.1 Client events in-house training and knowledge sharing to build up their – In January 2016, Robeco Japan held its first-ever Robeco own investing capability. We helped various clients by New Year Seminar. Foreign policy expert and former sharing our thought-leadership and tools in analyzing their Special Advisor to Japan’s prime ministers, Mr. Yukio factor-exposure and further enhance their understanding Okamoto, shared his expert views on the world situation of factor investing. from Japan’s perspective. Mr. Yukio Okamoto focused on the financially material ESG factors that can benefit 2.5.3 Product monitoring corporates, investors and the planet. The Robeco New Our products are monitored by a procedure that is based on Year Seminar was held with the intention of raising the six criteria: company’s brand recognition – as a leading international – Client interest asset manager with a long European heritage – among – Relative and absolute performance target stakeholders at Japanese institutional investors – Financial risk and other companies. – Operational risk – In June 2016, Robeco part-sponsored the Principles – Publicity for Responsible Investment (PRI) 10-year anniversary – Regulatory aspects conference event. Held in London, the conference attracted more than 500 delegates and was attended by Some of these criteria are quantitative, others are a broad group of representatives, including asset owners, qualitative. Follow-up measures are implemented where investment managers, and service providers. The event necessary, and input is obtained from various departments was well attended by major UK clients and contacts, throughout the organization. which produced a great networking opportunity. The PRI works to understand the investment implications of 2.5.4 Transparency ESG factors and to support its international network of Our aim is to provide clients with easy-to-understand investor signatories in incorporating these factors into information on our products and services so that they their investment and ownership decisions. may make better investment decisions. We strive for a – Sustainability is a topic of growing importance in the maximum level of transparency in terms of the objectives, Belgian market. In October 2016, Robeco teamed with characteristics, risks, costs, and fees of our products and Allianz GI to organize the first Sustainable Investing services. Forum 2016 in Brussels. Approximately 70 guests attended, including private bankers, fund selectors, 2.5.5 Security and privacy analysts, pension fund managers, and journalists. Safeguarding the integrity and confidentiality of corporate and client data is a major priority. In order to protect 2.6.2 Publications ourselves from cyber criminality and to protect the privacy Robeco’s Expected Returns 2017-2021: It’s always darkest of our clients, we have implemented advanced technical just before dawn security solutions. In October 2016, Robeco released ‘Expected Returns 20172021: It’s always darkest just before dawn’ – a 110-page 2.6 Knowledge-sharing report providing the building blocks for return forecasts Independent thinking is at the core of our activities, and we across each of the major asset classes. like to share the results of these thought processes with our clients. We have many ways of doing that. A few examples of Insight Report client events and publications are given below. In 2016, Robeco’s first Insight Report explored the sustainable investing landscape in the UK and the key Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 13 themes driving its evolution. The Report draws upon independent research that examines how leading UK asset owners are integrating sustainable investment principles into their organization and portfolios. The analysis is based on insights from 35 in-depth interviews with leading UK institutional investors covering GBP 568 bln in AuM, representing 26% of the UK institutional market. Factor Investing case studies – the merits of tailor made solutions In July 2016, Robeco published the Factor Investing case studies. This publication focuses on the lessons learned from experiences with clients who have incorporated factor investing into their portfolio allocation strategies. 14 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 3. Sustainability Investing Ambitions Highlights To promote to clients the benefits of sustainability investing – Sustainability investing and ESG integration are resonating increasingly with both institutional investors and private banks. Our expertise and track record, and the comprehensive ESG database, foresight and research of our sister company RobecoSAM, enable us to partner our clients in the field of SI – Robeco organized multiple client-specific workshops on sustainability investing attended by senior-management level – Robeco published many articles and research papers on sustainability investing, including how we approach sustainability investing in our investments To increase the number of assets that incorporate ESG criteria – Assets in which ESG integration has been implemented at year end: EUR 79.4 billion – Robeco retained the highest possible A+ score for sustainability investing by the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI). It was the third year in a row that Robeco achieved the best possible score for all the modules assessed by the UNPRI – In January 2016, the UN released the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), asking the private sector to contribute as well. The development of the SDGs agenda by the UN aligns well with Robeco’s current work. Sustainability criteria are integrated into investment processes across all asset classes and comprehensive active ownership activities address many SDGs – In November 2016, an 18-strong group of Dutch institutional investors including Robeco, which collectively manages over EUR 2.8 trillion in assets, signed the SDG Initiative. The group has developed an agenda for SDG investing, based around increasing the amount of institutional and private capital allocated toward financing the SDGs – In December 2016, Robeco, in close cooperation with RobecoSAM, launched the Robeco QI Global Sustainable Conservative Equities fund. The fund builds upon the successful conservative equity strategy and aims to provide equity returns at lower risk by exploiting the low-risk anomaly To improve corporate behavior and the risk/return profile of – Robeco is maintaining an active dialogue with 188 companies investments worldwide (2015: 164) To increase the assets under voting – Assets under voting: EUR 55.5 billion at year end (2015: EUR 45.0 billion) To increase the assets under engagement – Assets under engagement: EUR 231.2 billion at year end (2015: EUR 218.1 billion) Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 15 Integrating sustainability in our funds and mandates is As a further sign of our commitment to stewardship, integral to our overall strategy. We are convinced that we are signatories of the UK and Japanese stewardship considering ESG factors results in better informed investment codes. In addition, Robeco complies with the Taiwan decisions. We also believe that exercising our voting rights Stewardship Principles for Institutional Investors and the and engaging with the companies in which we invest will Hong Kong Principles for Responsible Ownership. We are have a positive impact on both our investment results and on also committed to act in accordance with the Eumedion society. Best Practices for Engaged Share-Ownership, which is considered the stewardship code of the Netherlands. At Robeco, investors, sustainability investing researchers and Eumedion represents institutional investors’ interests in voting and engagement specialists work closely together to the field of corporate governance and related sustainability focus on jointly determined financially material themes. performance. 3.1 Active Ownership 3.1.2 Voting Constructive and effective active ownership, also known as Robeco votes for its investment funds and assets of stewardship, can encourage companies to improve their institutional clients. The voting is carried out by dedicated management of ESG risks and opportunities. This in turn voting analysts in the Governance & Active Ownership enhances competitiveness and profitability. team. Voting has been carried out since 1998. We visit several shareholder meetings in person, but cast most of our Robeco’s Governance & Active Ownership team exercises votes electronically. Our voting activity is published on our voting rights worldwide on stocks in investment funds website. managed by Robeco. The department also maintains an active dialogue with the companies in which Robeco invests Our comprehensive voting policy is based on 19 years of on issues in the field of corporate governance and corporate experience and insights, and we anticipate the specific policy social responsibility. wishes of our mandates as and when required. We vote at meetings relevant to our clients’ holdings, regardless of 3.1.1 Focus on stewardship region or company. In practice, we refrain from voting only Carrying out stewardship responsibilities is an integral part in specific cases of share blocking. In these cases, we assess of Robeco’s Sustainability Investing approach. A central the priority of the meeting and the voting impact of our aspect of Robeco’s corporate mission statement is to fulfill its positions. fiduciary duty to clients and beneficiaries. Robeco manages assets for a variety of clients with a variety of investment Our voting policy and analysis is based on the needs. In our activities we always strive to serve our clients’ internationally-accepted principles of the International interests to the best of our capabilities. Corporate Governance Network (ICGN) and on local guidelines. The ICGN principles provide a broad framework We welcome the fact that stewardship codes are gaining for assessing companies’ corporate governance practices. momentum across the globe, and we strongly support the They provide enough scope for companies to be assessed role of investors as active owners of the companies in which according to local standards, national legislation, and they invest. As such, we have published our own stewardship corporate governance codes of conduct. Our assessment policy, on our website, which provides transparency on takes into account company-specific circumstances. our stewardship activities. This policy discloses how we manage potential conflict of interests, monitor our investee High-profile voting decisions are made in collaboration with companies, conduct engagement and voting activities, and investment teams and engagement specialists. Information report on our stewardship responsibilities. captured from the shareholder meeting is taken into account in the forthcoming engagement activities. 16 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Our voting practices aim to encourage company executives engagement topics. Therefore Robeco takes part in public to implement good corporate governance and increase consultations, provides feedback to regulators and other long-term shareholder value, and to promote responsible public institutions if it is reasonable to expect that a certain corporate behavior. We assess on a case-by-case basis if policy benefits our engagement program. (co-)filing a shareholder resolution as part of our voting and engagement activities is desirable. As an example, Robeco presented its ideas on how to improve the voting chain to the European Commission in In 2016, we revised our voting policy to ensure our Brussels, Belgium, at an invitation-only seminar. In addition, provisions remain actual, relevant and aligned with best a dialogue on sustainability topics with public policy makers practice. Key changes include a revision of provisions on is initiated via ICGN, Eumedion and other organizations. executive remuneration and anti-takeover mechanism proposals, as well as the addition of how we assess 3.1.4 Engagement equity and credits shareholder proposals on ESG issues. In 2005, we began encouraging the executives of companies in which we invest to implement good corporate Figures: governance and to pursue environmental and human-rights – Assets under voting: 2016: EUR 55.5 billion policies. Our aim is to increase long-term shareholder value. (2015: EUR 45.0 billion) We continue to believe that engagement and voting are – Voted at 4,799 shareholders’ meetings critical elements of a successfully integrated sustainability (2015: 3,462) investing strategy, and that it can improve the risk-return profile of our portfolios. Voting per region 2016 2015 2014 For our engagement activities, we apply a focused approach North America 34% 29% 30% in which a relevant subset of investee companies is targeted Europe 24% 21% 23% for a constructive dialogue on ESG factors, such as corporate risk oversight, human rights, and environmental risk Pacific 15% 15% 17% management. Emerging Markets 27% 35% 30% Robeco’s engagement program consists of two types of 3.1.3 Public policy engagement engagement: Recognizing the value of different forms of engagement, Robeco carries out individual engagements, collaborative 3.1.4.1 Value engagement engagements with other investment institutions, and Our value engagement activities focus on a limited number public-policy engagements. For instance, we believe of sustainability themes that have the most potential to that the best way to promote improved market practices create value at our investee companies. We select these and influence public policy makers is through active themes on the basis of financial materiality by conducting membership in collaborative platforms such as ICGN, PRI, a baseline study and developing engagement profiles for the Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change (IIGCC), the companies to be engaged. We then prioritize those Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), Interfaith Center on companies in our clients’ and Robeco’s portfolios that have Corporate Responsibility (ICCR), European Fund and Asset most exposure to the selected engagement theme. Management Association (EFAMA), European Sustainable Investment Forum (Eurosif) and Eumedion. The baseline study enables us to establish SMART (Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Relevant, Time-bound) objectives In some instances, government agencies or other public and begin a dialogue to encourage companies to address institutions play a defining role in some of our key the issues identified. We hold regular meetings and Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 17 conference calls with company representatives to monitor mines, and for companies that structurally and severely their progress in meeting our engagement objectives over breach the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). For that a three-year period. By discussing sustainability risks and last category, Robeco considers exclusion to be an action of opportunities with companies and providing them with last resort, only to be used after all other dialogue-based insights into investors’ expectations of corporate behavior, methods to persuade a company to improve its practices we encourage these companies to adopt better practices. have failed. Robeco re-evaluates the practices of excluded Companies with sustainable business practices can create companies at least once a year, and may decide to reinstate a competitive advantage and are likely to improve the riska company in the investment universe at any time if it can return profile of their shares. Value engagement is thus show that the desired change has been implemented. aimed at improving the risk-return profile of the company’s Robeco’s exclusion policy and exclusion list are published on stock and ultimately of clients’ and Robeco’s portfolios. its website. 3.1.4.2 Enhanced engagement 3.1.6 Active ownership in Asia Our enhanced engagement program focuses on companies Our active ownership activity in Asia was enhanced by the that severely and structurally breach the principles of the appointment of a senior investment specialist based in United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of Hong Kong to focus on engagement activities with Asian human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. The companies. These engagement activities will involve close process is based on a systematic analysis of alleged breaches collaboration with the portfolio managers in Hong Kong of UNGC principles. For this, we continuously monitor the and the Governance & Active Ownership team based in news flow from global print and online media and other Rotterdam. publicly available information from consumer organizations, governments, and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). 3.1.7 Engagement focus areas in 2016 In 2016, we started three new engagement themes: Companies are selected for engagement based on the Environmental challenges in the oil and gas sector; severity of the alleged breaches. Enhanced engagement Improving sustainability in the meat and fish supply chain; is aimed at influencing companies to act in line with the and Tax accountability. Our themes run for a maximum UNGC. In order to measure progress, we use five objectives of three years, and we typically work on 9 to 12 themes that focus on eliminating the breach, policy, stakeholder in parallel. Every quarter, we publish an overview of dialogue, risk management systems and transparency. The our engagement activities on our website. In 2016, we engagement typically runs over a three-year period, during conducted 210 engagement cases with a total of 188 which regular meetings and conference calls are held with companies worldwide. company representatives to monitor their progress against our engagement objectives. If an enhanced engagement dialogue does not lead to the desired result, the Executive Committee member responsible for Investments may decide to exclude this company from Robeco’s investment universe. The process for enhanced engagement is a formal part of Robeco’s exclusion policy. 3.1.5 Exclusions Robeco has implemented an exclusion policy for companies involved in the production of, or trade in, controversial weapons, such as cluster munitions and anti-personnel 18 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Engagement enforcement disclosure report with Telefonica and discussed how we see added value in the publication of such a report. Engagement cases per theme 2016 2015 2014 Subsequently, Telefonica published its first report of this Corporate Governance 54 50 33 type in 2016. We noted that companies are improving Healthy Living 22 11 9 their transparency on these topics. Companies report more Community 0 0 4 elaborately in their sustainability reports and increasingly publish transparency or law enforcement disclosure Human Rights 36 34 23 reports, detailing their process around and the number of Human Capital 0 2 0 government requests for example. Global Compact Breaches 40 38 31 Environmental Impact 23 24 18 3.1.7.2 Engagement case study: Freedom of association Environmental Management 27 26 51 and right to collective bargaining Vale is a multinational diversified metals and mining Engagement per region 2016 2015 2014 company based in Brazil. In recent years, Vale and its North America 30% 27% 30% subsidiaries have experienced several labor-relations incidents. Workers at the Voisey’s Bay mine in Newfoundland Europe 40% 50% 47% and the company’s facilities in Sudbury, Canada, were Pacific 17% 12% 10% on strike between August 2009 and January 2011, and Emerging Markets 13% 11% 13% between July 2009 and July 2010, respectively. 3.1.7.1 Engagement case study: Human Rights The company was accused of using replacement workers for In 2016, we engaged with several companies from the ICT both strikes and firing eight striking workers. The Ontario sector on data privacy and freedom of expression. Robeco Labor Relations Board has ordered the company to reinstate believes that companies should support and respect the one of them. In Brazil, the company has been accused of protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and intimidating workers during a negotiation process in 2012. ensure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Ample attention was paid to the increasing number of During 2015 and 2016, we held numerous conference calls government requests to shut down communications with Vale to discuss their compliance with UNGC principle 3: networks and related services around the world. We businesses should uphold the freedom of association and attended two multi-stakeholder meetings that focused on the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. how multi-stakeholder collaboration can help companies The company mentioned that the collective bargaining manage complex freedom of expression and privacy risks, process in Brazil went well and that they had included all and thus advance human rights in the ICT sector. We also relevant stakeholders. It involved discussions around wages, engaged with individual companies to gain better insights working conditions and other issues raised by the labor into their procedures and actions regarding these types of union. We asked the company for insights into the collective requests and encourage them to adopt best practices. These bargaining process in 2015. The company explained that include asking governments for more targeted requests of although inflation levels were at 10%, a large part of the shutdowns to lower the impact and being transparent about workers agreed to keep the wages flat, if combined with an these type of requests. additional one-off payout. However, the lack of pay rises did raise criticisms from the unions. The company stressed that We explained the importance of transparency to the it was going through difficult times, that the workers were companies in our engagement peer group and held in-depth consulted and that the last strike in Brazil dated back 27 discussions to further elaborate on our expectations. For years. We recommended the company publically report the instance, we shared the comprehensive Vodafone law outcomes of the collective bargaining process to show that it Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 19 was done in a fair, open and constructive manner. compulsory labor. The company meets its suppliers every quarter and conducts suppliers’ assessments once or twice 3.1.7.3 Engagement case study: Forced labor and hiring a year to evaluate their performance. External and internal discrimination audits are conducted to ensure compliance and formulate China Labor Watch (CLW), a New York-based NGO promoting corrective actions when necessary. Most of the suppliers worker rights in the People’s Republic of China, published are improving year on year. If they find a supplier’s score a report in October 2013 alleging multiple violations of dropping, they organize a video conference with the supplier China’s labor law at six of Mattel’s supplier factories in to understand their problems. Mattel’s Head of Supply Chain China. From April to September 2013, CLW investigators Management based in California will dial in to make sure entered six factories as workers for a period of several that the senior management of the supplier is committed to weeks, working and living as any other production worker. change. Based on CLW investigators’ personal experiences in the six factories and over 300 interviews with workers, CLW On reducing working hours from 66 to 60 per week, the uncovered a long list of ethical and legal violations in each company mentioned that HR and their internal teams were factory. The report indicated that workers at these factories discussing the consequences as it would require a bigger were overworked and subjected to low and often delayed work force. Also, often employees expressed a desire to work payments, discrimination, and inadequate housing and extra hours in order to gain additional income. The company safety practices, including blocked emergency exits. plans to implement a 60 hours workweek in their own factories by 2017 and in their suppliers’ factories by 2020. According to the report, Mattel’s employees were forced To decrease the need to work overtime, we encouraged to work excessive amounts of overtime. Furthermore, the the company to evaluate wage increases to meet the living allegation was made that Mattel’s supplier factories had wage requirements. reduced their workers’ wages and benefits. Mattel’s supplier factories were also alleged to be withholding millions of On transparency, the company mentioned that it plans to dollars from workers through a combination of unpaid improve disclosure. We also raised the idea of publishing overtime and working-hours deception. Estimates by CLW supplier audit reports and the company mentioned that it put the total annual amount of remuneration withheld in will publish parts of it in the near future. this way at between USD 8 million and 11 million for just six of Mattel’s approximately 100 Chinese toy factories. 3.1.7.4 Engagement case study: Forced labor and child labor case study Some Mattel supplier factories refused to hire people over Allegations against Kuala Lumpur Kepong Berhad (KLK), a certain age, pregnant women, those with tattoos, or whose core business is plantation (palm oil and rubber), men with long hair. This practice is in conflict with China’s included serious violations, such as forced labor and child Provisions on Employment Services and Employment labor. In 2010, KLK was informed by an environmental Management. CLW found that one factory did not allow NGO about issues at a subsidiary’s palm-oil plantation. women to take maternity leave unless they proved to be KLK’s senior officials apologized to the workers for the poor abiding by China’s family planning policies (one child, at working conditions. They agreed to compensate the workers that time). This may put women in a position in which they for wages still due and promised to bring the workers home. must choose between an abortion or losing their job. In July 2013, the NGOs Sawit Watch and Rainforest Action Between 2014 and 2016 we had several conference calls Network, again criticized that workers were subject to with the Head of Environment, Health and Safety for Mattel beatings, abuse and dangerous conditions at PT 198, a based in Hong Kong to discuss their compliance with UNGC plantation owned by principal KLK shareholder, Batu Kawan. principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and Another KLK plantation, PT Jabontara Eka Karsa, was also 20 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 accused of unfair wage reductions, false wage promises, the sustainability information available on the company’s child labor, and other violations. website. Despite KLK’s promises to improve its labor practices and Environmental Management Systems recruitment standards, investigations by the Shuster Institute Environmental Management Systems (EMS) are essential and the NGO Sawit Watch showed that any reforms by KLK for companies that take a precautionary approach to the had so far been inadequate. We engaged with the company, environment. CapitaLand Ltd. has become one of the sector on their compliance with UNGC principle 4 and 5: the leaders with regard to EMS. We value their comprehensive elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor, and approach to certification, reflected in their commitment to the effective abolition of child labor. The engagement was achieve both ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certifications in carried out together with other investors as part of the PRI all key markets and at group level. CapitaLand Ltd.’s EMS is Investor working group on Sustainable Palm Oil, with the externally audited by a third-party accredited certification aim of preventing forced and child labor among contractors. body on an annual basis. 3.1.7.5 Engagement case study: Environmental Occupiers engagement performance Unibail-Rodamco has developed comprehensive practices The real estate industry as a whole accounts for nearly 40% with regard to occupiers’ engagement. Unibail-Rodamco of the world’s energy consumption and about 33% of Global rolled out green leases as standard lease agreements with Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. Thus the sector represents all their tenants. Moreover, they continuously promote a major opportunity to promote greater environmental sustainability topics and provide comprehensive training responsibility. Over the last three years, Robeco has led a options for their tenants. We believe these are valuable ways comprehensive engagement program with eleven realof embedding sustainability across the value chain. estate companies. The engagement was based on research by the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark and Energy and carbon reductions we have defined five engagement objectives to guide and In this area, we regard Macerich Co. as one of the sector structure our program. Below is a brief outline of progress leaders. Their performance and reporting on the respective made. metrics targets has become very clear. This is evident in their 2015 sustainability report, which provided for the first time Climate-change management and legislation comprehensive breakdowns in relation to carbon footprint, Hammerson has made significant improvements regarding energy efficiency and additional key environmental metrics. this engagement objective. The company’s commitment for all new developments to meet the highest building At the end of 2016, we completed our real-estate certifications is reflected in excellent or very good BREEAM engagement program. We appreciate the substantial ratings for all new developments. Strong buy-in at senior progress that the real-estate sector has made in a relatively management level is reflected in significant sustainability short period of time. awareness at site level and the widespread use of environmentally friendly technologies. 3.1.7.6 Engagement case study: Bribery and corruption Petrobras, the Brazilian semi-public, multinational energy License to operate corporation, has historically been controlled by the Brazilian During our engagement, Simon Property Group has shown government, leading to issues over the company’s pricing constant improvements. First by publishing its initial standpolicies. In 2013, it was revealed that Petrobras was alone sustainability report, then by aligning it with the involved in a widespread bribery scheme. The uncovering Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines GRI G4 core of the scheme and the arrests following are best known as reporting requirements, and finally by greatly expanding operation Lava Jato (Car Wash) and is widely regarded as Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 21 one of the biggest corruption scandals in recent years. in materiality: which ESG elements impact companies’ financial performance and which do not. This enables us Shortly after, Robeco commenced its dialogue with to focus on the information that is most relevant to our Petrobras’ CFO, Investor Relations, risk-management investment performance and leads to better informed experts, and minority representatives in the board on the investment decisions. We tailor our ESG approach to our company’s corporate governance, risk management and various strategies. compliance systems. Robeco’s aim was to improve the composition and independence of board members, to Again in 2016, PRI (Principles for Responsible Investment) reevaluate risk management systems, and implement a gave us the highest A+ rating for all of them. Our fixedclear coherent pricing strategy. income strategies are leading in their asset class, using ESG In 2016, Petrobras published a website with all of the mainly to avoid risk. Our global equity strategies quantify improvements that it has made so far. We are content ESG’s impact on valuations, while our quant equity portfolios with most of this progress on the compliance and riskensure a minimum level of sustainability. management structure. We also see that the composition of the board has improved significantly. 3.2.1 Global equity At Robeco Global Equities, we integrate ESG into our In 2016, further improvements were made. One of these investment decisions and valuation models by linking the was the publication of a pricing policy with objective most material ESG factors per company to its competitive guidelines, putting an end to the board setting prices as position and value drivers. To achieve this, we take a threeits full discretion at any level of its choice, guaranteeing step approach: a structure that follows market prices. Many investors, 1. Identify and analyze the most material factors including Robeco, have been pushing for a more objective 2. Assess the impact of the most material factors on the price setting policy for a long time. Other import changes company’s business model and competitive position included a new nomination policy for the board, with more 3. Quantify the impact to adjust the value driver stringent nomination criteria. This is likely to make it more assumptions difficult to select purely political nominations. Value Driver Adjustment Framework The remainder of Robeco’s dialogue will be focused on putting Step 1: Step 2: Step 3: Better sufficient measures in place to protect these improvements, Identify and Analyze impact Quantify to informed when a new government in Brazil takes office. focus on most of material adjust value decisions material issues factors on the driver business model assumptions 3.2 ESG Integration by Robeco We consider sustainability to be a long-term driver of For each Robeco investment, the analyst makes an in-depth change in markets, countries, and companies. Since change investment case of the company, stating his or her opinion impacts future performance, we consider ESG factors a on the industry, company strategy, product portfolio, value driver in our investment process. We look at ESG competitiveness of the franchise, and SWOT (Strengths, factors in the same way we look at company financials Weaknesses, Opportunities, Threats) analysis. In order to or market momentum. We have access to research from quantify stock potential, we identify four value drivers: leading sustainability specialists, such as our sister company, revenue growth, margin development, invested capital RobecoSAM. RobecoSAM’s analysis is based on an extensive needed, and risk (as defined by a discount factor). To assess survey, called the Corporate Sustainability Assessment the fair value of a stock, these four factors are combined in (CSA), called the Corporate Sustainability Assesment (CSA), our proprietary valuation tool, which is a discounted cashthat it has developed, covering general and industryflow model that explicitly takes invested capital into account. specific sustainability criteria. We are particularly interested 22 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Value Driver Sales Growth Margins WACC Target Price Benchmark 6% category growth 18% for US food peers 7% USD 77 Company adjustment Growth in line with the This category has USD 96 ex-ESG market due to its channel structurally higher exposure margins than general food. Margins at 22% ESG adjustment 1: Brand Strong brand R&D focus and health Management management and R&D claims allow the company focus allow the company to charge a price to win market share: premium. This allows + 0,75%1% margins to expand further ESG adjustment 2: Supply High quality standards are Chain Management/ crucial in this industry; Health & Food Safety the company’s excellence Management in this regard keeps us from increasing the cost of capital ESG adjustment 3: Company is overall wellCorporate Governance managed, but we see room for improved cash returns. No share buy backs built into model. Total 6% 24% 7% USD 99 (+3%) Quantifying the impact of ESG factors on companies’ valuations and decisions over 2014, 2015, and 2016: valuation takes place in three steps. The first step is to focus – Both sales growth and margins are adjusted more often on the most material issues, i.e. those ESG issues that may than the cost of capital substantially affect the company’s business model and – The average impact on target prices is 5%, ranging from value drivers – either positively or negatively. The second –23% to +70% step is to analyze the impact of these material factors – ESG is an important factor in 28% of our decisions and on the individual company. The third step is to translate decisive in 9% of our portfolio decisions. associated competitive advantages and disadvantages into adjustments to value-driver assumptions used in valuation % of value drivers adjusted models. Even if the analyst decides to assign no impact to the value drivers, these questions typically give the analyst 50 a deeper insight into the quality of company management 40 and the risks involved. 30 The table above shows an example of how the ESG impact 20 may be quantified for a food company. In this case, the ESG factors have a significant and positive impact (+3%) 10 on the value-driver assumptions. We have been taking this 0 approach for three years and can show how it affected our Sales Growth Margins Cost of Capital Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 23 ESG factors to ensure a better sustainability profile. The Focus on financially material factors in quantitative model is calibrated to ensure that the portfolio the coatings industry sustainability score is at least as high as that of the Our analysts evaluate the importance of various underlying index. This implies that we also positively screen long-term intangibles by studying industry trends, stocks, contrary to an exclusion policy which only allows for competitive dynamics, and critical success factors negative screening. This integration of sustainability factors for the industry. Our sustainability analyses focus in our investment process helps us to remove undesired risk on financially material factors that have the largest exposures which do not add to return. potential impact and the highest probability of impact. We have identified the following most In 2016, the Robeco QI Global Sustainable Conservative material factors in the coatings industry: Equities fund was launched. The fund aims to provide equity returns at lower risk by exploiting the low-risk anomaly, in – Product stewardship line with our other Conservative Equities funds. The fund – Environmental management also aims to offer a better sustainability profile than the – Innovation management reference index along three dimensions. First, it applies strict ESG criteria. Whereas for our strategies the overall portfolio We analyzed nine companies in the coatings ESG score is higher than the market index, we aim to achieve industry. For each of the material factors, we rate a significantly better score here. Secondly, it aims to limit the the companies from ‘++’ to ‘--’, which leads to an environmental footprint in terms of CO2 emissions, energy overall relative sustainability rating that is used consumption, water usage and waste output. Thirdly, the in our actively managed strategies. We do this for fund applies values-based exclusions and avoids stocks that highly competitive peer groups as our goal is to may be considered inappropriate from an ethical point of identify competitive advantages between even view. leading companies. 3.2.3 Emerging markets equity After an in-depth discussion on our findings with From a macroeconomic perspective, a key part of Robeco’s one of the portfolio holdings in this industry, the fundamental analysis consists of comparing the economic, value drivers were adjusted. The discussion focused political and social strengths of emerging markets. This on strategy, integration of ESG into the business evaluation includes issues such as a country’s transparency, and associated targets, financial materiality and political stability, progress toward basic democratic integrated reporting. In our conversations we principles and protection of shareholder rights. From acknowledged the fact that the company is a front a bottom-up perspective, many ESG factors (especially runner in the industry. Due to its high exposure corporate governance issues) are considered strong leading to eco-premium products and innovative power, indicators of long-term earnings. sales growth was adjusted upward at 1% per year. Its strong operational excellence, with improving In the fundamental analysis of our Emerging Markets trends in water, waste, direct and indirect GHG Equities strategies, sustainability analysis is included in a emissions and continued focus on this, led to an dedicated section in our investment cases. We believe that expected margin uplift of 0.5%, which resulted in an such inclusion gives us an extra vantage point from which 8% uplift in target price. to understand existing and potential risks and opportunities that are material to our investment cases. When the significance of such risks and opportunities warrants it, ESG 3.2.2 Quantitative equity analysis will impact a stock’s fair value. All Robeco quantitative equity strategies incorporate 24 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 The input for our sustainability analysis comes mainly from both preand post-investment decisions, and identifies and three sources: The ESG survey conducted by our Emerging “red-flags” ESG outliers as a tool for us to conduct further Markets team since 2001; RobecoSAM’s sustainability data, fundamental analysis. This means we are better informed of and third-party sustainability research. In addition, Robeco’s potential impacts to our investment theses. Governance & Active Ownership department provides the team with insightful ESG input, that can be both thematic and/or stock based. This input can be used to support and Case study: Samsung Electronics, Korea complement the country specialists’ fundamental analysis, Samsung Electronics is a major electronics when developing their own investment cases. multinational, headquartered in Korea. In addition to engaging with its affiliate Samsung C&T on a We seek to enhance aspects related to corporate governance controversial merger with Cheil Industries in 2015, in a variety of ways. These include an active proxy voting we have been engaging the company to improve policy in line with the internationally accepted principles of several aspects of its performance including: the International Corporate Government Network (ICGN). As – Encouraging management to split the roles of a team, we also maintain an active dialogue with companies Chairman & CEO (engagement) and vote at shareholders’ meetings. During – Improving its dividend payout ratio to levels our company visits and/or conference calls, we discuss, comparable to a more relevant peer group ESG issues, in addition to financial parameters. In this – Transparency on business transactions including effort, which includes voting and engagement activities, quantitative estimations of benefits the Emerging Markets Team is supported by Robeco’s Governance & Active Ownership team. Samsung Electronics has been hit by a number of scandals, including the arrest of its Vice Chairman 3.2.4 Asia Pacific equities on bribery charges. Improving corporate governance ESG analysis is incorporated into a section of our investment at Korea’s leading company would have a major cases to help us understand existing and potential risks and impact on corporate culture for the rest of the opportunities that are material to our investment cases. We market, as Samsung and its affiliates dominate. have a greater focus on corporate governance issues as both the regulatory regimes and business structures in Asia have Our Asia team also actively participates with historically offered fewer safeguards for investors than in industry regulators and organizations like the Asian other developed markets. Corporate Governance Association to make positive improvements in the governance landscape in Asia. A senior engagement specialist has recently been appointed This includes helping to support local stewardship to work with the investment team on their holdings, and codes in Japan, Taiwan and Hong Kong. We also coordinate the ESG activities with other teams, including the vote our proxies and conduct active dialogue with Governance & Active Ownership team and the Sustainability company management. Topics include board Analysts at RobecoSAM. effectiveness, transparency and capital efficiency. We use a proprietary ESG model covering our equity universe with over 70 sustainability criteria from RobecoSAM, and 3.2.5 Trends investing third-party sustainability research. The model is tailored For Robeco’s four trends funds (Global Consumer Trends, to account for both industryand country-specific factors Global Growth Trends, Rolinco, and New World Financials), to account for material differences in the market and in ESG factors are used as a risk factor in the investment governance regimes. The model is used as a screen for processes, similar to the way valuation is used. For these trends funds, ESG is not a reason to buy a share, but a Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 25 reason not to buy a share. We actively search for red flags in corporate governance which after identification will either Case study: Analyzing the link between lead to active engagement with the company or to the sustainability and financial performance decision not to invest. in the mining industry In a recent study, we analyzed the link between All the trend funds have a top-down approach towards sustainability and financial performance in the investing based on long-term trends that are driven by mining industry for three metals with distinctive technology and demographics. At this moment, one of the mining processes, i.e. copper, iron ore and gold. trends selected is the transition from fossil-based energy towards renewable energy. We expect to be at the beginning Geologic features, such as grade, ore hardness, of the S-curve of this transition and therefore we try to avoid and amount of waste rock to remove, have a investments in old-fashioned fossil-fuel energy stocks, which direct impact on the energy and water intensity are at risk of becoming portfolios of stranded assets in a of operations. For instance, low grades, deep world of cheaper renewable energy sources. underground mining with long-haulage distances and a large amount of overburden waste, result Hollands Bezit does not invest in companies with low ESGin more energy and water-intense operations profiles, unless active engagement can be deployed to and, consequently, significant Greenhouse Gas improve this. Whenever an ESG issue pops up, the portfolio emissions. We asked ourselves whether less efficient managers and Governance & Active Ownership team jointly mines emit more emissions and have also a higher engage and vote at shareholder meetings to improve cost base. Although the relationship may seem transparency. straightforward intuitively, energy accounts for only 10% to 20% of the total cost depending on location. Robeco Property Equities is one of the first global realestate funds which fully integrates ESG considerations. ESG The graph below shows the best-performing lowdata are derived from the Global Real Estate Sustainability emission, low-cost copper miners plotted in the Benchmark, which is used both as a stock-selection tool and bottom left area and the worst-performing ones a risk indicator. In addition, active ownership is pursued in in the top right area. We concluded that more cooperation with Robeco’s Governance & Active Ownership sustainably producing miners with lower emissions team and lagging investee companies are encouraged to per unit of material produced are also those with a improve their environmental performance. lower cost base. This gave us a supportive indicator to assess miner competitiveness. 3.2.6 Credits Robeco credit analysts express a view on a company’s fundamentals and make investment recommendations. The fundamental view is built on five pillars: business position, strategy, ESG factors, financial position, and structure. In the ESG block, the analyst considers the impact of key ESG factors on the credit fundamentals of the issuer. The starting point is the analyst’s own views on key ESG trends and factors. For example, for automotives it is about product quality and emission reduction. For the food & beverage sector, 26 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 items such as sustainable sourcing of raw materials and responsible marketing are more important. The analyst Case study: Ireland’s ESG performance draws from multiple sources to form an opinion on how Ireland’s ESG performance is still above average, companies are positioned on these factors. The annual even though it had to leave its top position within CSA from RobecoSAM provides important input for this. the EMU peer ranking, with a drop to position Other important information sources are the analysis from 4. This was due to the inclusion of new data on Sustainalytics and insights from Glass Lewis. pension assets which improved the score on aging for countries such as Finland and the Netherlands. Two other aspects are considered when assessing ESG Still, the score remains strong at 7.2 which is a full factors for credit analysis purposes. First, the impact must be point ahead of for instance Spain. Although the financially material. In other words, there must be a tangible score is weaker on energy dependence, the country impact on factors like margins, revenues, and risk profile benefits from a robust governance framework and before deciding whether ESG factors contribute positively or enjoys a favorable political and social climate. This is negatively to our fundamental view. Secondly, any downside reflected in leading positions on political risk, social credit risk that exists must be detected. stability, corruption and social progress. Ireland also enjoys a well-developed welfare system that was The analyst describes these five pillars – which includes beneficial to maintain social cohesion, but also its ESG factors – in a credit research report. This report is readiness to accept painful and needed structural discussed in a credit committee, which determines the final reforms. This in turn has contributed to Ireland’s fundamental view. The fundamental view is expressed as a remarkable recovery from the financial crisis and score (‘F-score’), which ranges from -3 to +3. By combining its status as the euro area’s growth leader during the -F-score with the relative value, an investment recent years. From an ESG perspective, we continue recommendation is determined. to prefer Ireland within the euro periphery. In funds such as Euro Government Bonds, we have increased 3.2.7 Sovereign bonds investments in Irish government bonds after a Robeco and RobecoSAM have developed a comprehensive spread widening in November 2016. and systematic ESG ranking framework for countries, designed to complement sovereign-bond ratings developed RobecoSAM. In a country ESG profile we emphasize what by traditional rating agencies. A group of 60 countries are we find relevant for investment decisions and try to avoid assessed on the basis of various sustainability criteria. This pitfalls. Therefore we add data on items like government country sustainability ranking is updated twice a year. stability, regulatory quality and energy dependence and avoid over-emphasizing factors like marine catch, on which a By focusing on selected ESG factors such as aging, country such as Austria scores very well as it has no access to competitiveness, and environmental risks – which are long seas. This bottom-up selection puts more emphasis on social term in nature – and considering a country’s position in and governance data, simply because we find these data the the economic cycle, the country rankings offer a view of a most relevant for the investment process. This preference country’s strengths and weaknesses that are not typically is supported by an analysis of Credit Default Swap (CDS) covered by rating agencies. By combining standard sovereign data. A CDS spread can be seen as an insurance premium bond ratings with the country sustainability rankings, for investing in government bonds of a specific country. we have a powerful tool that enhances risk analysis for An analysis across countries indeed shows social and government bonds. This enables investors to make bettergovernance data have a stronger relationship with country informed investment decisions. risk than environmental factors. In the process of selecting data, we closely cooperate with The output of the ESG analysis is a score for each of the Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 27 countries in the investment universe. This enables us to the ESG Survey in the PRI Reporting Framework in 2016. We rank countries and to see how their scores evolve over time. decided to use the PRI’s reporting and assessment platform Changes in scores and ranking act as flag for developments for our monitoring purposes because of its increasing that could be relevant. In addition, we discuss the individual acceptance among investors and the ability to benchmark countries on a regular basis to identify material changes in our program’s participants against other PRI signatories. In their ESG profile. ESG factors are incorporated in the country this way, we have reduced the reporting burden of the PRI reports in which country fundamentals are discussed. signatories in our ESG Program. Typically, we write an investment thesis for all investment decisions. In here, ESG risks or opportunities are standard The PRI’s Reporting & Assessment Team has designed a elements. Obviously, ESG information only plays a role in customized Robeco Private Equity ESG Survey that consists investment decisions when deemed relevant. For instance, of a sub-set of indicators from the PRI Reporting Framework we incorporate them into country allocation decisions, but and includes the following modules: not into yield curve decisions. ESG is an integrated part of – Organizational Overview module that covers our country analysis, but it is not the only criterion. Hence, characteristics of a PE firm’s organization and its not every position can be explained by ESG factors only. approach to responsible investing. – The Strategy and Governance module that covers 3.2.8 Private equity non-asset class specific responsible investment Robeco Private Equity manages private equity fund-ofimplementation, such as high-level responsible fund products and mandates, with some co-investments investment policies. in the clean-tech/resource-efficiency space. Sustainability – Direct Private Equity module that covers details of a PE factors are considered in the selection, appointment, and firm’s ESG integration and active ownership practices for monitoring of private equity (PE) managers of the funds we directly managed private equity. invest in. The annual ESG assessments form the basis of pro-active We are long-term investors and typically invest in PE funds engagement with the PE managers on how they incorporate for ten to twelve years. This long-term commitment is based ESG analysis in their investment process. The standardized on the expectation that its PE managers will create value and comprehensive assessment framework enables us to by building lasting and sustainable companies. To achieve quantify, compare and benchmark the ESG performance this goal, they have to manage ESG risks in their portfolio of PE firms over time. It also helps PE managers monitor companies and take advantage of ESG opportunities as their own progress and identify areas for improvement they present themselves. This is why Robeco Private Equity as we provide firm-specific recommendations on how to started a dialogue on ESG integration with the PE fund better incorporate ESG considerations in due diligence managers back in 2004. We are actively engaging with the as well as in the monitoring of portfolio companies. The PE fund managers on topics such as relevant ESG policies recommendations are being discussed with the PE managers and material ESG factors for their portfolio companies and during the engagement calls or other meetings. monitoring and reporting on ESG KPIs. Our Engagement Program currently includes 68 PE firms worldwide. An important new element in our ESG program is the monitoring of ESG incidents which we introduced in 2015. Each year, we invite PE managers who are part of the ESG For this purpose, we use RepRisk, a tool that enables us to Engagement Program, to fill out an ESG questionnaire to monitor ESG events in the portfolio companies of the PE monitor their ESG efforts and assess progress. For the last funds we are invested in. RepRisk provides an indication ten years, we have used a proprietary Robeco Responsible of our exposure to the ESG-related reputational risk in the Entrepreneurship Questionnaire for this purpose. The portfolio companies. It represents the input for our reactive questionnaire has changed over time and was replaced by engagement with the PE firms when ESG alerts indicate 28 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Case study: Lead by example guidance manual to assist companies in gathering This case study deals with a PE firm (´the Firm´) that and calculating the metrics. The importance of the has developed a strong emphasis on ESG integration Impact Measurement Initiative was emphasized at over the years of our engagement. We started our a portfolio company conference held by the Firm dialogue with the Firm in 2008 when we invested in late 2015 and on a webinar held in early 2016 in their Fund. At the time, the Firm made an when it launched the guidance manual. In this informal commitment to apply the values of socially way, the Firm continued to support its portfolio responsible investing throughout all the stages of its companies in improving their ESG performance. investment process. Below we describe how its ESG process looks like today. a lack of, or insufficient, ESG risk management in their This Firm is a mainstream alternative investment portfolio. manager whose PE investment management activities are conducted through several strategies 3.2.9 Corestone including traditional and distressed buyouts, debt Corestone Investment Managers is the multi-manager investments, and corporate partner buyouts. It has specialist within Robeco, managing multi-asset, multibeen one of the ESG leaders in our engagement manager portfolios. ESG is fully integrated into the universe for a number of years. Leveraging its deep manager selection process. ESG factors are part of the due history of engagement on ESG issues, the Firm diligence questionnaire for managers, with about 10% continues to enhance and develop its responsible of the questions focused on ESG. Managers are rated on investing program which takes a comprehensive their ESG approach within the investment process and riskapproach to ESG issues. It now addresses topics management sections. including carbon emissions and climate change, stakeholder engagement, and compliance culture A crucial part of Corestone’s ESG process is the on-site throughout the investment process. review of managers. Corestone’s analysts meet with the representative of the ESG departments and others to In 2015, the Firm launched its Impact Measurement go through their ESG efforts in detail and come up with Initiative to assess the ESG progress of the a qualitative opinion on the manager’s ESG capability. companies in which the funds it manages invest. It Corestone discusses how the managers’ analysts incorporate requested that companies report on quantitative ESG factors into their analysis, but also wants to understand ESG metrics. The metrics were selected after a robust the broader resources dedicated to sustainability investing in review of indicators utilized by the Sustainable the firm and how the firm deals with ESG issues. Accounting Standards Board (SASB), the Global As part of the regular annual review, managers are being Reporting Initiative, and others. asked to fill in an ESG questionnaire. The answers are evaluated and transferred to a uniform scoresheet to make At the conclusion of the pilot, the Firm engaged a them comparable. The ESG questionnaire helps measure the sustainability consulting firm to advise on how to progress of a manager on the ongoing integration of ESG expand the exposure of the initiative. As an initial factors in their investment process. Corestone subsequently step, the consultant verified the relevance of the engages with these managers with the aim of increasing requested metrics by benchmarking them against ESG integration in the investment process. Additionally, industry standards. Subsequently, the Firm, with the managers are requested to submit their PRI report help of the consultant, developed a detailed (voluntarily), which is based on the annual PRI assessment, to gain deeper insight. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 29 3.3 Promoting the implementation of sustainability investing 3.3.1 Sustainability initiatives Robeco is a participant in the United Nations Global Compact, the strategic initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their strategies and operations with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. As part of our commitment to making financial markets more sustainable, Robeco is also a member of organizations such as the European Sustainable Investment Forum (Eurosif), UNPRI, Asian Corporate Governance Association (ACGA), Eumedion, The Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change (IIGCC), Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), Certification of Environmental Standards (Ceres), Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility (ICCR), and VBDO (Dutch Association of Investors for Sustainable Development). Our active contribution to these important platforms for collaborative action on sustainability issues enables us to help shape the global investment agenda and inform policy making. 3.3.2 Publications on sustainability investing Robeco continuously publishes insights into sustainability investing on websites, in newsletters, and at events, including disclosure regarding our own approach to sustainability investing. Many articles and research papers describing ESG integration by our investment teams are available in the public domain. Since investment processes differ between investment funds, we introduced a Sustainability Investing Classification System. For every publicly traded fund, we publish the approach to ESG integration applied on our website and also whether voting, engagement, and an exclusion policy are applicable. 30 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 31 4. Governance Ambitions Highlights Continuous optimization of the effectiveness of our internal controls – Robeco further developed its Enterprise Risk Management in the interest of our clients (ERM) framework, consisting of risk taxonomy, a risk-appetite statement and a risk report. The purpose of the ERM framework is to more explicitly and effectively integrate risk-management dimensions into strategic decision-making To operate in a model where accountability and a balance of power – Robeco ensures that its corporate management is strong, can be demonstrated responsible and transparent and guarantees the interests of all stakeholders 4.1 Mission The board understands and endorses the emphasis on Our mission is: ‘To enable our clients to achieve their regulatory control resulting in a process of constantly financial objectives through superior investment returns and increasing and changing rules and regulations and solutions’. Our key convictions are as follows: the importance of monitoring compliance to the rules – Since our establishment in 1929, we have maintained a throughout the organization. This subject therefore receives long-term view on investing the board’s due attention and is dealt with at every meeting. – Every investment strategy should be research-driven and executed in a disciplined way The Supervisory Board of Robeco consists of the following – Solid risk management is essential for successful members: Jeroen Kremers (Chairman), Gihan Ismail, investing Masaaki Kawano and Jan Nooitgedagt, as per 31 December – Sustainability investing leads to better-informed 2016. investment decisions J.J.M. (Jeroen) Kremers, Chairman (male, 1958) We will accomplish our mission with employees who are Dutch nationality. Appointed in 2016. Former (until 2014) truly engaged and empowered to use their full potential, CRO and vice-chairman of the managing board of Royal working together to obtain the best possible results for our Bank of Scotland N.V. Formerly employed by ABN Amro, clients. the International Monetary Fund (Executive Director) and the Ministry of Finance, where he held various positions, 4.2 Supervisory Board and Executive Committee including director for Financial Markets and Deputy Treasurer 4.2.1 Supervisory Board General. Robeco’s Supervisory Board was installed on 13 May 2016. In 2016, the Supervisory Board met several times in person, G. (Gihan) Ismail (female, 1969) while a number of intermediate conference calls were British nationality. Appointed in 2016. Currently shareholder held as well. The meetings were attended by most of its and director at Marine Capital Limited. Before joining Marine members. In the meetings of the Supervisory Board and its Capital Limited in 2014, Ms. Gihan Ismail was partner at respective committees (the Audit & Risk Committee and the SW1 Consulting. She also worked for PiRho Investment Nomination & Remuneration Committee), due attention Consulting and Hewitt Associates. was paid to developments in the financial markets, the performance of the Robeco products, the position of clients, M. (Masaaki) Kawano (male, 1960) the financial results, regulatory developments, compliance Japanese nationality. Appointed in 2016. Executive Officer and employee developments and conditions, as well as ORIX Corporation. Joined ORIX in 1982 and has held various other matters. positions. 32 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 J. J. (Jan) Nooitgedagt (male, 1953) September 2016. Gilbert Van Hassel has over 30 years’ Dutch nationality. Appointed in 2016. CFO and member experience in the financial services industry, mainly in of the Executive Board of Aegon N.V. from 2009 till 2013. asset and wealth management, with broad experience in Partner at Ernst & Young as from 1989, where he held, until Europe, Asia and the US. Until 2013 he was Global CEO 2008, various positions. ING Investment Management and Member of the Board Insurance and Asset Management of ING. Before joining ING All Supervisory Board members have sworn the Dutch oath in 2007, he worked for JP Morgan where he held various for the financial sector. executive positions in Europe, Asia and the US. Gilbert Van Hassel has a Bachelor’s degree in Applied Economics from 4.2.2 Executive Committee the University of Antwerp St Ignatius (Belgium), an MBA, The Executive Committee of Robeco acts on the basis with a major in International Finance from the Catholic of shared responsibility, on the understanding that all University of Louvain (Belgium) and a Master of Science in members have their own focus areas. The composition in Finance from Purdue University (US). 2016 was as follows: – Gilbert Van Hassel1 I. (Ingo) Ahrens, Head of Distribution and Marketing – Leni Boeren2 (interim) (male, 1967) – Ingo Ahrens German nationality. Ingo Ahrens is head of Distribution – Karin van Baardwijk3 and Marketing (interim) and member of the Executive – Hester Borrie4 Committee of Robeco. Ingo joined Robeco in January 2008 – Peter Ferket3 as the Country Head for Germany. Prior to joining Robeco, – Hans Rademaker4 Ingo worked for seven years at Goldman Sachs. Starting – Roland Toppen5 as a sales person within the Fixed Income, Currencies & Commodities division and later heading Goldman Sachs 1 CEO, chairman of the ExCo and statutory director, since 19 September 2016 Asset Management’s third-party distribution business in 2 CEO, chairman of the ExCo and statutory director, until 19 September 2016 3 Since 8 November 2016 also statutory director Germany and Austria. 4 Member of the ExCo and statutory director, until 1 May 2016 5 CFO, and since 7 March 2016 also statutory director K. (Karin) van Baardwijk, COO (female, 1977) Dutch nationality. Karin van Baardwijk has been Chief IT Officer and Head of Global Information Services at Robeco since May 2014. As of 2016 she is also responsible for the back office operations. Karin has been working at Robeco since June 2006. Previously, she headed the Operational Risk Management department, focusing on internal control for our IT systems, business processes and people. She started her career in the financial industry in 2004 at Atos Consulting. Karin graduated from the University of Utrecht and holds a Master’s degree in Business Economics and a Master’s degree in Corporate Law. P.J.J. (Peter) Ferket, Head of Investments (male, 1968) G.O.J.M. (Gilbert) Van Hassel, Chief Executive Officer Dutch nationality. Peter Ferket is Head of Investments and (male, 1957) has been Chief Investment Officer Equities at Robeco since Belgian nationality. Gilbert Van Hassel has been CEO and July 2010. Previously he was Co-Head of the Quantitative chairman of the Executive Committee of Robeco since 19 Equities team and portfolio manager of the Rolinco fund. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 33 Before that he held various positions at Robeco, among 4.2.3 Governance changes 2016 which coordinator of the Alpha Group of the Equity On 17 May 2016, Robeco Group announced that it would department, Head of Quantitative Research and portfolio separate its activities into Robeco Institutional Asset manager of the Enhanced Indexing strategy. Peter started Management B.V. (Robeco), which would have its own his career in the investment industry in 1997. He holds Supervisory Board and executive management to emphasize a PhD in Scientific Computing and a Master’s degree its position as an autonomous global asset manager, under in Applied Mathematics (cum laude) from Eindhoven the name Robeco, with its headquarters in Rotterdam, University of Technology. preserving the strong name and history, and Robeco Group. The latter would be transformed from an operating company R. (Roland) Toppen, CFO (male, 1970) into a financial holding company. The new corporate Dutch nationality. Roland Toppen is CFO and has been governance structure would further separate the holding with Robeco since 1993. He has held various positions at activities of Robeco Group, and the asset management Robeco since 1993, including most recently Head of Group businesses of its subsidiaries: Boston Partners, Harbor, Corporate Development & Business Control. From 2005 to Transtrend, RobecoSAM and Robeco. 2008 he was the CFO of Robeco Investment Management in the US. He holds a Master’s degree in Business The new structure reflects current global industry and market Administration from Erasmus University Rotterdam and he trends, guaranteeing continued expertise in investments, completed his PhD at Tilburg University in 1999 in the area distribution and client servicing. of Business Process Redesign. 4.2.4 Diversity in Robeco’s statutory management Company Secretary and Supervisory Board – A. (Alexander) van Dam (since 1 May 2016) Since 1 January 2013, it has been a legal requirement for – S. (Stefan) Gordijn (until 1 May 2016) companies to aim to have at least a 30% quota of women on their management and supervisory boards. With All Executive Board members have signed an Integrity three male (75%) and one female (25%) member, the Statement and sworn the Dutch banking oath. composition of both Robeco’s statutory management and the Supervisory Board did not comply with current Dutch Robeco corporate structure (high level) old Robeco corporate structure (high level) – new 34 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 legislation on gender diversity. Robeco believes that gender line activities are operating independent, with no link to diversity will improve corporate governance and business commercial functions and direct reporting lines to the CFO/ performance and therefore continues the search for top CEO and chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee of the female executives. Supervisory Board. There are also several cross-functional committees that have specific decision-making power. 4.3 Risk Management Risk control is embedded in every step of Robeco’s decision4.3.2 Audit & Risk Committee making process, both with regard to fund management and Robeco’s Supervisory Board has an Audit & Risk Committee mandate management for clients, and Robeco’s risk-control (A&RC) in place to supervise the financial reporting process, framework. the control environment, the system of internal controls, risk management and internal audit. The A&RC also reviews Risk-control governance is exercised by line management the process used to monitor compliance with legislative and and the Risk Management, Compliance and Internal Audit regulatory requirements and its own internal policies. The departments. The Audit & Risk Committee supervises the A&RC relies on reporting from RM, Compliance, IA, Finance financial reporting process, the control environment, the and the external auditor and on updates from the business. internal control systems, compliance, risk management and internal audit. 4.3.3 Enterprise Risk Management Committee Several risk-management committees ensure The following section presents an overview of Robeco’s comprehensive and consistent risk oversight throughout approach to risk management and contains a description of Robeco. The Enterprise Risk Management Committee the nature of the risks involved. (ERMC) is the highest body within the Company that focuses on risk and consists of the members of the ExCo 4.3.1 Governance and relevant staff departments. The ERMC is chaired by Doing business inherently involves taking risks. By the CFO and responsible for evaluating and approving managing these risks, Robeco strives to secure sustainable company-wide policies relating to risk-management topics. performance. Within Robeco, risk management is based The ERMC also assesses whether the risks relating to RIAM’s on the principles of sound management, as formulated activities remain within the defined risk-tolerance levels. in the Netherlands Corporate Governance Code and on If risks exceed these levels, the ERMC can take steps to the COSO Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) internal remedy these. The ERMC is supported by a dedicated riskcontrol framework. The application of COSO ensures that management committee for the financial risks in client all risks within Robeco are managed as unambiguously and portfolios and by (sub-)committees that focus on specific efficiently as possible. issues (e.g., valuation, security, crisis management and new products). Robeco’s risk management is built on the ’three lines of defense model’, starting with a primary risk management 4.3.4 Robeco Control Framework and ISAE 3402 and compliance responsibility for line management in Robeco uses the Control Framework (CF) to set the standard their day-to-day decision-making process. The second line for managing risks within the Company. The objective of functions are fulfilled by Compliance and Risk Management the Control Framework is to maintain integrated control (RM), which develop and maintain compliance and risk of Robeco operations and ensure compliance with laws policies and frameworks to enable line management to and regulations. The CF consists of several building blocks effectively handle their responsibilities. The Internal Audit that combine to create a continuous process in which all function (IA) acts as the third line of defense and provides significant risks are identified, measured, monitored and independent assurance on internal control by means of controlled. Robeco’s defined risk appetite plays a central various audits and reviews. Both the second-line and thirdrole in the CF as it defines the scope of the framework and Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 35 provides high-level guidance for determining significant risks These twelve principles help to maintain a culture of honesty and defining and implementing controls. and accountability. More guidance on each principle is Robeco has the following ISAE 3402 statements in place as written down in the Standards and policies of Robeco. assurance reports for clients: – Robeco (asset-management activities) Robeco’s Code of Conduct supports an open and honest – Private Equity culture, where it is possible to address each other on the – Integrated Asset Management subject of potential infringements or malpractices. Everyone – Flexioen should feel free to discuss any malpractices they notice, – Robeco Retail Savings Administration (Roparco) either with their own manager or with the managers of other departments, and with Compliance. 4.3.5 Compliance with laws and regulations Changes to laws and regulations relating to financial services In 2016, all staff performed a mandatory e-learning course and funds (e.g. remuneration policies for the financial on the Code of Conduct. sector, the Financial Markets Amendment Act 2015, UCITS V, EMIR, MiFID II, MAR) could lead to an increase in 4.4.1 Whistleblowing policy operational costs for Robeco products and affect Robeco’s Robeco adheres to regulations regarding whistleblowing. ability to grow its business. The whistleblowing policy states how the organization dealt with the confidentiality of the information, the procedures To manage these risks, Robeco is actively involved in to be followed and the protection of the whistleblower. establishing new laws and regulations or in revising the These regulations contain rules guaranteeing that a existing ones. It does this by participating in representative report made in good faith about a (possible) infringement associations (e.g., EFAMA, DUFAS) and by remaining in or malpractice will not have any consequences for the close contact with (Dutch) government bodies. Compliance employment-law position of the whistleblower, that this will coordinates the implementation of new or revised laws and not have any effect on the whistleblower’s fixed or variable regulations carried out by the relevant departments. remuneration, and that this will not have a negative impact on the whistleblower’s regular performance reviews. Also, 4.4 Code of Conduct in 2016, a provision was added to the policy to allow a Robeco has a Code of Conduct, which is applicable to all whistleblowing report to be filled to an external entity that permanent and temporary staff and has been signed by all has been set up by the government in the Netherlands (‘Huis staff. The Code focuses on twelve principles of conduct: voor Klokkenluiders’). 1. Treat our clients fairly 2. Treat each other with respect 4.4.2 Regulations regarding private investment 3. Avoid conflicts of interest transactions 4. Evaluate your ancillary functions All employees working for Robeco are subject to detailed 5. Beware of gifts and invitations regulations regarding private investment 6. Treat confidential information carefully transactions and the handling of price-sensitive information. 7. Do not abuse confidential or insider information These rules and regulations aim to prevent the use of price8. Observe your responsibility in your communication sensitive information (or semblance of such use), as well as 9. Familiarize yourself with the rules for external any trading on the basis of price-sensitive information, and communication any entanglement of business and private interests. 10. Treat Robeco’s property with care 11. Identify and assess your clients 12. Contribute to a safe working environment and business continuity 36 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 4.4.3 Bribery and corruption their business activities. Companies should assess the risks Robeco has a zero-tolerance stance concerning bribery and associated with their approach to tax and match this risk corruption of any kind. Robeco does not want to be involved profile with investors’ risk appetite and the need to maintain in the misuse of public or private office to obtain improper the trust of stakeholders. Another focus area of engagement advantage. Robeco is committed to complying fully with is to understand the sustainability of our investee all applicable anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. The companies’ effective tax rate and tax policies. corruption and bribery principles apply to all permanent and temporary employees of Robeco. In 2016, Robeco’s Head of Governance & Active Ownership participated in the Tax Transparency Benchmark 2016 At the end of 2016, a mandatory e-learning course, jury, appointed by the Dutch VBDO. The study ranks Dutch including a test, was introduced for all staff. listed multinational companies on the transparency they provide regarding their responsible tax strategy and its 4.5 Robeco’s tax policy implementation. Robeco’s tax policy makes a distinction between its asset management company and our funds. 4.5.1 Robeco as an asset management company Robeco’s objective is to act at all times in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. Robeco does not use tax structures that are intended for tax avoidance only. The tax policy supports Robeco’s overall business strategy and objectives. We are guided by relevant international standards, such as the OECD Guidelines. 4.5.2 Taxation of investment funds In our view, investment proceeds should be taxed at the level of the investor to the extent the investors are subject to taxation. Our investment funds should be tax neutral, thus should not create any additional tax burden. Our tax policy is to minimize additional taxation (tax leakages) at investment fund level for our clients. We ensure that, as a company, we have the mechanisms in place to adhere to the above principles. These principles are consistent with Robeco’s Code of Conduct. Robeco maintains a team of tax professionals who have an ongoing dialogue with our business and senior management. 4.5.3 Robeco as an active owner In its active ownership activities, Robeco takes into account the tax policy of a holding. During 2016, the topic of tax accountability was one focus area for engagement. We expect holdings in which Robeco invests to comply with the legal and regulatory framework that is applicable to Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 37 5. HRM Ambitions Highlights To hire, grow and retain diverse talent – In accordance with the overall growth strategy, the increase in staff in 2016 was predominantly due to the expansion of the International Sales offices (10%) and an ultimate low turnover rate (6%) To invest in the personal and professional development of our staff – Various new programs in leadership and talent development strengthened our HRM strategy To support and promote the health and vitality of our staff – We initiated the FLOW program to improve and create awareness of vitality, energy balance, and people’s influence on these two areas To score higher than the benchmark on employee engagement – General employee engagement (Robeco) was rated 7.4 compared to 7.5 in 2015. Employee commitment was rated 8.2. Both stabilized on a high level. These high scores earned Robeco the title ‘Second Best Employer 2016’ in the financial services category in the Netherlands We can only be successful if our employees are empowered, performance. It is the promise that we make to current and and if they are committed to the company’s ambitions and potential employees: core values. We recognize that our people are essential to – Truly engaged: Giving employees the opportunity to realizing Robeco’s goals. make positive changes within the company. We stimulate this by being transparent about the company’s strategy, 5.1 Key figures objectives, successes, challenges, and decision-making; by making clear which results we expect from employees, Number of employees (FTE) 2016 2015 2014 and by giving employees the freedom to decide how Robeco 859 806 786 to achieve them; by delegating responsibilities where possible and providing ample room for taking the initiative. New employee hires – Bound to grow: Collaborating with the best in the world. (total number) 2016 2015 2014 Working at Robeco means being challenged by highly Male 60 51 39 motivated and intelligent colleagues, being part of a Female 41 34 20 dynamic and professional organization, and working for prestigious and demanding clients from around Total 101 85 59 the world. It means constantly acquiring and sharing Turnover (percentage) 6% 7% 9% knowledge and skills, and being expected to leave the well-trodden path to explore opportunities, innovate, In accordance with the overall growth strategy, the increase and push back boundaries. in staff in 2016 was mainly due to new hires. There has – Well rewarded: The total financial reward at Robeco is been a considerable increase in the international mobility of clearly linked to the business strategy and the results our employees, through both temporary assignments and achieved. The way we reward our staff is externally permanent relocations. competitive and internally fair, with ample room for differentiation. Compensation is based on relative market 5.2 Employee Value Proposition value and performance, and an integrated assessment of Our Employee Value Proposition reflects the value of what results and behavior. Our performance and reward policy we offer employees in exchange for their commitment and is transparent and clearly communicated. 38 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 5.2.1 Remuneration 2016 2015 2014 We incorporated all significant reward components such General engagement 7.4 7.5 7.4 as annual salary increases and variable remuneration into Number of respondents 724 711 701 a single integrated process to manage performance and % of total surveys sent out 86% 87% 87% determine reward. This process ensures a complete and balanced assessment of an individual’s performance, and In previous years, employee satisfaction in general was the increases transparency in terms of how variable and fixed focus of our attention. We are now working on the general remuneration is determined based on performance and level of employee engagement, since this is broader in scope. market practice. This policy is applied throughout Robeco. 5.4 Personal and organizational development We can only be successful if employees are empowered and Employee development is a key driver for accelerating committed. Fundamental to the assessment of individual growth. Our mission is to nurture talented leaders and performance is the degree to which Robeco’s core values experts. We want to inspire and guide them toward reaching – Client-centered, Innovative, Sustainableand Connecting – their full potential so that they can perform to the best of are applied in daily practice. their ability as they carry out our business strategy. 5.3 Employee engagement 5.4.1 Leadership In June 2016, 724 employees (86% of all employees) A key theme in 2016 was ‘Leadership in delivering our completed the annual employee engagement survey. Strategy 2014 -2018’. At the end of the year, we organized General engagement was rated 7.4 compared to 7.5 in the the annual Senior Management Conference, attended by all previous survey in 2015. Employee commitment was rated senior leaders from all domains and regions, to discuss the 8.2 (similar to 2015). The scores for both response and main ingredients for the strategy ahead. overall engagement and other main themes have stabilized at a high level. We also further embedded the leadership profile which specifies the leadership behaviors that drive the Robeco was chosen ‘Second Best Employer 2016’ in the implementation of our strategy into the performancefinancial services category in the Netherlands. The ‘Best management cycle. The emphasis was put on defining Employer’ survey is the leading domestic employer survey learning opportunities for senior managers, a guide was carried out by Dutch Effectory and Intermediair. The second prepared including executive programs provided by the best best position was based on Robeco’s Employee Engagement business schools in the world, to be tailored for those topics Survey. that are most relevant to execute our strategy. With the introduction of the Robeco Reward Framework, 5.4.2 Human-capital development the Employee Engagement Survey has become part of our Education is a key element of Robeco’s strategy. In 2016, we performance management process. In the second half of focused on initiatives that will help us expand our learning September 2016, all results were discussed at department culture. Listed below are some examples of how we improve level during the ‘Embed & Improve’ workshop, followed human-capital development: by the 2017 action plans. The key topic throughout the – We further embedded the job-oriented competency organization is vitality (see paragraph 5.5). We continue model in the performance-management cycle. This to improve the level of commitment and engagement of model helps employees and managers set their employees and to maintain a high standard of leadership professional development goals. Typically, a job and productivity. competency describes the skill, knowledge or attitude that enables individuals to better perform their job. – During the year, we celebrated the conclusion of a Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 39 number of international talent programs. Its focus – manage their energy to perform optimally during the was to teach participants to recognize their motivation day (short term) and talents, and to enhance their personal leadership – make the right choices to perform sustainably (long qualities. term) – For the first time, we organized the ‘Managing at Robeco’ – learn continuously (mental, physical & emotional) management program that aims to strengthen core managerial capabilities of our junior and mid-level FLOW: the program managers. Employees were offered a personal energy assessment – The Robeco Development Experience was held for followed by a discussion with a personal coach. the first time in Rotterdam, hosted by the Executive Workshops on possible focus areas such as nutrition, Committee. Initiated by Robeco, in cooperation with work-life balance, or sleeping strategies to improve the European School of Management and Technology performance were also held. Employees are supported (ESMT, Berlin), the event invited 25 talents from Robeco in doing physical activity by offering them (partly to participate in a three-day program to focus on three sponsored) subscriptions to fit20 (a weekly 20-minute topics: Developing personal (leadership) competences; intensive personal training session), outdoor boot Connecting and contributing to Robeco’s strategy, and; camps, indoor training programs and shiatsu massage. Interacting with senior management. – The introduction of a new online tool, Robeco Learning FLOW: the results World, allowed for easy registering and gain immediate – Employee energy management has improved. access to e-learning, videos and MOOC (Massive Open In general, people have lost weight due to more Online Courses). exercising (sports, healthy lunch, walking, climbing stairs). They have also improved their cholesterol 5.5 Health and vitality levels by paying more attention to food habits, and Our employees are an essential component in realizing have improved sleep quality. the company’s goals. Therefore ensuring the vitality and – The office setup invites employees to take the stairs. sustainable employability of our personnel has paramount Participation in fit20 is high. importance. The possibility of working from home and – FLOW is a hot topic in the workplace. keeping flexible hours is conducive to a better work-life – Employee awareness has gone up: people have balance. Robeco is supportive in providing the means for become much more aware of food habits and exercise this (e.g. health checks; a health, safety & welfare service; patterns than before. a health benefits program; coaching; stress-reduction workshops; provision of healthy foods and beverages; 5.6 Working environment encouraging employees to commute by bike). We strive to provide a pleasant office environment, one that allows employees to work efficiently and effectively, and to FLOW: Energizing people (start: May 2016) achieve the best possible results for our clients. EES (Employee Engagement Survey) Vitality scores have shown a negative trend in the past two years. Therefore 5.6.1 New offices in FIRST we have initiated the FLOW program to improve and In the first half of 2016, thorough preparations took place create awareness of vitality, energy balance, and for the move to FIRST, our new headquarters, in terms people’s influence on these two areas. The aim of the of fitting out the premises, organizing IT facilities, and FLOW program is to energize people so that they can preparing staff for the move, due May 2016. perform better and: FIRST, situated opposite Rotterdam Central Station, offers an open, transparent, and inspiring environment where 40 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 physical and digital workspaces are fitted out to fully 5.7.1 Talent to the Top Charter support activity-based working. It is a place that encourages We support the national Talent to the Top Charter. Its interaction, knowledge-sharing, cooperation, creativity, and purpose is to bring about real, structural improvement in innovation. It is an environment in which our people can the number of women in senior positions in organizations. perform, develop and excel. It is an office that genuinely By becoming a signatory, we are committed to setting longsupports our employees in realizing our mission: ‘To enable term male-female diversity goals and monitoring diversity at our clients to achieve their financial objectives through Robeco each year. superior investment returns and solutions’. 5.7.2 PinkCapital The concept of FIRST focuses on the vitality of the people The PinkCapital women’s network promotes diversity who work inside the building (‘fit for the job’). This runs at Robeco in the Netherlands. The network now has via the setup of workplaces and meeting areas (including around 120 members. PinkCapital provides a platform standing areas and desk-bikes) and a new approach to for exchanging knowledge and experience and helps catering. Good food is key, with local and seasonal products participants build a network at Robeco. PinkCapital also that require minimal ‘food miles’. serves as a means of finding suitable role models to allow women to develop a clear view of their own career 5.7 Diversity trajectory. PinkCapital is also active in the external networks Robeco recognizes the ability of a company to retain female Women in Financial Services (WIFS) and Monitoring Talent talent as an important driver to promoting gender diversity to the Top. and an overall contributor to the sustainability performance of a company. 5.8 Stichting Pensioenfonds Robeco Stichting Pensioenfonds Robeco serves the interests of The principle of equal opportunity applies to all employees. participants and beneficiaries of the fund, including Robeco Equal opportunity employment is an explicit component of employees and past employees. The coverage ratio of application procedures. All vacancies are broadly available in Stichting Pensioenfonds Robeco was calculated to amount such a way that no groups are excluded. to 113% at the end of December 2016. Age diversity 2016 2015 2014 under 30 years 9% 9% 7% 30-50 years 74% 75% 79% over 50 years 17% 16% 14% Gender diversity 2016 2015 2014 Male 67% 67% 68% Female 33% 33% 32% Management diversity 2016 2015 2014 Male Female Male Female Male Female Senior management (2016: 9%) 89% 11% 84% 16% 84% 16% Middle management (2016: 12%) 85% 15% 88% 12% 92% 8% No management responsibility (2016:79%) 62% 38% 62% 38% 64% 36% Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 41 6. Environment Ambitions Highlights Conscious in our use of resources – Robeco compensates the carbon emissions generated on an annual basis – At least 80% of Robeco’s overall energy consumption is green – We aim to take a variety of measures with regard to the environment. Our main goal is to reduce our environmental footprint 6.1 Energy and water use Employees are given a smartphone and a convertible laptop Robeco actively strives to reduce the use of energy and to access their work from anywhere. Unlocking knowledge water, and promotes the use of sustainable energy. Various sources and securing communication via central platforms energy-saving measures have been implemented to achieve allows for effective cooperation anywhere in the world. an overall reduction in energy consumption. Total water Facilitating employees to work independent of place and usage is measured and monitored. At least [80%] of the time eventually contributes to lower carbon emissions on overall energy consumption is green. travel. Energy and water use 2016 Paper used Robeco 2016 Energy consumption (kWh) 2,283,120 Paper (kg) 12,771 Water consumption (m3) 8,994 6.2 Waste New sustainable head office FIRST Robeco actively strives to reduce the amount of waste it Sustainability is a key feature of Rotterdam’s FIRST produces and to recycle it if separate processing is locally building, Robeco’s head office, located opposite the serviced. Robeco aims to separate and recycle paper and central train station. FIRST has been awarded a fourcardboard waste in its offices. We use environmentally safe star (excellent) BREEAM-NL new-building certificate cleaning products as far as possible. by the Dutch Green Building Council. BREEAM is an international standard for rating sustainability and is Waste Robeco 2016 becoming an inescapable part of efforts to improve Residual waste (kg) 71,610 sustainability in buildings. Paper and cardboard waste (kg) 47,226 Eco-friendly installations New techniques are becoming powerful instruments for uniting ecology with economy. Waste-reducing 6.3 Paper-independent workplace techniques used in FIRST include solar panels, LED Robeco’s new IT concept enables employees to work paperlighting with adjustable daylight control, and highindependently. This involved selecting multiple innovative frequency office lighting. technologies and implementing a global IT workspace with similar IT equipment for the entire workforce to maximize Thermal storage system efficiency and effectiveness. The IT work space provides FIRST is a low-emissions, energy-saving office employees with state-of-the-art tools and support, enabling building, thanks partly to its thermal storage them to perform their activities optimally anytime, anyplace. 42 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 impact on the environment. Therefore, employees are system. It uses hot water from the summer to heat encouraged to use public transport. Within the city limits, we the building during the winter months, and water stimulate the use of public transport by offering employees a chilled in the winter to cool the building in the public transport service card. summer. As a result, the energy requirement to cool or heat the building is small. The air-conditioning We also offer employees personal travel advice for system ensures a comfortable office climate every commuting as part of our BREEAM-NL transport plan. Staff day. who frequently have meetings in other countries and/or different time zones have access to webcams and advanced Insolation meeting software. The elevation grid of concrete and stone designed to protect the façade from direct insolation has a Company cars in the Netherlands are low-emission-certified thickness of 40cm. The number of openings on the or within low carbon-emission ranges. The maximum carbon façade depends on its orientation. The northern emissions, expressed in grams per kilometer, vary between elevation is fully open, with glazing on 80% of its 122 to 154 grams CO2 p/km for gasoline cars, and 108 to surface. The southern elevation is 60% glazed, while 136 grams CO2 p/km for diesel cars. both eastern and western elevations have 50% glazed surfaces. All windows are triple-glazed. Electric mobility is included in Robeco’s company-cars policies and many of today’s new company cars are plug-in FIRST Facts hybrids or full hybrids. The use of PHEVs (Plug-in Hybrid – Solar panels: 160 units = 253 m2 Electric Vehicles) is increasing. Currently, 25% of lease – Energy supply heating: 83% RES* = 58kWh/m2 drivers are driving a PHEV. We also enable lease drivers – Energy supply cooling: 88% RES* = 70 kWh/m2 to park outside the urban area at a park+ride zone and to – Water consumption: 4.5 m3 per employee, per access the city using public transport. year – Water consumption 10% by rainwater used for 6.6 Carbon footprint compensation flushing toilets Robeco compensates the carbon emissions generated on * RES: Renewable Energy Sources an annual basis. Robeco has signed a declaration stating that it aims to reduce the CO2 emissions resulting from the activities of all of its employees. Robeco has achieved 6.4 Responsible purchasing CarbonNeutral® certification by reducing CO2 emissions to For Robeco, corporate-responsibility considerations are net zero in accordance with The CarbonNeutral Protocol. part of the criteria (together with price and quality aspects) for making important purchasing decisions. When buying products such as paper, cleaning substances, coffee and furniture, Robeco applies sustainability criteria to the materials and manufacturing method used. 6.5 Mobility and public transport Currently, Robeco is developing a Vision on Mobility which is in line with the BREEAM-NL building certificate for its Rotterdam office. Robeco is keen to reduce reliance on transportation to make employee transportation more efficient, and to choose a mode of transport that has less Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 43 7. Society Ambitions Highlights To provide funds and time to employees and initiatives throughout – Budget spent in 2016 on social commitment by Robeco in the Robeco for meaningful, diversified and local commitment to Netherlands: EUR 38,856 (2015: EUR 53,240) programs that benefit society – More than 100 Rotterdam-based employees donated their Christmas gift (worth EUR 50 each) to the Roparun charity cause. Each employee donation was matched by Robeco – The collaboration between Robeco and Het Concertgebouw (dating back 28 years) was continued. In 2016, Robeco SummerNights attracted over 78,000 visitors – Through its fruitful partnership with Netspar, Robeco employees participated in research projects, attended seminars, accessed research papers and executive programs, and co-drafted Netspar publications At Robeco, we recognize the importance of understanding the Head of Global Marketing and a representative from and managing our social impact. Earning the trust of International Sales, are responsible for maintaining and the communities in which we operate is fundamental to implementing our social commitment policy. The committee building our reputation and maintaining our social license assesses requests for support for social commitment projects to operate. Our contribution to society incorporates a submitted by employees. broad range of activities. These include providing valuable employment opportunities, using local suppliers where The budget spend in 2016 was EUR 38,856 possible, giving donations, enabling employees to volunteer, (2015: EUR 53,240). and making a direct economic contribution through the payment of taxes. The Social Commitment Committee receives proposals and decides which requests for financial support of community As part of our social commitment, we select projects for projects to approve. The main criteria for a suitable project donations on condition that our employees are actively are: it should aim to improve the living conditions (including involved. We encourage employee volunteering and support the living environment) and the health or personal the participation of our employees in social initiatives. development of people who suffer from a serious condition, Education is an additional priority many of our highly are underprivileged, or are the victims of circumstances skilled employees are involved with academia or educational for which they cannot be held responsible. The employees initiatives. Our company maintains a bottom-up approach that have submitted the request should actively participate when supporting social causes. As such, we are driven by in the project, which should be located near the office. engaged employees and local office initiatives. In 2016, we sponsored ten community projects from our social commitment budget, including ’FindSophia’, ’Spinnen 7.1 Social sponsoring voor Sophia’ (both for Erasmus MC-Sophia), and ‘Stichting Robeco actively supports projects that embrace social Roparun’ (a relay race of to raise money for people who commitment. Listed below are some examples of how we suffer from cancer). participate in social sponsoring. 7.1.2 Christmas donations 7.1.1 Social commitment In the Netherlands, 104 employees donated their Christmas We actively support projects that embrace social gift (worth EUR 50 each) to the Robeco Roparun Team 266. commitment. Our Social Commitment Committee, Each employee donation was matched by Robeco. consisting of the Head of Governance & Active Ownership, 44 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 7.1.3 Robeco Summer Nights 7.3 Academic activities For the last 28 years, Robeco has sponsored the Robeco Robeco has an academic DNA which fits our scientific Summer Nights, a series of concerts held in Amsterdam’s approach to investing. Many of our experienced researchers prestigious Concertgebouw. The 2016 summer program at have backgrounds in economics, econometrics and this celebrated concert hall attracted over 78,000 visitors. mathematics; many hold PhDs or CFA charters and some are affiliated to universities as assistant or associate professors. 7.1.4 Beleggr Beleggr is a Robeco initiative, set up in collaboration with Robeco recognizes the importance of top academic research Science Interchange. Organized by Erasmus University in and encourages students to write and submit papers that Rotterdam, this initiative helps generate financial awareness provide insights into sustainability or quantitative investing, among young people. We believe that financial education for example. Other academic activities include internships, at an early age lays the foundation for greater autonomy giving lectures and publishing research. as adults. Games are used to teach children the principles of investing: assessing risk, diversifying investments, and As an example, Robeco’s Quantitative Strategies department trading assets with a long-term view. offers internships to students in the final phase of their degree program. In 2016, Robeco worked in association Beleggr is a class competition for years 7 and 8 of with the following academic institutions: elementary school. Each class begins with a virtual amount of capital of EUR 1,000, which they can use to buy shares of – VU University of Amsterdam (Netherlands) ten different fictitious companies. The winner is the group – Erasmus University of Rotterdam (Netherlands) with the most responsible investment approach. This is – Tilburg University (Netherlands) measured using returns realized, active response to news, and the degree of risk the pupils are willing to take. 7.3.1 Netspar Netspar is a Dutch network for studies on pensions, aging, A total of 21 groups took part in the class competition. The and retirement. It aims to connect policymakers and pension class of OBS De Peperclip became Best Investment Class in practitioners in the public and private sectors with pension the Netherlands and received a check of EUR 1,000 for the scientists. Netspar thus contributes to improving the pension Roparun Team 281 De Schoolmakers. system through academic and applied research, network development, and knowledge-transfer programs. Robeco 7.2 Roparun became a partner in Netspar in 2011. For the sixth year running, a team from our Rotterdam office participated in the Roparun, over the Whitsun weekend. This fruitful partnership enables Robeco employees to This relay runs from Paris (520 kilometers) or Hamburg participate in research projects, attend seminars, access (580 kilometers) to Rotterdam. Our team was one of the research papers and executive programs, and co-draft 81 teams participating. The objective of this extremely Netspar publications. In close cooperation with Netspar, we physical challenge is to raise money for initiatives that provide knowledge and practical experience to the EU and support people with cancer. In 2016, the Robeco Rotterdam Dutch pension policymaking process. We are a member team consisted of 20 employees from various departments. of the Board of Netspar and of the Scientific Council, have Thanks to our Robeco colleagues and sponsors, the team hosted several Netspar meetings and events, and provide raised EUR 45,250 for the Roparun Foundation in 2016. lectures for the Pensions Executive Master. Over the last six years, the Robeco Rotterdam team has raised and donated a total amount of EUR 174,296. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 45 Glossary Carbon Disclosure Project and asset management services within the European Union The Carbon Disclosure Project is an independent notand a broadening of the market for investment products are for-profit organization working to drive Greenhouse Gas main focus points. emissions reduction and sustainable water use by business and cities. For further information, refer to www.cdp.net. EFAMA EFAMA is the representative association for the European Corporate governance investment management industry. EFAMA represents The OECD (refer to reference below in this glossary) through its 28 member associations and 61 corporate defines corporate governance as the system by which members EUR 21 trillion in assets under management of corporations are directed and controlled. The corporate which EUR 12.6 trillion managed by 56,000 investment governance structure specifies the distribution of rights and funds at end 2015. Just over 30,000 of these funds responsibilities among different participants such as the were UCITS (Undertakings for Collective Investments in board, managers, shareholders and other stakeholders, Transferable Securities) funds, with the remaining 25,900 and defines the rules and procedures for making decisions. funds composed of AIFs (Alternative Investment Funds). In doing so, it also provides the structure through which company objectives are set, the means of attaining those ESG objectives and monitoring performance. Environmental, Social, Governance. Corporate responsibility Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Corporate responsibility is the umbrella term for the The GRI is a multi-stakeholder process and independent obligation a company has in considering the social and institution whose mission is to develop and disseminate environmental impact of its activities and to go beyond this globally-applicable sustainability reporting guidelines obligation in the treatment of economic, environmental for voluntary use by organizations that report on the and social activities to sustain its operations, financial economic, environmental and social dimensions of their performance and ultimately its reputation. business. The GRI incorporates participation of business, accountancy, investment, environmental, human rights and Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes research and labor organizations from around the world. Launched in 1999, the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes Starting in 1997, the GRI gained independence in 2002, (DJSI) are the first global indexes to track the financial is an official collaborating center of the United Nations performance of the leading sustainability-driven companies Environment Programme, and works with the United worldwide. They provide asset managers and other Nations Global Compact. For more information, refer to stakeholders with reliable and objective benchmarks www.globalreporting.org. for managing sustainability portfolios. The DJSI is now managed cooperatively by S&P Dow Jones Indices and ICGN RobecoSAM. For further information, refer to www. International Corporate Governance Network (ICGN). For sustainability-indices.com. further information, refer to www.icgn.org. DUFAS KYC The Dutch Fund and Asset Management Association Know Your Client. promotes the collective interests of asset managers operating on and from the Dutch market – both Dutch and The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and foreign parties. Central to this is the promotion of an optimal Development (OECD) business climate for asset managers in the Netherlands. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and A level playing field for free supply of investment products Development is an intergovernmental economic 46 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 organization with 35 member countries, founded in 1960 to stimulate economic progress and world trade. Sustainable energy Sustainable energy is energy from ‘green’ or ‘renewable’ sources such as solar, wind, geothermal, biomass, hydroelectric and ocean energy purchased during the reporting period for power and lighting of all company locations (where this can be established from utility suppliers’ invoices or other means). It does not include nuclear energy. Transparency Benchmark (‘Transparantiebenchmark’) The Transparency benchmark provides the Dutch Ministry of Economic Affairs a transparent view on the way Dutch companies externally report on their CR activities. For further information, refer to www.transparantiebenchmark.nl. Two-dimensional materiality assessment Identifying material topics by considering the two dimensions of the principle: (1) the significance of the organization’s economic, environmental, and social impacts – that is, their significance for the economy, environment or society, as per the definition of ‘impact’; and (2) their substantive influence on the assessments and decisions of stakeholders. UNGC The UN Global Compact (UNGC) is a strategic initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their strategies and operations with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. WACC Weighted average cost of capital. Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 47 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) references UN Global Compact Principles Page Statement of continuing support 4 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 18, 19 Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 18, 19 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 19 Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor 19,20 Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor 20 Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 19,20 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 20, 21 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 20, 21 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 20, 21 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 21 48 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Contact Robeco Weena 850 3014 DA Rotterdam The Netherlands www.robeco.com Important information This report has been carefully prepared and presented by Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. (Robeco), which is incorporated in the Netherlands. It is solely intended to provide the reader with information on corporate responsibility within Robeco. It does not constitute an offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy any investment product or program offered by Robeco Group and is not intended to be used as the basis for an investment decision. The content of this document is based upon sources of information believed to be reliable, but no warranty or declaration, either explicit or implicit, is given as to their accuracy or completeness. This document is not intended for distribution to or use by any person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law or regulation. All rights relating to the information in this publication are and will remain the property of Robeco. No part of this presentation may be reproduced, saved in an automated data file or published in any form or by any means, either electronically, mechanically, by photocopy, recording or in any other way, without Robeco’s prior written permission. Robeco is registered with, and supervised by, the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets (“AFM”) in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. 1141-0317
