1.0 How GE Works (Landing Page) We believe in a better way. GE’s business is fundamentally about people: our employees, our customers, our investors and the members of the communities where we live and operate. We hold ourselves and our partners to the highest standards of integrity, and we are committed to leadership, job creation, working safely and building strong workforces in the markets where we operate. 1.1 Sustainability at GE At GE, sustainability means aligning our business strategy to meet societal needs, while minimizing environmental impact and advancing social development. This commitment is embedded at every level of our company— from high-visibility initiatives such as Ecomagination and healthymagination to day-to-day safety and compliance management around the world. GE’s approach to sustainability is coordinated by a Sustainability Steering Committee, chaired by the vice president of Environment, Health and Safety (EHS), and composed of leaders from across the company with deep subject matter expertise. The Committee meets to review stakeholder feedback and emerging trends and to assess our sustainability performance and reporting. Their findings inform our ongoing work programs and are discussed with GE’s executive management as needed. Our sustainability efforts are one element of our industry-leading strategies for assessing and mitigating risks and evolving our environmental, social and governance practices. Risk oversight is carried out by senior management within GE as well as by key committees within the GE Board. The Policy Compliance Review Board within GE management, which is chaired by the Company’s general counsel and includes the chief financial officer and other senior-level functional leaders, has principal responsibility for monitoring compliance matters across GE. For more information on GE’s approach to risk management, please visit our Governance section. Members of the Sustainability Steering Committee and other executives brief Board committees on sustainability-related issues as part of GE’s overall risk management processes: • The Audit Committee, in coordination with the GE Capital Committee, discusses with management the Company’s risk assessment and risk management practices. The Audit Committee also reviews and approves the annual internal audit plan, prioritizes audit focus areas based on potential risk to the Company, monitors ongoing compliance issues and conducts a semiannual assessment of compliance issues and programs. • The GE Capital Committee oversees the GE Capital Exit plan. • The Governance and Public Affairs Committee oversees risk related to the Company’s governance structure and processes and arising from relatedperson transactions, reviews and discusses with management, risks related to GE’s public policy initiatives and activities, and monitors the Company’s environmental, health and safety compliance and sustainability strategies. • The Management Development and Compensation Committee oversees risk management associated with management resources, structure, succession planning, development and selection, and reviews incentive compensation arrangements. • The Technology and Industrial Risk Committee oversees industrial risk, product risk, cybersecurity, R&D and the Company’s Industrial Internet initiatives. For more information on GE’s management practices, please see our Annual Report. 1.2 Sustainability Priorities At GE, we define sustainability as aligning our business strategy to meet societal needs, while minimizing environmental impact and advancing social development. As one of the world’s leading infrastructure companies, we embrace our unique potential to help solve some of the most difficult sustainability challenges. To identify our highest sustainability priorities (materiality in the Global Reporting Initiative sense), we began by evaluating the world’s needs with stakeholders and identifying the intersections of those needs with GE’s business strategies. Our sustainability strategy and reporting process are also informed by external stakeholder feedback gathered through formal advisory panels and regular engagement with customers and peer companies, academics, industry associations, NGOs, sustainability strategists and other partners. To learn more about our stakeholder engagement process, please visit our Stakeholders section. We select priority issues where both the need as expressed by critical stakeholders and GE’s unique potential for impact are greatest. For each sustainability priority, we employ GE’s deep expertise and advanced technologies to improve outcomes. Our strategy includes setting ambitious targets for minimizing our own footprint, developing products and solutions that enable our customers to meet their goals, and partnering with others to tackle challenges requiring a multisector approach. Working with colleagues at GE and key external stakeholders, we then monitor our progress and evolve as needed. Based on this process, GE’s Sustainability Steering Committee selected the following priorities: From the business perspective, these critical global needs are identified and acted on through our operating rhythm. While GE businesses and locations confront unique circumstances, these sustainability challenges are cross-cutting. At GE, our knowledge and relationships across sectors allow us to develop unique and multipronged approaches to addressing such critical challenges. 1.2.1 Stakeholders At GE, we draw upon the insights of experts across our Company and around the globe to assess our sustainability priorities and relate them to our business strategy. We work regularly with hundreds of customers, regulators, nongovernmental organizations, academics, government bodies and other partners to identify emerging issues and develop collaborative solutions. GE also leverages the knowledge of our employees at all levels of the organization who are often closest to our customers, partners and communities as part of their work responsibilities and volunteer initiatives. GE has three formal stakeholder engagement processes supporting our sustainability strategies. GE’s Ecomagination Advisory Board provides input on the environmental imperatives GE should be considering, product innovations and policy engagement. GE’s Healthymagination Advisory Board provides input on strategies to expand access, increase affordability and improve quality of healthcare around the world. Sustainability Advisors John Morrison, Executive Director of the Institute for Human Rights and Business Expertise: Human rights, corporate responsibility Year joined the Panel: 2015 John has extensive experience working with leading companies on issues of corporate responsibility and human rights. He worked previously with The Body Shop International plc and led the Business Leaders Initiative on Human Rights from 2003 to 2009. He has also worked for a number of civil society and governmental organizations on issues of migration, human trafficking and forced labor. Jane Nelson, Director of the Corporate Social Responsibility Initiative at the Harvard Kennedy School Expertise: Sustainable development, corporate responsibility Year joined the Panel: 2015 Jane has been working with businesses, governments and multilateral agencies on sustainable development since the first Rio Earth Summit, in 1992. She is director of the Harvard Kennedy School’s CSR Initiative and a senior fellow at the school’s Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business & Government. Simon Zadek, Senior Fellow at the Global Green Growth Institute and the International Institute of Sustainable Development, and Visiting Scholar at the Tsinghua School of Economics and Management Expertise: Sustainability, corporate responsibility Year joined the Panel: 2015 Simon is a co-director of the UNEP Inquiry into the Design of a Sustainable Financial System, a Senior Fellow at the Global Green Growth Institute and the International Institute of Sustainable Development, and visiting scholar at the Tsinghua School of Economics and Management, and distinguished senior fellow at the Academy of Business in Society. Simon founded, and was until 2009, chief executive of the international think tank, AccountAbility. He is widely published, including the award-winning book The Civil Corporation and the widely used Harvard Business School article, “Pathways to Corporate Responsibility,” and is a regular contributor to the international media, through Project Syndicate, the Guardian and regular columns in China Daily and Caixin. Read more about the sustainability priorities informed by all our stakeholder engagement in our Sustainability Priorities section. 1.3 Workforce & Idea Development “Sometimes companies play it safe, defend the status quo or manage momentum. Not GE. We have ambition to lead the next generation of industrial progress” –Jeff Immelt, CEO At GE, our relentless quest for progress has fueled 130 years of innovation. Today, we’re a Digital Industrial company, building revolutionary new software that uses big data to create brilliant, efficient machines. No other company has the ability to transfer knowledge across industries like GE. Through the “GE Store,” everyone in our businesses, from Healthcare to Energy, can share and access the same technology, markets, structures and intellect. The outcome? Faster growth, global innovation and a culture of simplification that maximizes results. The possibilities are infinite. This is just the beginning of how we’re defining the future, which has brought big changes to our culture and how we develop our people. “We meet our mission by investing in tomorrow’s leaders, a practice rooted in the earliest days of our Company. At Crotonville, our global leadership institute, we advance our evolutionary culture and equip our employees to make the world work better.” —Jack Ryan, Vice President, Executive Development & Learning How do our employees deliver on tomorrow? FastWorks The best business strategies put customers’ needs first, and the best ideas come from employees who are encouraged to be creative and take risks. That’s why we launched FastWorks, a new initiative that brings Silicon Valley’s Lean Startup methodology to the heart of GE’s strategy and operations. Through a proven system of experimenting, learning and iterating, we’re creating better outcomes for customers, faster. GE Beliefs As technology forever disrupts how the world works, we’re transforming how we work as teams and deliver for our customers. Our new cultural template, called GE Beliefs, encourages acceleration, agility and customer focus. These five beliefs govern everything we do, and set expectations for leadership and performance: • Customers determine our success • Stay lean to go fast • Learn & adapt to win • Empower & inspire each other • Deliver results in an uncertain world Performance Development “The world isn’t really on an annual cycle anymore for anything.” —Susan Peters, Senior Vice President, Human Resources The annual performance review doesn’t cut it in today’s fast-paced working environment. Through GE’s agile Performance Development approach, employees can give or request personalized insights at any time, providing managers with a more accurate line of sight into performance, increasing in-themoment learning and driving better results. An ongoing focus on employee development means better performance and greater impact for customers. Our New Headquarters Today, GE is a $130-billion high-tech, global, digital industrial company, one that is leading the digital transformation of industry. We want to be at the center of an ecosystem that shares our aspirations, which is why we’ve relocated our headquarters to Boston, a center for hi-tech innovation and talent. Home to over 3,000 start-ups and 55 colleges and universities, the Greater Boston area attracts many of the world’s brightest minds in technology. To solve the future’s biggest challenges, we’re committed to working with the best people. 1.3.1 Learning and Development We believe that our people are our most powerful catalysts for growth and innovation. By investing in our employees, we not only build careers, we drive progress. Because when one person grows, we all grow—and together, we all rise. As a result of this commitment, GE invests more than $1 billion each year in employee development worldwide. GE Crotonville, our global leadership institute, is at the forefront of contemporary thinking in leadership, strategy and innovation. Founded in 1956, it was the first corporate university in the U.S. and is the epicenter of GE culture. Today, Crotonville is focused on delivering learning opportunities that are comprehensive and customized, advancing the vision of a “Classroom of One”— where every GE employee, no matter where they are based, can engage in continuous learning with a personalized curriculum to develop unique strengths, own their leadership journey and build a powerful, meaningful career. Crotonville embodies the promise of career-long learning at GE. Our broad curriculum of leadership experiences and skills courses around the globe, worldrenowned leadership development programs, functional learning courses and digital learning opportunities offers employees professional and personal growth at every career stage. We create learning experiences that are global, local, personal, digital and—above all—transformational. We also provide employees with extensive, on-the-job development opportunities—including challenging “stretch” assignments, coaching, executive visibility and performance development—fully integrated into our operating rhythm. We believe ideas that serve society are the most valuable currency. It’s our way of looking at the world, our way of envisioning leadership, our way of maximizing human capital to meet human needs, and it inspires us to make the world work better. Promoting Learning & Leadership Across the Globe Crotonville offers leadership development opportunities at more than 200 locations in 50 countries, including our campus in New York; our global learning centers in Munich, Shanghai, Bengaluru, Abu Dhabi and Rio de Janeiro; GE sites and other locations anywhere in the world. Sustainability: Leading by Example at Our Crotonville Campus GE and its employees are committed to imagining and building innovative solutions to address today’s environmental and social challenges while driving economic growth. Through healthymagination our initiative to increase quality healthcare that is accessible to more people at lower prices and Ecomagination, our program to address environmental issues, we are working to build a better future. GE employees around the world learn to operate safely with the highest standards of integrity while applying technology and expertise to provide better outcomes for our customers. All Crotonville employees participate in Crotonville’s onsite Energy-Reduction program, and we strive to provide participants with a range of best-practice examples and ideas, communications, case studies and Leader-in-Residence discussions. Learn more about Crotonville’s Ecomagination efforts. Sustainability is an important theme in several of our leadership experiences. In 2015, our Manager Development Course (MDC) will engage in a service project in partnership with NYCares, refurbishing parks, playgrounds and schools throughout the New York area. The project will provide hundreds of GE leaders with the opportunity to meet immediate local needs and support long-term community vitality through the improvement of shared spaces. In our 2013 Business Management Course, participants visited and found ways to support local women-owned businesses as part of their cultural immersion in the Asia Pacific region. The 2013 Executive Development Course (EDC) participants traveled to sub-Saharan Africa to study maternal and infant mortality. Their cultural immersion included meetings with dozens of government officials, physicians, midwives, business owners, village leaders and families in an effort to understand particular regional healthcare challenges and opportunities. In addition, the participants engaged in a service project in the Kibera slum of Nairobi, Kenya, to enhance local healthcare and education opportunities for its underserved population. This is what some class participants shared on their unique leadership experiences: “Our class traveled to a region in Sub-Saharan Africa where only 15% of the population has access to electricity. We were there to study new models for distributed power. Yet during a visit to Ng’iresi Village in Tanzania, on the side of Mt. Meru, we came upon a school in desperate need of rebuilding—and decided there was an additional, more immediate way we could help. We started making repairs—floors, walls, roofs. We painted classrooms. We raised funds— $200,000, ultimately—and bought new furniture, including 150 new desks. New sporting equipment. We purchased school supplies, books and shoes for every student. We built the school’s first library and filled it with books. When we gave new backpacks to the children, we were told it was unlikely they had ever received anything new before. They didn’t need to say thank you—their eyes spoke for them.” Staff Leader, Executive Development Course (EDC) “I learned a lesson in mindfulness from a fellow participant that changed the way I look at the world. He ran a successful GE business, and was a leader in his community as well as his field. There were countless demands on his time, yet he was never distracted. In class, he was always clear, focused, thoughtful. It went far beyond concentration—he was one of the most present people I ever met. I reflected on what he was able to accomplish—and what I, too, might achieve if I could rise to that same level of clarity and purpose. That’s what Crotonville teaches you. It puts you in touch with yourself, with others, with the environment. It opens your mind to the untold potential of human connection. It teaches you that transformation can happen every day, and that you must be part of the solution.” Participant, Manager Development Course (MDC) GE Sustainability How We Do It: Leading by Example at Our Crotonville Campus Updated November 15, 2015 All Crotonville employees are required to complete Crotonville campus – specific online training in support of our Ecomagination efforts. In addition, they participate in Crotonville’s Campus Energy-Reduction Program, which teaches staff, faculty and other participants about energy conservation. Program participants are aware of our emphasis on sustainability even before they arrive on campus: our transportation company uses late-model fuel-efficient vehicles, and they continue to strive to reduce emissions. Compared to 2008 levels, the transportation company has increased fuel efficiency by 18%, reduced emissions intensity by 12%, and is on track to reduce emissions by 50% by 2020. 1 GE 2014 Sustainability Report We also purchased three electric vehicles and one hybrid vehicle for use on the campus, and installed electric-vehicle charging stations to facilitate employee and visitor use of the electric cars. We enact an energy-efficiency policy throughout our education, recreation and residence facilities in Crotonville. For example, we replaced kitchenette refrigerators with Energy Star rated models. Our housekeeping staff uses environmentally preferred products. Our water-conservation policy is helping to save about 7,000 gallons of water each week. A Building Management System is used to minimize or shut down HVAC and lighting, when appropriate, in unoccupied space. And we utilize LED lighting wherever possible indoors and outdoors. In 2013 and 2014, we converted all parking lot and driveway lights to LED. Crotonville is a 100% landfill-free site. A Biohitech machine turns food waste into water and reduces our overall waste; we work with a number of waste disposal partners who offer a range of programs to support recycling and the creation of renewable energy. Crotonville’s food-and-beverage service works with local and organic suppliers. We also cultivate our own organic vegetable and herb gardens and fruit-tree orchard, using the produce as it becomes available. And we recently converted two lawns into pastures. The Green House, Crotonville’s new learning facility, is one of the highlights of our campus-wide Ecomagination plan. It was designed by Project Frog, an “Ecomagination Challenge” winner. 2 GE 2014 Sustainability Report 1.3.2 Diversity Building a World That Works Better: GE’s Approach to Diversity At GE, we believe we perform at our best if our work environment is inspiring and allows us to be our true selves. Empowered to express ourselves, we can share and grow our creativity and deliver on GE’s mission to provide advanced technology solutions to solve the world’s toughest challenges. That’s why GE actively champions diversity across our global organization, promoting a variety of initiatives that aim at creating a working environment in which our employees can thrive. GE’s approach to diversity is summarized in the dedicated report “Building a World that Works Better.” In addition, the GE Diversity Report provides an overview of GE’s history of promoting diversity in the workplace, from our first anti-discrimination efforts in the 1930s to our most recent initiatives to promote diversity at every level of the Company. The report also includes comprehensive information on our GE Affinity Networks, including recruitment, engagement and operational highlights. “It’s very important for us to have an inclusive culture where everyone feels comfortable that they can get any job when they come through the door and people can prosper in this company”. Jeff Immelt Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer By bringing diverse individuals, cultures and ideas together, we create a stronger Company and a better world. For more information on our diversity story, visit us at: www.ge.com/diversity 1.3.3 Empowering Women in the Middle East It’s no secret the Middle East is a challenging place for working women. The Arab world is home to seven of 10 countries with the lowest percentage of female workers across the globe, and only 5% of Arab women have their own businesses—about one-fifth the rate internationally. GE is working to change that. We believe women in the Middle East are a highly educated, energized and untapped talent source, especially in countries like Saudi Arabia, where they make up more than half(55%) of the nation’s university graduates, yet comprise just 16% of the Saudi workforce. In fact, promoting female leaders is just good business. A new study shows that companies with all-male corporate leadership have 15% lower profitability than businesses in which women hold 30% or more of the top positions. GE is dedicated to promoting diversity in the workplace, and 30% of GE’s leadership team in the Middle East, North Africa and Turkey are women. Here’s what else we’re doing to promote female leadership: CREATING JOB OPPORTUNITIES • In 2013, GE (with Tata Consultancy Services and Saudi Aramco) launched Saudi Arabia’s first all-female business processing center. Established in Riyadh, the country’s capital and financial hub, this pioneering center opened with 300 female hires. By 2016, that number has already expanded to 1,000— and growing. The All-Women Business Process and IT Services Center supports GE Global Operations in delivering over 20 vital business operations, including Finance and Accounting, Human Resource Outsourcing, Supply Chain Management, Information Technology and Enterprise Data Management, in more than 50 locations world-wide. In January 2016, GE and Masdar opened the “Women in Innovation” leadershiptraining program at the GE Ecomagination Innovation Center in Masdar City. The training will focus on nurturing the skills that will help UAE women pursue careers and entrepreneurial opportunities in the renewable energy sector, which may create 4 million new jobs by 2030. DEVELOPING TODAY’S—AND TOMORROW’S—LEADERS • The Saudi Women’s Leadership Summit, held in 2014, at GE’s Crotonville global leadership institute, offered panels and workshops about the future of work and entrepreneurship for Saudi women leaders in government, the private sector and civil society. • GE promotes diversity in the Middle East and globally through the Women’s Network; a more than 100,000 member group dedicated to enhancing women’s professional growth industry-wide. Engagement initiatives include STEM day camps for junior high school girls and scholarships for female undergraduate students in fields like engineering, tech and finance. In accordance with GE’s code of ethics, The Spirit & The Letter requirements, we will work tirelessly to create more opportunities for women all over the world. Learn more about our Diversity efforts here. 1.3.4 Soliciting Opinions We solicited employees’ opinions on multiple occasions about GE’s transformation into a faster, more agile and more customer-focused company. We used two primary mechanisms to solicit employees’ opinions: polling and surveying. MyGE Polls In March, May and July 2015, polls were posted on GE’s intranet (MyGE). Each poll was very short, consisting of one or two multiple-choice questions. Questions measured issues related to GE’s cultural transformation into a faster, more agile and more customer-focused company. Employees with access to GE’s intranet were able to respond to the poll questions. Immediately after responding, employees were able to see the aggregated results to date. March Poll Results • 60% see their colleagues behaving in ways that are aligned with the GE Beliefs • 33% are working on what’s most critical to drive customer outcomes May Poll Results • When presented with a complex New Product Introduction (NPI) scenario, 79% selected the behavior aligned with FastWorks and the GE Beliefs • When presented with a scenario in which a group of stakeholders expresses frustration, 72% selected the behavior aligned with the GE Beliefs July Poll Results • Over 90% knew that the purpose of simplification, the GE Beliefs and FastWorks is to enable GE to succeed in a fast-paced, rapidly-changing world • Nearly 70% correctly identified GE’s strategy from among four compelling options GE Employee Opinion Survey The GE Employee Opinion Survey (GEOS) is a survey of our global salaried workforce. The GEOS was most recently administered in the fall of 2015. The 2015 survey was different from past surveys in important ways, in that: • the GE Beliefs served as the framework for the survey content; • there was greater customization of survey content by business; • a new, more contemporary user experience with different question styles was used; and • there were fewer survey questions. • The survey results enabled analysis of GE businesses, functions, leaders and regions. We received responses from over 100,000 employees. GEOS Results Some key findings of the company-wide survey revealed: • Our historical strengths of having a highly engaged workforce and a strong culture of compliance were clearly observable. • We have made good progress on our culture of simplification (GE Beliefs, FastWorks). For example, employees say we are the strongest at focusing on and being trusted to solve our customers’ most critical needs. • We must continue our efforts to transform GE into a faster, more agile and more customer-focused company. • We have to make it easier for our frontline employees to get work done. 1.3.5 Labor Relations In the U.S., GE is party to a four-year national agreement with each of its two largest unions, the IUE-CWA and the UE (which together currently represent approximately 12,100 employees). The larger of the two unions, the IUE-CWA, represents approximately 8,900 GE employees at 29 Company locations, while the UE represents approximately 3,200 employees at eight locations.* Certain terms of these two contracts were also extended to, and approved by, nine other U.S. unions representing smaller groups of GE employees. These other unions are members of the AFL-CIO Coordinated Bargaining Committee (CBC), which has local contracts with GE, and represent an additional 3,700 employees. The IUE and UE national agreements, and a majority of the other local CBC contracts, expire on June 23, 2019. Other GE affiliates are parties to non-CBC labor contracts with various labor unions, covering approximately 3,000 employees,** that have varying expiration dates. GE’s relationship with employee-representative organizations outside the U.S. takes many forms, especially in the EU. Information exchange and consultation occur through works councils, trade unions and employee-representative bodies at various levels of the business organizations. Formal trade union representation exists at many GE locations in the EU, while in others, notwithstanding the union membership of some employees, alternative employee-representative structures are established. These include formal representative bodies at the business, national, sector or site level with which GE is legally obliged to engage in a range of circumstances, as well as health & safety committees in some countries. We estimate that our employees are represented by approximately 250 representative bodies throughout the EU. For pan-European issues, we currently have four European Works Councils (EWCs) in Europe, each aligned with specific business divisions. Together, the EWCs cover approximately 35% of our European workforce. In addition, we have temporarily put in place a similar voluntary arrangement to represent employees of the recently acquired Alstom energy business. We have recently started the process of creating a new single EWC structure that will provide European-level representation to all GE employees outside of the Capital business and will ultimately supersede the existing arrangements at that level. In China, 39 GE legal entities (including 13 legacy Alstom entities) have unions representing approximately 20,050 employees (Alstom, 4,964 employees), all affiliated with the All-China Federation of Trade Unions, including GE China’s headquarters in Shanghai. Collective bargaining agreements are being negotiated at each of these locations. * U.S. data as of December 2015. ** As of Q1 2016. 1.4 Governance GE’s Board of Directors (Board) oversees the execution of GE’s sustainability strategy through oversight of GE’s business strategy and risk management. The Board and its committees conduct numerous reviews with our executive teams regarding sustainability aspects of our operations such as risk, employee health and safety, operations, executive talent, compliance and business strategies. View our governance-related performance goals and metrics. 1.4.1 Risk Oversight & Management GE has a disciplined approach to risk in order to ensure that we are executing according to our strategic objectives and that we only accept risk for which we are adequately compensated. We evaluate risk at the individual transaction level, and evaluate aggregated risk at the customer, industry, geographic and collateral-type levels, where appropriate. The Board has oversight for risk management with a focus on the most significant risks facing the Company, including strategic, operational, financial and legal and compliance risks. At the end of each year, management and the Board jointly develop a list of major risks that GE plans to prioritize in the next year. Throughout the year, the Board and the committees to which it has delegated responsibility dedicate a portion of their meetings to review and discuss specific risk topics in greater detail. Significant risks are discussed at regularly scheduled Board meetings as part of the CEO’s report on operations to the Board and also at presentations to the Board and its committees by the vice chairmen, chief risk officers (CROs), general counsel and other employees. The Board’s risk-oversight process builds upon management’s risk assessment and mitigation processes, which include standardized reviews of long-term strategic and operational planning; executive development and evaluation; code of conduct compliance under the Company’s The Spirit & The Letter; regulatory compliance; health, safety and environmental compliance; financial reporting and controllership; and information technology and security. The Corporate Risk function is responsible for overseeing and coordinating risk assessment and mitigation on an enterprise-wide basis. It is responsible for the identification of key business risks, providing for appropriate oversight of the businesses’ management of these risks within GE Board guidelines, and enforcement through policies and procedures. For more information on GE’s Board of Directors and risk management and oversight at GE, see: http://www.ge.com/proxy http://www.ge.com/annualreport https://www.ge.com/investor-relations/governance/board-of-directors View our governance-related performance goals and metrics. 1.4.2 Financial Controllership GE has adopted robust accounting policies, and devotes significant resources to ensuring that those policies are applied properly and consistently throughout its global operations. We maintain a dynamic system of internal controls and procedures designed to ensure reliable bookand record-keeping, transparent reporting, and the protection of physical and intellectual property. Controllers at GE headquarters and in each GE business conduct regular financial statement reviews and account reconciliations; they also discuss issues and best practices at regular meetings of the GE Controllership Council. The senior finance leadership team oversees the application of accounting policies and internal controls, and is regularly apprised of current controllership metrics and new or revised accounting policies during its Finance Council meetings. The GE internal audit function includes more than 650 auditors, including 440 members of the Corporate Audit Staff, and conducts various audits each year—in every GE geographic area and at every GE business. The Audit Committee oversees the scope and evaluates the overall results of these audits, and members of the committee meet jointly with GE Capital’s Board of Directors and regularly attend internal audit and Controllership Council meetings. GE’s internal audit function reports directly to the Audit Committee of the Board. In addition, partners from KPMG LLP, GE’s independent auditor, work with their colleagues and GE’s internal auditors to conduct the necessary statutory and auditing reviews. GE finance leaders, including the Chief Financial Officer (CFO), the Controller, and the Vice President, Corporate Audit Staff regularly review the status of controllership metrics (including account reconciliations, the outcomes of internal audit reviews, and Sarbanes-Oxley 404 certification) with the Audit Committee. Senior management of the Company and of each of the businesses conduct regular reviews of the financial operations at each business. The CEOs and CFOs of GE businesses have been required to sign representation letters attesting to financial results. Executives with detailed knowledge of GE businesses—and the related needs of investors—serve on disclosure committees at both the corporate and the business level. These disclosure committees discuss the completeness of financial and nonfinancial disclosures and report their findings to the CEO, the CFO and the Audit Committee. View our governance-related performance goals and metrics. 1.4.3 Resilience GE has a multifaceted approach to identifying, anticipating and addressing potential impacts to its business operations from external disruption. As the world is increasingly volatile, our ability to anticipate, respond to and recover from events is critical. Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Each year the Company completes a risk assessment to identify enterprise risks, which culminates in a C-suite discussion of the issues which could materially impact the company. For more on how GE identifies and manages risk, see our Risk Oversight and Management section. Emergency Response Planning (ERP) All of our operations, and especially our manufacturing sites and service operations, are subject to GE’s Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) policy and EHS management system. GE requires these facilities to develop a hazard “heat map” of potential EHS risks and hazards within and external to its operations. This exercise requires operating leaders to identify and categorize hazards and potential external threats to their operations. For each significant hazard and threat, the operation is expected to detail strategies for defending against and mitigating the impact of the hazard. We refer to this exercise as a “strength of defense” matrix. Our audit program reviews the accuracy of the hazard heat map and the efficacy of the defenses to validate whether the defenses are in place and functioning. Impaired defenses are identified and prioritized for corrective action. Once a risk such as the potential for flooding, earthquake, extreme weather or political risk is identified, the operational leader is required to develop a mitigation plan. Given the local nature of most natural hazards and the strong ownership GE’s operational leaders have over EHS performance, we rely on operations to understand their local issues and establish appropriate response plans. We expect the operation to reach out to their community’s local emergency planning organization for advice on reasonably foreseeable extreme events and community preparedness plans. In addition each GE site is required to hold an annual emergency planning drill to test its ability to detect and mitigate a hazard. Many sites will include local first-response teams in the activity to ensure proper coordination of resources. Finally, our insurance carrier, FM Global, evaluates many of our facilities for resiliency to natural hazards and provides recommendations to mitigate significant threats. Business Continuity Planning GE’s Business Continuity Management (BCM) Framework has been developed using an all-hazards planning approach. That is, regardless of the cause or the scenario of the event/incident, the plan is structured around specific and probable-loss scenarios: • Loss of workforce/specialized personnel • Loss of IT services/hardware/software • Loss of building/facilities/workspace • Loss of supplier services/supply chain • Any combination of the above The resulting Business Continuity Plan (BCP) provides a clear, scalable and flexible document for businesses to provide guidance to continue operations in the event of an incident that severely impacts their ability to conduct business as usual. The planning process is an ongoing cyclical process of risk assessment, impact analysis, response planning exercising and maintaining in order to develop organizational resilience. A BCP’s capability cannot be considered reliable until it has been exercised through increasingly complex exercise scenarios. Through a robust exercise program, the business can get assurance that its plans mitigate the risk to critical activities and if not, adapt the plan to meet the requirements. At the higher level, exercises are undertaken to: • Develop competence • Instill confidence • Impart knowledge in the BCP and framework As a business, location or function develops its BCP maturity, more complex exercises are expected to test the business’s ability to recover. Security & Crisis Management (SCM) SCM teams at site, business and corporate levels are responsible for understanding the risks and impacts to GE’s operations and planning and coordinating GE response activities. GE’s Corporate SCM team works together with the businesses and regions to conduct major crisis management exercises on an annual basis, in addition to the individual business exercises. Best practices and lessons learned are shared with the Crisis Management Teams and senior management, with action plans tracked to completion to address any recognized gaps. With GE’s global footprint, Business and Corporate Crisis management teams have been activated to mitigate the impact to GE’s staff and operations; in 2015 this included incidents in Europe and major weather events impacting the Philippines. GE is also working with others on projects to design more resilient energy systems. See: http://www.gereports.com/post/109318283725/gimme-shelter-thismicrogrid-could-fight-massive View our governance-related performance goals and metrics. 1.4.4 Global Growth The global drive to increase standards of living creates opportunities for GE to employ our expertise and technology for building cleaner energy systems, enabling better health outcomes and developing efficient transportation infrastructure especially in emerging markets. With more than 80 years of experience in emerging markets, GE understands the need to provide solutions that are technologically advanced and locally appropriate. Most countries want similar things—competitive advantages that create jobs, instill pride and enable progress that lifts all people up. They want to tap into the global marketplace for progress, ideas and economic growth. GE strives to be an excellent partner in all of those aspects. A key element of these partnerships is assisting countries in improving their business framework to increase transparency and credibility, reduce corruption and ensure that they are making the right long-term investments. To that end, GE has a multifaceted strategy: 1. Integrity and compliance programs that apply to our own operations in all locations. 2. Issue identification programs to identify special risks in specific countries or regions, with clear responsibilities placed on operational leaders, with the support of the Global Growth Organization and corporate teams, to manage those risks and ensure frontline employees have the right training and tools to work with integrity. 3. Supplier responsibility programs that include guidance, training and auditing for fair, safe and healthy work conditions and to uphold compliant environmental standards. 4. Public policy partnerships to help countries strengthen a rule of law approach and enhance the health and education of their citizens, build necessary trade-related infrastructure, adopt prudent fiscal and monetary policies and improve the capacity of their citizens to compete in an increasingly integrated global economy. 5. Programs to manage compliance and ethical risks associated with countries of concern. As an example, GE is now beginning to reengage with Cuba, as permitted by authorization under US law. 6. Volunteer programs to harness the power of GE employees and retirees to help build and improve communities around the world. In 2015 GE employees volunteered more than 1 million hours, while each of 262 GE volunteer councils is a driving force that keeps the spirit of volunteerism alive around the globe. We know we need to invest, build and lead in the markets where we operate— both global and local. We are making significant investments in research and development, supply chain excellence and local leadership development around the world—all to ensure we have the right people in the right places empowered to act effectively and with integrity. 1.5 Integrity & Compliance GE infuses compliance and governance into every aspect of its business. We are committed to maintaining a world-class compliance culture in every GE business and everywhere we operate around the world. We recognize that our reputation for integrity and compliance is a competitive advantage and are proud to have been honored as one of Ethisphere’s World’s Most Ethical Companies for 10 straight years (2007-2016). At the heart of GE’s Integrity & Compliance program is The Spirit & The Letter, a code of conduct and set of policies that cover our integrity commitments on critical subjects and risk areas. Download The Spirit & The Letter here. GE’s Integrity & Compliance program focuses on prevention, detection and response. This begins with personal commitments from our leadership and is supported by robust compliance processes. GE Leaders personally engage in the active oversight of compliance risk areas and lead by example to create a culture of compliance. A hallmark of GE’s compliance program is a steadfast commitment to a vibrant, well-publicized and effective “open reporting environment,” in which employees are encouraged to raise integrity concerns and feel confident that they can do so without fear of retaliation. In today’s environment, GE employees remain the Company’s first and best line of defense for the early detection of potential compliance issues. GE has approximately 600 ombudspersons around the globe to encourage the reporting of concerns without fear of retaliation. During 2015, more than 3,840 integrity concerns were reported through the open reporting and ombudsperson process (36% anonymously), covering a variety of issues. The more than 3,840 integrity concerns led directly to 1,095 disciplinary actions as of May 2, 2016. GE strives to be out in front of significant compliance risks in order to ensure the Integrity & Compliance program is evolving as new risks emerge. For example, GE is building a new organization to focus on compliance risks related to large projects in response to the acquisition of Alstom’s Power and Grid businesses. GE also continues to focus its efforts on key compliance risk areas through memberships to organizations including the Business Ethics Leadership Alliance and Transparency International, where GE was a founding member. With changing workforce demographics and modes of communication, our program requires constant reinvention in order to stay relevant for a global community. Our program priorities include simplification, working horizontally and utilizing data to further strengthen our compliance program. These three initiatives parallel our key pillars of prevention, detection and response. 1. Simplification (Prevent) GE believes that simpler compliance is better compliance and therefore has been making strides to simplifying the program. GE has been striving to make integrity policies more readable for employees. Examples include our 2-page The Spirit and The Letter Simple Reference Guide and a more than 50% reduction in our improper payments policy that targets the highest risks in an easy-to-follow and linear format. Download The Spirit & The Letter Simple Reference Guide here. GE has also been exploring more efficient and effective ways to train and communicate with employees about integrity and compliance. For example, in 2015, GE rolled out a multilingual, video-based The Spirit & The Letter acknowledgement that was approximately 80% shorter and linked to our “E-conflicts of interest” disclosure tool. GE also piloted compliance-based gaming options and is looking to expand the content on its mobile-based application to give employees access to key information when and where they need it. 2. Data (Detect) Data has become an increasingly more important feature of how we work in a global environment. Systems and processes result in data that, if properly combined, can yield insights into the health of the program. GE Healthcare’s global monitoring team leverages sophisticated data analytics triaging millions of data points to identify emerging trends, outliers and unusual transactions. These analytics enable focused follow-ups and early intervention with business teams. Through our Compliance Executive Dashboard, data has been centralized to enable better use of key metrics. In 2016, GE will explore predictive analytics to further enhance its Integrity & Compliance program. 3. Working Horizontally (Respond) As GE has continued to grow its global footprint, it has become increasingly more important to get the balance right between local and global processes. In cases where the risk-mitigating controls are similar, GE has found that one policy and one process has resulted in better outcomes. In 2015, GE moved towards one onboarding policy for customers and indirect suppliers across all business operating units, while also centralizing the process for customer screening. This centralization removed duplication of efforts and reduced cycle time. In 2016, GE will continue to focus on centralizing processes, including monitoring of business courtesies, which were enabled by the implementation of a standard process, policy and tool. The Spirit and the Letter GE’s commitment to perform with integrity is instilled in every employee as a nonnegotiable expectation of behavior. This expectation is guided by our integrity policy, The Spirit & The Letter, and is underscored by an extensive system of policies, processes, training and communications. Simple Reference Guide A summary of the most critical elements of The Spirit & The Letter is available as a downloadable two-page Simple Reference Guide, including a simplified Code of Conduct and key Rules to Remember. 1.5.1 Anti-Corruption GE has long taken a leading role in pushing for transparency and integrity in the global marketplace. GE’s policy against improper payments in business transactions is a key element of The Spirit & The Letter and represents a core belief in how we do business. Never before have the risks been greater. Aggressive enforcement of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) by the SEC and the U.S. Department of Justice remains the norm. Enforcement is not limited to companies—individuals increasingly face prosecution and lengthy terms of imprisonment for breaking the law. Prosecutors continue to broaden their reach across the commercial sector, focusing on healthcare, energy, oil & gas, software, financial services, and telecommunications, and across developing and emerging markets such as those in China, India, Russia, Mexico, Brazil, the Middle East and Africa, where GE’s presence is rapidly expanding. Nor are these trends limited to the United States. Global enforcement of anticorruption laws is increasing, and enforcement actions are increasingly coordinated and interconnected. And sometimes a single transaction can expose a company to prosecution in multiple jurisdictions. Greater attention is being paid to the effectiveness of corporate compliance programs in preventing improper payments. The Justice Department and the SEC have issued a resource guide on the FCPA that endorses a strong compliance program. The UK Bribery Act and the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines similarly highlight the need for a strong program. GE’s approach to compliance in this critical area is multifaceted. Among its key features are: • Corporate policies and procedures that reflect the Company’s approach by prohibiting improper payments in every transaction, whether with a government or with a private party. • Extensive controls over third-party intermediaries such as commercial agents and representatives, distributors and service providers, including thorough due diligence, careful screening and training on GE policies. • Heightened attention to key risk areas such as gifts and entertainment, travel and living expenses, donations, and facilitating payments. • Prompt investigation and remediation of any concerns. • Extensive training of GE employees on improper payments. • Robust internal controls and accounting processes designed to detect and prevent violations of Company policy relating to improper payment risks and to ensure accurate books and records relating to transactions. • Increased emphasis and enhanced due diligence concerning improper risk associated with mergers, acquisitions and joint ventures. • Strategic use of Corporate Audit Staff to identify and assess potential improper payments. 1.5.2 Privacy & Cybersecurity GE is committed to protecting information about our employees, our customers, our suppliers and our Company as well as technology resources GE provides to its employees and contractors. As such, GE has implemented detailed privacy and data protection policies. Cybersecurity at GE At GE, ensuring the security of our data, systems and network is, and always will be, a top priority. GE has adopted controls for oversight and management of cybersecurity based on the International Organization for Standardization/International Electrotechnical Commission’s 27000 series (ISO/IEC 27000). We maintain an information technology infrastructure that implements physical, administrative and technical controls designed to protect information stored on GE’s networks, including customer data, personal information, intellectual property and proprietary information. In addition, we have committed resources and implemented processes designed to prevent, detect and respond to cyber threats. These measures reflect GE’s long-term commitment to protecting our employees, serving our customers and preserving shareholder value. The increasing degree of interconnectedness among companies and their affiliates, partners, suppliers and customers underscores the need for companies to evaluate cybersecurity threats not only to their own internal networks, but also to the larger ecosystem in which they operate. We understand that protecting information on GE’s network necessarily extends to business partners who are afforded access to such information, and GE requires those business partners to appropriately secure their information technology systems and protect GE’s information on their systems. As part of its oversight role, the Audit Committee of GE’s Board of Directors reviews annually the Company’s practices and programs related to cybersecurity. The Audit Committee is updated regularly on GE’s cyber threats and riskmanagement strategy. As well, information technology risk leaders and information security leaders in each GE business and at GE headquarters conduct reviews and discuss issues at regular meetings. GE’s strategy is designed to enable the identification, measurement, prioritization and mitigation of cybersecurity risks. We recognize that technology and the nature of its threats and risks are changing, and GE will continue to evolve to address those changes. We continuously seek to engage with our regulators, customers, suppliers, employees, and industry colleagues to improve cybersecurity collaboratively. In addition, we participate in public-private partnerships, such as information sharing and analysis centers, to share actionable cyber threat indicators. 1.6 a _GE_RPT15_LRQA GE Sustainability LRQA Assurance Statement 2016 ISO 14001 Attestation Statement for GE Terms of Engagement Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. (“LRQA”) was engaged by GE to review GE’s enterprise-wide environmental management system¹ (“the EMS”) against the requirements of the international standard for environmental management systems, ISO 14001:2015. The objectives of the review were: • To confirm that the design of the EMS was aligned with ISO 14001 and had incorporated all of the individual management system elements. • To confirm that the EMS, established at the GE Corporate Level, was the primary mechanism used to manage the environmental aspects of operations at all levels and operating locations in the GE organizational hierarchy.² • To confirm that implementation of the EMS had contributed to reported improvements in environmental performance. 1. GE’s proprietary EMS, consisting of Framework 2.0 and supporting management system programs, is established at the GE corporate level for deployment throughout GE’s global operations. Implementation across the GE enterprise is intended to follow a risk-based approach whereby application of the Framework at the various organizational levels dictates the specific programs within the EMS that are required at each individual operational unit. 2. Alstom, recently acquired by GE, was excluded from the scope of the engagement. 1 GE 2015 Sustainability Report Management Responsibility GE’s management was responsible for designing and maintaining the EMS. LRQA’s responsibility was to carry out an assurance engagement on the EMS in accordance with our contract with GE. Ultimately, the EMS and its implementation remain the sole responsibility of GE. LRQA’s Approach The review of GE’s EMS was undertaken between December 2015 and July 2016 using a team of LRQA’s certified ISO 14001 lead assessors. In order to form our conclusions, the assurance was carried out as a sampling exercise and covered the following activities: • A review of the high level environmental system documentation to confirm that all requirements of ISO 14001 had been addressed • Interviews with leaders at the at the corporate level , responsible for key environmental functional areas within GE’s OneEHS organizational structure. These areas included the EHS Leadership Team including the VP EHS, Business EHS leadership, Enterprise Standards, EHS Regional Operations, Resource Strategies including the Product Lifecycle Center of Excellence, and EHS Legal. Also included was a review of environmental records maintained on the GE enterprise-wide data management system supporting implementation of internal audit, corrective action, training, performance improvement and other programs. • Site visits to review local EMS implementation at seven operating sites, selected to provide a representative sample based on size and complexity, geography, GE business-area and ISO 14001 certification status. LRQA’s Opinion Based on LRQA’s approach, it is our opinion that: • The design of the EMS was aligned with ISO 14001:2015. No elements of the standard were identified which had not been addressed as documented requirements of the EMS. • At the sites sampled, environmental management systems had been established based on requirements of the EMS. • Based on a review of records maintained on the enterprise-wide data management system, no evidence was identified to indicate sites were implementing environmental management systems other than those established through implementation of the EMS. • Programs and initiatives linked to implementation of the EMS were contributing to reported improvements in environmental performance. The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a limited level of assurance. Consistent with this level of assurance, and the approach described above, the assurance is not intended to replace or otherwise be considered equivalent to ISO 14001 certification, as provided under established accreditation programs. 2 GE 2015 Sustainability Report LRQA’s Recommendations Observations, including areas for potential improvement, were provided in a report to GE’s management. These observations do not affect the opinions expressed in this assurance statement. Signed: Dated: August 2016 Michael Wardell Lead Verifier On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. 1301 Enclave Parkway, Suite 200, Houston, TX 77077, USA LRQA Reference Number UQA4002133 Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as the ‘Lloyd’s Register Group’. The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register Group entity for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract. The English version of this statement is the only valid version. The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. 3 GE 2015 Sustainability Report 1.6 EHS Program Management GE is committed to having a world-class program for managing environmental, health and safety (EHS) risks. GE’s commitment begins with its Board of Directors, which regularly reviews the Company’s environmental and safety performance. GE’s vice president for EHS, in turn, sets global EHS policy, implements EHS strategy and reviews the EHS performance of individual GE business units. Operational Ownership GE has learned that the way to deliver high EHS performance is through operational ownership. Operational ownership means that GE holds its site and service managers accountable for the safety and environmental integrity of the operations they supervise. GE’s EHS professionals support and guide its safety and compliance programs, but the Company expects its operations managers to take the lead. GE ensures operational commitment through (1) constant reviews of managers’ EHS performance; (2) comprehensive EHS audits conducted by an independent central governance team; (3) in-depth classroom EHS training for new managers; and (4) feedback surveys in which employees anonymously evaluate their managers’ EHS commitment. EHS Reviews GE tracks EHS metrics and reviews performance in three ways. First, we track EHS data in real time using our best-in-class Gensuite® IT tool (described in more detail below). Second, senior leaders within each of GE’s businesses regularly conduct internal EHS operating reviews of each of their facilities. Third, GE Corporate conducts quarterly strategic reviews of EHS risks and strategies. EHS Training for Managers All GE operations leaders are required to complete one of the Company’s flagship EHS courses: Plant Manager Training (PMT) or Service Manager Training (SMT). During these two-day courses, GE trains new plant and service managers on the Company’s EHS expectations and on tactics for delivering EHS results. PMT and SMT also teach risk-identification skills through tabletop exercises derived from real-world case studies. In 2015, GE conducted 20 PMT sessions and 17 SMT sessions for 622 participants. These sessions have been so successful that GE has created and delivered a similar course for mid-level managers called Manager/Supervisor Training (MST). In 2015, 639 GE mid-level managers took this course. Employee Feedback Operational ownership requires trust and partnership between site leaders and employees. That’s why GE conducts periodic, anonymous EHS-perception surveys at selected sites. These surveys ask employees questions designed to measure their engagement, their views of EHS performance at their workplace and their impressions of their managers’ EHS commitment. We hold operations leaders accountable for the survey results. Recognition Ninety-one GE sites have been recognized by the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) with Voluntary Protection Programs (VPP) Star certification; 148 GE sites are ISO 14001–certified to satisfy customer needs. Our EHS Systems GE has long been a leader in the field of EHS strategy and systems. Our approach to continuous improvement includes a risk based, integrated EHS framework, predictive EHS analytics, progressive risk-reduction techniques, product lifecycle assessment and robust governance systems. Here are a few examples: EHS Management System The EHS Management System is composed of a number of programs and management tools which work together to provide an environmental management system utilized throughout GE. One of the core components of the system is GE’s EHS Framework, a risk based tool which the sites use to identify the type of organization and the elements of the management system they are required to comply with. The tool helps sites identify potential risks, provides guidance and customizes EHS expectations to an organization’s operations and risks. GE obtains ISO 14001:2015 attestation statement from Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited (LRQA): In August 2016 GE received an attestation statement from LRQA indicating that our overarching environmental management system at GE meets the intent of the newly revised ISO 14001:2015 standard. This conformance statement is a milestone for GE as it is the first time an external registrar has reviewed and tested our EHS management system to assess alignment with an international EHS standard company-wide. View GE’s ISO 14001:2015 attestation statement here. Digital EHS GE expects to be a leading software company by 2020 and is already the world’s leading digital industrial company. The emerging disruptive technologies that GE is developing and adopting present opportunities for improved EHS performance and also generate new types of EHS risks. To address these issues, GE created an organization called “Digital EHS” in 2015 and tasked it with taking advantage of, and preparing for the impact of, disruptive digital technologies. Product Life Cycle Center of Excellence GE’s technical resource for product life cycle evaluation is the Ecoassessment Center of Excellence (COE). For more than seven years, the COE has been applying its expertise in life cycle management (LCM) and life cycle assessment (LCA). For more see Product Life Cycle. Centralized EHS Auditing GE’s approach to auditing reinforces the Company’s open reporting culture. GE views audit findings as critical to improving operational performance and to learning about the gaps in the Company’s EHS programs. As a result, we reward—not discourage—audit findings. To drive this philosophy, GE created a centralized EHS auditing function in 2015. While our operations continue to conduct probing self-audits, this centralized team promotes our “find it and fix it” culture, standardizing expectations around the globe and identifying risk areas that our operations may not recognize. Beyond our team of assessors, GE’s supplier-review process relies on the participation of organizations across the Company. Global sourcing leaders and team members from each GE business oversee execution of inspections, enforcement of findings and reporting of metrics. Please see GE’s Ethical Supply Chain program for more on supplier audits. IT Systems and Next-Generation Metrics GE uses the Gensuite® software system to track hundreds of EHS performance metrics at sites around the world in real time. The system is granular enough to identify maintenance delays for an individual valve at a chemical plant, for instance, while also comprehensive enough to aggregate data across GE businesses and regions. In 2015, GE developed real-time data-visualization tools that have allowed us to use our Gensuite data to enhance our focus on our highest-risk operations. In addition, we conducted several deep-dive analyses of high-impact event types that led to significant changes in our management system priorities. EHS and Our Customers GE’s customers often conduct high-risk operations in challenging environments. GE is committed to helping these business partners deliver on their own EHS performance expectations by meshing our EHS systems with theirs. We have found that this is the best way to deliver results. And while we believe that GE’s EHS systems give us competitive advantages, they are too important to treat as trade secrets or expensive products. We frequently offer our systems to customers and third parties; everyone wins when we keep people and the environment safe. View our EHS performance goals and metrics. 2.0 Building Things That Matter We are driven to invent and build things that matter. GE works every day to bring to market innovative solutions that provide energy and water security, create jobs, improve health and reduce environmental impact. We build infrastructure that helps solve some of the world’s most complex challenges and provides a foundation for a sustainable future. Our investment in strategic sectors such as energy, healthcare and infrastructure creates value for our customers, shareholders and society. Our innovations provide practical solutions to sustainable development challenges and are tailored to address local needs. We do this because it’s the right thing to do and because there is a clear business opportunity in delivering effective and efficient products that reduce environmental impact. We invest in and deploy a range of solutions that allows us and our customers to meet today’s needs while retaining the flexibility to anticipate the leading platforms of the future. Through our focused Ecomagination and healthymagination programs, we are helping our customers improve their operational performance and deliver better outcomes. Our commitment to improving sustainability also extends across our own operations and into our partnerships with suppliers. Identifying and responding to the challenges faced by customers, communities and key stakeholders in our global markets requires more than just technological and industrial innovation. At GE, we engage on public policy, protect human rights, support the education needs—especially in science and technology—of a growing population and promote adequate legal frameworks. Through the combination of our products, policy advocacy, education initiatives and other partnerships, we help create an economic environment where sustainability can be firmly rooted. For more on our strategy to create value, please see GE’s Annual Report. 2.1 Improving Health Everywhere around the world, three things are common to the healthcare challenge: the need for quality care, the need to increase access to care and a mandate for affordable care. GE’s approach to improving health connects our innovative technology, our employees, our partners and the GE Foundation to help build sustainable health systems and make healthcare more accessible and equitable, less costly and reactive, and more focused on patient outcomes. GE Healthcare is focused on becoming the leader of outcome-based solutions for the healthcare industry and meet the demand for increased access, enhanced quality and more affordable healthcare around the world. From medical imaging, software and IT, patient monitoring and diagnostics to drug discovery, biopharmaceutical manufacturing technologies and performance improvement solutions, GE Healthcare helps medical professionals deliver great healthcare to their patients. Healthymagination is GE’s global initiative to provide better healthcare for more people around the world through innovations that lower cost, increase access and improve quality of healthcare. For the latest outcomes, see our section on healthymagination progress. Improving health outcomes globally requires a collaborative approach that brings together the private and public sectors and also links the improvement of essential services such as access to clean water, sanitation and education. The GE Foundation is working together with other partners in Developing Health to improve access to care in underserved markets around the world and strengthen healthcare systems for the long term. GE promotes employee health and wellbeing through its HealthAheadprogram in areas such as physical activity, nutrition, weight management, tobacco cessation and stress management. View our health-related performance goals and metrics. GE Recognized for Providing Medical Care to those Most in Need See healthymagination progress in our 2014 Performance section for the latest on healthymagination. 2.1.1 Healthymagination GE offers the most value, for both our customers and our communities, when we use our global scale and our drive to take on seemingly intractable challenges, such as meeting the global need for healthcare quality, access and affordability. Healthymagination combines corporate venture capital with new business creation, external collaboration and thought leadership initiatives, alongside efforts in Human Resources, the GE Foundation, and with the GE Healthcare business, to provide a unique position to achieve this mission and drive innovation on a global scale. Today, we are seeing the outcomes of that focus on and commitment to innovation. See healthymagination progress in our Performance section for the latest on healthymagination. 2.1.2 Managing U.S. Health Care Costs and Improving Well-Being Managing healthcare costs for our employees and the Company as well as supporting the well-being of our employees and their family members are key focus areas for GE. GE offers consumer-driven healthcare plans combined with innovative healthcare tools and resources to encourage plan members to make informed decisions, particularly when it comes to healthcare quality and cost. Additionally, we offer a broad range of health and wellness programs under our HealthAhead banner. HealthAhead is our effort to create a culture of health and wellness at GE by partnering with employees and their families to help them live and work in the healthiest way possible. To accomplish this, GE offers physical activity, nutrition, weight management, tobacco-cessation and stress management programs. We believe that a strong culture of wellness can inspire our employees and their family members to make positive lifestyle changes and improve their overall health. For details on our HealthAhead initiatives, please visit http://www.gehealthahead.com/sustainability 2.1.3 Developing Health Developing Health: 2015 Highlights The GE Foundation’s signature programs, Developing Health Globally™ (DHG) and Developing Health (DH), aim to increase access to quality healthcare in underserved communities around the world. These programs are funded and managed by the GE Foundation in collaboration with national ministries of health, public and private health facilities, NGOs and academia. In 2015, DHG launched its five-year strategic initiative, Safe Surgery 2020, with an initial $25 million commitment to improve surgical capacity, infrastructure and training globally. Safe Surgery 2020 addresses the lack of access to safe surgery for over 5 billion people worldwide by focusing on three core pillars: leadership development; innovation; and elevating ideas. In the U.S., the GE Foundation announced a $14 million grant supporting Project ECHO, a game-changing care-delivery model that exponentially increases treatment capacity for common but complex conditions in medically underserved areas. Through ECHO, community-based primary care providers train in a specialty area, such as HIV/AIDS or behavioral health, so that they can then provide patients with the specialty care they need in their own communities. To learn more about GE Foundation’s healthcare programs, visit http://www.gefoundation.com/health Learn more about healthymagination. View our healthcare-related performance goals and metrics. 2.1.4 Addressing Healthcare Policy Improving the effectiveness and efficiency of healthcare systems is essential for the long-term vitality of the global economy. While many healthcare systems have achieved impressive results and innovation, opportunities remain to make healthcare more accessible and equitable, less costly and reactive, and more patient-centric. GE understands the need for local solutions to local healthcare challenges, and is an active partner of many associations, foundations and research institutes that work on the key healthcare issues facing many countries. Governments around the world are bringing basic health insurance coverage to hundreds of millions of citizens each year and strengthening their countries’ primary care delivery systems. GE is working with these governments to offer low-cost solutions to populations with limited numbers of medical professionals and insufficient healthcare systems. Appropriate public policies can provide faster access to world-class medical technologies for patients who need them. Therefore, GE Healthcare is committed, as an active partner, to providing constructive input to policy makers. Specific elements of GE’s healthcare policy agenda include support for: • Full access and affordable insurance coverage. All individuals, where it is relevant in their healthcare systems, should be able and encouraged to purchase health insurance coverage that works for them. To do so, consumers must be able to choose among affordable benefit plans that meet their personal healthcare needs and their financial means. • Reducing healthcare costs, improving quality and increasing access to care. • Playing a leadership role in advocating for more innovative reimbursement methods and increased specialization through targeted care–area approaches to cancer, heart disease, stroke and other diseases. • Public policy addressing the development and delivery of early-detection and wellness programs in both the public and private sectors, and for permitting the use of meaningful incentives that encourage healthy lifestyle choices and behaviors. Prevention and early detection are critical elements in ensuring quality healthcare and controlling costs. • Liability policies that address fairly the weakness in the medical-liability system. • Incentivizing the delivery of effective and coordinated care, utilizing health information technology to reduce healthcare costs through a patient-centered, evidence-based integrated delivery system. • The creation of new medical infrastructure and teaching hospitals in publicprivate partnerships as creative solutions to offer low-cost healthcare solutions to developing countries. • Governments to make transparent healthcare coverage or reimbursement decisions and to create opportunities for input from stakeholder groups in healthcare, such as physician and patient groups, industry initiatives and civil society. • Public policy for post-2015 Millennium Development Goals that improve access to healthcare and primary-care infrastructure. Learn more about GE’s Public Policy. View our health-related performance goals and metrics. 2.2 Energy and Climate Energy and climate represent two of the most important business challenges of this century. Energy—its generation, use and transmission—is critical to both the global economy and individual advancement. Finding ways to help emerging economies meet rising demand for energy is essential for economic and human development. As a key stakeholder in the Energy sector, GE focuses on providing its customers with cleaner and more productive solutions to meet rising energy demand. At the same time, we are working in our own operations and value chains to increase resource efficiency in production. Ecomagination is GE’s growth strategy to enhance resource productivity and reduce environmental impact on a global scale through commercial solutions for our customers and in our own operations. As part of this strategy, we are: investing in cleaner technology and business innovation; developing solutions to enable economic growth while avoiding emissions and reducing water consumption; committing to reduce the environmental impact in our own operations; and developing strategic partnerships to solve some of the toughest environmental challenges at scale to create a cleaner, faster, smarter tomorrow. Since 2005, Ecomagination has become one of GE’s most successful initiatives. We have invested $17 billion in R&D and generated $232 billion in revenue from Ecomagination-qualified products. Within our own operations, we have reduced our GHG emissions by 12% and freshwater use by 17% through 2015, from the 2011 baseline. Since we launched our first operational goals, we have sharpened our strategy and efforts. Over the past decade, we have realized the greatest benefits through projects that deliver improved environmental performance and significant economic benefits, shown through cost reductions as well as productivity improvements. We’re finding that creating an Ecomagination culture has embedded a relentless drive to “lean” both our operations and their environmental impact. For example, in 2015, our GE Power facility in Greenville, South Carolina won top honors in GE’s annual EcoAwards competition, realizing more than $1 million in savings by deploying real-time sensors, determining historical trends and using analytic data tools. We measure our progress on resource efficiency through our 2020 commitments: to invest an additional $10 billion in Ecomagination R&D and reduce our greenhouse gas emissions and freshwater use by 20% from a 2011 baseline. For more on Ecomagination, our energy and climate collaborations, and our progress, see Ecomagination Progress. View our energyand climate-related performance goals and metrics. Learn more about our approach to energyand climate-policy developments. Read about GE’s latest convenings on the future of energy in our Performance section 2.2.1 Ecomagination and GHG Goal As part of GE’s Ecomagination program we set goals to reduce our own Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. GE has set aggressive goals for reducing its greenhouse gases since 2005. These goals are broken down and measured year over year in a way that allows us to ensure that we continue to make progress. In 2014, GE announced a new goal for GHG reductions through 2020. This new goal is a 20% absolute reduction from a 2011 baseline of operational GHG emissions, and was developed in concert with “The 3% Solution,” a sciencebased methodology from the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and CDP. The 3% Solution helps companies like GE identify an emissions-reduction path that supports the scientific goal of avoiding the 2-degree Celsius “tipping point” and illustrates that corporations can profit while helping stabilize the climate. The new goal builds on our prior successes through 2015: reducing GHG emissions by 31%, energy intensity by 32%, and GHG intensity by 43%, since 2004. While these 2015 metrics have been retired, continuing progress presents new challenges for GE as many of the easy, quick-payback resource efficiency projects have been completed. We believe our path to meeting the 2020 goal will require focusing even more on energy efficiency upgrades, minimizing emissions of non-energy GHGs, and switching to low-carbon energy sources. Additionally, changes in grid emission factors may affect our results. Through our products and services, GE is also contributing to the grid evolution. Our Results So Far In 2015, GHG emissions from GE operations were 4.53 million metric tons of CO2e, a reduction of 12% from our adjusted 2011 baseline and a nearly 10% reduction from our 2014 emissions. Learn more hereabout our GHG inventory methodology. Contributors to changes in our GHG emissions include reductions in the use of hydrofluorocarbons in appliance manufacturing and industrial testing; reductions in the use of sulfur hexafluoride in energy infrastructure manufacturing; energy-efficiency projects; business changes; and changes in overall grid emission factors. GE Solutions Powering Progress A key focus in driving progress toward our goal is to leverage our own expert technology, which can increase our energy efficiency, shift us to renewable sources, and generate operational savings. Current, powered by GE, is one way we’re continuing progress: GE Lighting / Current, powered by GE Lighting upgrades are a great way to help improve the safety of the working environment while reducing energy costs and greenhouse gas emissions. Over the past year, many GE facilities have been implementing lighting upgrades using GE Lighting solutions. These facilities include our sites at GE Oil & Gas Oklahoma City, OK; GE Energy Connections Clearwater, FL; and GE’s Global Operations in Cincinnati, OH. GE Lighting’s work with Marriott International Inc. is a great example of how lighting upgrades improve facilities. Security and energy savings were top priorities for Marriott when considering new lighting to cover the nearly 2 million square feet of parking and garage space at Marriott headquarters. After testing competitive exterior garage fixtures, parking lot lights and contemporary post tops, Marriott selected GE’s family of high-efficiency Evolve™ LED lighting systems. Marriott’s comprehensive LED update is expected to reduce annual electricity use by 66% at its headquarters, slashing energy expense by an estimated $104,000. While GE has made great progress, we know that our work is not done. We continue to develop, implement and spread technologies to further reduce GE’s CO2 emissions and energy use profile. Learn more about our GHG Inventory process. View our energyand climate-related performance goals and metrics. Read more about Ecomagination in our Performance section 2.2.2 Optimizing GE’s Energy Use Optimizing energy use is a key pillar in achieving our 2020 Ecomagination goals. GE facilities have several tools available to identify opportunities and manage energy consumption; examples are Energy Treasure Hunts, GE’s Brilliant Factory initiative, and energy use analytics. We continue to use the Energy Treasure Hunt process, leveraged from Toyota, to identify projects that drive efficiency in our operations. Treasure Hunts are normally run by diverse people in GE’s businesses, and we’ve shared this approach with our customers and suppliers. Since GE adopted the Ecomagination Treasure Hunt approach in 2006, we have implemented more than 2,000 energy-efficiency and greenhouse gas projects. Cumulatively, we estimate that these projects have saved $400 million and have reduced GHG emissions by more than 4 million metric tons of CO2 equivalents. During 2015, 30 projects that optimize energy use were completed across GE’s global operations, projected to save nearly $1 million. In addition to Treasure Hunts, businesses routinely engage in identifying projects that would reduce energy and greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs) for the purpose of making business-efficiency improvements. Another key approach to optimizing our energy use is GE’s Brilliant Factory initiative. An example of Brilliant Factory implementation is at our GE Power facility in Greenville, South Carolina, which is an older factory adopting a leadingedge network infrastructure to stay competitive. The Greenville Brilliant Factory Energy Management initiative dedicated personnel to focus on implementing efficiency opportunities, thereby driving environmental improvement and costsaving efforts. By deploying real-time sensors, determining historical trends and using analytic big-data tools, Greenville’s Brilliant Factory achieved significant savings in facility costs. Drawing on detailed consumables purchase and usage data, Brilliant Factory Consumables Management was able to reduce, reuse and recycle materials to the fullest extent possible, resulting in major cost savings. Brilliant Factory Machine Health now uses real-time machine usage data to reduce wasteful purchases of unnecessary filters and fluid and the replacement and disposal of machine parts based on arbitrary timelines. The results include reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and electricity consumption, as well as annual operational cost savings. Recently, GE has begun connecting energy services tools with data visualization capabilities. By making this information easily accessible across the company, site managers can monitor current energy use, compare historical performance and trends, and compare energy use with cost. This data availability can help reduce energy consumption and manage costs through measures such as detecting unplanned uses of energy, and can assist with load-sharing planning. While GE has made great progress, we know that our work is not done. We continue to develop, implement and spread technologies to further reduce GE’s CO2 emissions and energy use profile. View our energyand climate-related performance goals and metrics. 2.2.2.a-GHG-Methodology GE GHG and Energy Inventory Process Updated May 2016 Methodology The GE Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Inventory follows the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WRI/WBCSD) “Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition” (the “Protocol”). GE reports under the “control” approach for emissions in Scopes 1 and 2, as defined in the Protocol, from sources over which it has operational control. Selected Scope 3 emissions are reported. Inventory Scope The GHG Inventory includes data from individual facilities (primarily manufacturing facilities), additional rooftops (primarily offices, warehouses and small service shops), and the vehicle and air fleets that GE operates for its own use and numerous desalination plants that GE owns and operates for its customers. The total number of sites change from year to year as sites are added or removed for various reasons. Sites are added to the inventory if they are acquired, newly established, or newly determined to be within the boundaries of the inventory and removed if they were divested, closed or newly determined to be outside the boundaries of inventory during the course of the reporting year. GE’s worldwide GHG emissions are the total from four categories: • Energy use and emissions data from the largest facilities in the Company • Emissions estimates for small facilities • Mobile source emissions from centrally managed vehicle fleets and aircraft • Desalination plant emissions Large Sites GE maintains a GHG Inventory database in a networked environmental management system to collect the necessary detailed inventory data from the following types of facilities: • All manufacturing, power generation and engine/turbine test facilities • All service and distribution facilities with greater than 50 employees • All major business headquarters • All major stand-alone data centers The GHG Inventory database allows each site to enter the quantity of electricity and fuel used by fuel type and the unit of measure based on its own electricity and fuel purchase and/or combustion records as well as data on emissions of other GHGs. The software system calculates the emissions, in metric tons of CO2 equivalents, for each emission category as well as a total for all emission categories. GE uses emission factors primarily from the U.S. EPA Mandatory GHG Reporting Rule (40 CFR part 98) to calculate CO2 emissions for the fuel types evaluated in the GE GHG Inventory. The 100-year global warming potential (GWP) for CH4, N2O, HFCs, SF6 and PFCs are also taken from the U.S. EPA Mandatory GHG Reporting Rule (40 CFR part 98). Emissions of CH4 and N2O from the combustion of fuels are calculated using emissions factors obtained from EPA Climate Leaders program documents. Other direct emission factors are obtained from WRI and IPCC documents when U.S. EPA factors are not available. GE uses U.S. EPA eGRID sub-regional average emission factors to calculate indirect emissions resulting from the purchase of electricity in the United States. Indirect emissions resulting from the purchase of electricity outside of the U.S. are calculated using countrywide average factors obtained from the International Energy Agency (IEA). Electricity emissions for the 2011 baseline year were calculated using EPA eGRID factors for 2010 and IEA factors for 2011. Electricity emissions for the current reporting year are calculated using the most recent grid emissions factors available. The software system calculates direct-combustion emissions by multiplying a given quantity of fuel by an emission factor and calculates indirect emissions for electricity that was purchased by multiplying a given quantity of electricity by an emission factor. Direct emissions resulting from the generation of electricity for export off-site are included within direct emissions. The Protocol recommends this approach and instructs companies to report emissions from exported electricity, heat or steam under supporting information and not to deduct those emissions from company emissions. The Inventory includes sites in Europe and Asia that import steam or hot water from third-party cogeneration plants or district heating plants. Each of these sites determined the quantity and type of fuel needed by the third-party plant to generate the steam or hot water purchased by the site. This quantity of fuel is then multiplied by the appropriate emission factor to determine the indirect emissions from steam or hot water purchases. A default thermal efficiency of 80% is used to calculate the quantity of fuel needed to generate the steam or hot water that was purchased based on guidance provided in the WRI/WBCSD Emission Calculation Tool. Most of the plants use the default thermal efficiency. Emissions of other GHGs (direct-process emissions of CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, SF6 and PFCs) are entered directly as kilograms or metric tons and converted to metric tons of CO2 equivalents using the EPA’s published 100-year GWP coefficients. Generally, emissions are based on purchase records and the assumption that all used material was emitted. For certain processes, however, site-specific knowledge of the process and/or emissions factors are used to determine actual emissions. GE quantifies biomass-related emissions as allowed by the WRI Protocol. GE subtracts a certain amount of metric tons of CO2 from its GHG inventory as those emissions are attributed to the use of biomass as allowed by the Protocol. Because a subset of “large sites” are responsible for about 80% of the emissions in this category, GE collects all data from that group of facilities annually. Data for the smaller sites is collected less frequently and prorated on interim years based on historical data. Small Sites GE does not collect detailed emissions data from worldwide “small” locations due to the difficulty and expense that would be associated with such an effort in comparison with the relative significance of the emissions in GE’s overall inventory. The sites that fall into this category are primarily small office facilities but include all locations that do not meet the criteria defined above for “large sites.” Emissions for these small facilities are calculated based on the “Energy Usage Determination Based on Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption 2003 Survey Data Calculation Worksheets, November 2004, version 1.0” obtained from CH2M Hill in its role as support contractor for the EPA Climate Leaders program. Using this tool, GE determines the expected electricity and natural gas usage for a facility based on the type, location and square footage of the facility. GHG emissions are calculated using this estimate of energy usage and the appropriate emission factor as described above for Large Sites. Mobile Sources GE calculates emissions from motor vehicles centrally managed by GE Fleet Services in the U.S., Canada, Europe, Japan, Australia, New Zealand and Mexico; motor vehicles leased or rented from Penske Truck Leasing and Ryder Logistics in the U.S.; and motor vehicles owned by GE businesses in the U.S. In addition, GE calculates emissions from GE-owned corporate aircraft including the flying test bed (a large airliner used for flight-testing jet engines). Mobile source emissions are calculated by obtaining fuel use and/or vehicle-miles-traveled records and applying appropriate emission factors obtained from the U.S. EPA Climate Leaders guidance documents. Methane and nitrous oxide emissions for mobile sources are also calculated using emission factors obtained from the U.S. EPA Climate Leaders program guidance documents. In addition, GE includes emissions from GE-controlled motor vehicles that are refueled onsite at GE Large Sites. The emissions from these vehicles are included in the combustion-of-fuels calculations for Large Sites discussed above. Desalination Plants GE owns and operates numerous seawater-desalination plants, located primarily in Africa, Spain and the Caribbean. These plants provide potable water to various municipalities for distribution to their countries’ citizens. Purchased electric power is by far the primary GHG emissions issue for these plants. The quantity of purchased electric power is estimated based on the quantity of potable water produced and on an energy-use factor provided by the GE Water & Process Technologies business that owns and operates the plants. The IEA electric emission factor is used to calculate GHG emissions for facilities located in Spain. The Annex II North American average factor obtained from the IEA is assumed for calculating the GHG emissions for the facilities located in the Caribbean. The appropriate eGRID sub-regional average factor is used for one facility located in California. Sources Not Included GHG emission sources not included in the Inventory because GE does not have operational control over them include the following: • Minority-owned joint ventures • Energy-generation facilities where GE has a service relationship, but where GE does not have operational control • Aircraft, motor vehicles, railroad locomotives, etc., owned by GE, but leased to and controlled by others • WRI/WBCSD Scope 3 sources The following operational emission sources are not included in GE’s GHG Inventory due to very small contributions: • Motor vehicles controlled by GE but not centrally managed through GE Fleet Services, Penske Truck Leasing or Ryder Logistics, not owned by GE businesses in the U.S. and not refueled onsite at GE large sites • Leakage of hydrofluorocarbons from GE-owned and -operated air conditioning, refrigeration and chilling systems • Remedial operations operationally controlled by GE, other than the Hudson River operation, which was included in the Large Sites inventory for the first time in 2009 Baseline Adjustment GE has established a baseline year for measuring progress toward achieving its GHG-emissions-reduction commitments. Baseline-year GHG-emissions data are adjusted to reflect the changes in GE structure and determine the real change in emissions and energy use during a given period. Prior interim years, such as 2014, are not adjusted. For the current 2020 goal period, the baseline year of 2011 was chosen for several key reasons: it is the most recent year for which we have deep data on both GHG and Water inventories; and 2010 is the most recent year available for the 3% Solution Carbon Target and Profit Calculator tool; and a ten-year term was desired as long-term goals provide greater opportunity for more ambitious targets. For the 2015 inventory, significant adjustments were made to account for the acquisition of Alstom. Other, smaller adjustments were made to account for the divestiture and acquisition of other GE subsidiaries. Quality Assurance GE is continuing to work toward increasing the accuracy of its GHG Inventory. It has modified its GHG Inventory collection database to simplify it and to eliminate issues that have tended to introduce errors in the past. In addition, GE has developed numerous guidance documents and an internal guidance website, and has provided extensive training on the Inventory and on the use of the management system. As an added measure of data quality, GE periodically performs data-quality reviews on the GHG Inventories, including side-by-side comparisons of GHG emissions across years, to identify and understand the reasons for significant differences (changes in production, fuel, manufacturing processes, etc.). When dataquality issues are identified, research is initiated to analyze and correct gaps where necessary. Independent Verification of the 2004 and 2008 GE GHG Inventories GE periodically may retain an independent consultant to review the Inventory and process. CameronCole, LLC, was retained in 2005 and again in 2009 for independent verification of the GHG methodology. Cameron-Cole issued verification statements in March 2006 and December 2009, respectively, stating that it found nothing to indicate any material errors or omissions or anything that would indicate that GE’s Inventory was not complete. Cameron-Cole also found that GE’s Inventory generally conformed to the accounting principles in the Protocol. In addition, Cameron-Cole stated that it believed that GE had met its 2008 GHG-intensity-reduction commitment. Analysis of Cumulative GHG and Energy Efficiency Projects GE is focused on generating value and outcomes for our customers, the Company, people and the planet. One way to measure that value is to track energy efficiency and GHG reduction projects and GE does this in the Gensuite EHS management system. Each project logged includes descriptive information, projected costs, and estimate GHG and cost savings. Two cumulative measures of those projects are tracked over time: total GHG emissions reduced and total cost savings. To estimate total GHG emissions reduced and costs saved, GE analyzes all projects in the database covering the given period logged as “Complete”. The sum of estimated GHG reduction for all matching projects is captured as estimated annual GHG and cost reduction due to interventions. This process is repeated for subsequent years and compounded annually. No attempt is made to adjust prior years for business transformations, changes in grid factors or other changes. 2.2.3 Scope 3 Emissions GE reports greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from U.S. and international thermal power and offsets from U.S. renewable energy projects in which GE Energy Financial Services has an equity interest. GE Energy Financial Services (EFS) invests in thermal and renewable energy projects in a number of ways: equity, lease, and debt. We report emissions, from investments in which EFS holds an equity interest, based upon the business unit’s percentage of equity ownership. Through its investment in 11 thermal power projects, EFS’ GHG emissions totaled approximately 11.5 million metric tons of CO2-equivalent (CO2e) in 2015. The 23.2% reduction in GHG emissions generated in 2014 as compared to 2015 is primarily driven by Homer City Generation LP producing less power in 2015 than in 2014 (21.2% decrease) and emitting fewer metric tons of CO₂ in 2015 (19% decrease) as a result. EFS’ equity interest in two thermal power projects was transferred to GE Power Holdings LLC, an entity of GE Power and Water, on November 17, 2015. In 2015, GE Power Holdings LLC’s pro rata share of the CO₂ emissions generated from these two projects totaled 16,362 metric tons, which reflects ownership from November 17, 2015 to December 31, 2015. In general, CO2e emissions from EFS’ investments will rise or fall based on various factors within the operating environments of the power plants, such as the demand for power and maintenance schedules, as well as the business unit’s strategy, as it identifies attractive energy sector investment and divestiture opportunities. The U.S. renewable energy projects, in which EFS holds equity interests, had a 12% increase in offsets from 20142 to 2015. The increase in offsets is primarily the result of EFS’ 49% equity investment in a portfolio of operating renewable projects totaling 1,192 MW, additional renewable energy investments made in 2015 and certain projects reaching commercial operation in 2015. In 2015, EFS held equity interests in 68 operating U.S. renewable energy projects; up from 61 in 2014³. EFS’ calculation of avoided emissions is based on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s CO2 emissions rate, which was last updated in 2015 using 2012 data. Additionally, EFS holds equity interests in 20 renewable energy assets in 8 countries outside of the U.S., which provide significant GHG emission offsets. However, because EPA data does not cover countries outside of the U.S., EFS does not include these offsets when calculating its total avoided GHG emissions. ¹ 2014 CO₂ emissions have been adjusted down from the originally reported 2014 number (16.12 million metric tons) to correct for an error that was initially made in calculating emissions from the Linden power plant. ² 2014 CO₂ emissions avoided have been adjusted up from the originally reported 2014 number (6.96 million metric tons) to correct for projects that were unintentionally not accounted for in 2014. ³ The number of operating U.S. renewable energy projects in 2014 was adjusted up from the originally reported 2014 number (56) to correct for projects that were unintentionally not accounted for. 2.2.4 Employee Engagement Employee engagement in the Ecomagination program is fostered in many ways. One approach we have taken is to recognize performance excellence for those operations that contribute most dramatically to reductions in energy use, Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions, water use and materials consumption. We call this approach the EcoAwards. In 2015, GE dramatically revised the EcoAwards program by opening up nominations to aspects across our value chain. Out of more than 90 nominations, 18 teams were recognized for achieving significant reductions in energy, GHG emissions, water, or materials through unique approaches that showed imagination and courage. The overall winner in 2015 was digital industrialization at our site in Greenville, S.C., where implementing monitoring and controls on the heating and cooling system has generated more than $1M in savings since 2013. One of our largest businesses has another effective approach to employee engagement. GE’s Power business continues to drive its “Ecomagination Nation” program, an initiative which recognizes sites that take on actions to address environmental and social issues in their facilities and communities. During 2015, the total number of certified sites rose to 34. Recently, as part of the Ecomagination Nation program more than 130 employees and contractors held site activities and community outreach projects, such as cleaning up coastlines, tree plantings and lighting upgrades in community schools. Outreach programs have spread the story of Ecomagination Nation inside and outside the organization, while helping to save nearly 3 million kilowatt hours of electricity and more than 6 million gallons of water for GE and at customer sites we operate. View our energyand climate-related performance goals and metrics. 2.2.5 Climate Policy The Paris Agreement adopted in late 2015 under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (Paris) is an important milestone in the journey to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions. GE has been an active contributor to the climate policy discussion, and through our Ecomagination business initiative we’ve been developing renewable and lower-emitting technologies for more than a decade. The approach adopted in Paris of operationalizing a global goal through nationally determined contributions holds out the promise of enabling countries to cohesively address climate, reliability, cost competitiveness and energy security. GE supports policies that promote both lower carbon emissions and sustainable economic growth. Reliable and affordable energy is the critical building block for any modern society, and without it, sustainable economic growth will be impossible. As the UN Secretary-General explained when speaking of his Sustainable Energy for All initiative: “Without access to modern energy, it is not possible to achieve the Millennium Development Goals, the eight-point global agenda adopted by the United Nations in 2000—whether reducing poverty, improving women’s and children’s health, or broadening the reach of education. Energy facilitates social and economic development, offering opportunity for improved lives and economic progress.” Energy is essential, but its production and use, particularly from fossil fuels, gives rise to environmental consequences that no responsible nation can or should ignore. The scientific consensus is that fossil fuels used to generate electricity generation and power transportation emit amounts of carbon dioxide that are changing our climate. GE supports carbon policies that aspire to reduce emissions and encourage businesses to do what they do best: innovate and compete to create and disseminate new technologies and solutions at the lowest net cost. Specifically, GE supports policies that: • reduce GHG emissions in ways that do not jeopardize energy security; • encourage early adoption of cleaner technologies & energy efficiency; • reward R&D, innovation and private risk-taking; • encourage the free flow of goods and ideas consistent with the WTO; • reflect national and local circumstances; and • set realistic timetables for reductions with periodic reviews and updates in contributions as our knowledge of the science evolves and technology improves. We support the increased use of natural gas for electricity generation and for transportation. Abundant and affordable natural gas from shale and other sources can reduce carbon and other emissions significantly in power generation and can do so cost-effectively, thus assuring economic growth and reliable electricity for consumers. We believe that shale gas in particular can be extracted in an environmentally responsible manner, and we support policies and measures that would minimize risks to ground and surface waters and that would reduce fugitive emissions of methane. Switching from other fuels to natural gas should be encouraged and incentivized in countries, including in the U.S. and China, where new technologies make this fuel abundant and competitively priced. Other low-carbon energy technologies should also be promoted, as we should avoid reliance on any one fuel for use in power generation. It is important to encourage the use of renewables, especially hydro, wind and solar energy, to reduce carbon emissions and to promote the integration of natural gas technologies with renewables, which would assure the required reliable and flexible generation of electricity. New nuclear technology also remains a viable energy source for a low-carbon and secure-energy future. Coal, however, will continue to be used to generate electricity, especially in some of the most rapidly developing countries. While the continued use of coal for electricity generation is unavoidable, efficiency, carbon capture and sequestration should be encouraged and incentivized in new deployments. And where it can be done economically, older and less efficient coal units should be retired. Meeting the goals of the Paris Agreement will require significant investment in new and upgraded technologies. As a company that operates in all aspects of the energy business, GE will continue to work with countries as they build out their climate strategies. Policies to help reduce carbon emissions are essential to drive technology development and deployment. Fairness to consumers, environmental integrity, cost-effectiveness, sound science and technology neutrality should be the guiding principles for arriving at any national strategy. View our energyand climate-related performance goals and metrics. 2.3 Supply Chain Suppliers are critical partners in GE’s value chain. As GE’s businesses have globalized, so has our supply chain, including in locations where environment, health, safety, labor, human rights and other practices can be problematic. We expect our suppliers to obey the laws that require them to treat workers fairly, provide a safe and healthy work environment, and protect environmental quality. GE’s Supplier Expectations govern all facets of the Company’s relationships with suppliers, and include specific prohibitions against forced, prison, or indentured labor, and prohibitions against subjecting workers to any form of compulsion, coercion or human trafficking. Whether labor practices in China, conflict minerals in Africa or resource efficiency globally, GE is increasingly working with our supply chain to improve performance, respect human rights and protect the environment. Given the size and complexity of GE’s supply chain, we’ve learned that our efforts are most effective when we prioritize them based on risk and where our involvement can have the most impact. We’ve also learned we get the best results by collaborating with suppliers and other stakeholders. In most cases, working together with governments, our business partners and effective academic and non-governmental organizations can achieve more than any of us can alone. View our supply chain–related performance goals and metrics. 2.3.1 aGE-Sustainability-Ethical-Supply-Chain GE Sustainability Ethical Supply Chain Program Updated January 20, 2016 On-site supplier assessments cover environmental, health, safety, labor, human rights and security issues. For these assessments, we utilize a global questionnaire. The assessments take place prior to placing initial orders with new suppliers, and periodically thereafter, on a oneto three-year time frame, depending on our experience with the supplier. Closure requirements for findings are linked either to compliance with local laws or, for some issues, to higher GE expectations. Typically, findings must be closed within 60 days. Purchase orders are required to be suspended if findings remain open after this time frame, unless GE agrees that a closure requires more time and/or interim progress has been demonstrated. Findings open for more than 180 days are reviewed with the business compliance teams. The on-site supplier assessments are conducted primarily by sourcing personnel or internal auditors specifically trained to find issues in our Company’s industries. More than 700 GE team members are executing the on-site audits. To a limited extent, third-party firms specifically trained to GE standards also conduct inspections. Since 2005, more than 1,500 GE team members have been trained in detailed audit skills. The auditors are guided by a team of Environment, Health and Safety (EHS), labor and other experts who can provide guidance based on GE’s own extensive operating history. We supplement their efforts through cross-checks with regional databases such as that of the Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs’ (IPE) China pollution maps, plus periodic spot checks and anonymous desk-side reviews of GE audit records by inspectors from other business units or from our OneEHS team. Suppliers selected for the on-site assessment program may also be evaluated using a key performance indicators (KPI) tool to determine whether or not they have a robust management system around their critical and high-risk processes. The KPI tool is proving to be an effective coaching tool to help suppliers move from reactive, short-lived fixes to long-term ownership and improvement. 1 2015 Sustainability Beyond our team of assessors, GE’s supplier-review process relies on the participation of organizations across the Company. Global sourcing leaders and team members from each GE business oversee execution of inspections, enforcement of findings and reporting of metrics. Additional program participants from our EHS, Legal, Security and Human Resources teams provide audit training, interpretation of local regulatory requirements, information on the regional expertise required of assessors, and assistance with developing and reviewing corrective action plans. Globally, GE personnel who interact with supplier facilities are expected to take GE’s awareness training, which covers GE’s supplier expectations, human rights issues and on-site duediligence requirements. Any sourcing personnel who visit supplier locations are required to take a hazard-recognition class and to report any potentially problematic activity to our team of assessment professionals. 2 2015 Sustainability 2.3.1 Ethical Supply Chain GE’s Ethical Supply Chain program is multifaceted and risk-based. Virtually all suppliers must agree to comply with GE’s Supplier Expectations as part of our contracting process. We also expect our suppliers to obey laws that require them to treat workers fairly, provide a safe and healthy work environment, protect environmental quality, and comply with prohibitions against forced, prison or indentured labor and against subjecting workers to any form of compulsion, coercion or human trafficking. Suppliers are prioritized for detailed, on-site assessments according to the country in which they are located, their past performance and whether they are producing parts or components that will be incorporated into GE products. Almost all of our on-site assessments are conducted in developing countries as part of our overall supplier-management strategy. 2015 Results In 2015, GE assessed ~2,750 new or existing suppliers. These assessments generated more than 20,100 findings. GE suppliers are subject to an on-site reassessment on a oneto three-year schedule depending on their performance in prior assessments. About 75% of our total assessments in 2015 were reassessments. In the program, 41% of the assessments and 49% of the overall findings are from suppliers in China: GE puts a great deal of emphasis on confirming closure of findings, which we track in a Gensuite® software system. As of March 10, 2016, 92% of the 2015 findings from approved suppliers were closed. GE will track remaining findings to closure. While the Company’s experience has been that most suppliers seek to meet GE’s expectations, we do terminate a small number of suppliers for poor performance within our Ethical Supply Chain program. Since 2005, more than 23,400 supplier assessments spanning 89 countries have addressed almost 189,000 findings, helping to ensure that GE and its suppliers are safer, cleaner and more compliant. Learn more about how we assess suppliers. View our supply chain–related performance goals and metrics. 2.3.2 Supplier Expectations GE Supplier Expectations Relating to Employment, Environment, Health & Safety For more than a century, GE, its businesses, and its employees have created an asset of incalculable value — the Company’s worldwide reputation for integrity and high standards of business conduct. GE’s quest for competitive excellence begins and ends with its unyielding commitment to integrity. Each employee in the GE community is expected to make a personal commitment to integrity, and we also expect and require high ethical conduct from all of our suppliers. A company’s strong commitment in this regard is a requirement for being a GE supplier and is the foundation for our mutually beneficial business relationship. In particular, we expect GE suppliers to: • Comply with laws and regulations protecting the environment, continuously improve their resource efficiency, and not adversely affect the local community. • Provide workers a safe and healthy workplace. If housing is provided or arranged, it must meet host country safety standards. • Employ workers above the applicable minimum age requirement or the age of 16, whichever is higher. • Comply with laws and regulations governing recruitment, employment contracts, wages, hours, days of service, and overtime payment for workers. Upon end of employment, reimburse return transportation costs for workers recruited from outside the country. Provide workers with terms and conditions of employment in a language the worker understands. • Not utilize forced, prison, or indentured labor, or subject workers to any form of compulsion, coercion or human trafficking. • Not charge workers recruitment fees or utilize firms charging workers such fees. Not utilize fraudulent or misleading recruitment practices. Not withhold or destroy a worker’s identity or immigration documents. • Allow their workers to freely choose whether or not to organize or join associations for the purpose of collective bargaining as provided by local law. Provide workers a process for escalating and reporting concerns without retaliation. • Prohibit physical, sexual or psychological harassment, exploitation or coercion. • Assure that workers are hired, paid and otherwise subject to terms and conditions of employment based on their ability to do the job, not on the basis of their personal characteristics such as race, national origin, sex, religion, ethnicity, disability, maternity, age, and other characteristics protected by local law (This does not bar compliance with affirmative preferences that may be required by local law). • Maintain and enforce a company policy requiring adherence to ethical business practices, including a prohibition on bribery of government officials. • Respect the intellectual property of others. • Adopt policies and establish systems to procure tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold from sources that have been verified as conflict free, and provide supporting data on their supply chains for tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold to GE when requested, on a platform to be designated by GE. • Maintain security measures consistent with international standards for the protection of their operations and facilities against exploitation by criminal or terrorist individuals and organizations. • Contractually require their suppliers to conform to similar standards. If Supplier’s work is related to a U.S. government contract, Supplier must notify GE of any alleged non-conformance with these Supplier Expectations. View our supply chain–related performance goals and metrics. Supplier Reputational Guidelines Expectation Statement – Effective January 1, 2016 2.3.3 a GE_Sustainability_Statement_On_Conflict_Minerals_6-28-16 GE Sustainability Statement on Conflict Minerals Updated June 28, 2016 GE condemns the ongoing conflict and resulting humanitarian harm in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), which is fueled, in part, by financing from trade in the ores from which tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold are derived. These four minerals are now known as “conflict minerals” — when they originate in mines operated or taxed by the warring factions, they can be referred to as “conflict minerals from conflict mines.” Tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold are common constituents of many of GE’s products, ranging from light bulbs to aircraft engines. Because the minerals in these products typically enter supply chains many layers removed from manufacturers like GE, it is difficult to determine where the minerals originated and whether they support armed conflict. At the same time, millions of Congolese workers rely on mining of the minerals for their livelihood. Avoiding purchase of all conflict minerals from the DRC region would cause severe hardship for the workers and their dependents. As part of our commitment to Principles on Human Rights, GE is committed to work to eliminate, from our products all conflict minerals that support armed groups in the DRC or in the surrounding countries, while at the same time minimizing unintended consequences for legitimate miners and their dependents. GE will: • Continue to work toward the elimination, over time, of all conflict minerals from conflict mines in our products, and endeavor to improve, year-over-year, our ability to track conflict minerals in our supply chain, report on their origin, and eliminate those that originate in 1 GE 2015 Sustainability Report conflict mines. 2 GE 2015 Sustainability Report • Comply with the requirements of Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, which requires companies to inquire into the origin of tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold in their supply chains, and report on the reasonable inquiry or due diligence the companies conduct to determine whether purchases of tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold supported armed groups in the DRC. • Support industry-wide initiatives to verify smelters and refiners that are conflict-free. • Support initiatives to track conflict mineral ores from mines of origin in the DRC to smelters or refiners, so that conflict-free mining and transportation routes can be verified. This will allow responsible smelters and refiners to continue to source ores from legitimate mines in the DRC region and be certified as conflict-free, thereby minimizing the unintended consequence of encouraging a “Congo-free” policy. 3 GE 2015 Sustainability Report 2.3.3 Conflict Minerals Virtually all of GE’s products contain one or more of the minerals tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold (3TG). The mining and trade of these materials from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and surrounding countries have gained international attention in recent years for the role that they can play as “conflict minerals,” financing deadly armed groups in the region. Because of this potential for association with conflict and human rights abuses, GE strives to ensure that our supply chains are ethical and sustainable and that we are fulfilling our commitment to respect human rights through responsible sourcing practices. As part of these efforts, GE has instituted a statement of principles on conflict minerals, and we have submitted a report to the Securities and Exchange Commission on our due diligence program. We support industry-wide due diligence mechanisms that enable conflict-free sourcing in general, such as the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative, and responsible sourcing of minerals from the DRC in particular. We recognize that conflict is just one of the risks related to mineral sourcing in the DRC, and that critical issues such as poverty, environmental degradation, child labor and gender inequality must be addressed as well. Done ethically, production of 3TG in the DRC presents a unique opportunity to contribute to peace and stabilization as well as to local economic development and poverty alleviation. Faced with this reality, we support local development in the DRC mining communities through engagement and philanthropy, including GE Foundation sponsorship of an influential study released in 2014 by the NGO Pact entitled “Breaking the Chain: Child Mining in the Democratic Republic of Congo.” GE’s 2015 Conflict Minerals Report can be found here. GE’s 2014 Conflict Minerals Report can be found here. View our supply chain–related performance goals and metrics. 2.3.3b GE-ConflictExhibit 1.01 Minerals-Report-_2015 General Electric Company 2015 Conflict Minerals Report Introduction General Electric Company (“GE” or the “Company”) has prepared this conflict minerals report (“Report”) for the year ended December 31, 2015 to satisfy the requirements of Rule 13p-1 of the Securities Exchange Act. GE manufactures a wide range of products that contain tin, tantalum, tungsten or gold (“3TG” or “Conflict Minerals”), but GE does not purchase ore or unrefined Conflict Minerals from mines and generally is many steps removed in the supply chain from the mining of these minerals. We purchase materials from a wide network of suppliers so we necessarily rely on them to assist with our reasonable country of origin inquiry regarding the Conflict Minerals that are necessary to the functionality or production of products we manufacture. After performing our reasonable country of origin inquiry and due diligence for 2015, we have not been able to establish the conflict status of our products due to the continued unavailability of complete information across our broad and deep supply chain. However, the percentage of smelters and refiners in our supply chain that have been verified to be conflict-free for 2015 substantially increased in comparison to 2014, as described under “Continuous improvement” below. This Report describes: ● the due diligence we performed for 2015, including the steps we took to mitigate the risk that Conflict Minerals in our products benefit armed groups; ● the products that we have reason to believe might contain 3TG originating from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or an adjoining country (collectively, the “Covered Countries”); and ● information known about the processing facilities and countries of origin of the 3TG in those products. Due Diligence 1. Design of GE’s due diligence measures GE has adopted Conflict Minerals Guidelines (the “Guidelines”) that lay out the design of our Conflict Minerals due diligence process. The Guidelines describe procedures that each GE business is expected to use to perform due diligence on the source and origin of 3TG contained in products we manufacture. GE management designed our due diligence measures to conform in material respects to the OECD Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas (the “OECD Guidance”), the Supplement on Tin, Tantalum, and Tungsten (the “Supplement”), and the Supplement on Gold. 2. Description of GE’s due diligence measures for 2015 This description of due diligence measures refers to measures performed at the GE corporate level and by the following GE businesses: Power (formerly Power & Water), Renewable Energy, Oil & Gas, Energy 5 Connections (formerly Energy Management), Aviation, Healthcare, Transportation and Appliances & Lighting. In accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) rules, this Report excludes the businesses we acquired from Alstom in November 2015. This Report also excludes the aviation business we acquired from Avio S.p.A. in August 2013; we are working to integrate this business into our Conflict Minerals program for this year and intend to include them in next year’s report. This description is presented pursuant to the organizational structure of the Five-Step Framework for RiskBased Due Diligence in the Mineral Supply Chain contained in the OECD Guidance, as elaborated for downstream companies in the Supplement. Step 1: Establish strong company management systems A. Adopt and commit to a supply chain policy for minerals originating from conflict-affected and high-risk areas The Guidelines contain the operative provisions of GE’s Statement on Conflict Minerals, which can be found on GE’s website, as well as the process for ensuring that risks are adequately managed. GE Corporate created and disseminated the Guidelines to each GE business for execution of GE’s Conflict Minerals due diligence process. Additional GE policies that relate to the due diligence measures contained in the OECD Guidance are incorporated into GE’s policy document The Spirit & the Letter, which can be found on GE’s website (for each of these materials, see “Where You Can Find Additional Information” below). B. Structure internal management systems to support supply chain due diligence GE corporate. A senior GE executive, supported by a senior GE lawyer, has oversight responsibility for GE’s Statement on Conflict Minerals, including the establishment of processes and procedures to carry out this statement. GE businesses. Each GE business has: ● established a system to support performance of due diligence on its supply chain; ● documented that system in a written business program; and ● assigned certain personnel responsibility for executing the business program. Internal reporting. For 2015, GE Corporate used the following Conflict Minerals due diligence reporting mechanisms: ● Reporting within GE businesses: Each GE business conducted one or more reviews of its Conflict Minerals due diligence program with senior management in its sourcing organization covering measurements relating to efforts to achieve supply chain transparency; ● Communicating across GE businesses: Representatives of GE businesses and others having responsibilities for executing Conflict Minerals due diligence held regularly scheduled meetings to discuss design and modification of the due diligence process, share best practices among the businesses, and monitor progress of the due diligence process; and ● Reporting to GE Corporate sourcing and Controllership leaders: Reports on GE’s progress in completing Conflict Minerals due diligence were provided periodically to GE’s Sourcing Council, which comprises GE Corporate executives responsible for supply chain programs and the leads of the sourcing organizations of GE’s businesses; and to GE’s controllership organization, including GE’s Vice President and Controller and other senior management responsible for GE’s SEC reporting. 6 C. Establish a system of controls and transparency over the mineral supply chain Identifying suppliers. Each GE business identified: ● Relevant Suppliers: suppliers that provide inputs to GE products that are known or are likely to contain 3TG through a process that is based on an examination of internal records such as bills of material or other product specifications, a qualitative review of sourcing records, or information provided by the supplier; and ● Significant Suppliers: those suppliers within the universe of Relevant Suppliers that are most significant to GE’s Conflict Minerals program, using criteria developed by the business, such as the amount of sourcing spend with the supplier. Identifying smelters and refiners in the supply chain. Each GE business identified all smelters and refiners of Conflict Minerals that are first-tier suppliers to GE and used its best efforts to identify additional smelters and refiners by surveying Significant Suppliers using a tool developed by GE based on the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative’s (“CFSI”) Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (“CMRT”). The survey tool is designed to collect, manage and archive (for at least five years) supplier information relevant for Conflict Minerals due diligence including, among other things, the identity of smelters and refiners of 3TG in the supplier’s supply chain. We apply standardized criteria (based on the CMRT) across GE businesses for assessing the acceptability of survey responses. Conducting a reasonable country of origin inquiry. For upstream due diligence to identify countries of origin and other relevant information about the conflict status of metals produced by the smelters and refiners identified in GE’s supply chain, GE relies on the information made available through the Conflict-Free Smelter Program (“CFSP”) administered by CFSI as well as information from an independent third-party supply chain expert. GE relied on this information to identify (1) the conflict status of 3TG processed by these smelters and refiners; and (2) the countries of origin of ores in the supply chains of these smelters and refiners. Where the data showed that ores utilized by one or more of these smelters or refiners originated in one or more of the Covered Countries, GE concluded that there is reason to believe that 3TG from the Covered Countries is present in the products of the business for which such smelters or refiners were reported to be in the supply chain. Due to business confidentiality and other competitive concerns, as recognized by the Supplement, the CFSP does not publish detailed information on specific mine and location of origin of ores that supply the smelters and refiners subject to verification reviews. Consequently, no such information is provided in this Report. CFSP’s efforts to determine such information is described on the CFSI website (see “Where You Can Find Additional Information” below). For 2015, GE retained an independent third-party expert in supply chains to assist us in our reasonable country of origin inquiry, including assessing the conflict-free status of the smelters and refiners in our supply chain. D. Strengthen company engagement with suppliers Regular communications. GE regularly communicates its expectations on responsible supply chains of Conflict Minerals by transmitting surveys and other communications from the sourcing organizations of the GE businesses to Significant Suppliers and other Relevant Suppliers. These communications are standardized across GE businesses to ensure consistent messaging for our suppliers. In addition, the sourcing organizations of GE’s businesses provide training to and maintain websites for their suppliers on GE’s Conflict Minerals program. Contractual obligations. Each GE business contractually obligates Relevant Suppliers to (1) adopt policies and establish systems to use best efforts to procure Conflict Minerals from sources that have been verified as conflict free; (2) provide supporting data on their 3TG supply chains to GE when requested; and (3) provide GE with audit rights and the right to terminate the contract in the event of material non-compliance. These obligations are reflected in GE’s Integrity Guide for Suppliers, Contractors and Consultants (“Integrity Guide”), which can be found on GE’s website (see “Where You Can Find Additional Information” below). Purchase order and contract terms and conditions in use by GE businesses require suppliers to conform their behavior to the Integrity Guide. 7 E. Establish a company-level grievance mechanism Integrity Guide. The Integrity Guide provides multiple methods for suppliers and supplier personnel to raise concerns about matters that are subject to the Integrity Guide, including GE’s expectations of suppliers regarding Conflict Minerals. Open reporting system. Each GE business also has an open reporting system through which employees and third parties may report concerns about policy violations, including concerns related to our Conflict Minerals policies. Concerns can be reported anonymously or for attribution through several channels, including the employee’s manager, GE’s legal department, or a GE compliance officer, by calling the GE integrity hotline, or by emailing the GE Ombudsman. No retaliation. Both the Integrity Guide and the open reporting system forbid retaliation against any person reporting an integrity concern. Step 2: Identify and assess supply chain risks A. Use best efforts to identify the smelters and refiners in the supply chain During 2015, using the processes described above under “Establish a system of controls and transparency over the mineral supply chain,” GE businesses identified 5,341 Relevant Suppliers (down from 8,974 in 2014), including 1,808 Significant Suppliers (down from 2,347 in 2014). These year-over-year decreases were driven primarily by changes in the criteria used by some of our businesses to identify Relevant and Significant Suppliers. Notwithstanding the decrease in the number of Significant Suppliers, they identified 26% more smelters and refiners of 3TG in their supply chains over the prior year (324 versus 258 in 2014) as a result of due diligence improvements. See Table A below for a list of these smelters and refiners and their validation status under the CFSP. B. Identify the scope of the risk assessment of the mineral supply chain Engaging with suppliers. GE’s Conflict Minerals supplier survey asks suppliers to identify smelters or refiners of 3TG in their supply chains. During 2015, we engaged all Significant Suppliers to encourage the smelters and refiners in their supply chains to become validated as conflict-free by the CFSP or a similar program. Engaging with smelters and refiners. In addition to engaging with smelters and refiners through the CFSP, GE engaged the tungsten smelters from which GE Lighting buys tungsten-bearing products directly (“firsttier tungsten smelters”) to encourage them to participate in the smelter validation process of the CFSP. As a result, 100% of the first-tier tungsten smelters that provided product to GE Lighting in 2015 have been verified as conflictfree under the CFSP, and GE Lighting has suspended purchases from first-tier tungsten smelters that are not verified or scheduled for a verification audit. See “Devise and adopt a risk management plan” below for additional information on this engagement. C. Assess whether the suppliers have carried out all elements of due diligence for responsible supply chains of minerals from conflict-affected and high-risk areas Each GE business conducts due diligence to determine the degree of its suppliers’ compliance with the contractual obligations laid out in the Guidelines and the accuracy of reported information based on a risk analysis and with separate levels of intensity that depend upon risk of non-compliance. Measures may include reviewing supplier responses for completeness, accuracy and credibility, and confirming smelter status by checking against the CFSI’s Conflict Free Smelter list. 8 D. Where necessary, carry out joint spot checks at the mineral smelter or refiner’s own facilities (including through participation in industry-driven programs) First-tier suppliers. Each GE business is responsible for confirming that each of its first-tier suppliers that are smelters and refiners (if any): ● has a policy and procedures to eliminate sourcing of conflict-supporting minerals; ● has been subject to an audit of the origin of their 3TG supplies conducted in accordance with OECD Guidance or has made a firm commitment to undergo such an audit as soon as it can be scheduled; and ● passes the audit as being conflict-free or, having failed the audit, has established and put into place a plan to correct process deficiencies. Lower-tier (upstream) suppliers. In accordance with OECD Guidance, including its audit recommendations for downstream companies, GE implements upstream audits by participating in and cooperating with industry organizations. GE is a partner company of CFSI (member code GECO) and has, periodically, supported CFSI and CFSP through membership on governance committees and providing financial assistance and in-kind assistance with CFSP smelter validation. As such, GE relied on the CFSP to conduct risk assessment at the upstream level. For each smelter identified in its supply chain at the first or lower tiers, each GE business assessed the information available from the CFSP and an independent third-party supply chain expert to determine whether there were any “red flags” (as defined in OECD Guidance) and, if needed, develop a corrective action plan. This includes working to remove any high-risk smelters from our supply chain. Step 3: Design and implement a strategy to respond to identified risks A. Report findings to designated senior management See “Structure internal management systems to support supply chain due diligence” above for a description of GE’s Conflict Minerals due diligence internal reporting processes. B. Devise and adopt a risk management plan Across GE. Each GE business periodically compiles a report of Conflict Minerals risks identified in its supply chain for review by the GE business executive-level program owner to determine appropriate steps to take in mitigating any risks identified in the reports. In 2015, these steps focused on reducing risk by engaging all Significant Suppliers to encourage the smelters and refiners in their supply chains to become validated as conflictfree by the CFSP or a similar program. GE Lighting. As noted above, GE Lighting has first-tier tungsten smelters in its supply chain. GE Lighting’s engagement efforts with these smelters began as early as 2009. GE Lighting and GE Corporate have also participated in meetings with representatives of the tungsten smelter industry to encourage tungsten smelter participation in the CFSP. Currently, 100% of the first-tier tungsten smelters that provided product to GE Lighting in 2015 have been verified as conflict-free under the CFSP, and GE Lighting has suspended purchases from first-tier tungsten smelters that are not verified or scheduled for a verification audit. Step 4: Carry out independent 3rd-party audit of smelters/refiners’ due diligence practices See “Where necessary, carry out joint spot checks at the mineral smelter or refiner’s own facilities (including through participation in industry-driven programs)” above for a discussion of how GE conducted risk assessment at the upstream level. 9 Step 5: Report annually on supply chain due diligence In addition to filing this Report, GE’s Sustainability Report describes our Conflict Minerals program and discusses our due diligence process and progress in accomplishing the goals of our Statement on Conflict Minerals (see “Where You Can Find Additional Information” below). 3. Continuous improvement 2015 progress. For 2015, GE continued to focus on: ● conducting due diligence and a reasonable country of origin inquiry to improve the transparency in our Conflict Minerals supply chain, increasing the number of identified 3TG smelters and refiners in our supply chain by 26% to 324 in 2015 and more precisely identifying the countries of origin of 3TG in our supply chain; and ● engaging with suppliers to reduce Conflict Minerals supply chain risk, increasing the number of smelters and refiners in our supply chain that have been verified to be conflict-free by 58% to 216 in 2015. As a result, more than 66% of the smelters and refiners in our supply chain have been verified to be conflict-free (up from 53% in 2014). 2016 actions to improve due diligence and supplier engagement. GE intends to take the following steps in 2016 to improve due diligence and thereby mitigate the risk that Conflict Minerals in GE products may benefit armed groups: ● intensify communication with suppliers and spread best practices learned during execution of the due diligence process in 2015 across the GE businesses to continue to work to improve the percentage of Significant Suppliers responding to GE’s supply chain surveys and the quality of their responses; and ● intensify the identification of and communication with smelters and refiners in GE’s supply chain in order to continue to increase the number of smelters and refiners that participate in the CFSP. As an example, in April 2016, the Aerospace Industries Association, of which GE is a member, sent a letter to a number of smelters in the aerospace industry supply chain urging them to participate in the CFSP. In addition, GE has hired an independent, third-party supply chain expert to prepare an audit readiness assessment for our Conflict Minerals program and help us to enhance our due diligence practices. Information Known to GE about 3TG in GE products GE manufactures a wide range of products that contain Conflict Minerals, but GE does not purchase ore or unrefined conflict minerals from mines and generally is many steps removed in the supply chain from the mining, smelting and refining of these minerals. For a description of the products manufactured by GE in 2015, see the products description for each of our industrial businesses—Power (formerly Power & Water), Renewable Energy, Oil & Gas, Energy Connections (formerly Energy Management), Aviation, Healthcare, Transportation and Appliances & Lighting—on pages 37 through 60 of our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K, which are incorporated into this Report by reference and which you can find at www.ge.com/annualreport. GE purchases materials from a wide network of suppliers so we necessarily rely on them to assist with our reasonable country of origin inquiry. After performing a reasonable country of origin inquiry and due diligence for 2015, we have not been able to establish the conflict status of our products, due to the continued unavailability of complete information across our broad and deep supply chain. 10 Facilities Used to Process 3TG in GE Products GE obtained information about the facilities used to process 3TG in GE products through the due diligence activities described in this Report. Table A below contains a list of smelters and refiners that GE’s Significant Suppliers identified as being present in their supply chains that GE believes may have processed 3TG contained in GE products. Countries of Origin of 3TG in GE Products GE obtained information about the country of origin and mine or location of origin of 3TG in GE products through reliance on the CFSP’s upstream audits of smelters and refiners in GE’s supply chain and using information provided by an independent third-party supply chain expert, as described in this Report. Table B below contains a list of known countries of origin of 3TG used by smelters and refiners that GE suppliers identified as being present in their supply chains. 11 Table A (as of February 15, 2016) Summary of Smelters and Refiners # of Smelters and Refiners Reported in Our Supply Chain A. CFSI Compliant B. CFSI Participating C. Other Smelters & Refiners1 Smelters & Refiners2 Smelters & Refiners3 Total 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 Tantalum 38 46 1 0 2 0 41 46 Tin 28 59 22 17 23 15 73 91 Tungsten 11 31 20 14 4 4 35 49 Gold 60 80 7 15 42 43 109 138 Total 137 216 50 46 71 62 258 324 (1) Audited by the CFSI and have been found to be compliant with the CFSI’s Conflict-Free Smelter Program. (2) In the process of being audited by the CFSI, including, for 2015, 4 tungsten smelters that have agreed to complete a CFSP audit within two years of joining the Tungsten Industry – Conflict Minerals Council. (3) Have not commenced the process of being audited by the CFSI. A. CFSI Compliant Smelters and Refiners for 2015 Metal Smelter/Refiner Name Smelter/Refiner Location Tantalum Changsha South Tantalum Niobium Co., Ltd. CHINA Tantalum Conghua Tantalum and Niobium Smeltry CHINA Tantalum D Block Metals, LLC UNITED STATES Tantalum Duoluoshan CHINA Tantalum Exotech Inc. UNITED STATES Tantalum F&X Electro-Materials Ltd. CHINA Tantalum FIR Metals & Resource Ltd. CHINA Tantalum Global Advanced Metals Aizu JAPAN Tantalum Global Advanced Metals Boyertown UNITED STATES Tantalum Guangdong Zhiyuan New Material Co., Ltd. CHINA Tantalum Guizhou Zhenhua Xinyun Technology Ltd., Kaili branch CHINA Tantalum H.C. Starck Co., Ltd. THAILAND Tantalum H.C. Starck GmbH Goslar GERMANY Tantalum H.C. Starck GmbH Laufenburg GERMANY Tantalum H.C. Starck Hermsdorf GmbH GERMANY Tantalum H.C. Starck Inc. UNITED STATES Tantalum H.C. Starck Ltd. JAPAN Tantalum H.C. Starck Smelting GmbH & Co.KG GERMANY Tantalum Hengyang King Xing Lifeng New Materials Co., Ltd. CHINA Tantalum Hi-Temp Specialty Metals, Inc. UNITED STATES Tantalum Jiangxi Dinghai Tantalum & Niobium Co., Ltd. CHINA Tantalum JiuJiang JinXin Nonferrous Metals Co., Ltd. CHINA Tantalum Jiujiang Tanbre Co., Ltd. CHINA Tantalum Jiujiang Zhongao Tantalum & Niobium Co., Ltd. CHINA Tantalum KEMET Blue Metals MEXICO Tantalum KEMET Blue Powder UNITED STATES Tantalum King-Tan Tantalum Industry Ltd. CHINA Tantalum LSM Brasil S.A. BRAZIL Tantalum Metallurgical Products India Pvt., Ltd. INDIA Tantalum Mineração Taboca S.A. BRAZIL Tantalum Mitsui Mining & Smelting JAPAN Tantalum Molycorp Silmet A.S. ESTONIA 12 Tantalum Ningxia Orient Tantalum Industry Co., Ltd. CHINA Tantalum Plansee SE Liezen AUSTRIA Tantalum Plansee SE Reutte AUSTRIA Tantalum QuantumClean UNITED STATES Tantalum Resind Indústria e Comércio Ltda. BRAZIL Tantalum RFH Tantalum Smeltry Co., Ltd. CHINA Tantalum Solikamsk Magnesium Works OAO RUSSIAN FEDERATION Tantalum Taki Chemicals JAPAN Tantalum Telex Metals UNITED STATES Tantalum Tranzact, Inc. UNITED STATES Tantalum Ulba Metallurgical Plant JSC KAZAKHSTAN Tantalum XinXing HaoRong Electronic Material Co., Ltd. CHINA Tantalum Yichun Jin Yang Rare Metal Co., Ltd. CHINA Tantalum Zhuzhou Cemented Carbide CHINA Tin Alpha UNITED STATES Tin China Tin Group Co., Ltd. CHINA Tin Cooperativa Metalurgica de Rond™nia Ltda. BRAZIL Tin CV Ayi Jaya INDONESIA Tin CV Gita Pesona INDONESIA Tin CV Serumpun Sebalai INDONESIA Tin CV United Smelting INDONESIA Tin CV Venus Inti Perkasa INDONESIA Tin Dowa JAPAN Tin Elmet S.L.U (Metallo Group) SPAIN Tin EM Vinto BOLIVIA Tin Fenix Metals POLAND Tin Gejiu Non-Ferrous Metal Processing Co., Ltd. CHINA Tin Jiangxi Ketai Advanced Material Co., Ltd. CHINA Tin Magnu's Minerais Metais e Ligas Ltda. BRAZIL Tin Malaysia Smelting Corporation (MSC) MALAYSIA Tin Melt Metais e Ligas S/A BRAZIL Tin Metallic Resources, Inc. UNITED STATES Tin Metallo-Chimique N.V. BELGIUM Tin Mineração Taboca S.A. BRAZIL Tin Minsur PERU Tin Mitsubishi Materials Corporation JAPAN Tin O.M. Manufacturing (Thailand) Co., Ltd. THAILAND Tin O.M. Manufacturing Philippines, Inc. PHILIPPINES Tin Operaciones Metalurgical S.A. BOLIVIA Tin PT Aries Kencana Sejahtera INDONESIA Tin PT Artha Cipta Langgeng INDONESIA Tin PT ATD Makmur Mandiri Jaya INDONESIA Tin PT Babel Inti Perkasa INDONESIA Tin PT Bangka Prima Tin INDONESIA Tin PT Bangka Tin Industry INDONESIA Tin PT Belitung Industri Sejahtera INDONESIA Tin PT BilliTin Makmur Lestari INDONESIA Tin PT Bukit Timah INDONESIA Tin PT Cipta Persada Mulia INDONESIA Tin PT DS Jaya Abadi INDONESIA Tin PT Eunindo Usaha Mandiri INDONESIA Tin PT Inti Stania Prima INDONESIA Tin PT Justindo INDONESIA Tin PT Mitra Stania Prima INDONESIA 13 Tin PT Panca Mega Persada INDONESIA Tin PT Prima Timah Utama INDONESIA Tin PT Refined Bangka Tin INDONESIA Tin PT Sariwiguna Binasentosa INDONESIA Tin PT Stanindo Inti Perkasa INDONESIA Tin PT Sukses Inti Makmur INDONESIA Tin PT Sumber Jaya Indah INDONESIA Tin PT Timah (Persero) Tbk Kundur INDONESIA Tin PT Timah (Persero) Tbk Mentok INDONESIA Tin PT Tinindo Inter Nusa INDONESIA Tin PT Tommy Utama INDONESIA Tin PT Wahana Perkit Jaya INDONESIA Tin Resind Indústria e Comércio Ltda. BRAZIL Tin Rui Da Hung TAIWAN Tin Soft Metais Ltda. BRAZIL Tin Thaisarco THAILAND Tin VQB Mineral and Trading Group JSC VIET NAM Tin White Solder Metalurgia e Mineração Ltda. BRAZIL Tin Yunnan Tin Group (Holding) Company Limited CHINA Tungsten A.L.M.T. TUNGSTEN Corp. JAPAN Tungsten Asia Tungsten Products Vietnam Ltd. VIET NAM Tungsten Chenzhou Diamond Tungsten Products Co., Ltd. CHINA Tungsten Chongyi Zhangyuan Tungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Tungsten Fujian Jinxin Tungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Tungsten Ganzhou Huaxing Tungsten Products Co., Ltd. CHINA Tungsten Ganzhou Jiangwu Ferrotungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Tungsten Ganzhou Seadragon W & Mo Co., Ltd. CHINA Tungsten Ganzhou Yatai Tungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Tungsten Global Tungsten & Powders Corp. UNITED STATES Tungsten Guangdong Xianglu Tungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Tungsten H.C. Starck GmbH GERMANY Tungsten H.C. Starck Smelting GmbH & Co.KG GERMANY Tungsten Hunan Chenzhou Mining Group Co., Ltd. CHINA Tungsten Hunan Chuangda Vanadium Tungsten Co., Ltd. Wuji CHINA Tungsten Hunan Chunchang Nonferrous Metals Co., Ltd. CHINA Tungsten Hydrometallurg, JSC RUSSIAN FEDERATION Tungsten Japan New Metals Co., Ltd. JAPAN Tungsten Jiangxi Gan Bei Tungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Tungsten Jiangxi Xiushui Xianggan Nonferrous Metals Co., Ltd. CHINA Tungsten Kennametal Huntsville UNITED STATES Tungsten Malipo Haiyu Tungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Tungsten Niagara Refining LLC UNITED STATES Tungsten Nui Phao H.C. Starck Tungsten Chemicals Manufacturing LLC VIET NAM Tungsten Philippine Chuangxin Industrial Co., Inc. PHILIPPINES Tungsten Tejing (Vietnam) Tungsten Co., Ltd. VIET NAM Tungsten Vietnam Youngsun Tungsten Industry Co., Ltd. VIET NAM Tungsten Wolfram Bergbau und HŸtten AG AUSTRIA Tungsten Xiamen Tungsten (H.C.) Co., Ltd. CHINA Tungsten Xiamen Tungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Tungsten Xinhai Rendan Shaoguan Tungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Gold Aida Chemical Industries Co., Ltd. JAPAN Gold Allgemeine Gold-und Silberscheideanstalt A.G. GERMANY Gold AngloGold Ashanti Córrego do Sítio Mineração BRAZIL 14 Gold Argor-Heraeus S.A. SWITZERLAND Gold Asahi Pretec Corp. JAPAN Gold Asahi Refining Canada Ltd. CANADA Gold Asahi Refining USA Inc. UNITED STATES Gold Asaka Riken Co., Ltd. JAPAN Gold Aurubis AG GERMANY Gold Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (Central Bank of the Philippines) PHILIPPINES Gold Boliden AB SWEDEN Gold C. Hafner GmbH + Co. KG GERMANY Gold CCR Refinery Glencore Canada Corporation CANADA Gold Chimet S.p.A. ITALY Gold DODUCO GmbH GERMANY Gold Dowa JAPAN Gold Eco-System Recycling Co., Ltd. JAPAN Gold Elemetal Refining, LLC UNITED STATES Gold Emirates Gold DMCC UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Gold Heimerle + Meule GmbH GERMANY Gold Heraeus Ltd. Hong Kong CHINA Gold Heraeus Precious Metals GmbH & Co. KG GERMANY Gold Inner Mongolia Qiankun Gold and Silver Refinery Share Co., Ltd. CHINA Gold Ishifuku Metal Industry Co., Ltd. JAPAN Gold Istanbul Gold Refinery TURKEY Gold Japan Mint JAPAN Gold Jiangxi Copper Co., Ltd. CHINA Gold JSC Ekaterinburg Non-Ferrous Metal Processing Plant RUSSIAN FEDERATION Gold JSC Uralelectromed RUSSIAN FEDERATION Gold JX Nippon Mining & Metals Co., Ltd. JAPAN Gold Kazzinc KAZAKHSTAN Gold Kennecott Utah Copper LLC UNITED STATES Gold Kojima Chemicals Co., Ltd. JAPAN Gold LS-NIKKO Copper Inc. KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Gold Materion UNITED STATES Gold Matsuda Sangyo Co., Ltd. JAPAN Gold Metalor Technologies (Hong Kong) Ltd. CHINA Gold Metalor Technologies (Singapore) Pte., Ltd. SINGAPORE Gold Metalor Technologies S.A. SWITZERLAND Gold Metalor USA Refining Corporation UNITED STATES Gold Metalúrgica Met-Mex Peñoles S.A. De C.V. MEXICO Gold Mitsubishi Materials Corporation JAPAN Gold Mitsui Mining and Smelting Co., Ltd. JAPAN Gold MMTC-PAMP India Pvt., Ltd. INDIA Gold Moscow Special Alloys Processing Plant RUSSIAN FEDERATION Gold Nadir Metal Rafineri San. Ve Tic. A.Ş. TURKEY Gold Nihon Material Co., Ltd. JAPAN Gold Ögussa Österreichische Goldund Silber-Scheideanstalt GmbH AUSTRIA Gold Ohura Precious Metal Industry Co., Ltd. JAPAN OJSC The Gulidov Krasnoyarsk Non-Ferrous Metals Plant RUSSIAN FEDERATION Gold (OJSC Krastsvetmet) Gold OJSC Novosibirsk Refinery RUSSIAN FEDERATION Gold PAMP S.A. SWITZERLAND Gold Prioksky Plant of Non-Ferrous Metals RUSSIAN FEDERATION Gold PT Aneka Tambang (Persero) Tbk INDONESIA Gold PX Précinox S.A. SWITZERLAND Gold Rand Refinery (Pty) Ltd. SOUTH AFRICA Gold Republic Metals Corporation UNITED STATES 15 Gold Royal Canadian Mint CANADA Gold Schone Edelmetaal B.V. NETHERLANDS Gold SEMPSA Joyería Platería S.A. SPAIN Gold Shandong Zhaojin Gold & Silver Refinery Co., Ltd. CHINA Gold Sichuan Tianze Precious Metals Co., Ltd. CHINA Gold Singway Technology Co., Ltd. TAIWAN Gold SOE Shyolkovsky Factory of Secondary Precious Metals RUSSIAN FEDERATION Gold Solar Applied Materials Technology Corp. TAIWAN Gold Sumitomo Metal Mining Co., Ltd. JAPAN Gold T.C.A S.p.A ITALY Gold Tanaka Kikinzoku Kogyo K.K. JAPAN Gold The Refinery of Shandong Gold Mining Co., Ltd. CHINA Gold Tokuriki Honten Co., Ltd. JAPAN Gold Umicore Brasil Ltda. BRAZIL Gold Umicore Precious Metals Thailand THAILAND Gold Umicore S.A. Business Unit Precious Metals Refining BELGIUM Gold United Precious Metal Refining, Inc. UNITED STATES Gold Valcambi S.A. SWITZERLAND Gold Western Australian Mint trading as The Perth Mint AUSTRALIA Gold Yamamoto Precious Metal Co., Ltd. JAPAN Gold Yokohama Metal Co., Ltd. JAPAN Gold Zhongyuan Gold Smelter of Zhongjin Gold Corporation CHINA Gold Zijin Mining Group Co., Ltd. Gold Refinery CHINA B. CFSI Participating Smelters and Refiners for 2015 Metal Smelter/Refiner Name Smelter/Refiner Location Tin An Thai Minerals Company Limited VIET NAM Tin An Vinh Joint Stock Mineral Processing Company VIET NAM Tin Chenzhou Yunxiang Mining and Metallurgy Co., Ltd. CHINA Tin CV Dua Sekawan INDONESIA Tin CV Tiga Sekawan INDONESIA Electro-Mechanical Facility of the Cao Bang Minerals & VIET NAM Tin Metallurgy Joint Stock Company Tin Feinhütte Halsbrücke GmbH GERMANY Tin Gejiu Jinye Mineral Co., Ltd. CHINA Tin Gejiu Kai Meng Industry and Trade LLC CHINA Tin Gejiu Yunxin Nonferrous Electrolysis Co., Ltd. CHINA Tin HuiChang Hill Tin Industry Co., Ltd. CHINA Tin Nghe Tinh Non-Ferrous Metals Joint Stock Company VIET NAM Tin Phoenix Metal Ltd. RWANDA Tin PT Karimun Mining INDONESIA Tin PT Kijang Jaya Mandiri INDONESIA Tin Tuyen Quang Non-Ferrous Metals Joint Stock Company VIET NAM Tin Yunnan Chengfeng Non-ferrous Metals Co., Ltd. CHINA Tungsten Hunan Chuangda Vanadium Tungsten Co., Ltd. Yanglin CHINA Tungsten Jiangwu H.C. Starck Tungsten Products Co., Ltd. CHINA Tungsten Jiangxi Dayu Longxintai Tungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Tungsten Jiangxi Tonggu Non-ferrous Metallurgical & Chemical Co., Ltd. CHINA Tungsten Jiangxi Xinsheng Tungsten Industry Co., Ltd. CHINA Tungsten Jiangxi Yaosheng Tungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Tungsten Kennametal Fallon UNITED STATES Tungsten Moliren Ltd RUSSIAN FEDERATION 16 Tungsten Sanher Tungsten Vietnam Co., Ltd. VIET NAM Tungsten Xinfeng Huarui Tungsten & Molybdenum New Material Co., Ltd. CHINA Tungsten Dayu Jincheng Tungsten Industry Co., Ltd. CHINA Tungsten Dayu Weiliang Tungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Tungsten Ganzhou Non-ferrous Metals Smelting Co., Ltd. CHINA Tungsten Pobedit, JSC RUSSIAN FEDERATION Gold Advanced Chemical Company UNITED STATES Gold Almalyk Mining and Metallurgical Complex (AMMC) UZBEKISTAN Gold Cendres + Métaux SA SWITZERLAND Gold Daejin Indus Co., Ltd. KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Gold DSC (Do Sung Corporation) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Gold Faggi Enrico S.p.A. ITALY Gold Geib Refining Corporation UNITED STATES Gold KGHM Polska Miedź Spółka Akcyjna POLAND Gold Korea Zinc Co. Ltd. KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Gold Metalor Technologies (Suzhou) Ltd. CHINA Gold Navoi Mining and Metallurgical Combinat UZBEKISTAN Gold Samduck Precious Metals KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Gold SAXONIA Edelmetalle GmbH GERMANY Gold Torecom KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Gold WIELAND Edelmetalle GmbH GERMANY C. Other Smelters and Refiners for 2015 Metal Smelter/Refiner Name Smelter/Refiner Location Tin CNMC (Guangxi) PGMA Co., Ltd. CHINA Tin Estanho de Rondônia S.A. BRAZIL Tin Gejiu Zili Mining And Metallurgy Co., Ltd. CHINA Tin Huichang Jinshunda Tin Co., Ltd. CHINA Tin Linwu Xianggui Ore Smelting Co., Ltd. CHINA Tin Nankang Nanshan Tin Manufactory Co., Ltd. CHINA Tin PT Alam Lestari Kencana INDONESIA Tin PT Bangka Kudai Tin INDONESIA Tin PT Bangka Timah Utama Sejahtera INDONESIA Tin PT Fang Di MulTindo INDONESIA Tin PT Pelat Timah Nusantara Tbk INDONESIA Tin PT Seirama Tin Investment INDONESIA Tin PT Tirus Putra Mandiri INDONESIA Tin Super Ligas BRAZIL Tin Xianghualing Tin Industry Co., Ltd. CHINA Tungsten Ganxian Shirui New Material Co., Ltd. CHINA Tungsten Ganzhou Haichuang Tungsten Industry Co., Ltd. CHINA Tungsten Jiangxi Minmetals Gao'an Non-ferrous Metals Co., Ltd. CHINA Tungsten Luoyang Mudu Tungsten & Molybdenum Technology Co. Ltd CHINA Gold Aktyubinsk Copper Company TOO KAZAKHSTAN Gold Al Etihad Gold Refinery DMCC UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Gold Atasay Kuyumculuk Sanayi Ve Ticaret A.S. TURKEY Gold AURA-II UNITED STATES Gold Bangalore Refinery INDIA Gold Caridad MEXICO Gold Chugai Mining JAPAN 17 Gold Daye Non-Ferrous Metals Mining Ltd. CHINA Gold Fidelity Printers and Refiners Ltd. ZIMBABWE Gold Gansu Seemine Material Hi-Tech Co., Ltd. CHINA Gold Great Wall Precious Metals Co., Ltd. of CBPM CHINA Gold Guangdong Jinding Gold Limited CHINA Gold Guoda Safina High-Tech Environmental Refinery Co., Ltd. CHINA Gold Hangzhou Fuchunjiang Smelting Co., Ltd. CHINA Gold Henan Yuguang Gold & Lead Co., Ltd. CHINA Gold Hunan Chenzhou Mining Co., Ltd. CHINA Gold Hwasung CJ Co., Ltd. KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Gold Kaloti Precious Metals UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Gold Kazakhmys Smelting LLC KAZAKHSTAN Gold Korea Metal Co., Ltd. KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Gold Kyrgyzaltyn JSC KYRGYZSTAN Gold L' azurde Company For Jewelry SAUDI ARABIA Gold Lingbao Gold Co., Ltd. CHINA Gold Lingbao Jinyuan Tonghui Refinery Co., Ltd. CHINA Gold Luoyang Zijin Yinhui Gold Refinery Co., Ltd. CHINA Gold Morris and Watson NEW ZEALAND Gold OJSC Kolyma Refinery RUSSIAN FEDERATION Gold Penglai Penggang Gold Industry Co., Ltd. CHINA Gold Remondis Argentia B.V. NETHERLANDS Gold SAAMP FRANCE Gold Sabin Metal Corp. UNITED STATES Gold SAFINA A.S. CZECH REPUBLIC Gold SAMWON Metals Corp. KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Gold Shandong Humon Smelting Co., Ltd. CHINA Gold Shandong Tiancheng Biological Gold Industrial Co., Ltd. CHINA Gold Shenzhen Zhonghenglong Real Industry Co., Ltd. CHINA Gold So Accurate Group, Inc. UNITED STATES Gold Sudan Gold Refinery SUDAN Gold Super Dragon Technology Co., Ltd. CHINA Gold Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group Co., Ltd. CHINA Gold Yunnan Copper Industry Co., Ltd. CHINA Gold Zhongkuang Gold Industry Co., Ltd. CHINA Gold Zhuzhou Smelting Group Co., Ltd. CHINA 18 Table B (as of April 1, 2016) Gold Tantalum Tin Tungsten Australia Brazil Bolivia Australia Brazil Burundi Brazil Cambodia Canada China China China Central African Republic DRC DRC DRC Chile Russia Indonesia Russia China Rwanda Laos Rwanda DRC Vietnam Peru Thailand Finland Recycled Rwanda Vietnam Ghana Vietnam Recycled India Recycled Indonesia Kazakhstan Korea Kyrgyzstan Laos Mexico Mongolia New Zealand Peru Poland Russia South Africa South Sudan Sudan Sweden Tajikistan Tanzania USA Uzbekistan Zimbabwe Recycled Helpful Resources Acronyms Used in This Report 3TG Tin, Tantalum, Tungsten or Gold CFSI Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative CFSP Conflict-Free Smelter Program CMRT Conflict Minerals Reporting Template DRC Democratic Republic of the Congo OECD Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Forward-Looking Statements This Report contains forward-looking statements – that is, statements related to future events that by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For details on the uncertainties that may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements, see http://www.ge.com/investor-relations/disclaimer-caution-concerning-forward-looking-statements as well as our 19 annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. We do not undertake to update our forwardlooking statements. Where You Can Find Additional Information* GE’s Sustainability Report – Conflict Minerals www.gesustainability.com/building-things-that-matter/supply-chain/conflict-minerals/ GE’s Statement on Conflict Minerals www.gesustainability.com/building-things-that-matter/supply-chain/conflict-minerals/ GE’s Integrity Guide for Suppliers, Contractors and Consultants www.gesupplier.com/html/SuppliersIntegrityGuide.htm GE’s Spirit & Letter www.ge.com/files/usa/citizenship/pdf/english.pdf Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative www.conflictfreesourcing.org/ OECD Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas www.oecd.org/daf/inv/mne/OECD-Due-Diligence-Guidance-Minerals-Edition3.pdf GE’s 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K www.ge.com/annualreport *These web links are provided for convenience only, and the content on the referenced websites does not constitute a part of this Report. GE and the GE logo are trademarks and service marks of General Electric Company. Other marks used throughout are trademarks and service marks of their respective owners. 20 2.3.4 California Transparency in Supply Chains Act GE is committed to ensuring that our supply chain reflects our values and respect for human rights. To fulfill this commitment, GE’s Spirit & Letter policy states: “GE’s relationships with suppliers are based on lawful, efficient and fair practices. We expect our suppliers to obey the laws that require them to treat workers fairly, provide a safe and healthy work environment, and protect environmental quality.” GE’s Supplier Expectations govern all facets of the Company’s relationships with suppliers, and include specific prohibitions against forced, prison or indentured labor as well as against subjecting workers to any form of compulsion, coercion or human trafficking. Read our full disclosure here. This disclosure applies to all consolidated GE affiliates that are California taxpayers subject to the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act. Learn more about GE’s Supplier Responsibility Program and Supplier Expectations. View our supply chain–related performance goals and metrics. 2.3.4a-GE_CA_Transparency_Act GE Sustainability California Transparency in Supply Chains Act Updated January 2 0 , 2 0 1 6 GE is committed to ensuring that our supply chain reflects our values and respect for human rights. To fulfill this commitment GE’s Spirit & Letter policy states: “GE’s relationships with suppliers are based on lawful, efficient and fair practices. We expect our suppliers to obey the laws that require them to treat workers fairly, provide a safe and healthy work environment, and protect environmental quality.” GE’s Supplier Expectations govern all facets of the Company’s relationships with suppliers, and include specific prohibitions against forced, prison or indentured labor as well as against subjecting workers to any form of compulsion, coercion or human trafficking. GE’s Supplier Expectations apply to all GE consolidated GE affiliates. Implementation for new acquisitions is phased in within three years. To that end, GE: Verifies our product supply chain to evaluate and address risks of human trafficking and slavery GE’s Ethical Supply Chain program is multifaceted and risk-based. All suppliers must agree to comply with GE’s Supplier Expectations as part of our contracting process, including specific prohibitions against forced, prison or indentured labor as well as against subjecting workers to any form of compulsion, coercion or human trafficking, and the expectation is that they will hold their own suppliers to similar standards. 1 GE 2015 Sustainability Report Suppliers are prioritized for detailed pre-engagement and subsequent periodic on-site assessments according to relevant country risks, supplier past performance and other factors, such as whether in the course of GE’s relationship with a supplier or otherwise, GE has become aware of any reason to believe that the supplier is not living up to our expectations. Almost all of our on-site assessments are conducted in developing countries, as part of our overall supplier-management strategy, but we maintain an “eyes always open” policy to be alert to potential violations of our standards in interactions with our suppliers. Conducts audits to evaluate supplier compliance with Company prohibitions against human trafficking and slavery in our supply chain When on-site audits are required by our Supplier Responsibility program, they are conducted by GE personnel using a global questionnaire and risk-weighted metrics. GE uses a combination of specially trained internal auditors, sourcing personnel and third-party firms specially instructed in GE standards to perform verification and auditing procedures. Audits are repeated on a oneto three-year basis, depending on factors that include performance on past audits. Audits are supplemented by periodic spotchecks and anonymous desk-side reviews of GE audit records by inspectors from other business units or from our corporate EHS team. While audits are not unannounced, they are supplemented by “eyes always open” reviews when suppliers’ facilities are visited by GE sourcing personnel. Requires suppliers to certify that their products comply with local laws and regulations regarding slavery and human trafficking Before GE enters into contracts with suppliers, they must agree in writing to comply with all relevant local laws and regulations, GE policies and the specific requirements of the GE Supplier Expectations, include specific prohibitions against forced, prison or indentured labor as well as against subjecting workers to any form of compulsion, coercion or human trafficking. Maintains detailed accountability standards and procedures for suppliers that fail to meet Company standards regarding slavery and trafficking GE records all audit findings from on-site inspections in an automated audit tracking tool and monitors each until the audit finding is closed pursuant to evidence that the defect has been corrected. Typically, findings must be closed within 60 days. Purchase orders are suspended if findings remain open beyond this time frame unless GE agrees that a closure requires more time, interim progress has been demonstrated and/or the delay has been approved by the business compliance team that administers the Supplier Responsibility program. Labor-related findings, such as the presence of child labor or coerced labor, ordinarily result in immediate cessation of business relationships. Trains relevant employees in procedures to prevent human trafficking and slavery GE has specially trained more than 700 GE team members to execute the audits that support GE’s Supplier Responsibility initiative. More than 3,500 GE employees who interact with suppliers have undergone GE’s training in Supplier Expectations, human rights issues and on-site due-diligence requirements. 2 GE 2015 Sustainability Report 2.3.5 Supplier Diversity The GE Supplier Diversity Program was launched in 1974 to ensure that we focus on doing what is right for our communities and our Company. We engage our pool of suppliers for best practices and high-quality goods and services, while enhancing economic opportunity. We believe that excellence in supplier diversity can result in excellence in supply chain management and lead to growth for all. We continually strive to grow our diverse supplier base, and annually we recognize those in the Company who successfully support our Supplier Diversity Program. Core components of the GE Supplier Diversity Program are as follows: • Proud member of the National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC) • Sponsor of the Tuck Minority Business Executive Program (MBEP) and the Advanced Minority Business Program • The Extra Step Award Program, which recognizes and rewards GE employees in the United States for finding, developing and doing business with competitive women-, veteranand minority-owned U.S. suppliers • Individual businesses also participate in regional and local supplier diversity activities to support their specific business needs. Learn more about how we do it. View resources for diverse suppliers. View our supply chain–related performance goals and metrics. 2.3.5a GE_WE15_Supplier-Diversity GE Sustainability How We Do It: Supplier Diversity Program Updated January 20, 2016 Core components of the GE Supplier Diversity Program are as follows: Proud Member of the National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC) • A national voluntary organization of large companies and certified minority-owned businesses that is dedicated to promoting supplier diversity Sponsor of the Tuck Minority Business Executive Program (MBEP) and the Advanced Minority Business Program • GE was one of the first supporters of the Minority Business Executive Program at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College. MBEP provides instruction in a variety of key management issues, targeting minorityand female-owned businesses. • In 1999, GE was awarded the Tuck Recognition Award as MBEP’s first corporate sponsor at the National Minority Supplier Development Council Annual Meeting in Phoenix, Ariz., in recognition of our then 20 years of continuous support of this tremendous program 1 2016 Sustainability The Extra Step Award Program • GE employees who have taken the “extra step” and demonstrated their commitment to finding, developing and utilizing small, disadvantaged and/or women-owned businesses within the U.S. are eligible to win the Extra Step Award • We present the Extra Step Award to employees throughout all of the GE businesses at GE corporate headquarters, with senior executives participating in the ceremony. The award includes a plaque, a financial reward and recognition across the company, and has been given to more than 600 employees since 1976 for their efforts in finding, developing and doing business with competitive women-, veteranand minority-owned U.S. suppliers. 2 2016 Sustainability GE Sustainability 2.3.5b Sourcing Contacts SourcingContactsforDiverseSuppliers Updated January 20, 2016 Before submitting your company information, we encourage diverse suppliers to review the Products & Services and Our Businesses sections of the GE corporate website, so you can further enhance your understanding of GE and identify which GE businesses are suitable for your company’s products and/or services. Diverse suppliers can submit company information as follows: 1. Ensure your company is certified as a diverse supplier. For instructions on how to do this, visit the National Minority Supplier Development Council website or Women’s Business Enterprise National Council website. 2. Once you have identified a GE business as a potential customer, you should go to that business’ website, follow the instructions on the site and register your company and make sure that, at a minimum, the following information is provided: Company name and description, brief explanation of why your company would be a good fit, supplier diversity certification and your contact information. 1 GE 2014 Sustainability Report 2.3.6 Supplier Resource Efficiency Four years ago, GE began looking at the options for resource-efficiency initiatives within our supplier community. Our sourcing organization suggested an EcoAward program as a way to encourage and reward collaboration opportunities between GE sourcing personnel and GE suppliers. Sponsored by Ecomagination, the program has grown significantly, with award categories not only covering water and energy conservation, greenhouse gas (GHG) reductions and resource efficiency but also many additional sustainability themes as well. The EcoAward program has provided compelling insights into the opportunities and challenges of engaging with our suppliers. Of utmost importance, given the size and complexity of GE’s supply chain, the program is helping us find ways to prioritize our actions and enable meaningful partnerships. Based on our experience, we’ve developed three principal approaches: Collaboration Given the nature of GE’s end products, many of which involve sophisticated technologies and very strict design specifications, changes in our supply chain need to be closely aligned with our technical needs. From the EcoAward program, we’ve learned that the best projects with the greatest impacts happen when sourcing, the design teams, and our suppliers and partners work in very close collaboration. These projects are often multiyear efforts, almost always involve productivity as well as environmental improvements, and are dependent on deep domain knowledge. For example: • Every year, GE Aviation scraps about 24 tons of high-pressure turbine blades. Rather than throwing them out entirely as waste, GE developed a technology that can efficiently recover valuable platinum metal removed from the blades’ surface. • GE Healthcare’s Life Sciences Core Imaging and InVitro Diagnostics team in Shanghai, China, partnered with Chesapeake Kunshan Plastic Packaging to recycle plastic trays from +PlusPak bottles. At the suggestion of the supplier, GE explored a partnership to recycle the trays. This project involved the development of a new logistics flow to recycle hundreds of thousands of polystyrene trays each year, generating cost savings for both GE and the supplier in material and storage costs. • GE Power in Greenville, South Carolina, established a life-cycle-tooling reuse and repurposing program through a partnership with its supply chain partners. When it viewed the technology “cradle to grave,” the Greenville team was concerned that the high-strength metals used in the tooling were incredibly energy-intensive. A new program was designed to refurbish and repurpose tooling to reduce landfill use, energy and costs of disposal. Now the program is expanding to reusing abrasive discs and collecting other valuable materials across the plant. • GE Power’s Logistics Center of Excellence (COE) was interested in accelerating the delivery of wind-power-generation components from China to the GE manufacturing facility in Pensacola, Florida. GE Power partnered with suppliers Wallenius Wilhelmsen (WWL) for ocean vessels and Bulldog Hiway Express for trucking to investigate, prepare and execute a new supply route via the port of Mobile, Alabama, located just 60 miles from Pensacola. This new and faster supply route resulted in a variety of mutual benefits, including a reduced carbon footprint, cost savings, and a commitment to shipping schedules and volumes. Ecomagination Some of the most exciting ideas for resource efficiency in the supply chain are not about individual suppliers’ footprints, but about how GE can use its scale and purchasing power to accelerate a new market not only with its suppliers but also as a way to catalyze new commercial growth markets. With the development of viable new transportation technologies, GE saw an opportunity to support new ecosystems through a commitment to acquiring 25,000 alternative-fuel vehicles (AFVs) by 2015. Progress was made through the conversion of GE’s U.S. sedan fleet, and also by working with our global organization and our customers to help others transition to more efficient and diverse fuels such as electricity, natural gas and propane. In mid-2015, GE had achieved 97% of the AFV goal when the GE Capital business unit was divested. As a result, the goal was brought to a close in 2015 as a tremendous success. Supplier Guidance In 2013, we began testing a key performance indicator (KPI) Management Systems Tool. This KPI-assessment tool includes a tiered scoring system for evaluating a supplier’s management system and covers the areas of energy efficiency, GHG emissions and water usage. The scoring tiers also established a pathway to improvement, encouraging suppliers, for example, to improve resource efficiency in a way that adds business value for both GE and themselves, avoids additional costs, and, where possible, addresses related critical compliance requirements. View our supply chain–related performance goals and metrics. 2.3.7 Capacity Building GE is not alone in working with suppliers that face significant environmental, health, social, human rights and security issues. We long ago realized that these challenges, especially in some of the fastest-growing economies, were bigger than what any one organization—even one as big as GE—could address alone. In particular, one of the biggest needs in these economies is the development of local expertise to manage environment, health and safety (EHS) issues and labor rights. Since 2006, the GE Foundation has supported the development and expansion of the EHS+ Network, an innovative group of training centers in China, Bangladesh and India established by the Institute for Sustainable Communities (ISC). The first EHS+ Center, established at Lingnan College of Zhongshan University in China’s Guangdong province, has provided comprehensive environment, health, safety and energy training for factory managers since 2007. The success of this Center led to the creation of a second high-quality training center in Jiangsu in 2009. The two EHS+ Centers in China are now selfsupporting, and have provided training to 22,933 managers from more than 6,300 suppliers and 111 brands. ISC launched its third EHS+ Center at North South University in Dhaka, Bangladesh, in 2013, following the Rana Plaza collapse and Tazreen fire disasters; this Center focuses on training managers in Bangladesh’s fast-growing ready-made garment industry. With strong support from GE, the India EHS+ Center was launched in 2015, and is already training managers in the automotive and heavy-engineering industries at client sites and at its base at the Symbiosis Institute of Business Management, in Pune. ISC’s holistic and comprehensive approach to training, along with its costeffective training packages and high-quality curriculum, has created strong demand for the EHS+ Network. Coursework draws on the expertise and best practices of EHS managers from GE and other multinationals, and covers basic skills in topics such as energy, waste and materials management as well as leadership. Reducing risk, pollution and energy use in Asian factories demands well-trained, knowledgeable and effective managers, and the EHS+ Network is designed to connect these centers in China, Bangladesh and India, allowing them to share curriculum, operational processes and best practices to improve factory performance in a broad range of industries. In addition, the GE China EHS team delivers training directly to its supplier community and even to local NGOs. In 2012, Ma Jun—a winner of the prestigious Goldman Environmental Prize—approached GE, wanting to know more about our supplier audit processes. At the suggestion of GE, Ma and his colleagues at the Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs (IPE) went through the same three-day training session that GE assessors complete. IPE staff emerged impressed with GE’s program: “GE uses its deep technological expertise to create a powerful EHS-auditing system for its suppliers in China,” said Ma. Further information about this unique collaboration can be found here. Now, because a new era of accountability and enforcement in China is being driven by growing domestic demand for clean air and safe drinking water, Ma and his organization are making environmental data widely available to everyone in China. Transparency is a tremendously powerful tool. Initially using a simple IT platform, and now leveraging the greater functionality of social media and apps, Ma has a map of real-time air quality data that can be accessed by anyone, anywhere. GE Foundation was one of Ma’s early funders for this project. View our supply chain–related performance goals and metrics. 2.4 Water Water is precious. It is essential for all elements of life—from health, to manufacturing, to food and energy production. Globally, there is increased recognition that we need to take new measures to protect our freshwater supplies and make the most of the water already being used in the world. GE addresses global water challenges through many avenues. In particular, GE’s Water & Process Technologies business partners with customers to provide water treatment, wastewater treatment and process-system solutions. GE also focuses on water use in our operations through our Ecomagination goals and through heightened attention on our most water-intensive facilities. Water is a key priority at GE: • GE’s Water & Process Technologies business develops technologies to solve the world’s most complex challenges related to water availability, quality and productivity, the environment, and energy. • We’re driving advancement in policy through thought leadership, such as how to Close the Gap Between Treating Wastewater and Reusing It, and recently we partnered with the World Resources Institute on a study of the business risks and opportunities associated with the interdependency between energy and water, titled “The Water-Energy Nexus.” • Innovation in today’s world will require collaboration among and commitment from those who have different perspectives and alternative solutions but also a common drive to make the world a better place. In 2015, GE announced several partnerships to address innovation on key water challenges, such as working with MWH Global and Goldman Sachs to explore more creative financing models and structures to promote water reuse and energy-neutral wastewater, and to identify and deploy global water infrastructure projects; and working with Masdar to implement the first energy-neutral wastewatertreatment process employing GE’s portfolio of energy-neutral products in the Middle East. • We’re investing in R&D to make our technologies more robust while reducing the amount of energy required to operate them. GE’s Ecoassessment Center of Excellence has developed a proprietary, custom water-energy analysis tool that explores region-specific trade-offs between energy and water impacts. • GE has long believed that it is important to manage our own water footprint and to use our own technologies where practical. In 2015, we announced a new goal: 20% reduction in freshwater usage by 2020 from a 2011 baseline. • We have modeled those operations located in water stressed and scarce areas on a periodic basis. Based on these analyses, we have performed a variety of water reduction projects in those regions to reduce water consumption by recycling wastewater. One example is our GE Global Research facility located in Bangalore, India which has not only reduced water use, but also employs GE water treatment technologies to achieve that goal. Learn more here on how we manage water in Bangalore. The communities, businesses and industries that are leading the world in water reuse are paving the way through education; smarter policy; and government, business and public collaboration. By moving water reuse to the forefront of the fight against water scarcity, we can create not only a sustainable world, but a resilient one as well. View our water-related performance goals and metrics. 2.4.1 GE Water & Process Technologies GE’s Water & Process Technologies business provides technologies that conserve, clean, recycle and reuse water, and make more water available. This portfolio allows municipalities and industrial customers to reuse wastewater for additional purposes, such as agricultural and landscape irrigation, and other non-potable uses such as boiler feed water or cooling tower makeup water. This can further reduce the amount of freshwater required. We are constantly enhancing current products, and we are developing new, even more advanced technologies to help meet water-use challenges. Since industrial use is a large part of freshwater consumption, we help our industrial customers solve their water and process challenges, with a focus on providing products and services for their most tough-to-treat situations. Every day, we are innovating and developing economically viable, energy-efficient water treatment and reuse technologies to ensure sustainable use of water in power generation and other industrial sectors, such as mining, unconventional fuels, refining, food and beverage, pharmaceuticals and steel production. Learn more about GE Water & Process Technologies here. View our water-related performance goals and metrics. Learn more about how GE is using GE Water technologies in our own facilities in our Performance section. 2.4.2 R&D GE Water & Process Technologies continues to invest in making our technologies more robust while reducing the amount of energy required to operate them. For example, Water & Process Technologies is working on new, advanced membranes that use significantly less pressure to operate. Since wastewater contains high levels of organic contaminants, these new membranes are also designed to tolerate high levels of organics. We remain committed to the ongoing development of robust water reuse technologies that can be applied for an effective cost to the most challenging industrial and municipal waste streams, while consuming less energy and operating at a greater level of dependability and robustness. GE Water has also partnered with multinational engineering, consulting and construction firm MWH Global and global investment banking firm Goldman Sachs to promote and advance reuse projects from beginning to end. We are focusing on the industrial sector and municipal sectors, to demonstrate the potential of water reuse solutions to fulfill water supply needs. View our water-related performance goals and metrics. Learn about our Innovation Challenge to find renewable energy solutions for seawater desalination in our 2014 Performance section. 2.4.3 Policy GE Water & Process Technologies is working independently and through a network of thought leaders around the world to encourage increased investment in water efficiency and reuse technologies and projects. Through white papers, we have outlined policy options for promoting water recycling and reuse in Saudi Arabia and for advancing water treatment in connection with shale energy development. We actively participate in the WateReuse Association, where one of our executives is an elected member of the Legislative Committee. Additionally, we have an executive that serves on the Board of Trustees of the Water Environment Federation, and we are active members of the Water Environment Research Foundation (WERF). We also work closely with the World Resources Institute and other leading organizations that share our commitment to addressing water challenges globally. Read our most recent report titled Water-Energy Nexus: Business Risks and Rewards. In 2015, GE and Wharton’s Initiative for Global Environmental Leadership (IGEL) hosted “The Economic Power of Water,” a live event that convened executives in both public and private organizations as well as leading thinkers in water policy and research. Set in San Francisco, CA, one of the United States’ most waterchallenged states, it explored the current challenges to unlocking the economic potential of water. The event can be viewed on YouTube. View our water-related performance goals and metrics. 2.4.4 Ecomagination Water Goals GE’s Ecomagination Water Goals GE has long believed that it is important to manage our own water footprint, using our own technologies where practical. From 2006 through 2014, we reduced our own freshwater use by more than 42%. In February 2014, we updated our water goal. We will now strive to further reduce our freshwater use by 20% by 2020, from a 2011 baseline. This new goal gives us a new ambitious target to continue our progress in reducing our freshwater use. Our Results So Far In 2015, our overall freshwater use at criteria sites[1] was 8.11 billion gallons, a reduction of 17% from our adjusted 2011 baseline, and represents a 0.5% increase from our 2014 freshwater use. For water metrics, GE adjusts its 2011 baseline inventory each year to account for divestments and acquisitions. Prior interim years, such as 2014, are not adjusted. The slight increase from 2014 to 2015 is due to business transitions, such as the Alstom acquisition. 2011 Overall Freshwater Use Total: 9.76 billion gallons Once-Through Cooling: 5.79 billion gallons 2015 Overall Freshwater Use Total: 8.11 billion gallons Once-Through Cooling: 4.62 billion gallons For more on how we manage our own water footprint, see our method statement. View our water-related performance goals and metrics. [1] Criteria sites are GE facilities using more than 15 million gallons of freshwater per year. See our water inventory methodology. Read more about Ecomagination in our Performance section 2.4.4a GE_RPT15_Water_Strategy GE Sustainability Water Inventory and Use-Reduction Strategy Updated 27 January 2016 GE collects water-usage data from the top water-consuming GE sites on an annual basis. This includes water used for potable, process and sanitary purposes, as well as once-through cooling waters from freshwater sources. GE sites that withdraw salt/brackish water for once-through cooling purposes are excluded from our water inventory and are not included in our water-reduction goal. Instead, we focus on freshwater sources, with the rationale that salt/brackish water employed for once-through cooling purposes poses less of an environmental impact than freshwater use. We adjust the data each year to reflect acquisitions and divestitures. Water-Use Inventory Process The GE water-use inventory follows the principles articulated in the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WRI/WBCSD) “Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, revised edition” (the “Protocol”). For its operational inventory, GE follows the “control” approach and includes freshwater use from “Criteria Sites” over which it has operational control. Criteria Sites are those sites that have used or will use a total of 15 million gallons 1 GE 2015 Sustainability Report or more of water per year, in the 2011 baseline year and/or in any subsequent year in the inventory, which captures approximately 90% of our total freshwater consumption. 2 GE 2015 Sustainability Report GE created an Eco Inventory Survey intranet-based database in Gensuite®, a proprietary Web-based EHS management system, to collect the necessary water-use-inventory data. The Eco Inventory Survey database is integrated with GE’s greenhouse gasand energy-inventory processes. The number of Criteria Sites may change year over year due to divestiture, closure or consolidation with other facilities and due to facilities added to the inventory because they were acquired, newly established or met the reporting criteria for the first time. The Eco Inventory Survey database allows each site to enter quantities of water withdrawn in consistent units from each of the following source categories: • Public/commercial • River/canal • Lake • On-site groundwater wells • Ocean (not included in water inventory or in water-reduction goal) • Other These data represent total facility water use for all purposes. A site then enters the total quantity of water withdrawn for once-through cooling purposes. The Eco Inventory Survey is programmed to calculate a facility’s total water use by adding together the water withdrawn from each source category and to calculate the quantity of once-through cooling water. The combined quantity of potable, process and sanitation water use can be calculated by subtracting the oncethrough cooling water use from the total water use. The Eco Inventory Survey is also programmed to separate water-use data from the database into total water use, water use by source category, and once-through-cooling-water use by business unit, site, country and region. Quality Assurance GE continues to work toward increasing the accuracy of its water-use inventory. It has modified its Eco Inventory Survey database to simplify it and to reduce opportunity for errors. In addition, GE developed guidance documents and an internal guidance website for, and has provided extensive training on, the water inventory and the use of the Eco Inventory Survey. Finally, GE performs data-quality reviews on the water-use inventory, including side-by-side comparisons of water-use data to identify and understand the reasons for significant differences (such as changes in production, changes in processes, water-use-reduction projects, or other factors). Data anomalies are identified, analyzed and corrected where necessary through this process. For specific circumstances, if a significant deviation in water use emerges in a given year, a third-party environmental engineering consulting firm may be engaged to validate restated water-use values. 3 GE 2015 Sustainability Report Reduction Strategy: Water Kaizen Blitz GE has found water “Kaizen” events to be an especially effective tool for analyzing and reducing water use at our facilities. Adopted from Toyota in 2009 and subsequently optimized to suit the manufacturing needs and culture of GE, the Water Kaizen Blitz is a process that we have widely leveraged across our top water-using sites. GE teams with a precise combined set of skills systematically evaluate processes that use water at our manufacturing sites and identify opportunities, or Kaizens, for water reduction. Through deep preparation, teams work with the sites to ensure a thorough engineering analysis during the Kaizen event. 4 GE 2015 Sustainability Report A Kaizen event generally lasts about three days. The team starts by learning the Kaizen process and tools, and then walks a plant’s floor, visiting each of the water-using processes and talking with operators to develop an understanding of how, why and when water is used. During this stage, the team will develop a mass balance on the water use of each piece of equipment and develop very rough concepts of potential opportunities for water reduction. This step often involves flow-measuring with GE Sensing clamp-on ultrasonic flow meters. Water flow through a facility is not intuitive, so facility engineers and others must locate and identify piping conveyances, helping the team understand how and where water enters and leaves each process. The Kaizen team will then take its list of water-saving ideas and expand on them, determining any technical limitations, costs, savings and other issues. A strong emphasis is placed on ensuring that costs for potential reduction efforts are realistic. At the end of the event, the site is provided with the package of identified opportunities, as well as corresponding cost-and-benefit information. Typically, Kaizen events provide sites with an opportunity to reduce water usage by 30% to 50% that can be paid for in less than two years. In 2011, GE developed the Virtual Kaizen Blitz, which is tailored to new construction sites. To provide maximum benefit, this event is ideally conducted during the earlyto mid-design stages for a new site. The Virtual Kaizen focuses on design, identifying optimizations to reduce, reuse and recycle water. Also, because the site it is assessing is not yet built, associated project costs tend to be much more favorable than those for existing sites, opening up greater opportunities for water reduction. 5 GE 2015 Sustainability Report 2.5 Resource Productivity The need to improve resource efficiency and deploy environmentally sustainable solutions has never been clearer. At GE, we are focused on developing technologies that enable smarter and more efficient use of natural resources while creating value for our customers. We started more than 10 years ago, when GE launched Ecomagination, with the goal of improving operating efficiency and reducing the environmental impact of our operations, products and services. In 2015, GE took productivity to a new level by announcing the launch of GE Digital. GE Digital connects streams of machine data to powerful analytics and people, providing industrial companies with valuable insights to manage assets and operations more efficiently. World-class talent and software capabilities are enabling digital industrial transformation for big gains in productivity, availability and longevity. We do this by leveraging Predix, our industrial cloud platform purpose built for the demanding safety & security needs of industrials. We call this Digital Resource Productivity and are investing to deploy it at scale. Using a suite of applications, we are helping customers reduce fuel consumption, conserve water, lower emissions, and predict and prevent equipment failures that can cause widespread disruption. In the healthcare industry for example, GE software powers the FacilityConnex solution to help Southcoast Health manage its energy consumption, drive down maintenance costs and optimize asset management. Watch how they move from a break-fix mode to proactive, predictive operations. The water treatment plant in Waterford, Michigan uses GE software to optimize operations by aggregating its data to understand how assets are operating, including flows and temperatures, what assets may need attention, what water demand is and how water is distributed. GE is also innovating to improve resource productivity in manufacturing. At the intersection of hardware and software, advanced manufacturing is changing how we create. GE is helping to pioneer technologies like cold spray, which creates 3D shapes by spraying metal powders onto a surface at thousands of miles an hour. Cold spray can restore jet engine blades, rotors and other components. GE’s research into advanced manufacturing technologies – including rapid prototyping, cold spray and 3-D printing – is pushing the boundaries of what’s possible on the factory floor while helping to demonstrate how these techniques can help lower energy use and waste. For the latest news on innovation at GE, please visit www.gereports.com. 2.5.1 Legacy Sites As a large, successful company with more than 100 years of manufacturing history, GE is associated with many properties that have legacy contamination issues. As a responsible corporation, GE is committed to address environmental liabilities which result from our manufacturing operations, as well as from sites in which we inherited environmental liabilities. GE works cooperatively with regulatory agencies, landowners and other stakeholders to identify and implement practical remedial solutions. GE is also committed to helping communities redevelop former GE industrial sites, so-called “brownfields.” GE’s brownfields program focuses on revitalizing some of GE’s underutilized surplus properties for reuse and redevelopment. The brownfields team identifies properties that have redevelopment potential, evaluates associated environmental risks, and proactively prepares those sites for appropriate end uses by public and private partners. A prime example is the effort at GE’s former manufacturing facility in Bridgeport, Connecticut. Used for industrial purposes for 90 years, the site ceased operations in 2007. When an evaluation found that its large industrial buildings were functionally obsolete and unlikely to be reused, GE removed the structures to clear the site for future development. GE performed environmental investigation, remediation and demolition at the site. Now, the City of Bridgeport is redeveloping a portion of the parcel as a much-needed new high school complex. Continuing its efforts to return underutilized sites to productive use, during 2015, GE sold or otherwise divested 46 facilities to a variety of end users and developers. These sales returned properties no longer used or needed by GE to developers, new users and tenants in their respective communities. Hudson River From the midto late-twentieth century, GE operated manufacturing facilities on the upper Hudson River that used polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). Consistent with accepted manufacturing practices of that era, PCBs were discharged by GE into the surrounding environment, including the Hudson River. In 2002, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) determined that certain PCB-containing sediments should be dredged from the upper Hudson River. The EPA utilized the Federal Superfund Program and identified GE as the party responsible to complete the dredging project. The EPA-selected remedy required the removal by dredging of approximately 2.65 MM cubic yards of sediments from 500 acres of the river bottom over 40 miles of river. Extensive habitat-restoration projects were also required in the dredged areas. GE entered into agreements with the EPA to design and implement the project. GE is responsible for funding and performing the work and provides extensive oversight funds to the EPA, which approves all the work and oversees the implementation. Dredging began in 2009. In October 2015, the last of the sediments were removed. In total, over 2.75 million cubic yards of sediment containing 310,000 pounds of PCB from the river – over twice the amount the EPA originally estimated – were removed and safely disposed of. On November 12, 2015, the EPA approved the plan to decommission and demobilize the dewatering and transportation facility built to process the sediments. The decommissioning has proceeded, and the equipment necessary to process the sediment has been decontaminated and dismantled. The in-river dredging equipment has also been removed and returned to the vendors, sold, or stored to await sale. Final decommissioning of the facilities and equipment is expected to be completed in 2016 and the property returned to the landowners. GE is working closely with the local communities and landowners to determine what infrastructure (e.g., roads, railyard, electrical distribution, etc.) can be left behind to support local economic development projects. Although the dredging portion of the project is complete, GE’s work on the Hudson River will continue, including the ongoing cleanup of the GE manufacturing sites, habitat reconstruction in areas that were dredged, and continued monitoring of environmental conditions in the river. Most significantly, GE will conduct a comprehensive evaluation of the floodplains along the river shorelines, building on several years of significant sampling and remedial work in those areas. This project has been the most extensive dredging project undertaken in the U.S. to date, and as stated by the U.S. EPA, “its success is a historic achievement for the recovery of the Hudson River.” For additional information, please visit GE’s website at www.hudsondredging.com or the U.S. EPA website at www.epa.gov/hudson. 2.5.2 Biodiversity Biodiversity is the foundation of a healthy planet. It is vital to ecosystem health and productivity. Biodiversity loss is a critical global problem that displays its effects on both local and regional levels. GE understands that the health and preservation of biodiversity are fundamental to ensuring a sustainable future for communities, nature and businesses. Because biodiversity and ecosystem health are intrinsically linked and critical global concerns, GE strives to continually improve and revamp our greenhouse gas emission reduction and water programs, which help to reduce the global stress on biodiversity resulting from climate change and water scarcity. Global Volunteer Efforts GE Volunteers contribute to environmental efforts where they live and work to help improve local and regional biodiversity through habitat improvement, community cleanup and education projects. In 2015, for example, GE Volunteers participated in a project that removed litter from the Mariana Reservoir in Singapore. In Ghana, they raised students’ STEM awareness with an interactive challenge: The winning app teaches people how to sort trash and recycle waste. Please visit GE Volunteers for to learn more about these impactful projects. U.S. Volunteer Efforts For example, GE Power volunteers in Wilmington, NC, in partnership with the North Carolina Coastal Federation, worked to construct an oyster reef in the Cape Fear River. At the same site, a forest management project aimed to thin all planted and natural forest stands on GE acreage which provided benefits including reduced potential for wildfires, increased stand yields by reducing competition, reduced stress from overcrowding and potential Southern Pine Beetle infestations, and improved habitat for wildlife. In addition to aiding the overall forest and habitat for wildlife, the site was able to generate $206,000 in revenue from sales of the forested timber. Employees from the site also worked together to build a reef that will protect the shoreline from erosion and serve as a natural environment to aid in restoring and protecting the native oyster population. GE employees volunteered on April 25th, 2015, to load bags of limestone marl and bags of oyster shells as part of the oyster reef–rebuilding project. Additionally, six GE sites, such as the GE Energy Learning Center in Niskayuna, N.Y., have been recognized for their efforts through the Wildlife Habitat Council’s Corporate Wildlife at Work program. The Niskayuna facility put up nest boxes and partnered with the National Audubon Society to monitor its eastern bluebird population to target habitat improvement projects. The Niskayuna site is also concentrating on grassland species and partnered with the local Audubon chapter to have a bird survey done. Data indicates that the site has a wide variety of birds typical to the geographic region, with approximately 37 different species being identified. Initial recommendations to encourage the habitation of grassland species led the site to brush-hog an area of approximately two acres, to remove tall grasses and bushy thickets. An additional landscaped area has been left un-mowed for two seasons. In addition to habitat management, the GE Energy Learning Center provides environmental education to its employees, particularly during an annual Earth Day event that includes pollinator-garden and tree-planting activities. LCA and Biodiversity GE employs a standardized approach called life cycle assessment (LCA) to evaluate the environmental impacts of selected products throughout their life cycles. In the field of LCA, some methodologies are beginning to focus purposefully on biodiversity loss, while continuing to improve other methods that focus on broader impacts that affect biodiversity, such as water depletion, ecosystem quality, climate change and land use. If the results of an LCA study indicate a hotspot in any of these impact categories, additional examination would uncover a better understanding of any local biodiversity impacts. GE is also beginning to apply some of the latest LCA water-impact-assessment methodologies, which address the impact of regional water consumption on ecosystem quality and biodiversity. 2.5.3 Product Life Cycle GE’s technical resource for product-life-cycle evaluation is the Ecoassessment Center of Excellence (COE). For more than seven years, the COE has been applying its expertise in life cycle management (LCM) and life cycle assessment (LCA). LCM is a systematic approach to managing product-related environmental impacts throughout a product’s life cycle. Our goals are to identify the most promising opportunities for improvement; create and maintain momentum toward real change; and incentivize game-changing products, technologies and solutions. LCA is a quantitative method to help understand environmental impacts across the life cycle of a product; identify the most impactful materials, processes and activities; design new products/processes with reduced impacts; evaluate tradeoffs; consider burden shifts; and communicate life cycle environmental benefits. The Ecoassessment COE provides internal consulting and education, engages with external partners, and develops tools to improve the resource efficiency and shared value of our products and services. Its analyses help GE business teams understand the competitive advantages of new technologies and provide our customers with the insight they need to make fully informed purchasing decisions. The COE also develops application-specific tools and data sets, including an internal screening LCA tool and a qualitative life cycle management (LCM) tool, and recently worked with Quantis International on the development of a proprietary, custom water-energy LCA tool that explores region-specific tradeoffs between energy and water impacts. In addition to leveraging this new tool within our advanced environmental-analysis projects, our product teams can use it to understand environmental impacts associated with water and energy production or consumption related to select GE products in various geographic regions. These insights, combined with other customer-decision metrics, should help GE and its customers identify the products and technologies that will optimize value while reducing environmental impact in a given region. Over the past several years, LCA has been applied to a variety of GE products and processes, including gas and steam turbines, aircraft engine components, wind turbines, medical equipment, lighting, additive manufacturing, single-use process technology for biopharmaceutical manufacturing, +PLUSPAK™ vials for contrast media, aero-derivative gas engines, Jenbacher gas engines, micro LNG, smart meters, membrane ultrafiltration systems for water treatment, locomotives, biomass gasification, advanced metallurgy, jet fuel made from bio-oils, and component remanufacturing. These efforts ranged from internally focused screening LCA studies to full, detailed LCA studies subjected to third-party critical panel review per ISO 14044. Highlighted Life-Cycle Studies: +PLUSPAK™ Polymer Bottles GE Healthcare’s innovative +PLUSPAK™ polymer bottle is used to hold contrast media for diagnostic procedures such as X-rays and MRIs. +PLUSPAK offers significant advantages over traditional glass packaging, including decreased cost of waste disposal, reduced storage needs, and improved workplace safety and efficiency for healthcare workers who administer contrast media to patients. The +PLUSPAK polymer bottle achieves these benefits through its patented design and pharmaceutical-grade polypropylene composition, which result in smaller, lighter and safer packaging than glass. A detailed cradle-to-grave LCA study1 comparing the +PLUSPAK polymer bottle with glass bottles found that using polymer rather than glass bottles lowers the environmental impact of contrast media packaging: +PLUSPAK • results in significantly lower greenhouse gas emissions (54% lower than glass); • requires significantly less energy (45% lower than glass); and • has less impact on ecosystem quality (61% lower) and resources (41% lower) compared with glass, and fewer impacts in all other categories studied (ranging from 57%–76% lower) compared to glass. The insights gained from this study are helping our customers make informed packaging choices when purchasing GE contrast media. +PLUSPAK bottles significantly reduce impacts on the environment, and, as a result, GE has proactively switched a majority of its shipments of contrast media to this environmentally preferable packaging. GE Healthcare’s WAVE Bioreactor™—used for vaccine and other biotherapeutics production—enables cell culturing without requiring cleaning or steam-sterilization because it uses disposable bags rather than large stainless steel tanks, reducing staff time requirements. A detailed LCA study2,3 helped determine how the disposable option reduces water and energy consumption compared with the stainless steel bioreactor it replaces. Although single-use bags introduce new needs into the production, distribution and disposal phases, their use also reduces or eliminates large quantities of steam, sanitizing chemicals, process water, and the ultra-pure water needed for washing and sterilization of traditional processing equipment. The insights gained through this detailed LCA study are helping our customers evaluate and optimize their biotherapeutics process technologies with an eye toward increased productivity and reduced net environmental impact. ™ Trademark of the General Electric Company. 1 LCA of packaging options for contrast media delivery 2 Journal of Cleaner Production 3 Environmental LCA comparison of bioprocessing technology 2.5.4 Materials Sustainability Reclaim and Reuse As a manufacturer of many high-performance, leading-edge products, GE uses a number of high-value critical materials in our products and manufacturing operations. GE uses rare earth elements in our high-efficiency lighting products; in the coatings of aircraft engine and gas turbine components; and in the detectors of medical imaging equipment. As worldwide demand for many of these materials increases, there are emerging concerns about supply disruption risks and the environmental impact of extracting and refining these materials from ore. At GE, a special emphasis has been placed on optimizing our use of these materials. Examples of some current GE efforts include: improvements in our manufacturing operations to increase yield; recovery of these materials from nontraditional sources; and developing technologies that can reduce our demand for these materials. Materials and Waste Across GE, a number of projects are under way that involve new manufacturing technologies, new service or remanufacturing approaches and recovery of these high-value critical materials from scrap. For example, GE is working to reduce the amount of rare earths used in the phosphors that go into our lighting products, and to recover coatings used in aircraft engines and gas turbines. For lower-value materials, GE sites are working with external partners to recover materials of value from wastes to minimize landfill needs (i.e., plastics, cardboard, metal scrap, etc.). Learn more about how GE is Bringing Back the Bling. 3.0 Enabling Progress We are committed to progress—for our customers, employees, shareholders, and the world. GE has stayed competitive for more than a century–not because we are perfect, but because we make progress and we have continued our investment in research and development and innovation. We are also enabling progress for others around the world. Our employee volunteers and the GE Foundation are advancing economic development and improving lives in our communities, empowering others by helping them build the skills and capacity they need to succeed in a global economy. GE also supports business environments that will sustain growth for the long term, including promoting transparency, good governance, and open markets. 3.1 Philanthropy In 2015, the entire GE family contributed $201 million to community and educational programs, $106 million of which comes from the GE Foundation. The GE Family includes GE Businesses, the GE Foundation, and amounts contributed by GE employees and retirees which were matched by GE Foundation. GE Foundation, the philanthropic organization of GE, is committed to building a world that works better. We empower people by helping them build the skills they need to succeed in a global economy. We equip communities with the technology and capacity to improve access to better health and education. We elevate ideas that are tackling the world’s toughest challenges to advance economic development and improve lives. The GE Foundation is powered by the generosity and talent of our employees, who have a strong commitment to their communities. We are at work making the world work better. Follow the GE Foundation at www.gefoundation.com and on Twitter at @GE_Foundation. The GE Foundation works to solve some of the world’s most difficult problems. In coordination with its partners, the GE Foundation supports U.S. and international education, Developing Health Globally™ (DHG), the environment, public policy, human rights, disaster relief and community success around the globe. The GE Foundation also supports GE employee and retiree giving and involvement in GE communities, through employee programs such as the GE Foundation Matching Gifts Program. • 2015 GE Foundation Contributions above $10,000 • • 2015 Corporate Contributions above $10,000 View our contributions-related performance goals and metrics. 3.1.1 Education & Skills The GE Foundation’s signature program in education, Developing Futures TM (DF), and its signature initiative, Developing Skills TM (DS), build on the resources of GE – its people, innovation, technology and processes – to improve the K–12 education experience for all students, to increase student achievement and to increase skills acquisition for the future workforce of a global economy. In 2015, DF awarded more than $21.5 million in grants to expand the work of U.S. school districts and states in the area of student-career readiness, and to expand state STEM initiatives to regional levels to reach more districts and students. The funding outcomes already include increased student-career readiness, enhanced teacher preparation and strengthened career curricula. For more information, please visit http://www.gefoundation.com/education/ Also in 2015, the GE Foundation launched DS, providing $2.5 million to support skills-development and to increase the employability of youth globally. The support has already resulted in the creation of Essential Skills modules for youth and a career-planning app for students; has enabled the creation of Opportunity Centers in New Orleans; and has provided initial funding for a strategy to build skills and meet industry workforce needs in more than nine countries. For more information, please visit http://www.gefoundation.com/skills/ 3.1.2 Disaster and Humanitarian Relief Highlights General Electric’s Disaster and Humanitarian Relief program responds to major global disasters and humanitarian crises, drawing on GE’s resources, people and technology to reduce suffering and speed recovery. In 2015, financial contributions in this area totaled $7.5 million. Nearly $250,000 in product donations were deployed and hundreds of hours of in-kind time were given to support this work. Additionally, GE Foundation’s Matching Gifts program enabled employees to contribute to crises in their local communities, doubling their impact with their donations matched 1-to-1 by the GE Foundation. Some examples of our work include: • GE Foundation partnered with GE Healthcare to respond to the Ebola crisis with a $2 million commitment to Partners in Health for immediate response on the ground and a donation of four portable medical units (Clinics In a Can) in order to enable Project Hope to build capacity in Sierra Leone. • GE and the GE Foundation also committed significantly to the work of helping Syrian and African refugees. In the Middle East, GE contributed $3 million to the International Rescue Committee (IRC), supporting its work on women’s protection, empowerment and employability, as well as deployment of mobile medical units in Jordan. GE Foundation further supported IRC in its work with Syrian refugees transiting through Europe with a $1 million grant in September. • In Nigeria, GE granted UNICEF $1 million to reduce mortality and morbidity among internally displaced persons in the northern district of Borno, especially women and children, through an improved and sustainable primary healthcare delivery system. • In South Sudan, $1 million was donated to CARE to increase the survival rate of mothers and babies; improve the health response to emergencies; address complications related to sexual, reproductive and maternal health; and to increase evidence-based reproductive, maternal and newborn health practices. • To respond to the tragic earthquake in Nepal, GE donated $500,000 to AmeriCares for delivery of much needed supplies and training of workers in disasters. GE continues to collaborate with governmental agencies, other private sector partners and relevant NGOs to help prepare for future disasters and to work on the initiatives within the Global Health Security Agenda. GE remains committed to preparing for and responding to future natural disasters and humanitarian crises, diligently maximizing the impact of our financial, technological and human resources. 3.1.a2015 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 2015 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 Source Category Organization Amount GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills Achieve, Inc. $1,750,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills Achieve, Inc. $1,000,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills Achieve, Inc. $100,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills Acumen Fund, Inc. $250,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills Acumen Fund, Inc. $250,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills Americas Promise-The Alliance For Youth $500,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills Center for Strategic Research and Communication $500,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills Cincinnati Public Schools $196,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills College For Every Student Inc. $500,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills Connecticut Council for Education Reform Inc. $25,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills Connecticut Science Center $50,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills Council for Opportunity in Education $359,240 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills Council for Opportunity in Education $724,200 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills Council of Chief State School Officers $747,511 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills Council of Chief State School Officers $1,250,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills Delgado Community College $500,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills Education Commission of the States $100,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills Education Commission of the States $100,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills FUND FOR PUBLIC SCHOOLS INC $1,306,400 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills FUND FOR PUBLIC SCHOOLS INC $1,500,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills Jobs for America's Graduates, Inc. $100,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills Jobs for America's Graduates, Inc. $100,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills Milwaukee Public Schools $1,500,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills Milwaukee Public Schools $1,500,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills National Science Teachers Association $95,388 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills NATIONAL SOCIETY OF BLACK ENGINEERS $200,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills Oklahoma Center for the Advancement of Science and Technology $200,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills PRECISION METALFORMING ASSOCIATION EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATIO $100,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills Public Education Foundation $483,122 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills Public Education Foundation $148,534 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills Rockefeller Philanthropy Advisors $100,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills Student Achievement Partners $891,605 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills Student Achievement Partners $1,800,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills The Alliance for Excellent Education $500,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills THE NATIONAL WORLD WAR II MUSEUM, INC. $100,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills The School District of the City of Erie, Pennsylvania $1,500,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills The School District of the City of Erie, Pennsylvania $1,573,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills Thurgood Marshall College Fund $100,000 GE Foundation Developing Futures/Skills USNY Regents Research Fund $1,750,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally ASSIST INTERNATIONAL INC $590,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally ASSIST INTERNATIONAL INC $590,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally ASSIST INTERNATIONAL INC $580,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally ASSIST INTERNATIONAL INC $320,618 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally ASSIST INTERNATIONAL INC $92,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally ASSIST INTERNATIONAL INC $5,767,358 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally ASSIST INTERNATIONAL INC $644,830 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally ASSIST INTERNATIONAL INC $450,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally DUKE UNIVERSITY $126,183 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally DUKE UNIVERSITY $126,183 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally DUKE UNIVERSITY $126,183 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally EMORY UNIVERSITY $826,641 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally EMORY UNIVERSITY $70,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally Engineering World Health $465,194 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally FHI 360 $300,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally Jhpiego Corporation $750,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally Jhpiego Corporation $700,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally Jhpiego Corporation $294,097 2015 GE FOUNDATION CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 1 2015 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 Source Category Organization Amount GE Foundation Developing Health Globally Jhpiego Corporation $80,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally Jhpiego Corporation $15,800 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY $250,691 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally President and Fellows of Harvard College $112,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally TRUSTEES OF COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK $112,502 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally US Fund for UNICEF $301,914 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally US Fund for UNICEF $57,960 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally US Fund for UNICEF $173,200 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY $645,804 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY $454,561 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. AmeriCares Foundation, Inc. $255,281 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. AmeriCares Foundation, Inc. $300,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. Cherry Street Services, Inc. $75,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. Cherry Street Services, Inc. $75,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. Cherry Street Services, Inc. $75,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. Community Health and Social Services Center, Inc. $100,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. Community Health and Social Services Center, Inc. $13,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. HEALTH CHOICE NETWORK OF FLORIDA INC $157,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. HEALTH CHOICE NETWORK OF FLORIDA INC $250,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. LYNN COMMUNITY HEALTH INC $75,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. National Association of Community Health Centers $75,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. NATIONAL MEDICAL FELLOWSHIPS INC $712,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. NATIONAL MEDICAL FELLOWSHIPS INC $390,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. Neighborhood Healthcare, Inc. $75,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. New Horizon Family Health Services $75,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. New Horizon Family Health Services $75,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. New Horizon Family Health Services $75,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. Public Health Institute Of Metropolitan Chicago $740,769 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. Public Health Institute Of Metropolitan Chicago $350,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. University of New Mexico Contract & Grants HSC $1,500,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. University of New Mexico Contract & Grants HSC $1,500,000 GE Foundation Developing Health Globally U.S. Whittier Street Health Center Committee, Inc. $75,000 GE Foundation Disaster Relief AmeriCares Foundation, Inc. $500,000 GE Foundation Disaster Relief International Rescue Committee, Inc $1,000,000 GE Foundation Disaster Relief Partners In Health $1,000,000 GE Foundation GE STAR AWARDS Institute of International Education, Inc. $800,000 GE Foundation GE STAR AWARDS Institute of International Education, Inc. $200,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts A BETTER CHANCE INC $35,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts A BETTER CHANCE INC $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts A BETTER CHANCE OF WILTON, INC. $14,875 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ACADEMY YOUTH SERVICE ORGANIZATION $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ACTIVITIES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ACTIVITIES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ACUMEN FUND INC $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ADAMS COUNTY COMMUNITY FOUNDATION INC $32,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ADAMS COUNTY COMMUNITY FOUNDATION INC $20,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ADAMS TOWNSHIP SCHOOL DISTRICT FOUNDATION INC $50,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ADAMS TOWNSHIP SCHOOL DISTRICT FOUNDATION INC $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Adirondack Mountain Club, Inc. $25,747 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Adopt-A-Family of the Palm Beaches, Inc. $14,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AGA KHAN FOUNDATION USA $26,650 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Agnes Scott College $25,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AJ Whittenberg Elementary School of Engineering $26,239 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ALL SAINTS EPISCOPAL DAY SCHOOL INC $11,800 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ALL SAINTS SCHOOL $14,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Allegheny College $15,898 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ALUMNI FUND ASSOCIATION OF YALE UNIVERSITY $35,475 2015 GE FOUNDATION CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 2 2015 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 Source Category Organization Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts Alverno College $25,125 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ALZHEIMER'S ASSOCIATION GREATER CINCINNATI CHAPTER $20,803 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ALZHEIMER'S ASSOCIATION GREATER CINCINNATI CHAPTER $31,516 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN ASSOCIATES OF THE ROYAL NATIONAL THEATRE INC $20,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN BAPTIST HOMES FOUNDATION OF THE WEST INC $10,303 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN CANCER ASSISTANCE $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY INC $10,299 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN DIABETES ASSOCIATION INC NATIONAL SERVICE CENTER $24,880 GE Foundation Matching Gifts American Friends of Magen David Adom $24,065 GE Foundation Matching Gifts American Friends of Magen David Adom $25,286 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN FRIENDS OF THE DONMAR THEATRE INC $20,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN FRIENDS OF THE DONMAR THEATRE INC $12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts American Friends of the London Business School $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts American Friends of the London Business School $24,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION INC $15,385 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION/UPSTATE SC & WESTERN NC $10,195 GE Foundation Matching Gifts American International College $50,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN NATIONAL RED CROSS $38,840 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN NATIONAL RED CROSS $85,914 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN NATIONAL RED CROSS $76,910 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN NATIONAL RED CROSS $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN SCHOOL IN LONDON FOUNDATION $40,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN SLEEP APNEA ASSOCIATION INC $25,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS $11,036 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS $15,434 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN THEATRE WORKS INC $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AMERICAN UNIVERSITY OF BEIRUT $10,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AmeriCares Foundation, Inc. $11,205 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AmeriCares Foundation, Inc. $22,825 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AmeriCares Foundation, Inc. $63,683 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ANIMAL PROTECTIVE FOUNDATION OF SCHENECTADY INC $12,430 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ANIMAL RESCUE COALITION INC $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ANIMAL RESCUE COALITION INC $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Appalachia Service Project, Inc. $25,002 GE Foundation Matching Gifts APPLE RIDGE FARM INCORPORATED $12,108 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Arkansas State University Foundation Inc $19,945 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Arkansas State University Foundation Inc $13,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ARTHRITIS FOUNDATION INC NEW YORK CHAPTER $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ARTS CENTER AND THEATER OF SCHENECTADY INC dba PROCTOR'S $15,355 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ARTS CENTER AND THEATER OF SCHENECTADY INC dba PROCTOR'S $39,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ARTS CENTER AND THEATER OF SCHENECTADY INC dba PROCTOR'S $33,495 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ARTS CENTER AND THEATER OF SCHENECTADY INC dba PROCTOR'S $10,431 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ASBURY FOUNDATION $28,730 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Ashoka $10,350 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Association for the Bladder Exstrophy Community $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Association for the Bladder Exstrophy Community $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Association for the Bladder Exstrophy Community $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Association of Graduates of the United States Military Academy $17,499 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Association of Graduates of the United States Military Academy $14,590 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Atlanta Community Food Bank, Inc. $17,265 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ATLANTA UNION MISSION CORPORATION $14,392 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Atlas Ministry Inc $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AUBURN UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION $10,748 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AUBURN UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION $26,410 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AUTISM SPEAKS $19,610 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AUTISM SPEAKS INC $52,235 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AVENUES NAVIGATING THE SPECTRUM OF RELATIONSHIPS RIGHTS & $10,000 2015 GE FOUNDATION CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 3 2015 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 Source Category Organization Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts AYN RAND INSTITUTE THE CENTER FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF OBJE $11,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts AYN RAND INSTITUTE THE CENTER FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF OBJE $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BABSON COLLEGE $14,051 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BACK 2 BACK MINISTRIES INC COMMUNITY SERVICE $24,470 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Baker University $17,150 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Baker University $20,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BAPTIST MISSIONARY ASSOCIATION (BMA) THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Barrier Island Group for the Arts, Inc $50,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BARRINGTON STAGE CO INC $25,420 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Barton College $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BATTLE CREEK AREA CATHOLIC SCHOOLS FOUNDATION INC $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bellarmine University $25,400 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bellarmine University $20,675 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bellarmine University $22,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BELLEVUE ARTS MUSEUM $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Beloit College $28,574 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Beloit College $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BEND INTERNATIONAL SCHOOL INC $50,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BEREAN CHRISTIAN HIGH SCHOOL $31,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Berkshire Theatre Festival, Inc. $20,276 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BERRY COLLEGE INC $39,085 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BERT H. KING FOUNDATION $13,865 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BHARATHI THEERTHA $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BIGELOW LABORATORY FOR OCEAN SCIENCES $12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BISHOP WARD HIGH SCHOOL $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bnai Brith Youth Organization, Inc $24,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BOLTON CONSERVATION TRUST INC $20,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BOLTON CONSERVATION TRUST INC $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BOLTON CONSERVATION TRUST INC $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BOSTON COLLEGE $12,020 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BOSTON COLLEGE $22,585 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BOSTON COLLEGE $32,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BOSTON SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA INC $11,075 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BOSTON UNIVERSITY $17,465 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BOYERTOWN AREA MULTI-SERVICE INC $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BOYS & GIRLS CLUB OF ERIE INC $61,986 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BOYS AND GIRLS CLUB OF GREATER SALEM INC $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Boys and Girls Clubs of Fort Wayne, Inc. $20,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Boys Hope Girls Hope Cincinnati $35,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BRADLEY FREE CLINIC OF ROANOKE VALLEY $10,940 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Brandywine Valley Baseball Organization $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BREASTCANCER ORG $35,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Brenau University $25,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BRIDGEPORT HOSPITAL FOUNDATION INC $14,575 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BRIDGEPORT RESCUE MISSION INC $12,625 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BRIGHAM & WOMENS HOSPITAL INC $10,525 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BRIGHAM & WOMENS HOSPITAL INC $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Brookings Institution (The) $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BROOKSBY VILLAGE INC $12,025 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BROWARD EDUCATION FOUNDATION INC $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BROWN UNIVERSITY $10,020 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BROWN UNIVERSITY $20,444 GE Foundation Matching Gifts BROWN UNIVERSITY $16,850 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bucknell University $10,805 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bucknell University $12,517 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bucknell University $13,800 GE Foundation Matching Gifts buildOn $214,782 2015 GE FOUNDATION CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 4 2015 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 Source Category Organization Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts buildOn $25,431 GE Foundation Matching Gifts buildOn $121,624 GE Foundation Matching Gifts buildOn $49,890 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Butler County Community College Education Foundation, Inc. $14,533 GE Foundation Matching Gifts California Institute of Technology $50,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY, FRESNO FOUNDATION $35,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CALVERT SCHOOL $18,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CAMPUS CRUSADE FOR CHRIST INC $17,058 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CAMPUS CRUSADE FOR CHRIST INC $22,469 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CAMPUS CRUSADE FOR CHRIST INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY SERVI $14,590 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CAMPUS CRUSADE FOR CHRIST INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY SERVI $31,729 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CAMPUS CRUSADES FOR CHRIST INTERNATIONAL $56,331 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CAPITAL CITY RESCUE MISSION INC $13,479 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CAPITAL CITY RESCUE MISSION INC $10,882 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Carleton College $28,975 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Carnegie Institute $20,440 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY $46,175 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY $13,358 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Case Western Reserve University $10,014 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CATHEDRAL PREPARATORY SCHOOL $51,657 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Catholic Charities Corporation $13,365 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Catholic Charities Corporation $10,805 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF DIOCESE OF ALBANY $10,800 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF FAIRFIELD COUNTY INC $69,581 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF FAIRFIELD COUNTY INC $25,870 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF LOUISVILLE $19,625 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF LOUISVILLE $51,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CATHOLIC COMMUNITY FOUNDATION $22,520 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Catholic Community Foundation for the Archdiocese of Cincinnati Inc $104,623 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Catholic Community Foundation for the Archdiocese of Cincinnati Inc $46,172 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CATHOLIC MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL OF WAUKESHA, INC. $29,366 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CATHOLIC MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL OF WAUKESHA, INC. $16,168 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CATHOLIC RELIEF SERVICES $44,020 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CATHOLIC RELIEF SERVICES $30,759 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CATHOLIC RELIEF SERVICES $28,345 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CENTER FOR SCIENTIFIC CREATION $47,894 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CENTER IN THE SQUAREWestern Virginia Foundation for the Arts an $25,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Center Theatre Group of Los Angeles $13,686 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CENTRAL DUPAGE HEALTH FOUNDATION $17,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHARLTON SCHOOL $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHATHAM HALL $10,290 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Chautauqua Institution $20,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Chautauqua Institution $27,874 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHICAGO SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA $26,340 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Child Guidance Center of Southern Connecticut, Inc. $18,650 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Child Guidance Center of Southern Connecticut, Inc. $46,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Child Guidance Center of Southern Connecticut, Inc. $54,025 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHILD WELLNESS FAIR INC $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHILD WELLNESS FAIR INC $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHILD WELLNESS FAIR INC $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ChildFund International $10,745 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHILDRENS HEALTHCARE OF ATLANTA FOUNDATION $23,680 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHILDRENS HOSPITAL AND HEALTHCARE SERVICES FOUNDATION $12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHILDRENS HOSPITAL CORPORATION $13,175 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHILDRENS HOSPITAL MEDICAL CENTER $20,325 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL OF PITTSBURGH FOUNDATION $10,000 2015 GE FOUNDATION CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 5 2015 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 Source Category Organization Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHILDRENS MEDICAL CENTER $10,025 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHILDRENS TUMOR FOUNDATION $10,095 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHRISTIAN BENEVOLENT ASSOCIATION of Greater Cincinnati, Inc. $10,625 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHRISTIAN BENEVOLENT ASSOCIATION of Greater Cincinnati, Inc. $16,400 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHRISTIAN BROTHERS ACADEMY $10,260 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHRISTIAN STUDY CENTER OF GAINESVILLE INC $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CHURCH COMMUNITY SERVICES INC $18,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CINCINNATI HILLS CHRISTIAN ACADEMY $11,300 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cincinnati Institute of Fine Arts dba ArtsWave $210,870 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cincinnati Institute of Fine Arts dba ArtsWave $35,116 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cincinnati Public Radio, Inc. $10,240 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CINCINNATI SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA $17,568 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CINCINNATI ZOO FOUNDATION INC $14,233 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CINCINNATI ZOO FOUNDATION INC $24,017 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CIRCLE OF LIFE Hospice $13,619 GE Foundation Matching Gifts City Gospel Mission/City Cure/City Ministries $13,454 GE Foundation Matching Gifts City Gospel Mission/City Cure/City Ministries $30,407 GE Foundation Matching Gifts City Gospel Mission/City Cure/City Ministries $17,920 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CITY MISSION OF SCHENECTADY $112,286 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CITY MISSION OF SCHENECTADY $120,843 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CITY MISSION OF SCHENECTADY $70,244 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CITY MISSION OF SCHENECTADY $31,921 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CIVIC LIGHT OPERA ASSOCIATION $30,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Claremont McKenna College $50,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Claremont McKenna College $50,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Clarkson University $18,191 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Clarkson University $64,275 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CLEAR FUND $25,580 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CLEMSON IPTAY CLUB $11,886 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CLEMSON IPTAY CLUB $51,149 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Clemson University Foundation $17,442 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Clemson University Foundation $19,225 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cleveland State University Foundation $11,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CLOUD NINE RESCUE FLIGHTS $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts COASTAL MAINE BOTANICAL GARDENS INC $17,580 GE Foundation Matching Gifts COCHECO VALLEY HUMANE SOCIETY INC $10,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Colgate University $21,290 GE Foundation Matching Gifts College of Mount Saint Vincent $50,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts College of Mount Saint Vincent $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts COLLEGE OF SAINT ROSE $59,575 GE Foundation Matching Gifts COLLEGE OF THE HOLY CROSS $12,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Columbia Theological Seminary $10,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts COMMISSION TO EVERY NATION INC $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Community Foundation for the Greater Capital Region Inc $12,811 GE Foundation Matching Gifts COMMUNITY FOUNDATION OF GREATER GREENVILLE INC $13,700 GE Foundation Matching Gifts COMMUNITY FOUNDATION OF GREATER GREENVILLE INC $11,300 GE Foundation Matching Gifts COMMUNITY FOUNDATION OF HENDERSON COUNTY INC $15,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts COMMUNITY GALLERY INC $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts COMMUNITY PREGNANCY CLINICS INC $10,330 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CONCORD LAND CONSERVATION TRUST $10,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Connecticut College $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CONNECTICUT FOOD BANK INC $20,070 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CONNECTING FOR KIDS OF WESTLAKE OHIO $12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum $25,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cornell University $18,521 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cornell University $26,950 2015 GE FOUNDATION CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 6 2015 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 Source Category Organization Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cornell University $60,948 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CORNING ELMIRA MUSICAL ARTS $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Covenant House $30,121 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Covenant House $12,905 GE Foundation Matching Gifts COVINGTON CATHOLIC HIGH SCHOOL $20,197 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CPR $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CURATORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI $13,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CYSTIC FIBROSIS FOUNDATION (CFF) $20,550 GE Foundation Matching Gifts CYSTIC FIBROSIS FOUNDATION HEADQUARTERS $17,137 GE Foundation Matching Gifts DANA FARBER CANCER INSTITUTE $23,566 GE Foundation Matching Gifts DANA FARBER CANCER INSTITUTE $29,638 GE Foundation Matching Gifts DANA FARBER CANCER INSTITUTE $17,133 GE Foundation Matching Gifts DANA FARBER CANCER INSTITUTE $23,669 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Dare To Care Food Bank Inc $12,245 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Dartmouth College $70,036 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Dartmouth College $23,325 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Dartmouth College $35,752 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Dartmouth College $25,680 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Dartmouth College $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts DAYSTAR LIFE CENTER INC $12,404 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Daytona State College $10,225 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Deborah Hospital Foundation $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Denison University $26,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Denver Rescue Mission $10,275 GE Foundation Matching Gifts DePauw University $23,391 GE Foundation Matching Gifts DePauw University $52,620 GE Foundation Matching Gifts DePauw University $18,700 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Dickinson College $26,525 GE Foundation Matching Gifts DISASTERS EMERGENCY COMMITTEE $11,374 GE Foundation Matching Gifts DISCOVERY MUSEUMS INC $15,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Domus Kids, Inc. $34,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts DUKE UNIVERSITY $53,380 GE Foundation Matching Gifts DUKE UNIVERSITY $70,668 GE Foundation Matching Gifts DUKE UNIVERSITY $10,075 GE Foundation Matching Gifts EAGLE HILL-SOUTHPORT SCHOOL INC $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts EAGLES LANDING CHRISTIAN ACADEMY INC $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Eckerd College $20,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts EDGE OUTREACH INC $25,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts EDISON TECH CENTER $25,565 GE Foundation Matching Gifts EKAL VIDYALAY FOUNDATION OF USA $10,565 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ELIZABETHS NEW LIFE CENTER INC $11,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ELLIS HOSPITAL FOUNDATION INC $99,172 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ELLIS HOSPITAL FOUNDATION INC $41,591 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ELLIS HOSPITAL FOUNDATION INC $78,818 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ELLIS HOSPITAL FOUNDATION INC $24,300 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Elon University $60,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Elon University $36,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Emmaus Ministries, Inc. Community Services $26,115 GE Foundation Matching Gifts EMORY UNIVERSITY $11,330 GE Foundation Matching Gifts EPISCOPAL RELIEF AND DEVELOPMENT $15,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Erie Area Rabbit Society & Rescue EARS INC $20,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Erie City Mission $11,721 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Erie City Mission $18,182 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ERIE DAY SCHOOL INC $18,447 GE Foundation Matching Gifts EVANGELICAL LUTHERAN CHURCH IN AMERICA $10,450 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FACIOSCAPULOHUMERAL (FSH) SOCIETY, Inc. $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FAIRFIELD COLLEGE PREPARATORY SCHOOL $12,136 2015 GE FOUNDATION CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 7 2015 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 Source Category Organization Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts FAIRFIELD COUNTRY DAY SCHOOL $12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FAIRFIELD COUNTRY DAY SCHOOL $12,300 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FAIRFIELD COUNTRY DAY SCHOOL $13,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FAIRFIELD UNIVERSITY $31,625 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FAIRFIELD UNIVERSITY $14,780 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FAIRFIELD UNIVERSITY $78,555 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FATHER FLANAGANS BOYS HOME $29,771 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FEED THE CHILDREN INC $10,370 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Feeding America Southwest Virginia $24,635 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Feeding America Southwest Virginia $21,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FIRELANDS CATHOLIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT OFFICE INC $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Florida Institute of Technology $21,930 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FOCUS FOR A FUTURE INC $14,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FOLK ARTS RAJASTHAN INC $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FOOD FOR THE HUNGRY INC $10,509 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FOOD FOR THE POOR INC COMMUNITY SERVICES $44,636 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FOOD FOR THE POOR INC COMMUNITY SERVICES $30,092 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FOOD FOR THE POOR INC COMMUNITY SERVICES $22,731 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FOOD FOR THE POOR INC COMMUNITY SERVICES $14,659 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FORDHAM UNIVERSITY $12,625 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FORT WAYNE ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY INC $20,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FOUNDATION FIGHTING BLINDNESS INC $33,380 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FOUNDATION FIGHTING BLINDNESS INC $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FOUNDATION OF COMPASSIONATE AMERICAN SAMARITANS FOCAS $26,660 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Francis House, Inc. $11,590 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FRANKLIN & MARSHALL COLLEGE $13,925 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FRANKLIN & MARSHALL COLLEGE $50,775 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FREESTORE FOODBANK INC $32,825 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FREESTORE FOODBANK INC $12,370 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FREESTORE FOODBANK INC $24,784 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Friedensdorf $11,266 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FRIENDS OF BEAVER LAKE INC $14,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FRIENDS OF BEAVER LAKE INC $13,225 GE Foundation Matching Gifts FRIENDS OF THE ISRAEL DEFENSE FORCES $19,397 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Friends of the Saugus Public Library $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Furman University $25,175 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Furman University $14,075 GE Foundation Matching Gifts GEAUGA COUNTY HUMANE SOCIETY $10,450 GE Foundation Matching Gifts GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY $37,121 GE Foundation Matching Gifts GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY $28,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Georgia Institute of Technology $19,730 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Georgia Tech Foundation, Inc. $26,180 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Georgia Tech Foundation, Inc. $20,175 GE Foundation Matching Gifts GIRL SCOUTS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Give Hope, Inc. $17,708 GE Foundation Matching Gifts GO MITCH GO INC $21,625 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Gonzaga University $16,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts GOOD COUNSEL, INC $18,125 GE Foundation Matching Gifts GOOD SAMARITAN FDN FOR BETTER HEALTH INC $20,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Grabowski Foundation $13,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Greater Bay Area Make-A-Wish Foundation $12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Greater Bay Area Make-A-Wish Foundation $14,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts GREEN DOOR $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts GREEN MOUNTAIN COLLEGE $10,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts GREENS FARMS ACADEMY $12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts GREENS FARMS ACADEMY $36,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts GREENS FARMS ACADEMY $10,000 2015 GE FOUNDATION CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 8 2015 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 Source Category Organization Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts GREENWICH ACADEMY $12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts GREENWICH ACADEMY $13,150 GE Foundation Matching Gifts GREENWICH ACADEMY $18,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Grove City College $14,850 GE Foundation Matching Gifts GULF FOR GOOD $19,794 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HABITAT FOR HUMANITY GREATER BOSTON $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL $15,045 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL $18,205 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL $16,195 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL $11,120 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HABITAT FOR HUMANITY OF LEE COUNTY INC $33,776 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Habitat for Humanity of Owensboro-Daviess $11,150 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Habitat for Humanity of Schenectady County, Inc. $13,215 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HABITAT FOR HUMANITYOF EVANSVILLE INC $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HADASSAH MEDICAL RELIEF ASSOCIATION $25,900 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HADASSAH THE WOMENS ZIONIST ORGANIZATION OF AMERICA INC $25,386 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HARMONY YOUTH CENTER INC $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HARTFORD HOSPITAL $116,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HARVARD LAW SCHOOL $35,630 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HEALTHCARE 2000 COMMUNITY CLINIC INC $20,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HEIFER PROJECT INTERNATIONAL INC $26,645 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HEIGHTS FOUNDATION INC $10,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HELPING HAND FOR RELIEF & DEVELOPMENT INC $13,302 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HELPING HAND FOR RELIEF & DEVELOPMENT INC $18,603 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HEREDITARY DISEASE FOUNDATION $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HIGHLAND SUPPORT PROJECT $15,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HIGHLANDS-CASHIERS HOSPITAL FOUNDATION INC $49,570 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Hillsdale College $12,850 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Hilton Head Symphony Orchestra, Inc. $22,482 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Home for the Aged Little Sisters of the Poor $27,575 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Hope College $46,104 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Hospital For Special Surgery Fund, Inc. $25,350 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Houston Grand Opera Association, Inc. $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Houston Symphony Society $10,225 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Hudson Valley Community College Foundation $30,862 GE Foundation Matching Gifts HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN FOUNDATION $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Huskie Nation Foundation $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts IMMACULATA UNIVERSITY $26,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts IMPACT MISSION RELIEF $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts India Heritage Foundation $21,686 GE Foundation Matching Gifts India Heritage Foundation $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Indiana Institute of Technology $12,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts INDIANA UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION $13,575 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Indiana University Purdue University Fort Wayne $12,525 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Inspirica Inc $18,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts INSTITUTE FOR SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES $12,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts INSTITUTE FOR SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts INTERNATIONAL ACCELERATED MISSIONS INC $10,495 GE Foundation Matching Gifts International Rescue Committee, Inc $23,254 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Iowa State University Foundation $18,320 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ISAAC W BERNHEIM FOUNDATION INC $11,135 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ISLAMIC RELIEF USA $10,090 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ISLAMIC RELIEF USA $20,755 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ISLAMIC RELIEF USA $11,692 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ISLAMIC RELIEF USA $40,531 GE Foundation Matching Gifts IT CAN BE DONE $26,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Japan Society, Inc. $10,100 2015 GE FOUNDATION CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 9 2015 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 Source Category Organization Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts JEWISH FAMILY AND CHILDRENS SERVICE $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts JOBS FOR KENTUCKYS GRADUATES INC $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts John Carroll University $51,375 GE Foundation Matching Gifts John Carroll University $26,375 GE Foundation Matching Gifts John Carroll University $25,700 GE Foundation Matching Gifts JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS $28,080 GE Foundation Matching Gifts JOHN F KENNEDY MEMORIAL FOUNDATION $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts JOHN F KENNEDY MEMORIAL FOUNDATION $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY $51,575 GE Foundation Matching Gifts JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY $23,029 GE Foundation Matching Gifts JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY $26,080 GE Foundation Matching Gifts JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT OF NORTHEASTERN NEW YORK $27,537 GE Foundation Matching Gifts JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT OF SOUTHEAST TEXAS INC $14,329 GE Foundation Matching Gifts KairosPDX $20,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Kansas State University Foundation $23,090 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Kansas State University Foundation $22,422 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Kansas State University Foundation $11,401 GE Foundation Matching Gifts KANSAS UNIVERSITY ENDOWMENT ASSOCIATION $41,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts KENTUCKY PUBLIC RADIO INC $11,395 GE Foundation Matching Gifts KIDZ 2 LEADERS,INC $20,650 GE Foundation Matching Gifts King Low Heywood Thomas School $10,400 GE Foundation Matching Gifts King Low Heywood Thomas School $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LACROSSE COMMUNITY FOUNDATION $17,350 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LAHEY CLINIC FOUNDATION INC $10,210 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LAHEY CLINIC FOUNDATION INC $10,210 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LAKE SUNAPEE PROTECTIVE ASSOCIATION $17,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Lander University $18,974 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LEE MEMORIAL HEALTH SYSTEM FOUNDATION INC $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Lees-McRae College, Inc. $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LEHIGH UNIVERSITY $23,810 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LEHIGH UNIVERSITY $10,690 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LEUKEMIA & LYMPHOMA SOCIETY INC $17,530 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LIBERTY EDUCATIONAL MINISTRIES INC $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Light the World, Inc. $10,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Lindsey Wilson College $38,742 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LITTLE FLOWER CATHOLIC HIGH SC $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LIVERMORE VALLEY PERFORMING ARTS CENTER $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LOAVES & FISHES MINISTRIES INC $13,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Long Wharf Theatre/Connecticut Players Foundation, Inc. $30,277 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LOOMIS INSTITUTE $10,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Loras College $26,435 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Loras College $12,527 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Loras College $24,945 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Los Angeles Opera Company $10,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LOST TREE VILLAGE CHARITABLE FOUNDATION INC $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LUCILE PACKARD FOUNDATION FOR CHILDREN $10,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Luther Preparatory School $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Lutheran World Relief, Inc. $11,070 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Lutheran World Relief, Inc. $19,011 GE Foundation Matching Gifts LYCEE FRANCAIS DE CHICAGO INC $21,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MADISON COMMUNITY FOUNDATION $14,450 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MAHARASHTRA FOUNDATION $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MAINE MARITIME MUSEUM $22,111 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Manchester College $12,031 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Manchester College $28,603 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MARBRIDGE FOUNDATION INC $12,545 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MARCH OF DIMES $20,239 2015 GE FOUNDATION CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 10 2015 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 Source Category Organization Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts MARCH OF DIMES $41,286 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MARCH OF DIMES MIAMI VALLEY DIVISION $11,789 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MARCH OF DIMES BIRTH DEFECTS NATIONAL FOUNDATION $10,075 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MARCH OF DIMES BIRTH DEFECTS NATIONAL FOUNDATION $75,269 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MARCH OF DIMES FOUNDATION $17,741 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MARCH OF DIMES FOUNDATION $17,504 GE Foundation Matching Gifts March of Dimes Foundation Northwest PA Division $11,926 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MARIETTA COMMUNITY FOUNDATION INC $30,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MARIST HIGH SCHOOL $12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Marquette University $31,996 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MARTIN MEMORIAL FOUNDATION INC $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MARYLAND HALL FOR THE CREATIVE ARTS INC $10,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Marywood University $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MASSACHUSETTS GENERAL HOSPITAL $10,150 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MASSACHUSETTS GENERAL HOSPITAL $27,886 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Massachusetts Institute of Technology $17,175 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Massachusetts Institute of Technology $45,405 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Massachusetts Institute of Technology $13,410 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Massachusetts Maritime Academy $16,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MATTHEW 25 MINISTRIES INC COMMUNITY SERVICES $13,129 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MAYO CLINIC $25,880 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MCLEAN COUNTY HISTORICAL AND GENEALOGICAL MUSEUM $20,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MEDICAL COLLEGE OF VIRGINIA FOUNDATION $13,002 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MEMORIAL HEALTH UNIVERSITY MEDICAL CENTER FOUNDATION INC $16,246 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MEMORIAL HEALTH UNIVERSITY MEDICAL CENTER FOUNDATION INC $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER $62,190 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER $32,827 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MENLO SCHOOL $20,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MERCY FOR ANIMALS $12,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MESSIAH COLLEGE $25,275 GE Foundation Matching Gifts METANOIA $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts METROPOLITAN LUTHERAN MINISTRY $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MIAMI UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION INC $68,370 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MIAMI UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION INC $28,090 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MIAMI UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION INC $36,253 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MIAMI UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION INC $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MIAMI VALLEY CHRISTIAN ACADEMY $18,350 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY $16,046 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY $29,275 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY $20,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Michigan Tech Fund $59,690 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Michigan Tech Fund $50,780 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MIDDLEBURY COLLEGE $18,775 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MIDDLEBURY COLLEGE $11,475 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MIDDLEBURY COLLEGE $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MIDTOWN EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION $13,980 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MILL MOUNTAIN ZOO INC $49,280 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MILL MOUNTAIN ZOO INC $23,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MILL SPRINGS ACADEMY INC $30,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Milwaukee Art Museum $28,576 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MILWAUKEE SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING $16,025 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MILWAUKEE SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING $13,450 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MOELLER HIGH SCHOOL $22,300 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MOHAWK HUDSON LAND CONSERVANCY INC $15,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Monterey Bay Aquarium Foundation $12,540 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Morehouse College $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Morehouse College $25,000 2015 GE FOUNDATION CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 11 2015 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 Source Category Organization Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts MOUNT GRACE LAND CONSERVATION TRUST INC $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MOUNT HOLYOKE COLLEGE $13,545 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MT ST MARY SEMINARY OF THE WEST ATHENAEUM OF OHIO NORWO $13,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Museum Associates Los Angeles County Museum of Art $14,120 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MUSEUM OF DISCOVERY $14,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MUSEUM OF DISCOVERY $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts MUSIC ACADEMY OF THE WEST $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Muslim Community Center $10,450 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Muslim Community Center $12,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NANTUCKET DREAMLAND FOUNDATION $20,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NASSAU HUMANE SOCIETY INC $13,410 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NATIONAL BLACK MBA ASSOCIATION INC $20,593 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NATIONAL EATING DISORDERS ASSOCIATION $25,025 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NATIONAL EATING DISORDERS ASSOCIATION $25,025 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NATIONAL FOUNDATION FOR TRANSPLANTS INC $10,625 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NATIONAL MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS SOCIETY $21,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NATIONAL MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS SOCIETY $32,320 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NATIONAL MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS SOCIETY $12,940 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NATIONAL SOCIETY OF BLACK ENGINEERS $19,316 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NATIVITY ACADEMY AT ST BONIFACE INC $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL INC $22,195 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NAZARETH ACADEMY $16,700 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NC STATE ENGINEERING FOUNDATION INC $20,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NEIGHBORHOOD HOUSE $10,150 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NEW CANAAN COUNTRY SCHOOL INC $10,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts New York Hall of Science $13,475 GE Foundation Matching Gifts New York University $30,350 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NEWTOWN MONTESSORI SOCIETY INC $10,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts North Carolina A&T University Foundation $10,525 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION $15,879 GE Foundation Matching Gifts North Shore Medical Center $12,310 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NORTHEAST HOSPITAL CORPORATION $14,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Northeastern University $29,035 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NORTHERN RIVERS FAMILY SERVICES INC $24,490 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Northern York County School District $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Northwestern University $47,880 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Northwestern University $14,484 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Northwestern University $15,175 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Northwestern University $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Norwalk Hospital Foundation $33,550 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NORWICH UNIVERSITY $29,300 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NORWICH UNIVERSITY $30,085 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NOTRE DAME ACADEMY $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NOTRE DAME ACADEMY $11,550 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NOTRE DAME OF DALLAS SCHOOLS I $18,144 GE Foundation Matching Gifts NYU LANGONE MEDICAL CENTER & SCHOOL OF MEDICINE $51,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Ohio Wesleyan University $24,403 GE Foundation Matching Gifts OLD DARTMOUTH HISTORICAL SOCIETY $20,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Olivet Nazarene University $50,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts On Course Foundation USA $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts OPERA SAN JOSE INCORPORATED $10,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts OPERA SAN JOSE INCORPORATED $10,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts OPHELIA J BERRY FUND INC $12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ORIGINAL MUSIC WORKSHOP INC $20,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ORIGINAL MUSIC WORKSHOP INC $10,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts OSAGE ARTS COMMUNITY INC $19,240 GE Foundation Matching Gifts OSAGE ARTS COMMUNITY INC $17,838 2015 GE FOUNDATION CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 12 2015 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 Source Category Organization Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts OSAGE ARTS COMMUNITY INC $24,997 GE Foundation Matching Gifts OUR COMMUNITY HOUSE OF HOPE $15,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts OUR GENESIS PROJECT INC $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Our Lady of Grace Day Care Center and School $50,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Our Lady of Mercy Community Outreach $11,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts OXFORD RADCLIFFE HOSPITALS CHARITABLE FUND AND OTHER RELA $12,181 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PACE ACADEMY $19,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PACE ACADEMY $13,125 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PACE Center for Girls, Inc. $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PACIFIC RIDGE SCHOOL $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PALESTINE CHILDRENS RELIEF FUND $13,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PALM BEACH OPERA INC $35,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PAN MASSACHUSETTS CHALLENGE TRUST $12,466 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PAN MASSACHUSETTS CHALLENGE TRUST $51,178 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PARDEE MEMORIAL HOSPITAL FOUNDATION INC $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PAUL SMITHS COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES $25,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PEACE CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS $10,110 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PENCIL, Inc. $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PENN STATE UNIVERSITY $52,210 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PENN STATE UNIVERSITY $30,841 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PENN STATE UNIVERSITY $73,021 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PENN STATE UNIVERSITY $27,375 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PENN STATE UNIVERSITY $68,075 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Peoples City Mission $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PETFIX NORTHEAST OHIO INC $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Philharmonic Symphony Society of New York $10,124 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PI KAPPA ALPHA FOUNDATION $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA INC $14,590 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PLANNED PARENTHOOD MOHAWK HUDSON INC $18,140 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PLANNED PARENTHOOD MOHAWK HUDSON INC $12,528 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Point Park University $20,030 GE Foundation Matching Gifts POTTERS HOUSE ASSOCIATION INTERNATIONL INC $12,283 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PRECIOUS KIDS CENTER $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts President and Fellows of Harvard College $42,035 GE Foundation Matching Gifts President and Fellows of Harvard College $54,120 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Prevailing Community Development & Empowerment Inc. $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Prevailing Community Development & Empowerment Inc. $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Prevailing Community Development & Empowerment Inc. $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PROCTOR ACADEMY $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PRODIGAL MINISTRIES INC $21,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Providence College $18,575 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Providence College $36,525 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Providence College $12,550 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Providence College $35,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts PUBLIC BROADCASTING OF NORTHWEST PENNSYLVANIA INC $10,444 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Purdue Foundation, Inc. $10,175 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Purdue Foundation, Inc. $22,587 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Purdue Foundation, Inc. $21,709 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Purdue Foundation, Inc. $11,154 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Purdue University $17,700 GE Foundation Matching Gifts purpose for life foundation $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts purpose for life foundation $40,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts RAVENSCROFT SCHOOL INC $30,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts RAVENSCROFT SCHOOL INC $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts READING EXCELLENCE AND DISCOVERY FOUNDATION INC $13,022 GE Foundation Matching Gifts REGIONAL FOOD BANK OF N E NY INC $21,467 GE Foundation Matching Gifts REGIONAL FOOD BANK OF N E NY INC $25,966 2015 GE FOUNDATION CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 13 2015 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 Source Category Organization Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts REGIONAL FOOD BANK OF N E NY INC $11,210 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute $26,816 GE Foundation Matching Gifts RENSSELAER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE $16,455 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute $39,164 GE Foundation Matching Gifts RENSSELAER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE $14,081 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute $14,150 GE Foundation Matching Gifts RESOURCES FIRST FOUNDATION $25,300 GE Foundation Matching Gifts RESPITE CARE INC $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Rhode Island School of Design $10,300 GE Foundation Matching Gifts RIDGEFIELD ACADEMY INC $26,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts RIDGEFIELD ACADEMY INC $18,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Ripon College $10,350 GE Foundation Matching Gifts RIVER FIELDS INC $15,181 GE Foundation Matching Gifts RIVERSIDE NATURE CENTER ASSOCIATION $12,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Roanoke College $12,710 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ROCKY MOUNTAIN ELK FOUNDATION INC $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts RONALD MCDONALD HOUSE CHARITIES OF GREATER CINCINNATI $22,025 GE Foundation Matching Gifts RONALD MCDONALD HOUSE OF NEW YORK INC $24,776 GE Foundation Matching Gifts RONALD MCDONALD HOUSE OF NEW YORK INC $34,075 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology $103,125 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology $12,734 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology $12,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Russell Sage College $14,725 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Russell Sage College $24,350 GE Foundation Matching Gifts RUTLAND COUNTY HUMANE SOCIETY INC $20,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts RYE COUNTRY DAY SCHOOL $12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SACRED HEART CATHOLIC SCHOOL $23,855 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SACRED HEART SCHOOLS $32,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Sacred Heart University $12,800 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SAINT ANSELM COLLEGE $17,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SAINT JOHNS COMMUNITIES INC $25,617 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Saint John's High School of Worcester County $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Saint Joseph's University $19,625 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Saint Kateri Tekakwitha Parish School $27,164 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SALTIRE FOUNDATION $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Salvation Army A Georgia Corporation $10,486 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SALVATION ARMY Community Services $22,310 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SALVATION ARMY Community Services $25,655 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SALVATION ARMY COMMUNITY SERVICES $11,975 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SALVATION ARMY SOUTHWEST OHIO & NORTHEAST KENTUCKY Co $13,285 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SAMARITANS PURSE $38,124 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SAMARITANS PURSE $33,834 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Sarasota Opera Association, Inc. $13,031 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SAVE THE CHILDREN FEDERATION INC $12,138 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SAVE THE CHILDREN FEDERATION INC $14,659 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Schenectady Civic Players, Inc. $11,550 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SCHENECTADY INNER CITY MINISTRY $45,163 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Schreiner University $36,800 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SEATTLE OPERA ASSOCIATION $14,440 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SECOND HARVEST FOOD BANK OF NORTHWEST PENNSYLVANIA $19,724 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SECOND HARVEST FOOD BANK OF ORANGE COUNTY $10,835 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Set Free Alliance $20,450 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SETON HILL UNIVERSITY $18,529 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SHEPHERDS INC $18,800 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Shriners Hospitals for Children $28,450 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Siena College $36,405 2015 GE FOUNDATION CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 14 2015 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 Source Category Organization Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts Siena College $10,643 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Siena College $17,051 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SIM USA $28,850 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Skidmore College $19,375 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Skidmore College $22,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SMILE TRAIN INC $28,494 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION $10,475 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Society of Saint Vincent DePaul District Council of Cincinnati $21,955 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Society of St. Vincent de Paul Community Services $13,258 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SOCIETY OF THE SISTERS OF ST JOSEPH Community Services $10,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Society of Women Engineers (SWE) $11,060 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Sonoma State University $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts South Dakota State University Foundation $10,325 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Southern Baptist Theological Seminary $12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Southern Methodist University $15,777 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SOUTHWESTERN DIABETIC FOUNDATION INC $15,130 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Special Olympics Connecticut, Inc. $10,625 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST ALOYSIUS ELEMENTARY SCHOOL $13,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST BERNARD ELEMENTARY SCHOOL $18,896 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST BERNARD ELEMENTARY SCHOOL $10,445 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST BONIFACE HAITI FOUNDATION INC COMMUNITY SERVICES $20,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST EDWARD'S UNIVERSITY $29,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST EDWARD'S UNIVERSITY $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST ELIZABETH ANN SETON SCHOOL $10,850 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST ELIZABETH ANN SETON SCHOOL $22,774 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST JOSEPH ELEMENTARY SCHOOL $10,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST JOSEPH ELEMENTARY SCHOOL $14,767 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST JOSEPH ELEMENTARY SCHOOL $25,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST JOSEPH'S CATHOLIC SCHOOL $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST JUDE CHILDRENS RESEARCH HOSPITAL INC $19,070 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST JUDE CHILDRENS RESEARCH HOSPITAL INC $26,212 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST JUDE CHILDRENS RESEARCH HOSPITAL INC $10,320 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST LAWRENCE UNIVERSITY $38,605 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST LAWRENCE UNIVERSITY $18,022 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST LAWRENCE UNIVERSITY $22,545 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST LUKES SCHOOL $43,650 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST LUKES SCHOOL $12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST MATTHEW ELEMENTARY SCHOOL $13,850 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST MATTHIAS ELEMENTARY SCHOOL $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST THOMAS MORE SCHOOL $12,800 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST XAVIER HIGH SCHOOL $32,275 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST XAVIER HIGH SCHOOL $12,300 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST XAVIER HIGH SCHOOL $12,216 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St. Baldrick's Foundation $25,463 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St. Jude Childrens Research Hospital Inc. $88,477 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St. Jude Childrens Research Hospital Inc. $38,937 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St. Jude Childrens Research Hospital Inc. $26,679 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St. Jude Childrens Research Hospital Inc. $26,894 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST. MARGARET MARY SCHOOL $10,800 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST. MARGARET MARY SCHOOL $28,732 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST. MARGARET MARY SCHOOL $11,360 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St. Mary Medical Center Foundation $12,721 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST. PAUL'S SCHOOL $26,800 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ST. RITA SCHOOL FOR THE DEAF $18,800 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St. Stephen of Hungary School $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts STAMFORD HOSPITAL $51,265 GE Foundation Matching Gifts STAMFORD HOSPITAL HEALTH FOUNDATION INC $20,000 2015 GE FOUNDATION CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 15 2015 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 Source Category Organization Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts STANFORD UNIVERSITY $13,455 GE Foundation Matching Gifts STANFORD UNIVERSITY $11,065 GE Foundation Matching Gifts STANFORD UNIVERSITY $65,985 GE Foundation Matching Gifts STARK MOUNTAIN FOUNDATION INC $12,558 GE Foundation Matching Gifts STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM INC $22,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM INC $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM INC $23,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SUNNYVIEW HOSPITAL AND REHABILITATION CENTER FOUNDATION $18,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SUNNYVIEW HOSPITAL AND REHABILITATION CENTER FOUNDATION $33,808 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Susan G. Komen 3-Day $11,128 GE Foundation Matching Gifts SYCAMORE ALUMNI AND FRIENDS ASSOCIATION $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Syracuse University $10,751 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Syracuse University $32,553 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Syracuse University $50,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts TANZANIAN CHILDRENS FUND INC $49,650 GE Foundation Matching Gifts TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY 12TH MAN FOUNDATION $14,867 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Texas Christian University $15,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Texas Tech Foundation, Inc. $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The ALS Association $24,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The ALS Association $12,859 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE BERKSHIRE TACONIC COMMUNITY FOUNDATION INC $10,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE BRITISH FRIENDS OF MIGDAL OHR $19,163 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The College of New Rochelle $20,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE COMMUNITY FOUNDATION OF WEST CHESTER LIBERTY $10,650 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE COMMUNITY FOUNDATION OF WEST CHESTER LIBERTY $13,340 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Connection School of Houston $10,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Connection School of Houston $10,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Erie Community Foundation $10,900 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Erie Community Foundation $12,425 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION $16,413 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION $29,566 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE HOSPITAL FOR SICK CHILDREN FOUNDATION $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Juilliard School $30,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Leukemia & Lymphoma Society $51,307 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE LIFESPACE FOUNDATION $25,570 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE LOVETT SCHOOL $12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE MARVELWOOD SCHOOL $12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE MASTERS SCHOOL $25,150 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE MEDICAL UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA FOUNDATION $20,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Mission of Our Lady of the Angels $10,850 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE MULTIPLE MYELOMA RESEARCH FOUNDATION INC $33,414 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE MULTIPLE MYELOMA RESEARCH FOUNDATION INC $10,880 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Nature Conservancy $59,805 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Nature Conservancy $41,277 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Nature Conservancy $23,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION $34,979 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION $18,751 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION $35,081 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE PIT FOUNDATION $11,132 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE PRESIDENT AND TRUSTEES OF BATES COLLEGE $43,138 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Salvation Army A Georgia Corporation Community Services $10,565 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Salvation Army A Georgia Corporation Community Services $13,317 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE SOUTHINGTON-CHESHIRE COMMUNITY YMCAS INC $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Trustees of Eureka College $50,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Trustees of Eureka College $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Trustees of The Smith College $14,700 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE UCLA FOUNDATION $12,250 2015 GE FOUNDATION CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 16 2015 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 Source Category Organization Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA AT CHAPEL HILL $21,850 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA AT CHAPEL HILL $14,807 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA AT CHAPEL HILL $18,350 GE Foundation Matching Gifts THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MD ANDERSON CANCER CENTER $50,185 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The University of Vermont & State Agricultural College $10,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The University of Vermont & State Agricultural College $69,375 GE Foundation Matching Gifts TOP HAT PRODUCTIONS INC $11,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts TORONTO GENERAL & WESTERN HOSPITAL FOUNDATION $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Trinity College $52,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Trinity College $16,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts TRUSTEES OF COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK $57,800 GE Foundation Matching Gifts TRUSTEES OF COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK $32,125 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Trustees of Hamilton College $50,960 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Trustees of Hamilton College $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Trustees of Princeton University $43,910 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Trustees of Princeton University $26,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Trustees of Princeton University $30,550 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Trustees of Princeton University $14,555 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Trustees of Princeton University $50,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts TRUSTEES OF THE BERKSHIRE MUSEUM $10,060 GE Foundation Matching Gifts TRUSTEES OF THE BERKSHIRE MUSEUM $31,205 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania $11,340 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania $41,177 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania $43,612 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania $80,610 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Trustees of Tufts College $13,920 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Trustees of Tufts College $22,082 GE Foundation Matching Gifts TRUSTEES OF UNION COLLEGE $27,201 GE Foundation Matching Gifts TRUSTEES OF UNION COLLEGE $18,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Tug Hill Tomorrow Land Trust $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts TURNSTONE CENTER FOR DISABLED CHILDREN AND ADULTS INC $10,025 GE Foundation Matching Gifts TWO RIVERS HISTORICAL SOCIETY $11,017 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UJA-FEDERATION WESTPORT-WESTONWILTON-NORWALK $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UMASS MEMORIAL FOUNDATION INC $27,625 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UMASS MEMORIAL FOUNDATION INC $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNBOUND $14,935 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNBOUND $34,064 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNBOUND $10,526 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNITED HOSPITAL FUND OF NEW YORK $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNITED JEWISH FEDERATION OF NORTHEASTERN NY INC $25,159 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNITED JEWISH FEDERATION OF NORTHEASTERN NY INC $28,146 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNITED STATES MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY ALUMNI FOUNDATION $20,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNITED STATES MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY ALUMNI FOUNDATION $26,150 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNITED STATES MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY ALUMNI FOUNDATION $15,700 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY FOUNDATION $13,225 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Uniting Against Lung Cancer $12,550 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY AT ALBANY FOUNDATION $14,350 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF AKRON FOUNDATION $51,075 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA FOUNDATION $25,400 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA FOUNDATION $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY FOUNDATION $28,275 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY FOUNDATION $16,340 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY FOUNDATION $13,665 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY FOUNDATION $11,350 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA IRVINE FOUNDATION $10,147 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL FLORIDA FOUNDATION $10,175 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO $12,913 2015 GE FOUNDATION CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 17 2015 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 Source Category Organization Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI FOUNDATION $41,242 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI FOUNDATION $39,903 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI FOUNDATION $22,674 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT FOUNDATION INC. $32,782 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT FOUNDATION INC. $16,664 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Dayton $14,800 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF DENVER $14,738 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA FOUNDATON, INC. $11,711 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Illinois Foundation Central Administration $26,170 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Illinois Foundation Central Administration $18,508 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Illinois Foundation Central Administration $99,407 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Kentucky $22,990 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Kentucky $14,801 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Kentucky $19,095 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF LOUISVILLE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION INC $14,310 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Louisville Foundation, Inc. $15,430 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Louisville Foundation, Inc. $65,395 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Louisville Foundation, Inc. $18,425 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND BALTIMORE FOUNDATION INC $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS AMHERST FOUNDATION INC $11,375 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS AMHERST FOUNDATION INC $11,745 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN $10,625 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN $11,150 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN $12,272 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA FOUNDATION $70,171 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA FOUNDATION $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Montana Foundation $13,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of New Hampshire Foundation Incorporated $28,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of New Hampshire Foundation Incorporated $15,325 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of North Texas Foundation, Inc $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DU LAC $33,584 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DU LAC $160,872 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DU LAC $109,874 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DU LAC $26,284 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DU LAC $26,549 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DU LAC $50,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Oklahoma Foundation $53,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH $12,530 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH $12,450 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Portland $27,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Portland $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Scranton $25,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA $12,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT AUSTIN $13,925 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Utah $14,900 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Darden School Foundation $10,529 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA FUND $24,765 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA FUND $13,041 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA LAW SCHOOL FOUNDATION $18,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Wisconsin Whitewater Foundation $18,540 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN FOUNDATION $10,291 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN FOUNDATION $23,872 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN FOUNDATION $16,634 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UPPER HUDSON PLANNED PARENTHOOD INC $10,150 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Ursuline Academy of Cincinnati $10,850 GE Foundation Matching Gifts URSULINE ACADEMY OF NEW ORLEANS $20,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts US Fund for UNICEF $63,183 2015 GE FOUNDATION CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 18 2015 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 Source Category Organization Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts US Fund for UNICEF $46,919 GE Foundation Matching Gifts US Fund for UNICEF $17,170 GE Foundation Matching Gifts USC Upstate Foundation $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UTICA COLLEGE $14,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts VAIL VALLEY FOUNDATION INC $12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY $24,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY $13,975 GE Foundation Matching Gifts VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY $10,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Vassar College $10,075 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Vermont Law School $12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts VIDYA VIKAS CHARITABLE TRUST INC $11,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Villanova University $76,850 GE Foundation Matching Gifts VIRGINIA ENGINEERING FOUNDATION $10,550 GE Foundation Matching Gifts VIRGINIA ENGINEERING FOUNDATION $17,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Virginia Mason Foundation $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Virginia Tech Foundation Inc. $86,631 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Virginia Tech Foundation Inc. $30,101 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Virginia Tech Foundation Inc. $53,959 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Virginia Tech Foundation Inc. $33,624 GE Foundation Matching Gifts VITERBO UNIVERSITY $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts VOLUNTEERS IN MEDICINE CLINIC $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Wagner College $32,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WALDEN SCHOOL CORPORATION $13,390 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WAMC $12,031 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Washington and Lee University $29,850 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WASHINGTON ANIMAL RESCUE LEAGUE $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WASHINGTON COLLEGE $16,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY $35,075 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WATERVLIET CIVIC CHEST INC $50,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Wellesley College, Office for Resources $20,394 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WEST VIRGINIA UNIV FOUNDATION INC $64,922 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WEST VIRGINIA UNIV FOUNDATION INC $34,800 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WESTERN CAROLINA UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION $45,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WESTERN CAROLINA UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION $24,690 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WESTMINSTER CHAPTER OF THE SOCIETY FOR THE PRESERVATION AN $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WESTMINSTER SCHOOL $22,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Westport Library Association $20,843 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Westport Library Association $18,228 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WESTTOWN SCHOOL $20,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WESTTOWN SCHOOL $11,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WHAS CRUSADE FOR CHILDREN INC $14,723 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Wheaton College $25,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Wichita State University Foundation $25,525 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Wichita State University Foundation $23,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WIKIMEDIA FOUNDATION $10,845 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WMHT EDUCATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS INC/RISE PROGRAM $11,539 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WMHT EDUCATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS INC/RISE PROGRAM $22,729 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WOMENS WELSH CLUBS OF AMERICA $49,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WOOSTER SCHOOL $13,400 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION $17,650 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WORKING IN THE SCHOOLS $12,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WORLD ORPHANS $20,711 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WORLD SERIES PARK COMMITTEE $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WORLD SERIES PARK COMMITTEE $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts World Vision International $49,155 GE Foundation Matching Gifts World Vision International $114,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts World Vision International $32,470 2015 GE FOUNDATION CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 19 2015 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 Source Category Organization Amount GE Foundation Matching Gifts World Vision International $35,491 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WORLD WILDLIFE FUND INC $22,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WORLD WILDLIFE FUND INC $11,240 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WOUNDED WARRIOR PROJECT NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS $25,223 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WOUNDED WARRIOR PROJECT NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS $47,180 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WOUNDED WARRIOR PROJECT NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS $22,855 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WOUNDED WARRIOR PROJECT NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS $10,541 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WYCLIFFE ASSOCIATES INC LITERACY PROGRAM $11,113 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WYOMING SCHOOL FOUNDATION $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts X COUNT INC $46,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts X COUNT INC $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Xavier University $33,400 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Xavier University $42,537 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Xavier University $24,062 GE Foundation Matching Gifts YALE NEW HAVEN HOSPITAL $10,375 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Yale University $68,020 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Yale University $71,735 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Yale University $12,729 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Yale University $30,389 GE Foundation Matching Gifts YOUNG LIFE Community Services $15,025 GE Foundation Matching Gifts YOUNG LIFE Community Services $17,225 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Young Men's Christian Association of New Canaan Community $50,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Young Men's Christian Association of New Canaan Community $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF WESTPORT-WESTON $45,530 GE Foundation Matching Gifts YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF WESTPORT-WESTON $45,820 GE Foundation Matching Gifts ZOO NEW ENGLAND $10,110 GE Foundation Non-U.S. Education Institute of International Education, Inc. $55,000 GE Foundation Non-U.S. Education Institute of International Education, Inc. $195,000 GE Foundation Non-U.S. Education Institute of International Education, Inc. $160,000 GE Foundation Non-U.S. Education Institute of International Education, Inc. $70,000 GE Foundation Non-U.S. Education Institute of International Education, Inc. $550,000 GE Foundation Public Policy American Action Forum $50,000 GE Foundation Public Policy ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION $250,000 GE Foundation Public Policy ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION $250,000 GE Foundation Public Policy Bipartisan Policy Center $50,000 GE Foundation Public Policy Brookings Institution (The) $100,000 GE Foundation Public Policy Center for Global Development $25,000 GE Foundation Public Policy Center for Strategic and International Studies $50,000 GE Foundation Public Policy Executive Council on Diplomacy $20,000 GE Foundation Public Policy Foundation for the Global Compact $59,520 GE Foundation Public Policy IBLF $50,000 GE Foundation Public Policy INSTITUTE FOR SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES $100,000 GE Foundation Public Policy Partners for Democratic Change $50,000 GE Foundation Public Policy Partners for Democratic Change $100,000 GE Foundation Public Policy Peterson Institute for International Economics $50,000 GE Foundation Public Policy Peterson Institute for International Economics $50,000 GE Foundation Public Policy Strategies for the Global Environment $50,000 GE Foundation Public Policy World Institute for Nuclear Security WINS $10,000 GE Foundation Strategic Initiatives Center for Talent Innovation $100,000 GE Foundation U.S. Education Council for Opportunity in Education $35,000 GE Foundation U.S. Education Girls Who Code $100,000 GE Foundation U.S. Education Hispanic Scholarship Fund $55,200 GE Foundation U.S. Education Jackie Robinson Foundation, Inc. $60,000 GE Foundation U.S. Education Jackie Robinson Foundation, Inc. $60,000 GE Foundation U.S. Education Jackie Robinson Foundation, Inc. $45,000 GE Foundation U.S. Education Jackie Robinson Foundation, Inc. $52,500 GE Foundation U.S. Education LULAC National Educational Service Centers $44,000 2015 GE FOUNDATION CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 20 2015 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 Source Category Organization Amount GE Foundation U.S. Education National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, Inc. $150,000 GE Foundation U.S. Education Sacred Heart University $50,000 GE Foundation U.S. Education United Negro College Fund $70,000 GE Foundation United Way Barrington Area United Way $16,777 GE Foundation United Way Fondos Unidos de Puerto Rico, Inc. $27,915 GE Foundation United Way FOOTHILLS UNITED WAY INC $29,264 GE Foundation United Way GREATER TWIN CITIES UNITED WAY $116,014 GE Foundation United Way Grove City Area United Way $14,192 GE Foundation United Way Heart of West Michigan United Way $46,724 GE Foundation United Way METRO UNITED WAY INC $530,924 GE Foundation United Way Orange Countys United Way $19,999 GE Foundation United Way THE UNITED WAY OF THE GREATER DAYTON AREA $106,082 GE Foundation United Way Town of Palm Beach United Way, Inc. $18,150 GE Foundation United Way United Way for Southeastern Michigan $35,495 GE Foundation United Way UNITED WAY IN WAUKESHA COUNTY $182,848 GE Foundation United Way United Way North-Northwest $22,250 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Angelina County $59,412 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Brevard County $26,394 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Bucks County $62,172 GE Foundation United Way UNITED WAY OF CENTRAL CAROLINAS INC $21,942 GE Foundation United Way UNITED WAY OF CENTRAL GEORGIA $24,603 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Central Indiana $10,344 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Central Maryland, Inc. $27,140 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Central Oklahoma, Inc. $17,310 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Chittenden County Inc. $16,937 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Coastal Fairfield County $551,022 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Dane County Inc. $17,004 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Denton County Inc. $15,547 GE Foundation United Way United Way of East Central Iowa $28,922 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Eastern Maine $22,353 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Erie County $457,537 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Florence County, Inc. $18,413 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Greater Atlanta $247,096 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Greater Chattanooga $50,581 GE Foundation United Way UNITED WAY OF GREATER CINCINNATI $1,991,332 GE Foundation United Way UNITED WAY OF GREATER CLEVELAND $128,582 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Greater Houston $147,352 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Greater Kansas City $55,720 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Greater Kansas City $48,223 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Greater Los Angeles $11,780 GE Foundation United Way UNITED WAY OF GREATER MILWAUKEE INC $180,692 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Greater Richmond & Petersburg $11,333 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Greater St. Louis, Inc. $10,522 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Greater Stark County $24,279 GE Foundation United Way UNITED WAY OF GREENVILLE COUNTY INCORPORATED $320,461 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Henderson County, Inc. $39,292 GE Foundation United Way UNITED WAY OF KING COUNTY $34,813 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Massachusetts Bay and Merrimack Valley $160,322 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Metropolitan Chicago $168,622 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Metropolitan Dallas, Inc. $130,164 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Morgan County $26,338 GE Foundation United Way UNITED WAY OF NEW YORK CITY $37,920 GE Foundation United Way UNITED WAY OF NORTHEAST FLORIDA INC $20,126 GE Foundation United Way UNITED WAY OF NORTHERN NEVADA AND THE SIERRA $25,557 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Northwest Arkansas $18,741 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Peel Region $269,073 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Pottawatomie County, Inc. $16,177 2015 GE FOUNDATION CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 21 2015 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 Source Category Organization Amount GE Foundation United Way United Way of Randolph County $14,748 GE Foundation United Way UNITED WAY OF ROANOKE VALLEY INC $26,051 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Rutland County Inc. $25,302 GE Foundation United Way UNITED WAY OF SALT LAKE $45,659 GE Foundation United Way UNITED WAY OF SOUTH TEXAS $24,983 GE Foundation United Way UNITED WAY OF THE BAY AREA $28,542 GE Foundation United Way United Way of the Black Hills $32,916 GE Foundation United Way United Way of the Cape Fear Area $156,680 GE Foundation United Way United Way of the Coalfield, Inc. $27,824 GE Foundation United Way UNITED WAY OF THE GREATER CAPITAL REGION INC $401,883 GE Foundation United Way United Way of the National Capital Area $53,785 GE Foundation United Way United Way of West Central Connecticut $31,093 GE Foundation United Way United Way of West Tennessee, Inc. $11,539 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Western Connecticut $74,083 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Western Connecticut (Stamford) $382,642 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Yellowstone County $14,475 GE Foundation United Way United Way Suncoast (Tampa Bay Area) $10,012 GE Foundation United Way United Way-Thomas Jefferson Area $16,487 GE Foundation United Way VALLEY OF THE SUN UNITED WAY $39,879 GE Foundation United Way Valley United Way $14,617 GE Foundation Volunteer Program Support American Corporate Partners Inc $50,000 GE Foundation Volunteer Program Support JA Worldwide $700,000 GE Foundation Volunteer Program Support Pro Bono Partnership of Atlanta $20,000 GE Foundation Volunteer Program Support Pro Bono Partnership, Inc. $80,000 2015 GE FOUNDATION CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 22 3.1.b 2015 GE Company Contributions Above $10,000 for Citizenship Report 2015 GE Company Contributions above $10,000 Contribution Source Category Organization Name Amount General Electric Company Contribution A BETTER CHANCE $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution A Better Chance $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution A BETTER CHANCE IN RIDGEFIELD INC $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution AAA FAIR CREDIT FOUNDATION $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution AAA Fair Credit Foundation $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution ABILIS $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution ABILITY BEYOND DISABILITY $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Ability Beyond Disability $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Ability Beyond Disability $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution ACCION CHICAGO INC $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Actors Theatre of Louisville $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Acumen Fund $100,000 General Electric Company Contribution ADA FOUNDATION $100,000 General Electric Company Contribution AFRICAN AIRLINES ASSOCIATION $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution AFRICAN MEDIA INITIATIVE $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Alan Duff Charitable Foundation $65,000 General Electric Company Contribution ALBANY SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Alliance for Kids Inc. $50,000 General Electric Company Contribution ALPHA-1 FOUNDATION INC. $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Alzheimers Disease and Related Disorders Association $11,000 General Electric Company Contribution ALZHEIMERS OF CENTRAL ALABAMA $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Alzheimer's Society $112,220 General Electric Company Contribution America Needs You (aka New York Needs You) $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution American Academy of Dermatology Inc. $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution AMERICAN COLLEGE OF RADIOLOGY $80,000 General Electric Company Contribution AMERICAN FOOTBALL COACHES FOUNDATION $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution AMERICAN FOOTBALL COACHES FOUNDATION $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution American Heart Association $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution American Heart Association $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution American Heart Association $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution AMERICAN RED CROSS $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution American Red Cross $26,000 General Electric Company Contribution AMERICAN RED CROSS $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution AmeriCares $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Angel Flight $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Apex for Youth Inc. $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution APPALACHIA SERVICE PROJECT INC $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Appleseed Foundation, Inc $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Ardoch Youth Foundation $18,973 General Electric Company Contribution Are You Dense, Inc. $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Arthritis Foundation $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution ARTHUR W PAGE SOCIETY $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution ARTHUR W PAGE SOCIETY $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution ARTSPACE Inc $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Artspace Inc $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution ASIA FOUNDATION $12,700 General Electric Company Contribution Asian American Legal Defense & Education Fund $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution ASPCA $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution ASPIRE FOUNDATION $12,500 General Electric Company Contribution Assist India $49,708 General Electric Company Contribution ASSIST INTERNATIONAL $1,365,951 General Electric Company Contribution Association sportive Entente Montbelieard Belfort ASCAP (EMBAR) $15,407 General Electric Company Contribution Association Terriroire de Musiques $44,657 General Electric Company Contribution ASSOCIAZIONE SALENTINA ANGELA SERRA ONLUS $12,500 General Electric Company Contribution ATLANTIC COUNCIL OF THE UNITED STATES $51,000 General Electric Company Contribution ATLANTIC COUNCIL OF THE UNITED STATES $30,000 General Electric Company Contribution ATLANTIC COUNCIL OF THE UNITED STATES $51,000 General Electric Company Contribution AURORA HEALTH FOUNDATION INC. $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution AUSTRALIAN AVIATION HALL OF FAME $84,272 General Electric Company Contribution Autism Speaks $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution AVENUES FOR HOMELESS YOUTH $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Barnardo's $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution BELLARMINE COLLEGE PREPARATORY $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution BETTY BRINN CHILDRENS MUSEUM $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution BETTY BRINN CHILDRENS MUSEUM $12,255 General Electric Company Contribution Beyond Tommorrow $62,500 General Electric Company Contribution BIBB COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Bids for Kids $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Big Brothers & Big Sisters $50,000 General Electric Company Contribution Big Brothers Big Sisters of Utah, Inc $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Big Brothers Big Sisters of Utah, Inc $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution BITS Hyderabad $24,867 2015 GENERAL ELECTRIC COMAPNY CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 1 2015 GE Company Contributions above $10,000 Contribution Source Category Organization Name Amount General Electric Company Contribution BOLDER OPTIONS $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Bolondo Clinic $50,000 General Electric Company Contribution BOSTON POLICE FOUNDATION $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Bowdoin College $50,000 General Electric Company Contribution BOYS & GIRLS CLUB OF ERIE INC $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution BOYS & GIRLS CLUB OF ERIE INC $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution BOYS & GIRLS CLUB OF STAMFORD INC $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Boys & Girls Club of Stamford Inc $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Boys & Girls Clubs of Cleveland $41,000 General Electric Company Contribution BOYS & GIRLS CLUBS OF SOUTH VALLEY $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Boys and Girls Club $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Boys and Girls Club of America $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Boys Club of Scottsdale, Inc $31,000 General Electric Company Contribution BPW Germany e.V $125,000 General Electric Company Contribution Breakfast Club Of Canada $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution BRIDGEPORT RESCUE MISSION $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution BRIDGEPORT RESCUE MISSION $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution BUCKNELL UNIVERSITY $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Building Goodness Foundation $30,000 General Electric Company Contribution BuildOn Inc. $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution BuildOn Inc. $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution BuildOn Inc. $82,500 General Electric Company Contribution BuildOn Inc. $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Bullitt County Public Schools $80,000 General Electric Company Contribution BUSINESS COUNCIL FOR INTERNATIONAL UNDERSTANDING INC. $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution CANINE COMPANIONS FOR INDEPENDENCE $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution CARDINAL SHEHAN CENTER $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution CARE $1,000,000 General Electric Company Contribution Carnegie Endowment for International Peace $75,149 General Electric Company Contribution Carver Foundation Of Norwalk Inc $85,000 General Electric Company Contribution CARVER FOUNDATION OF NORWALK INC $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Carver Foundation Of Norwalk Inc $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Case Western Reserve University $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution CATALYST INC $27,000 General Electric Company Contribution CATALYST SCHOOLS $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Center for Business and Consumer Ethics $30,000 General Electric Company Contribution CENTRAL JERSEY HOUSING RESOURCE CENTER CORP $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Charitable Org. of TianJing BingHai District $317,798 General Electric Company Contribution Chicago Chapter National MBA Association $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution CHICAGO URBAN LEAGUE $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Chicanos Por La Causa Inc $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Child Guidance Center of Southern Connecticut $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Childcare Learning Centers Inc $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution CHILDREN'S HEAVEN $12,500 General Electric Company Contribution Children's Mercy Hospital $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution CINCINNATI CENTER CITY DEVELOPMENT CORP $100,000 General Electric Company Contribution CINCINNATI CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT $50,000 General Electric Company Contribution CINCINNATI INSTITUTE OF FINE ARTS $99,000 General Electric Company Contribution City of Hope $21,765 General Electric Company Contribution CITY OF LAKES COMMUNITY LAND TRUST $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution CLEAN ENERGY TRUST $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution CLEMSON UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Cleveland State University $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution COACHELLA VALLEY ECONOMIC PARTNERSHIP $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution COLLEGE POSSIBLE $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution COLUMBIA BUSINESS SCHOOL $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution COLUMBUS COMMUNITY CENTER $30,000 General Electric Company Contribution COMMUNITIES IN SCHOOLS OF NORTH TEXAS $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution COMMUNITY CAPITAL FUND $50,000 General Electric Company Contribution Community Development Corporation of Utah $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Community Development Corporation of Utah $70,000 General Electric Company Contribution Community Foundation of Utah $50,000 General Electric Company Contribution COMMUNITY FOUNDATION OF UTAH $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution COMMUNITY FOUNDATION OF UTAH $19,891 General Electric Company Contribution COMMUNITY FOUNDATION OF UTAH $18,235 General Electric Company Contribution COMMUNITY FOUNDATION OF UTAH $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Community Health Centers, Inc $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT FUND $50,000 General Electric Company Contribution CONNECTICUT FOOD BANK INC $12,500 General Electric Company Contribution Connecticut Yankee Council $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Constitutional Rights $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution CORNELL UNIVERSITY $18,000 2015 GENERAL ELECTRIC COMAPNY CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 2 2015 GE Company Contributions above $10,000 Contribution Source Category Organization Name Amount General Electric Company Contribution Corporate Angel Network $40,118 General Electric Company Contribution Council on Foreign Relations, Inc $100,000 General Electric Company Contribution Cristo Rey Jesuit High School $23,000 General Electric Company Contribution CRYSTAL BRIDGES MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART $59,348 General Electric Company Contribution CYSTIC FIBROSIS FOUNDATION $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Damon Runyon Cancer Research $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution DANBURY PUBLIC SCHOOLS $19,000 General Electric Company Contribution DANBURY SCHOOL AND BUSINESS COLLABORATIVE $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Danbury Youth Services $12,000 General Electric Company Contribution Dense Breast Info, INC $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Denver Health and Hospital Foundation $12,000 General Electric Company Contribution DESIGN MANAGEMENT INSTITUTE $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Disabled Sports USA $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Domus Foundation $25,260 General Electric Company Contribution DOMUS KIDS INC $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Downtown Cleveland Alliance $33,159 General Electric Company Contribution Dr Gertrude A Barber Center Inc $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution DRESS FOR SUCCESS WORLDWIDE $12,500 General Electric Company Contribution ECONOMIC CLUB OF WASHINGTON DC $12,000 General Electric Company Contribution ELECTRI International $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Emory University School of Medicine $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Enabling Enterprises $15,651 General Electric Company Contribution EQUAL JUSTICE WORKS $48,750 General Electric Company Contribution Erie Children's Museum $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Erie City Mission $40,000 General Electric Company Contribution Erie Community Foundation $50,000 General Electric Company Contribution ERIE COMMUNITY FOUNDATION $49,000 General Electric Company Contribution ERIE COUNTY MEDICAL CENTER CORPORATION $49,000 General Electric Company Contribution Erie Summer JAM $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Eugenio Maria Hostos de Hostos Community College Foundation $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution EUROPEAN JUSTICE FORUM $14,731 General Electric Company Contribution EVERY WOMAN WORKS, INC $16,250 General Electric Company Contribution EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP FOUNDATION $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution FABLAB FIRENZE $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution FAMILY AND CHILDRENS AGENCY INC $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Family and Childrens Aid $12,000 General Electric Company Contribution FAMILY SUPPORT CENTER $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution FBIAA MEMBERSHIP ASSISTANCE FUND $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution FDNY Foundation $255,380 General Electric Company Contribution FERF $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution FERF $12,000 General Electric Company Contribution Ferguson Library $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Fibrolamellar Cancer Foundation Inc $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution First $173,994 General Electric Company Contribution FIRST TEE OF NEW YORK, INC $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Florida East Coast Railway Santa Train Inc $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution FLYING ANGELS FOUNDATION ONLUS $11,378 General Electric Company Contribution Fordham University $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution FOREVER YOUNG FOUNDATION $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution FOREVER YOUNG FOUNDATION $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution FORMA ONLUS $12,500 General Electric Company Contribution FOUNDATION AT NEW JERSEY INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution FOUNDATION FIGHTING BLINDNESS $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution FOUNDATION FIGHTING BLINDNESS $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution FOUNDATION FIGHTING BLINDNESS $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution FOUR OAKS $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Frateli $125,000 General Electric Company Contribution Freestore Foodbank, Inc $13,000 General Electric Company Contribution French Quarter Festivals Inc $12,794 General Electric Company Contribution FRENCH QUARTER FESTIVALS INC $70,850 General Electric Company Contribution Friends of MC2STEM High School $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution FRIENDS OF THE US PAVILLION MILANO 2015 $1,000,000 General Electric Company Contribution Frisco Family Services Center $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Fundación Gil Gayarre $29,819 General Electric Company Contribution Fundación Gil Gayarre $140,188 General Electric Company Contribution FUNDACJA SYNAPSIS $12,558 General Electric Company Contribution Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution GE Volunteers Foundation $49,856 General Electric Company Contribution GEORGE MASON UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION $50,000 General Electric Company Contribution Georgia State University Foundation $22,500 General Electric Company Contribution GIRLS INC OF METROPOLITAN DALLAS $30,000 General Electric Company Contribution GIRLS WHO CODE INC $50,000 General Electric Company Contribution GIRLS WHO CODE INC $51,474 2015 GENERAL ELECTRIC COMAPNY CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 3 2015 GE Company Contributions above $10,000 Contribution Source Category Organization Name Amount General Electric Company Contribution GIRLS WHO CODE INC $50,000 General Electric Company Contribution GOODWIN COLLEGE INC $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution GREAT BARRIER REEF FOUNDATION $35,071 General Electric Company Contribution Greater Milwaukee Foundation, Inc. $50,000 General Electric Company Contribution GREATER NEWARK ENTERPRISES CORPORATION $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution GREEN CHIMNEYS SCHOOL FOR LITTLE FOLK $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution GREEN DOOR $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution HABITAT FOR HUMANITY $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Habitat for Humanity $55,862 General Electric Company Contribution Habitat for Humanity Dayton $30,000 General Electric Company Contribution HABITAT FOR HUMANITY IN ATLANTA INC $12,000 General Electric Company Contribution HABITAT FOR HUMANITY OF COASTAL FAIRFIELD COUNTY $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution HABITAT FOR HUMANITY OF COASTAL FAIRFIELD COUNTY $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution HABITAT FOR HUMANITY OF COASTAL FAIRFIELD COUNTY $100,000 General Electric Company Contribution HABITAT FOR HUMANITY OF COASTAL FAIRFIELD COUNTY $50,000 General Electric Company Contribution HARLEM SCHOOL OF THE ARTS INC $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution HARLEM SCHOOL OF THE ARTS INC $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution HARTFORD FOUNDATION FOR PUBLIC GIVING $33,333 General Electric Company Contribution HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL CLUB OF NEW YORK INC. $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Hispanic Professionals Greater Milwaukee $78,020 General Electric Company Contribution HISPANIC SCHOLARSHIP FUND $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution HONOR FLIGHT TRISTATE $32,000 General Electric Company Contribution HORIZONS GREATER WASHINGTON $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Horses for Healing Inc $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution HOUSING OPPORTUNITIES INC $30,000 General Electric Company Contribution Human Rights Campaign $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Human Rights Campaign Foundation $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution HUMAN SERVICES COUNCIL $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY CHENNAI $32,032 General Electric Company Contribution INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY DELHI $12,617 General Electric Company Contribution Inner City Foundation For Charity & Education $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution INNER CITY SCHOLARSHIP FUND $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution INSPIRICA INC $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Institute for Human Rights and Business $550,000 General Electric Company Contribution INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC RELATIONS $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC RELATIONS $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC RELATIONS $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution INTERACTION DESIGN ASSOCIATION $40,000 General Electric Company Contribution INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR CPR $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE $3,000,000 General Electric Company Contribution Interstate Oil & Gas Compact Commission $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Interval House $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution IRVING SCHOOLS FOUNDATION $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution JACK & JILL OF AMERICA FOUNDATION $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution James A Haley VAMC $12,000 General Electric Company Contribution JANE RYAN SCHOOL $30,000 General Electric Company Contribution Jefferson County Public Schools $27,000 General Electric Company Contribution JEFFERSON MAGNET SCHOOL $30,000 General Electric Company Contribution JOBS FOR AMERICA'S GRADUATES $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution JOHNS HOPKINS University $30,000 General Electric Company Contribution JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Junior Achievement $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Junior Achievement of Arizona, Inc $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT OF CHICAGO $50,000 General Electric Company Contribution JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT OF GEORGIA, INC $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Junior Achievement of Georgia, Inc $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Junior Achievement of Northeastern $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Junior Achievement of Southwest Connecticut $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Junior Achievement of the Upper Midwest $35,000 General Electric Company Contribution JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT OF UTAH $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT OF UTAH $40,000 General Electric Company Contribution JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT OF UTAH $40,000 General Electric Company Contribution Junior Achievement of Western CT $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution KEEP NORWALK BEAUTIFUL INC $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Kentlands Initiative $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Kentlands Initiative $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Kentucky Center for the Arts $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Kentucky Science Center $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution KENYATTA National Hospital RADIOLOGY WELFARE GROUP $19,498 General Electric Company Contribution Kids Empowered by Your Support $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Kids in Crisis, Inc $10,000 2015 GENERAL ELECTRIC COMAPNY CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 4 2015 GE Company Contributions above $10,000 Contribution Source Category Organization Name Amount General Electric Company Contribution Kids in Crisis, Inc $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution KIDS IN NEED OF DEFENSE $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution KIDS IN NEED OF DEFENSE $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Kids Japan $62,500 General Electric Company Contribution KOREAN SOCIETY FOR AERONAUTICAL & SPACE SCIENCES $13,207 General Electric Company Contribution LA CASA DE DON PEDRO $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution LATINOS IN ACTION $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution LEADERSHIP COUNCIL ON LEGAL DIVERSITY $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution LEGAL AID SOCIETY OF CINCINNATI $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Lincoln Foundation $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Lithuania Radiologist Association $34,461 General Electric Company Contribution LOCAL INITIATIVES SUPPORT CORPORATION $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution LONDON SPORTS TRUST $12,500 General Electric Company Contribution Louisville Urban League $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution LOWES CHARITABLE AND EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION $14,525 General Electric Company Contribution LUCILE PACKARD FOUNDATION FOR CHILDRENS HEALTH $12,500 General Electric Company Contribution LUCILE PACKARD FOUNDATION FOR CHILDRENS HEALTH $12,500 General Electric Company Contribution LUMITY $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Lung Cancer Alliance $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution MAKE-A-WISH FOUNDATION OF WISCONSIN INC. $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution MAKE-A-WISH FOUNDATION OF WISCONSIN INC. $30,781 General Electric Company Contribution MAKE-A-WISH FOUNDATION OF WISCONSIN INC. $38,000 General Electric Company Contribution MALIHEH FREE CLINIC $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution March of Dimes $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution March of Dimes $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution March Of Dimes Foundation $11,000 General Electric Company Contribution MARCH OF DIMES FOUNDATION $12,000 General Electric Company Contribution MARCH OF DIMES FOUNDATION $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Medical University of South Carolina $12,000 General Electric Company Contribution MID FAIRFIELD CHILD GUIDANCE CENTER $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution MIDTOWN EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution MILWAUKEE INSTITUTE OF ART AND DESIGN $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Milwaukee Urban League, Inc $28,261 General Electric Company Contribution Minds Matter of NYC Inc $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution MINNEAPOLIS RECREATION DEVELOPMENT INC $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution MINORITIES IN MATHEMATICS, SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution MINORITY CORPORATE COUNSEL ASSOCIATION $17,500 General Electric Company Contribution MIRACLE EAR CHILDRENS FOUNDATION $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Missouri State University $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution MORENO VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution MUSEUM OF AFRICAN AMERICAN HISTORY $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution MUSIC HAVEN CONCERT SERIES $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution NAMASTE CHARTER SCHOOL, INC $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution NATIONAL ACTION NETWORK, INC $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution National Community Reinvestment Coalition $50,000 General Electric Company Contribution NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution National Fountation for Credit Counseling $45,000 General Electric Company Contribution National Legal Aid Defender Association $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution National Multiple Sclerosis Society $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution National Multiple Sclerosis Society $12,500 General Electric Company Contribution National Partnership for Women and Families, Inc $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution National Urban League, Inc $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution NATIONAL VOTING RIGHTS MUSEUM AND INSTITUTE INC $50,000 General Electric Company Contribution NATIONAL WOMEN'S HISTORY MUSEUM $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution NEIGHBORHOOD HOUSE ASSOCIATION $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution NEIGHBORHOOD HOUSE ASSOCIATION $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Neighborworks Salt Lake $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Neighborworks Provo $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution New Roots, Inc. $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution NEW TECHNOLOGY NETWORK SERVICES, INC. $50,000 General Electric Company Contribution NEW YORK STEM CELL FOUNDATION INC $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution NONPROFITS ASSISTANCE FUND $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution NORTHEAST HIGH SCHOOL $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution NORWALK COMMUNITY COLLEGE FOUNDATION $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution NORWALK EDUCATION FOUNDATION $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution NORWALK GRASSROOTS TENNIS INC $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution NORWALK GRASSROOTS TENNIS INC $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution NORWALK HOUSING AUTHORITY $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution NORWALK PUBLIC SCHOOLS $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution NORWALK PUBLIC SCHOOLS $40,000 General Electric Company Contribution NORWALK SEAPORT ASSOCIATION $10,000 2015 GENERAL ELECTRIC COMAPNY CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 5 2015 GE Company Contributions above $10,000 Contribution Source Category Organization Name Amount General Electric Company Contribution Nova Scotia Community College $108,440 General Electric Company Contribution NYS OGS SPECIAL EVENTS $18,000 General Electric Company Contribution ODTU TEKNOKENT YONETIM ANONIM SIRKETI $34,966 General Electric Company Contribution Oklahoma State University Foundation $35,000 General Electric Company Contribution OPERATION FREEDOM PAWS $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Operation Hope Inc $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Opportunity Foundation Inc $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution OPTOMETRY CARES THE AOA FOUNDATION $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Outreach United Research Center Inc (OUR) $40,000 General Electric Company Contribution Overbrook School for the Blind $16,000 General Electric Company Contribution Pace University $50,000 General Electric Company Contribution PALESTINE CHILDRENS RELIEF FUND $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Palmetto Health Hospital System $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Paper Houses Across the Border, Inc. $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution PARALYZED VETERANS OF AMERICA $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution PARK PLAYHOUSE INC $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Partnership For A Drug Free America $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution PARTNERSHIP WITH CHILDREN INC $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution PENCIL INC $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Pencils of Promise Incorporated $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution PENN STATE BEHREND COLLEGE $35,000 General Electric Company Contribution Person to Person $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution PETE SUAZO BUSINESS CENTER $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution PHM Society $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution PIONEER WORKS ART FOUNDATION $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution PIONEER WORKS ART FOUNDATION $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Plastic Surgery Foundation $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution POLICE ATHLETIC LEAGUE INC $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Pratham USA $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution President and Fellos of Harvard $350,000 General Electric Company Contribution Prime Minister's National Relief Fund $296,744 General Electric Company Contribution PRIMO CENTER FOR WOMEN AND CHILDREN $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution PRO BONO INSTITUTE $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution PRO BONO PARTNERSHIP $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution PRO BONO PARTNERSHIP OF GREATER CINCINNATI $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Pro Progressio Alapitvány $13,333 General Electric Company Contribution PROJECTHANDUP $50,000 General Electric Company Contribution PUBLIC RELATIONS SOCIETY OF AMERICA FOUNDATION INC $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution PURDUE UNIVERSITY $65,000 General Electric Company Contribution Reading is Fundamental Inc $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution REGIONAL FOOD BANK OF NENY $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution RENSSELAER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE $27,000 General Electric Company Contribution ResearchAmerica $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Reseau entreprendre Franche-Compte' $11,118 General Electric Company Contribution RESOLVE INC $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Rheingau Musik Festival 2015 $38,343 General Electric Company Contribution Rice University $75,000 General Electric Company Contribution RISING TIDE CAPITAL $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution RITF HUB CORPORATION $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution ROBIN HOOD FOUNDATION $250,000 General Electric Company Contribution ROBIN HOOD FOUNDATION $1,000,000 General Electric Company Contribution Robotics Education and Competition Foundation $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Ronald McDonald House $50,000 General Electric Company Contribution Ronald McDonald House $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Ronald McDonald House of New York Inc $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution RSNA Research & Education Foundation $100,000 General Electric Company Contribution RYE FREE READING ROOM $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Sagene Frivilligsentral $10,450 General Electric Company Contribution SALT LAKE COMMUNITY ACTION PROGRAM $30,000 General Electric Company Contribution SALT LAKE EDUCATION FOUNDATION $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution SARATOGA ARTS $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution SCHENECTADY CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION INC. $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Schenectady County Chamber Foundation, Inc $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution SCHENECTADY MUSEUM ASSOCIATION $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Shannon Community Development $100,451 General Electric Company Contribution Sharp Healthcare Foundation $13,000 General Electric Company Contribution She’s The First $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution SHELTER FOR THE HOMELESS INC $12,500 General Electric Company Contribution SHEPHERDS INC $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution SIMON WIESENTHAL CENTER $46,500 General Electric Company Contribution SISTEMA DESEM AC $66,649 General Electric Company Contribution SJ Kids Foundation INC $37,000 General Electric Company Contribution Smithsonian Institute $50,000 2015 GENERAL ELECTRIC COMAPNY CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 6 2015 GE Company Contributions above $10,000 Contribution Source Category Organization Name Amount General Electric Company Contribution Smithsonian Institute $500,000 General Electric Company Contribution SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTE $1,000,000 General Electric Company Contribution SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTE $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Society Of Maternal Fetal Medicine $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution SOCIETY OF THE DAUGHTERS OF ST.CAMILLUS $18,750 General Electric Company Contribution SOUNDWATERS, INC $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Sparrow Schools $23,580 General Electric Company Contribution SPECIAL OLYMPICS ARIZONA INCORPORATED $30,000 General Electric Company Contribution SPECIAL OLYMPICS CONNECTICUT, INC $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution SPECIAL OLYMPICS ILLINOIS $50,000 General Electric Company Contribution SPECIAL OLYMPICS MASSACHUSETTS Inc $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Sponsors For Educational Opportunity Inc $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution SPRINGBOARD 2000 ENTERPRISES INC $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution SREE GURUVAYURAPPAN BHAJAN SAMAJ TRUST $51,100 General Electric Company Contribution St Marys Development Corp $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution ST VINCENTS MEDICAL CENTER $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution ST. BALDRICKS FOUNDATION $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution St. Catherine University $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution St. Joseph Mercy Health System $40,000 General Electric Company Contribution STAMFORD ACHIEVES $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Stamford Center for the Arts Inc $10,500 General Electric Company Contribution Stamford Museum and Nature Center $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Stamford Partnership $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Stamford Public Education Foundation $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Stanford University $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Stanford University $100,000 General Electric Company Contribution STEM NEHS Science Lab $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Stepping Stones Museum for Children Inc. $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Stepping Stones Museum for Children Inc. $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Stepping Stones Museum For Children Inc. $30,000 General Electric Company Contribution Stepping Stones Museum for Children Inc. $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Stepping Stones Museum for Children Inc. $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Steps2Hope Inc $12,000 General Electric Company Contribution STORYCATCHERS THEATRE $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution STREET LAW INC $26,588 General Electric Company Contribution Studio Museum in Harlem, Inc $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution SUSAN G KOMEN BREAST CANCER FOUNDATION $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution SWACHH BHARAT KOSH $48,519 General Electric Company Contribution Swachh Bharat Kosh $19,051 General Electric Company Contribution Swachh Bharat Kosh $27,213 General Electric Company Contribution Swachh Bharat Kosh $16,710 General Electric Company Contribution Swachh Bharat Kosh $173,684 General Electric Company Contribution SWACHH BHARAT KOSH $56,255 General Electric Company Contribution SZEGEDI TUDOMANYEGYETEM $13,034 General Electric Company Contribution TANDAZA TRUST $20,100 General Electric Company Contribution TEACH FOR AMERICA $30,000 General Electric Company Contribution Team NEO Foundation $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution TEBOHO TRUST $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Technische Universitat Munchen $39,815 General Electric Company Contribution THE ADVERTISING COUNCIL INC $50,000 General Electric Company Contribution THE ADVERTISING COUNCIL INC $50,000 General Electric Company Contribution THE ASPEN INSTITUTE $50,000 General Electric Company Contribution THE BUSINESS COUNCIL OF FAIRFIELD COUNTY CONNECTICUT FOUNDATION INC $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution THE CARA PROGRAM $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution THE CHILDRENS MUSEUM OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution THE COUNCIL OF URBAN PROFESSIONALS INSTITUTE $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution THE INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR CONFLICT PREVENTION AND RESOLUTION $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution The Lebron James Family Foundation $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution THE LEUKEMIA & LYMPHOMA SOCIETY $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution The Maritime Aquarium at Norwalk $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution THE MEDICAL FOUNDATION OF NORTH CAROLINA $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION $24,447 General Electric Company Contribution THE OLD FIRST HISTORIC TRUST INC $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution THE OSS SOCIETY INC $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution THE PENNSYLVANIA STATE UNIVERSITY $1,000,000 General Electric Company Contribution THE ROAD HOME $50,000 General Electric Company Contribution The South African Medical and Educational Foundation $21,192 General Electric Company Contribution THOMAS ALVA EDISON FOUNDATION $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution TIDES CENTER $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Tides Foundation $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Trail Blazer Camps $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL USA $35,000 General Electric Company Contribution TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL USA $15,000 2015 GENERAL ELECTRIC COMAPNY CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 7 2015 GE Company Contributions above $10,000 Contribution Source Category Organization Name Amount General Electric Company Contribution TRI STATE WARBIRD MUSEUM $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution TRUSTEES OF THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA $12,500 General Electric Company Contribution TSINGHUA EDUCATION FOUNDATION NA INC. $2,000,000 General Electric Company Contribution Tsosoloso YA Afrika Secondary School $17,000 General Electric Company Contribution TÜRKİYE KADIN GİRİŞİMCİLERİ DERNEĞİ $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution TURN COMMUNITY SERVICES $30,000 General Electric Company Contribution Un techo para mi pais A.C. $12,119 General Electric Company Contribution UNICEF $1,000,000 General Electric Company Contribution UNION COUNTY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution United Hospital Fund of New York $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution UNITED JEWISH APPEAL FEDERATION OF JEWISH PHILANTHROPIES OF NY INC $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution United Negro College Fund $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution UNITED STATES AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION $200,000 General Electric Company Contribution UNITED STATES FUND FOR UNICEF $23,000 General Electric Company Contribution UNITED STATES HOLOCAUST MEMORIAL MUSEUM $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution United Way $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution United Way Hungary $14,430 General Electric Company Contribution UNITED WAY OF DELHI $83,926 General Electric Company Contribution UNITED WAY OF GREATER CINCINNATI $100,000 General Electric Company Contribution UNITED WAY OF MUMBAI $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution United Way of New York City $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution UNITED WAY OF NEW YORK CITY $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution UNITED WAY OF NEW YORK CITY $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution United Way of Westerrn CT $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution United Way-Milwaukee $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution UNIVERSITÄTSKLINIKUM Tübingen $17,111 General Electric Company Contribution University Of Utah $72,361 General Electric Company Contribution University of Arkansas Foundation Inc $12,000 General Electric Company Contribution UNIVERSITY OF BALAMAND $13,500 General Electric Company Contribution University of California San Francisco $12,000 General Electric Company Contribution University of Colorado Foundation $16,000 General Electric Company Contribution University Of Connecticut $18,224 General Electric Company Contribution UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT FOUNDATION $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS Foundation $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution University of Kentucky $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution University of Louisville Foundation Inc $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution University of Maine $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution University of Missouri Medical School Foundation Inc $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution University of Scranton $35,000 General Electric Company Contribution University of South Carolina $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution University Of Texas Health Science Center At Houston $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution UNIVERSITY OF UTAH $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution University of Virginia Alumni Association $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Urban League of Southern Connecticut $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution US Foundation for Inspiration and Recognition of Science & Technology $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution US Foundation for Inspiration and Recognition of Science & Technology $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution US-ASEAN BUSINESS COUNCIL INC. $22,050 General Electric Company Contribution Usher's New Look Inc $50,000 General Electric Company Contribution Usher's New Look Inc $40,863 General Electric Company Contribution UTAH CENTER FOR NEIGHBORHOOD STABILIZATION $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution UTAH CHILDREN $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Utah Microenterprise Loan Fund $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Utah Microenterprise Loan Fund $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution UTAH PARTNERS FOR HEALTH $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution UTAHNS AGAINST HUNGER, INC $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution VALLEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution VALORE D DONNE AL VERTICE PER L'AZIENDA DI DOMANI $125,000 General Electric Company Contribution Vanderbilt University $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Vimy Foundation $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Volunteers of America $10,116 General Electric Company Contribution Volunteers of America $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution WARREN COUNTY MONTGOMERY COUNTY COMMUNITY COLLEGE $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Wasatch Homeless Healthcare, Inc. dba Fourth Street Clinic $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Waukesha County Community Foundation, Inc $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution WESTMINSTER COLLEGE $13,750 General Electric Company Contribution WESTMINSTER COLLEGE $13,750 General Electric Company Contribution WESTMINSTER COLLEGE $13,750 General Electric Company Contribution Westport Country Playhouse, Inc $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Woman's Cancer Foundation $15,084 General Electric Company Contribution Women Association of Quannan County $16,015 General Electric Company Contribution WOMENS BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CENTER $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution WORKING IN SUPPORT OF EDUCATION $15,000 2015 GENERAL ELECTRIC COMAPNY CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 8 2015 GE Company Contributions above $10,000 Contribution Source Category Organization Name Amount General Electric Company Contribution WORLD GOLF FOUNDATION $500,000 General Electric Company Contribution Worldwide Hunger Relief Inc $12,000 General Electric Company Contribution XAVIER UNIVERSITY $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Yale New Haven Hospital $40,000 General Electric Company Contribution YAYASAN UPAYA INDONESIA DAMAI $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution YMCA $50,000 General Electric Company Contribution YMCA $12,500 General Electric Company Contribution YMCA CAPITAL DISTRICT $15,000 General Electric Company Contribution YMCA OF GREATER SALT LAKE $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution YMCA of Greater Salt Lake $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution YMCA OF STAMFORD $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution YMCA OF STAMFORD $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Young Enterprise $125,000 General Electric Company Contribution Young Mariners Foundation Inc $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution YOUNG MARINERS FOUNDATION INC $20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Young Women's Christian Associaiton of Salt Lake City $25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Youth Development Foundation of SkillsUSA, Inc. $10,000 General Electric Company Contribution YOUTHLINC $50,000 General Electric Company Contribution YWCA $10,000 2015 GENERAL ELECTRIC COMAPNY CONTRIBUTIONS ABOVE $10,000 Page 9 3.2 GE Volunteers GE Volunteers is a global network that includes GE employees, retirees, Affinity Groups, friends and family — “good people doing great things” — all supported by GE businesses and corporate resources. The mission of GE Volunteers is to facilitate and support volunteering activities that improve life and meet critical needs in the communities where GE people live and work around the world. These activities are carried out through a wide range of projects in the areas of health, education, the environment and community-building. The GE family partners with external organizations to help solve some of today’s biggest challenges in health, education, the environment and communitybuilding. GE is also proud to encourage and support employee and retiree volunteerism throughout its global population. GE’s focus on volunteerism dates back to 1981, and further evolved in 2005 when GE Volunteers was more strategically positioned to encourage broader participation and to support a more significant contribution to our communities. Since 2005, GE employees and retirees have reported more than 12 million hours spent volunteering on more than 52,000 projects spanning 61 countries. In 2015 alone, employees volunteered for more than 1 million hours. Also in 2015, GE’s local Volunteer Councils directed more than $900,000 in grants to community organizations around the globe. These grants helped the lives of many people by funding food pantries, shelters, social service organizations and after-school programs, among other initiatives. GE’s scale also positions us to mobilize large groups of employees for the greater good. We do this each year on Global Community Days — days when all employees in one region or area volunteer in their communities — and through Global Month of Service projects. Each of these projects has had a significant impact on the environment, education, community-building or health. Our 262 local GE Volunteer Councils are a driving force that keeps the spirit of volunteerism alive around the globe. Nearly every day, GE employees in over 61 countries volunteer in their local communities. To recognize outstanding community service, GE continues its tradition of the Gerald L. Phillippe and Impact awards. These awards recognize both individual and team volunteer efforts that make a difference in the community. Cash grants are provided to nonprofit organizations that are selected by the award winners. During the biannual volunteer summit, celebrated in Florida, July 27-28, 2015, 16 awards were given to the winners as recognition for their service in 2014. For nine consecutive years, GE has been recognized by Junior Achievement with the U.S. President’s Volunteer Service Award. 2015 GE Volunteer project highlights include: Singapore | Waterways Watch Society GE Singapore/Waterways Watch Society brought together over 85 GE Volunteers who used their expertise to remove litter from the Mariana Reservoir and along the Kallang River in Singapore by kayak, bike and boat as well as on foot. The impact and ingenuity of these GE Volunteers was featured on the Points of Light blog: Waterways Watch Society Africa | GE Volunteers Get Kids Excited about STEM GE Volunteers in Ghana were able to get kids excited about STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) through a project that raised awareness for 200 teens on STEM career opportunities and engaged students in an interaction challenge. The winning idea was a waste-disposal app. Similar STEM events were held in Nigeria and Kenya. Read the full story. Veterans Network Care Packages Members of our GE Veterans Network came together to promote and support fellow veterans inside and outside of the Company. Multiple GE Aviation Veterans Network councils supported deployed servicemen and women by assembling and shipping over 720 care packages. Each care package contained nearly 30 items, including toiletries, shoe inserts to make long walks on patrol more comfortable, coffee, snacks and notes of appreciation from local schoolchildren. Our Veterans Network council and volunteers are committed to helping our communities and call it an honor to support our U.S. military. Paris | Armée du Salut GE Volunteers and Armée du Salut, a Paris-based nonprofit that works with poverty-stricken families, collaborated to organize dinners in each of its homeless shelters and also sorted toys donated for children in the shelters. Each child received a gift, including a book, a notebook, crayons, a toy, gloves, a hat or scarf, a toothbrush/toothpaste and sweets. Paris | CAFDA GE Paris council volunteers also supported Paris-CAFDA (Centre d’accueil pour familles demandeuses d’asile), an organization that provides help to manage refugee needs, including finding accommodation and food assistance, registering children at school and teaching the basics of living in France. CAFDA also has a “free store” where families can select clothing they need. GE Volunteers helped to sort and organize donated clothes, The impact of our volunteer efforts has been increased by our partnering with the GE Foundation and asking employees to draw on their GE skills and expertise to help make an even greater difference. A significant portion of skills-based volunteerism happens in the GE Foundation’s Developing Health™ programs. GE works on things that matter, and our volunteer work outlined here would not be possible without the commitment of our more than 300,000 global employees who come to work each day with a shared belief that things can be made better — it’s a way of thinking about the work we do and the technology we make for our customers and partners, and for the communities in which we all work and live. Together, we are working to make the world work better. View our volunteering-related performance goals and metrics. GE Sustainability 3.3.a-GE_Sustainability_Human Rights Human Rights Updated January 27, 2016 GE promotes respect for fundamental human rights and views them as a key component of responsible corporate citizenship. In addition to supporting the fundamental principles contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we have joined with other companies to find practical ways to apply its principles in the business community. Our Commitment GE, as a business enterprise, promotes respect for fundamental human rights. We support the principles contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, mindful that the Declaration is addressed primarily to nations. GE has joined with other companies to find practical ways of applying within the business community the broad principles established in the Declaration. Our Actions GE endeavors to advance respect for fundamental human rights within the communities in which our businesses operate. We do this in important part by leading by example — influencing our employees and business partners through actions consistent with policies contained in The Spirit & The Letter. In Our Management Capacity • RESPECTING the human rights of our employees as established in the International Labour Organization’s (ILO’s) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, including nondiscrimination, prohibitions against child and forced labor, freedom of association and the right to engage in collective bargaining • PROVIDING security consistent with the intent of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, as well as the laws of the countries in which we operate, retaining security services for preventive or defensive purposes with instructions to use force only when necessary and to an extent proportional to the threat In Our Business Capacity • DEVELOPING and offering products, including those that meet human needs for power, water and medical care, with due regard for fundamental human rights and a sustainable environment With Our Direct Business Partners • INCORPORATING appropriate principles for The Spirit & The Letter into contracts with suppliers, business partners and distributors • MONITORING adherence by key suppliers in emerging markets to environmental, health and safety standards; prohibitions against forced and child labor, human trafficking and local wage and hour laws • EVALUATING human rights issues involving our direct business partners — particularly in emerging markets — and considering practical responses within the relevant context • ADVANCING application of the ILO Declaration through engagement and collaboration In the Community • SERVING as a positive influence in communities in which we operate, demonstrating by our actions our belief that human rights violations are unacceptable • ASSESSING, as appropriate, the impact on affected local communities of major infrastructureproject financing 2 GE 2016 Sustainability Report 3.3 Human Rights As a diversified, global company with growth in emerging markets, we will inevitably confront human rights issues. GE’s Statement of Principles on Human Rights helps frame our response, and we have issued Implementing Procedures to help our businesses operate in a manner that respects human rights. Those responsible for implementing the procedures reside in various GE businesses, within several functions, and are spread over broad geographies. As a U.S. government contractor; a diversified, global company with growth in emerging markets; and a provider of infrastructure around the world; we routinely confront complex human rights issues. Our exposure to human rights issues is dynamic and evolving. In 2015, GE completed the acquisition of Alstom’s power business. Based on the wide scope of product offerings and construction capabilities that came with Alstom, GE will be directly involved in the engineering, procurement and construction aspects of large infrastructure projects in emerging markets. In the coming years, our challenge will be to integrate the Alstom skill set and processes with GE processes in order to meet our customers’ needs and global expectations on issues such as the selection and engagement of consortium partners; environmental and social issues related to land use and development; assuring security for workers; preventing human trafficking during the project and construction phases; housing of migrant workers; job creation; and more. We have begun the process. Based on several developments in 2015, the Company has been facing new human rights expectations. For example, we work in some countries where the role of women is restricted. We have been undertaking an innovative business approach in Saudi Arabia to empower women in the Middle East. We have been very careful with our entry into Myanmar. In 2015, we worked with others to develop practices that will hopefully reduce modern human trafficking. Based on these new challenges, we took active steps in 2015 to upgrade our core approaches. These new approaches will be rolled out and operationalized throughout GE in 2016. We continue to be actively engaged with government and nongovernmental organizations to partner in practical ways to respect human rights. For example, the United Nations held its fourth Annual Forum on Business and Human Rights in Geneva this past November. GE had not participated in prior forums but was encouraged to do so in 2015 by the forum organizers who wanted a large, global multinational corporation to offer its perspective on business and human rights to a plenary audience that in past forums was disproportionately composed of nongovernmental and government organizations. The 2015 Forum was attended by 2,300 delegates, with the percentage of business delegates at 22%. This business participation was welcomed, and GE was proud to have played a prominent role in the opening session. In discussing GE’s efforts to bring healthcare, water and energy to emerging markets, our observation that weak rule of law breeds both corruption and human rights deprivations seemed to hit a chord with the attendees. Participating in the plenary session of the forum and the programs that followed was an excellent opportunity to talk about the successes and challenges GE faces in the areas of business and human rights. With the adoption by the Human Rights Commission of the UN Guiding Principles on Human Rights and Business in 2012, there has been broad agreement on the Human Rights framework: states’ duty to protect, businesses’ duty to respect, and the mutual duty to address human rights deprivations. In the wake of this agreed-upon framework, there remains government pressures for national action plans and a treaty that would place greater responsibility on multinational entities. Business entities like GE need to “know and show” that they have robust programs to fulfill their responsibility to respect human rights. 3.3.1 Human Trafficking Human trafficking is currently one of the most challenging human rights abuses in both the U.S. and abroad. On any given day, it is estimated that over 20 million individuals globally, the majority female, are subject to human trafficking. Human trafficking can constitute a number of human rights violations that are separately prohibited by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, as well as various GE policies and procedures1 regarding: child labor, forced labor, discrimination, freedom of movement and association, and more. Human trafficking also can include sex trafficking, which is a criminal offense in many jurisdictions. Pursuant to Executive Order 13627 issued in 2012, U.S. federal acquisition regulations pertaining to human trafficking became effective March 2, 2015 and apply to all government contractors, not merely defense contractors. The regulations set out two tiers of requirements for federal contractors. All contractors are obligated to comply with nine prohibitions aimed at combatting human trafficking and to undertake other actions to systemically curb this growing global scourge. In addition, for contractors performing or procuring work exceeding $500,000 outside the U.S. for other than commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) commodities, additional obligations must be met. These include maintaining a compliance plan, assuring that subcontractors (at any tier) adhere to these obligations, and requiring certification that the regulatory requirements have been observed. With respect to the U.S. government contracting initiative, GE adopted an addendum to our Fair Employment Practices policy concerning the issue of human trafficking. GE businesses are also addressing how they will assign ownership for meeting these requirements, develop a method of communicating prohibitions to employees, and establish a means of reporting issues through GE’s Compliance Review Boards as warranted. The Company’s auditing of production suppliers for ethical practices has a long and extensive history. GE’s Ethical Supply Chain program has required assessments of most production suppliers in high-risk countries for nearly all of the prohibited conduct that constitutes human rights violations for some years. To address the U.S. government contracting rules, GE has issued upgrades to the program effective January 2016 to make more clear our expectations that suppliers and their sub-tier suppliers treat their workforces fairly, with specific references to obligations regarding contracts, housing, return transportation and document handling, as well as highlighting other practices that contribute to modern human trafficking. In 2016, we are rolling out targeted training to our teams. Based on past experience with new requirements, our first efforts will be in educating our suppliers and working with them to correct program noncompliance. Given the difficulties in finding human trafficking abuses and the entrenchment of some of the practices, we recognize that it will take time to implement these new expectations across the globe, but we’ll be diligent in our efforts to do so. For details on our approach, see our Ethical Supply Chain program, our California Transparency in Supply Chain Act disclosure and our Supplier Expectations Statement. The UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 also requires select companies to post disclosure statements concerning anti–human trafficking compliance efforts. The final regulations for this Act were just recently issued, and GE anticipates posting a UK compliance statement when required in 2017. The GE Foundation also plays a role, helping fund philanthropic programs focused on human rights, including efforts to eliminate human trafficking. The GE Foundation is proud to fund the Institute on Human Rights and Business in its efforts to combat human trafficking. 1 These include our Fair Employment Practices, Statement of Principles of Human Rights, and Ethical Supply Chain. 3.4 Public Policy GE, one of the world’s largest companies and one active in many sectors of the global economy, engages in public policy discussions that impact our Company, our workers and our communities. GE approaches public policy through education, engagement, involvement and thought leadership. We seek to inform discussions by promoting thoughtful civil discourse grounded in strong, reasoned analysis. We work in partnership with governments, believing that tackling the world’s biggest problems will be possible only if governments and industry work together as partners. Each year, GE evaluates public policy priorities for the upcoming year. The GE team reviews a number of factors, including the potential reputational effects and risks of pursuing or not pursuing a particular priority. We set commercial priorities to increase shareowner value, mindful that our commercial success depends upon progress on broader public policy imperatives. GE has been actively engaged in discussions of global economic reform in such areas as energy, healthcare, financial services, international trade and investment, tax, and government procurement. We continue to be committed to engaging with governments—globally, nationally and locally—through constructive dialogue, the promotion of innovative public policy ideas, the formation of novel public-private partnerships, and investments in solutions that can help address the fundamental challenges that confront societies. 3.4.1 Public Policy Priorities GE’s Board of Directors believes that it is in the best interests of its stakeholders for GE to promote sound public policies at the international, national and local levels. To this end, GE’s Government Affairs & Policy team asks the Company’s business teams to provide a semiannual assessment of their legislative and regulatory priorities. There is similarly a surveying of issues and priorities across GE regions worldwide. Each business provides a description of public policy priorities, ties these to a GE objective and provides input on the significance of the issue(s) to the Company. The businesses also provide input on the appropriate advocacy plan or strategy for achieving a successful outcome—including whether or not GE should advocate for a priority directly or through one of its trade associations or industry coalitions. In the latter case, this allows GE to facilitate coordination with other companies with similar priorities. Once each business has assessed and submitted its priorities, the Government Affairs & Policy team can better determine GE’s overall public policy priorities and resource these priorities accordingly. In evaluating public policy priorities for an upcoming year, Government Affairs & Policy works with GE senior management to review a number of factors, including potential reputational consequences and risks of pursuing or not pursuing a particular priority. We set commercial priorities to increase shareowner value, mindful that our commercial success depends upon progress on broader public policy imperatives. Although deal approvals or other onetime matters can sometimes become priorities, tax, trade, rule of law and intellectual property protections typically top our list of public policy priorities. 2015 GE public policy priorities • Access, quality and cost reforms in healthcare • Effective defense procurement • Effective laws and regulations governing the transfer and protection of data • Free trade • Global environmental and energy policies • Government procurement • Intellectual property protection • Promotion of exports and the free flow of goods • Regulations associated with financial services reform, healthcare reform, and energy and environmental policy • Rule of law, globally • Policies that facilitate movement of people consistent with business needs • Policies to promote effective economic development in less-developed countries • Tax reform and competitive economic policy Learn more about our political activities or grassroots and lobbying disclosures. 3.4.2 Rule of Law Societies with predictable and transparent legal institutions and processes engender confidence, investment and growth. GE works actively to support stronger rule of law around the world. Key areas of focus include anticorruption; legal and administrative transparency and predictability; independent judiciaries; transparency and competitiveness in public procurement; and fair and effective dispute resolution. GE, our employees and the GE Foundation have supported numerous programs to achieve these goals. For example, in 2015 the GE Foundation supported a new program with Partners Global to develop the next generation of African social entrepreneurs. GE Foundation has also supported the International Business Leader’s Forum in its work supporting transparency and competitiveness in public procurement in Russia. The GE Foundation has funded the International Mediation Institute (IMI) to help build mediation capacity in two ways: (1) to advance an international convention on the enforcement of mediated settlement agreements under the auspices of the UN Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL), and (2) establishing competency criteria and a certification system for investor-state mediators. Both programs are strategically significant. By supporting public agencies to develop the use of mediation in their disputes, and by publishing articles on investor-state mediation and the use of mediation in UN conflicts, IMI helps to further promote and encourage the use of mediation worldwide. GE continues to take a leadership role within the B20 Working Group on Improving Transparency and Anticorruption, working to foster cooperation among business communities and governments in G20 countries in the global fight against corruption. In addition to these activities, GE regularly raises rule-of-law issues with regional bodies, such as the Americas Competitiveness Forum and the Asia-Pacific Economic Forum (APEC), to encourage regulatory reform and harmonization as well as the establishment of regional programs to promote rule of law. 3.4.3 Strengthening Global Economies As the global economy continues to recover, GE is working to promote public policies that will help ensure stronger growth in the short term and sustained growth in the long term. In particular, GE engages globally on issues such as trade, government procurement, rule of law, energy, healthcare and financial services. GE seeks to inform policy makers of the practical implications of proposed initiatives, as well as the costs of inaction. While we are pleased that these dialogues are taking place, we remain mindful of the fundamental challenges confronting the U.S. and international economies. One area on which we continue to be particularly focused is sustaining economic growth through international trade. GE has long been an advocate of open markets at home and abroad, and we will remain so. We applaud the Obama administration for its commitment to negotiating strong free-trade agreements with Pacific Rim economies and the European Union. Trade and investment are key to global economic growth, and we believe that adopting policies that enhance international trade and investment will strengthen the global economy, raise standards of living, spur innovation and help alleviate poverty. GE’s global public policy commitments include: • Open Markets: Promote policies that encourage a “level playing field” in global markets, including trade liberalization, market access and investment protection • Technology & Innovation: Promote policies that create and safeguard an enabling environment for technology development and innovation around the world • Rule of Law: Support the development and maintenance of laws and institutions necessary to provide predictability and stability to open markets, with particular emphasis on transparency, procurement rules and dispute resolution Ultimately, GE believes that governments should enhance the health and education of their citizens, build necessary trade-related infrastructure, adopt prudent fiscal and monetary policies, and improve the capacity of their citizens to compete in an increasingly integrated global economy. 3.4.4 Countries of Concern GE does not do business in certain countries because of the legal, reputational and business risks involved. GE evaluates such countries on an ongoing basis, consistent with applicable law. GE does not do business in any country designated by the U.S. Department of State as a State Sponsor of Terrorism, unless authorized by the U.S. government to do so. The countries currently designated as State Sponsors of Terrorism are Iran, Sudan and Syria. This policy also applies to Cuba and North Korea. GE is now beginning to reengage with Cuba, as permitted by authorization under U.S. law. In line with the recent easing of sanctions, we have begun looking at ways to do business in Iran, while fully complying with the rules laid out by the U.S. government. GE no longer maintains broad restrictions on doing business with Myanmar and follows US and applicable laws in its dealings there. Learn more about Myanmar here. 3.5 Grassroots & Lobbying Disclosures GE employees engage with public officials at all levels of government—local, state and federal. Employees educate officials on our Company’s operations, emerging technologies and markets, as well as on our views on public policy issues. All advocacy done by GE employees on pending U.S. legislation is included in our Lobbying Disclosure Act filings. GE conducts lobbying activities in compliance with applicable laws and regulations governing such activities. In the U.S., certain communications with federal, state and/or local government officials or government employees may be reportable as lobbying communications included in GE’s Lobbying Disclosure Act (LDA) reports and/or state or local lobbying disclosure reports. Certain countries outside the U.S. may also require disclosure of lobbying activities. Before engaging in lobbying activities, employees are asked to contact the Vice President of Government Affairs & Policy; the Vice President and Senior Counsel, Global Government Affairs & Policy; or their designee. GE regularly trains employees on what types of activities and communications constitute reportable lobbying activities. Prior approval from the Vice President, Government Affairs & Policy or the Vice President and Senior Counsel, Global Government Affairs & Policy is required before GE may retain an outside entity to engage in lobbying activities. As part of its oversight role in public policy and corporate social responsibility, the Governance and Public Affairs Committee (GPAC) of the Board of Directors receives and reviews, semiannually, reports on the Company’s lobbying expenses. GE uses the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) method to report its lobbying expenses in its federal Form LD-2 lobbying report filed each calendar quarter. Under this method, expenses related to state legislative lobbying in all 50 states are included in GE’s total lobbying expense reported each quarter and reviewed semiannually by GPAC. In limited circumstances, when an issue is of particular strategic importance, the Company may use advertisements or other public communications to urge support for specific legislation or public policy. These expenses are also included in our Lobby Disclosure Act filings. • Q3 2016 LD-2 report • Archived LD-2 reports o 2016 Q2 o 2016 Q1 o 2015 Q4 o 2015 Q3 o 2015 Q2 o 2015 Q1 o 2014 Q4 o 2014 Q3 o 2014 Q2 o 2014 Q1 o 2013 Q4 o 2013 Q3 o 2013 Q2 o 2013 Q1 o 2012 Q4 o 2012 Q3 o 2012 Q2 o 2012 Q1 Learn more about GE political activities. 3.6 Political Activities The success of GE depends significantly on sound public policies in the U.S. at the national, state and local levels. Governments, through advancing their legitimate regulatory and political interests, affect the environment in which GE operates. Every day, issues vital to GE’s ability to recognize value for the Company’s stakeholders are debated and decided in the U.S. Congress, in state legislatures and in local forums across the country—issues such as trade, taxes, energy, healthcare, environment and legal liability, to name a few. That is why GE participates in the political process through contributions from the GE Political Action Committee (GEPAC) and through Company contributions, where legal and appropriate under state and local law. GE and GEPAC make bipartisan contributions to political candidates and initiatives that support strong public policy, promote sustainable growth and robust markets, and, at the same time, promote innovation and the interests of the industries in which GE operates. In making contributions, we naturally evaluate a candidate’s positions on issues of concern to the Company. Our contributions, however, are not based on the personal preferences of individual Company leaders. We base our contribution decisions on the best interests of the Company, and on what we believe is sound public policy, and, in the United States, on what we believe to be the best interests of the United States. Among the factors that we consider in determining which candidates and initiatives to support, GE and GEPAC representatives balance the views promoted by a candidate, the quality and effectiveness of the candidate or organization to which the contribution is made, and the appropriateness of the level of involvement of GE in a given election. With respect to particular candidates, the Company considers, among other factors: • The personal characteristics of a particular candidate (including the candidate’s integrity and effectiveness) • Whether the candidate sits on a committee that addresses legislation affecting GE businesses or the global economy • Whether the candidate represents a state or district within which a GE business operates or is located • The candidate’s committee standing and ranking • The candidate’s elected political leadership position and voting record GE Contributions As part of its oversight role in public policy and corporate social responsibility, the Governance and Public Affairs Committee of the Board of Directors reviews annually the Company’s policies and practices related to political contributions, contributions to campaigns, and contributions to trade associations and other taxexempt and similar organizations that may engage in political activity. The Governance and Public Affairs Committee also receives and reviews, semiannually, reports on the Company’s political spending, including political contributions and contributions to trade associations and other tax-exempt and similar organizations that may engage in political activity. The Governance and Public Affairs Committee will approve in advance an annual contributions budget and issue a report annually on the Company’s political spending. U.S. law prohibits companies from contributing to candidates for federal office, but many states allow corporate contributions to state and local candidates, committees, political organizations and ballot-issue campaigns. As described in the Company’s Code of Conduct, The Spirit & The Letter, any contribution of Company funds or other assets for political purposes in the U.S. must be approved in advance by the GE vice president for Government Affairs & Policy. GE’s compliance counsel works to ensure that contributions comply with the spirit and letter of applicable laws and regulations. Political contributions made with Company funds outside the U.S. must be approved by the GE vice president and senior counsel, Global Government Affairs & Policy. GE’s foreign political contributions are currently limited to Canada. GE believes that it is important for its employees to be informed about public policy issues, and, consistent with applicable law, will not take any adverse employment action against an employee on the basis of his or her personal political affiliation or lawful political activity. GE has established the Corporate Oversight Board, comprising designated senior executives within the Company, including GE’s senior vice president and general counsel, and GE’s senior vice president and chief financial officer. The Corporate Oversight Board meets on a regular basis to review GE’s expenditures and ensure that controls are in place for compliance with its political spending policies and that the expenditures and activities advance GE’s objectives. GE’s political contributions are overseen by a multifunctional team comprising senior executives and representatives from Government Affairs & Policy, Legal, Finance and other relevant functions. The relevant state government affairs regional manager, corporate finance manager, government compliance counsel and the vice president for Government Affairs & Policy review and approve all corporate political contributions. Contributions over $5,000 may not be made without the approval of the Corporate Oversight Board. In 2015, GE contributed approximately $695,850 to political candidates; political organizations such as governors’ associations and state political parties; gubernatorial inaugural events; and ballot initiatives. The recipients and amounts of those contributions are detailed in our political contributions report. All contributions are reviewed for adherence to Company policy as described above. GE also belongs to a number of trade associations at the national, state and local levels. For each association from which GE receives a notice stating that the association has spent or will spend $25,000 or more of GE payments in a fiscal year on nondeductible lobbying and/or political expenditures under Internal Revenue Code Section 162(e), we will ask the trade association to identify the portion of those payments used to fund independent expenditures expressly advocating for or against candidates in elections for public office. We will include in our political contributions report any responses we receive to such requests. Associations As one of the largest and most diverse companies in the world, GE belongs to many associations and coalitions in which we work with our industry partners and represent our Company’s interests. In some cases, these associations and coalitions engage in advocacy at the state and federal levels. While we generally are in agreement with the positions the associations take on public policy issues, membership in a particular trade association does not indicate agreement with all of the association’s views. Occasionally these associations take positions that differ from ours. In those cases, we engage with the associations to express our views. In addition, for each association from which GE receives a notice stating that the association has spent or will spend $25,000 or more of GE payments in a fiscal year on nondeductible lobbying and/or political expenditures under Internal Revenue Code Section 162(e), we will ask the trade association to identify the portion of those payments used to fund independent expenditures expressly advocating for or against candidates in elections for public office. We will include in our political contributions report any responses we receive to such requests. Independent Expenditures GE has a long-standing practice against using corporate resources for the direct funding of independent expenditures expressly advocating for or against candidates in elections for public office. In 2010, the Governance and Public Affairs Committee adopted this practice as a formal policy. GEPAC Contributions GE has been involved with political action committees so that GE employees, acting together, can support candidates who share the Company’s interests, values and goals. GE employees manage GEPAC in a way that is completely consistent with the Company’s commitment to integrity. GEPAC is an independent, nonpartisan, voluntary fund supported by GE employees who choose to participate in the political process by pooling their resources to support the candidacy of candidates who share the values and goals of the Company and its employees. GEPAC raises voluntary contributions from eligible GE employees and supports candidates for the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives and selected candidates in state elections. In addition, contributions to certain national party organizations are made when appropriate. GEPAC also makes contributions to certain state-office candidates, so long as federal PAC contributions to state-office candidates are permitted in accordance with state laws. These states currently include Ohio, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Kentucky, North Carolina, South Carolina and Texas. A committee made up of employees nominated from GE businesses and corporate components directs contributions. The GEPAC Board sets overall budget targets, and day-to-day decisions are delegated to a subcommittee of the GEPAC Board. GEPAC retains counsel to ensure compliance with the spirit and letter of all applicable laws and regulations. In 2015, GEPAC raised just over $1.74 million from more than 4,400 employees and contributed $1.58 million to candidates and committees in federal elections and $217,150 to candidates and committees in state elections in the United States. The Federal Election Commission (FEC) regulates GEPAC’s activities. Reports detailing its activities are available on the FEC website, http://www.fec.gov. In February 2011, GE established a PAC supported exclusively by GE employees who are subject to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB) and/or other rules that affect political contributions by certain financial professionals. In 2015, this PAC collected $75,913 from 160 employees and made total contributions of $71,000. The GEPAC Board governs and oversees this “federal only” PAC and works with counsel to ensure compliance with the spirit and letter of all applicable laws and regulations. Learn more about our public policy priorities. • GE Corporate Political Contributions for 2016 • Archived GE Corporate Political Contributions: o 2015 o 2014 o 2013 o 2012 o 2011 o 2010 o 2009 o 2008 3.6.a 1H16_Sustainability-Site-Political-Contributions_First Half 2016 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR FIRST HALF 2016 (January 1 through July 19, 2016) Payee State Party Date Amount DEMOCRATIC ATTORNEYS GENERAL ASSOCIATION National DEM 05/16/16 10,000 DEMOCRATIC GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION National DEM 05/16/16 100,000 DEMOCRATIC LEGISLATIVE CAMPAIGN National DEM 05/16/16 25,000 REPUBLICAN ATTORNEYS GENERAL ASSOCIATION National REP 03/07/16 50,000 REPUBLICAN ATTORNEYS GENERAL ASSOCIATION National REP 05/16/16 25,000 REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION National REP 05/16/16 100,000 National Total 310,000 LARRY WALKER FOR STATE SENATE GA REP 01/23/16 500 FRIENDS OF JON BURNS GA REP 05/18/16 1,500 CITIZENS TO ELECT BROOKS COLEMAN GA REP 05/18/16 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT THOMAS S. DICKSON GA REP 05/18/16 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT HOWARD MAXWELL GA REP 05/18/16 1,000 MICHAEL A. CHEOKAS CAMPAIGN COMM. GA REP 05/18/16 500 THE COMMITTEE TO ELECT TERRY ENGLAND GA REP 05/18/16 1,000 FRIENDS OF BRETT HARRELL GA REP 05/18/16 500 SHARON COOPER FOR STATE HOUSE GA REP 05/18/16 500 FRIENDS OF SHARON BEASLEY-TEAGUE GA DEM 05/19/16 250 EALUM CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE GA DEM 05/19/16 250 TOM TAYLOR FOR GA HOUSE GA REP 05/19/16 500 FRIENDS OF FRANK GINN GA REP 05/19/16 750 BEACH FOR SENATE GA REP 05/19/16 750 FRIENDS OF BERT REEVES GA REP 05/19/16 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT. DAVID RALSTON GA REP 05/19/16 2,000 COMMITTEE TO ELECT. JEFF MULLIS GA REP 05/19/16 1,000 FRIENDS OF JESSE STONE GA REP 05/19/16 500 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT TOMMY BENTON GA REP 05/19/16 250 CHANDLER FOR HOUSE GA REP 05/19/16 250 COMMITTEE TO ELECT PAULETTE GA REP 05/19/16 250 CLAY COX FOR GEORGIA GA REP 05/19/16 500 MILLAR FOR STATE SENATE GA REP 05/19/16 500 COWSERT FOR SENATE GA REP 05/19/16 1,500 BETHEL FOR GEORGIA SENATE GA REP 05/19/16 750 FRIENDS OF STEVE GOOCH GA REP 05/19/16 1,000 COMM TO ELECT GREG MORRIS GA REP 05/19/16 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT DEMETRIUS GA DEM 05/20/16 250 FRIENDS OF STACEY EVANS GA DEM 05/20/16 500 FRIENDS TO ELECT MIKE GLANTON GA DEM 05/20/16 250 DERRICK JACKSON FOR DISTRICT 64 GA DEM 05/20/16 250 FRIENDS OF RAHN MAYO GA DEM 05/20/16 250 ALBERS FOR SENATE GA REP 05/20/16 500 LEE FOR COBB GA REP 05/20/16 1,000 SEN. JOHN WILKINSON-R GA REP 05/20/16 750 © COPYRIGHT 2016 GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTIRBUTIONS FOR 2016 HOUSE REPUBLICAN TRUST INC GA REP 05/20/16 1,000 WRIGHT MCLEOD FOR HOUSE INC. GA REP 05/20/16 250 COMMITTEE TO ELECT HOWARD MOSBY GA DEM 05/24/16 250 COMMITTEE TO ELECT MARY MARGARET GA DEM 05/24/16 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT KEITH GREENE GA REP 05/24/16 500 FRIENDS OF ED RYNDERS COMMITTEE GA REP 05/24/16 500 FRIENDS OF BLAKE TILLERY GA REP 05/24/16 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT JOHN YATES GA REP 05/24/16 250 WOERNER ELECTION COMMITTEE GA REP 06/07/16 500 FRIENDS OF TIM ECHOLS GA REP 06/07/16 1,000 FRIENDS AND NEIGHBORS OF CURT THOMP GA DEM 06/07/16 250 MATT BRASS FOR STATE SENATE GA REP 06/07/16 500 DEWAYNE HILL FOR STATE HOUSE GA REP 06/07/16 250 GA Total 28,500 FRIENDS FOR STATE REP ANTHONY DELUCA IL DEM 06/07/16 1,000 BRANDON PHELPS FOR STATE REP IL DEM 06/07/16 1,500 ZALEWSKI FOR STATE REPRESENTATIVE IL DEM 06/07/16 1,500 FRIENDS FOR ART TURNER II IL DEM 06/07/16 1,000 CITIZENS FOR CHRISTINE RADOGNO IL REP 06/07/16 1,500 IL Total 6,500 STECK FOR ASSEMBLY NY DEM 03/22/16 1,250 SANTABARBARA FOR ASSEMBLY NY DEM 03/22/16 1,250 GEORGE AMEDORE FOR SENATE NY REP 03/22/16 1,250 FRIENDS OF FARLEY CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE NY REP 03/22/16 1,250 REPUBLICAN ASSEMBLY CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE HOUSEKEEPING ACCOUNT NY REP 03/22/16 5,000 SENATE DEMOCRATIC CAMPAIGN HOUSEKEEPING ACCOUNT NY DEM 03/22/16 10,000 NEW YORK STATE DEMOCRATIC COMMITTEE HOUSEKEEPING ACCOUNT NY DEM 04/17/16 30,000 DACC HOUSEKEEPING ACCT. NY DEM 04/17/16 10,000 NYS SENATE REPUBLICAN CAMPAIGN COMM NY REP 04/17/16 30,000 NY Total 90,000 U.S. Grand Total 435,000 Non-US Contributions 01/01-2016 Canada Total Provinical Contributions 07/19/2016 32,775 Global Total 467,775 For each association from which GE receives a notice that the association has spent or will spend $25,000 or more of GE payments in a fiscal year on non-deductible lobbying and/or political expenditures under Internal Revenue Code Section 162(e), we will ask the trade association to identify the portion of those payments used to fund independent expenditures expressly advocating for or against candidates in elections for public office. We will include in our political contributions report any responses we receive to such requests. © COPYRIGHT 2016 GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTIRBUTIONS FOR 2016 3.7 Government Business GE does business with federal, state and local government customers in many areas. GE’s government-business portfolio has also grown in recent years through a series of acquisitions, primarily in the Aviation, Oil & Gas, and Energy Management businesses. While still predominantly focused on private-sector customers, GE recognizes that our managers and employees must understand what makes our government customers unique. Our government customers serve a dual role: first, as customers for our products and services; and second, as advocates for public policy objectives. As a result, they may request unique contract requirements such as domestic preferences, socioeconomic provisions, and especially stringent business ethics and compliance obligations. GE employees recognize that government customers have a variety of means to enforce these unique requirements (both contractual and noncontractual, including civil and criminal sanctions and administrative judgments) that go well beyond remedies available to GE’s commercial customers. Our government customers are customers for our products and services as well as advocates for public policy objectives. As a result of this dual role, they may request unique contract requirements such as domestic preferences, socioeconomic provisions, and especially stringent business ethics and compliance obligations. GE employees recognize that government customers have a variety of means to enforce these unique requirements (both contractual and non-contractual, including civil and criminal sanctions and administrative judgments) that go well beyond remedies available to GE’s commercial customers. GE’s compliance and integrity culture places the Company in an excellent position to pursue and compliantly perform government work. For example, GE’s Government Business Center of Excellence (GBCOE) features a wellestablished Government Business Practice group, whose members come from each GE business. This group meets monthly and serves as the conduit for government business–related communications both to and from GE businesses, many of which, in turn, have formed business-level GBCOEs to build capability at the local level and elevate issues to the GBCOE as needed. The GBCOE conducts monthly training on contemporary government-business topics as well as GE business–specific training. The GBCOE intranet site hosts a wealth of information on government policies and processes, as well as training materials to support GE businesses that are working with government customers. In 2015, the site received nearly 4,100 visits, and approximately 6,400 downloads of site materials were performed. In 2015, the GBCOE and the Policy Compliance Review Board (PCRB) continued their Company-wide focus on government business; the Company is well-prepared to continue to meet the unique demands of government customers. The following steps have been taken to ensure our readiness: • We have solicited and compiled detailed information from GE businesses doing business with U.S. federal, state or local government agencies, based on GE Government Business Standards, using a simplified online version of the government-business self-assessment tool originally developed jointly by the GBCOE and Corporate Audit Staff (CAS). The assessment highlighted the nature and type of government business GE businesses are performing (including a risk profile); identified potential weaknesses and best practices relative to the Standards; and enabled GE to better orient future governmentbusiness training curricula and CAS audits. • We have continued to support comprehensive CAS-led audits of various U.S. federal, state and local government contracts, including Federal Supply Schedule contracts, as part of a plan to review such contracts periodically. • We conducted numerous training sessions in 2015, including monthly webinars, reaching more than 1,400 employees on key government-business topics. • We conducted a Company-wide government-business conference for over 100 GE employees doing business with U.S. federal, state and local government agencies. • We conducted in-person government-business training sessions at a recently acquired business, introducing newly acquired personnel to the GBCOE, GE Government Business Standards and best practices, tailored to the needs of the businesses. • We supported Energy Management and Power preand post-acquisition efforts for government-business matters for Alstom. • We partnered with GE governmental compliance counsel to reinforce “pay to play” restrictions in key U.S. states where GE does business and provided guidance when needed. • We monitored the Federal Procurement Data System to identify any inaccuracies in the reporting of procurements awarded to GE or misrepresentations of our company size and the basis of the awards. • We dedicated specific attention and resources to state and local contracting issues, which for many GE businesses represent all or substantially all of their government-business activities. • We developed GE-wide implementation policies for many complex new procurement regulations to ensure a consistently high level of compliance. • We continued to closely monitor changes and proposed changes to government procurement–related legislation, policies and regulations to assist businesses in understanding new requirements and establishing the appropriate compliance processes in a timely manner. • Together with Corporate Litigation, we improved a process to quickly identify responsibility matters that may be reportable to U.S. federal, state or local government customers. 3.7.1 Military Products The majority of GE’s sales of military products and services are through GE’s Aviation business and its affiliates. Other GE businesses selling such military products and services are Energy Management, Oil & Gas and Power. The products GE Aviation and these other businesses sell are components or subsystems of primary systems sold directly to government customers or to other companies and include engines for propulsion of naval vessels and military aircraft; flight actuation systems; mission and flight management systems; power distribution and conversion; aircraft structures; flight control systems; gears; gearboxes; and propellers. Among the roles these vessels and aircraft perform are important national security, search-and-rescue and humanitarian missions. GE sales of military products and services during calendar year 2015 were $2.99 billion. GE sales of these products and services are made either directly to the U.S. Department of Defense or a foreign government’s military agency or indirectly to the U.S. Department of Defense and foreign militaries through another commercial entity (GE as subcontractor). In addition, GE Global Research is engaged in research and development associated with military healthcare, aviation, military power systems and electronics. GE sales of these and other products and services to foreign governments are made in strict accordance with U.S. government policy, including U.S. export control law. GE does not manufacture, assemble or sell cluster bombs, land mines or nuclear weapons, nor does GE manufacture, assemble or sell parts intended for use in or provide services for any such devices. 3.8 Research & Development GE works every day to improve the world by pushing the limits of science and technology for our customers. Our products are aimed at solving some of the world’s toughest challenges. GE invests in technology and innovation. Since 2001, the Company’s research and development budget has more than doubled, reaching $4.5 billion in 2015. That figure represents 4% of GE’s industrial revenues. GE’s Ecomagination and healthymagination initiatives have established measurable commitments for creating products that, respectively, improve our customers’ energy, carbon and water-efficiency footprints, and the affordability, accessibility and quality of healthcare. GE subscribes to the belief that good ideas can come from anywhere. GE’s truly global network of research labs gives us the ability to strengthen our overall innovation capabilities, while at the same time tailoring and refining technology to address the unique needs of markets around the world. GE’s research footprint continues to expand, and we now have facilities in Niskayuna, N.Y.; Ann Arbor, Mich.; San Ramon, Calif.; Bangalore, India; Shanghai, China; Munich, Germany; Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Haifa, Israel; and Oklahoma City, Okla. For more information on GE Global Research see http://www.geglobalresearch.com/. View our R&D-related performance goals and metrics. 3.8.1 Nanotechnology As GE explores new ways of applying nanotechnology to solving some of the world’s most pressing challenges, we recognize the need to understand and address possible unintended effects of nanotechnology on human health and the environment.. To that end, GE has engaged in: • Ongoing internal education and stewardship addressing environmental, health and safety (EHS) aspects of nanotechnology, including development of common identification, evaluation, compliance and management approaches across the Company • Actively participating in industry consortia and forums dedicated to nanotechnology issues and to the establishment of standards that address terminology, nomenclature, metrology and other relevant EHS topics for nanotechnology 3.8.2 Stem Cell Research GE develops and provides technology that enables pharmaceutical companies and academic researchers to develop new therapeutic medicines. This research includes the study of stem cells as a resource for drug discovery and cell-based therapies. GE uses pluripotent stem cells derived from both embryonic and adult sources for the development of predictive drug-screening applications and for technologies supporting the development and manufacture of cell therapies. GE recognizes the sensitivities associated with the use of some types of stem cells. Cell therapies and immunotherapies are changing the face of medicine, enabling doctors to address not just the symptoms of a disease, but also its underlying causes, essentially teaching the body to heal itself. The pace of current developments in cell therapy and immunotherapy is promising, with some researchers reporting unprecedented clinical outcomes. However, the field still has many issues to overcome, and GE’s tools and technologies are helping customers make these new therapies affordable and bring them into mainstream clinical practice. GE has ongoing and planned research that uses both adult-derived stem cells and established ES (embryonic stem) cell lines to develop drug research technologies and cell-based therapy applications. GE conducts research in accordance with U.S. federal guidelines, as well as with the U.K.’s and any other applicable country’s legislation and recommendations regarding stem cell research. Our ES cell research programs employ established ES cell lines approved by the National Institutes of Health or other cell lines established in accordance with good ethical practice. GE will not be associated with the primary harvest of human embryo–derived cells or tissues for its research. In a rapidly evolving scientific field, our intention is for GE’s position to accurately reflect the most recent government and public opinions, and, therefore, from time to time, we will update this statement to reflect such changes. This statement was last revised in January 2016. We acknowledge the considerable debate over, and take very seriously the ethical and societal issues associated with, research using stem cells derived from embryonic or fetal tissue. We conduct our research in an ethically and scientifically responsible manner. 3.8.3 Animal Testing GE works with a limited number of animals, primarily rodents, in the discovery and development of novel diagnostic products used in the identification and detection of disease. GE is committed to using the fewest number of animals that will provide scientifically sound data to help ensure the safety and efficacy of its products. GE is also committed to providing exemplary care in accordance with industry best practices for the care and welfare of laboratory animals. GE adheres to the “Three Rs” principle, through which the use of animals is reduced, refined and replaced. This principle forms part of the strict regime regarding the use of animals in medical research. animal studies in medical research. GE recognizes that the use of animals in medical research to advance scientific understanding of biological systems and to develop new medical technologies may be unsettling to some. However, others believe that the challenges and burdens resulting from diseases such as cancer, Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, heart failure and stroke support the carefully considered use of animals for research when other appropriate scientific methods are not available. Recent developments in the fields of genetics, molecular biology and advanced computing are providing unprecedented opportunities for advancements in the area of medical diagnostics while simultaneously reducing the need for the use of animals in research. While we expect that today’s research will result in future medical diagnostic solutions that will benefit both healthcare delivery and patient outcomes, these future discoveries will be dependent, in part, on continued research involving the limited use of animals. Healthcare GE Healthcare’s goal is to enable healthcare providers to better diagnose, treat and manage their patients. A key technology in this effort is the visualization of biological processes at all levels within the human body—from the sub-cellular molecules and biochemicals that make up our genetic structure to cells, tissues and whole organ systems. As such, GE Healthcare performs medical research that requires the use of a limited number of animals to determine the safety of products and to satisfy the regulatory requirements of health authorities around the world. GE Healthcare’s Life Sciences unit develops diagnostic products used to understand and enable the treatment of major diseases in conjunction with Xray, computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), ultrasound and functional imaging systems. Contrast and radiopharmaceutical imaging agents are, in general, injected into the bloodstream to enhance images taken of the structure or function of internal body organs and tissues. GE Healthcare Life Sciences also develops and provides technologies for disease research and drug discovery, development and manufacture. These technology platforms allow researchers to better understand the functions of genes and proteins that may be responsible for disease; screen possible drug candidates and develop them for clinical trials; and manufacture biopharmaceuticals such as insulin. GE Healthcare’s limited use of animals involves the following: • Developing products and technologies that help reduce the need for research involving animals • Research toward development of novel diagnostics • Safety testing of products to meet regulatory requirements • The use of animal-derived materials in GE Healthcare Life Sciences’ biological products supply chain • Marketing of third-party biological products with animal origins Global Research GE’s Global Research Center (GRC) conducts a limited amount of research with animals. The Use of Animals in Our Medical Research • GE Healthcare and GRC use animals in research and product development only when absolutely necessary. The safety and efficacy of our products for use in humans is of paramount importance. • Non-animal methods are important tools that are used to refine and support studies that require the use of animals. The use of animals still remains essential in bridging the gap between the discovery of safe and effective healthcare products and the conquering of disease. Where possible, we use and develop alternatives to animal studies. • Health authorities across the world set stringent regulatory guidelines for the evaluation of new pharmaceutical compounds. These require that all prescription medicines intended for use in humans must be shown to be safe, effective and of the highest quality before being made available to treat patients. • At present, it is not possible to determine the safety of products or meet the regulatory requirements of global health authorities without any animal studies. • All animal studies must comply with local regulations, including appropriate licensing requirements. Studies must also be scientifically and ethically justified prior to initiation. • GE is committed to researching and developing alternative non-animal studies wherever possible. Animals are used only when no suitable alternative is available. Our researchers subscribe to the Three Rs, which advocate for study designs in medical research to reduce, refine and replace the use of animals. • All animal studies are scrutinized and approved prior to initiation to ensure that they are necessary and designed to minimize the number of animals used. Furthermore, all studies are designed to avoid or minimize pain, discomfort and levels of stress for the animals. Finally, once underway, studies are periodically monitored by ethical oversight boards to ensure compliance with all relevant policies and procedures. • As part of its business, GE has developed a number of products and technologies that can help reduce the number of animals used in research, including gene chip microarrays developed for toxicology studies and the IN Cell Analyzer for studying the impact of new drugs on living cells in real time. Animals Used by Species GE subscribes to the Three Rs principle that advocates for study designs in medical research to reduce, refine and replace the use of animals. In the area of research involving animals, GE is considered low-volume in its use of animals. Below is a summary by species of animals used by GRC and GE Healthcare in the years 2009-2015. 3.9 Where We Work Dedicated to innovation in energy, healthcare, transportation and infrastructure, GE operates in nearly 180 countries and employs more than 300,000 people worldwide. From everyday wind energy, to CT scanners, to cleaner, more efficient jet engines, GE has helped shape our world with groundbreaking innovations for more than 130 years. 3.9.1 Africa: GE Kujenga Dedicated to innovation in infrastructure, healthcare, energy and transportation, GE Africa is committed to leadership, integrity, partnership and human progress. GE businesses, ranging from Oil & Gas, Power & Water, Energy Management, Transportation, Aviation, Capital and Healthcare, all have operations in Africa. Major locations include Angola, Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria and South Africa. GE Kujenga is our sustainability program in Africa. The word kujenga means “build” in Swahili, and GE is a partner in building Africa’s sustainable future. Our approach is to empower people by building valuable skills, equip communities with new tools and technology, and elevate ideas that are helping to solve Africa’s challenges. At GE, we are committed to Africa’s sustainable development operating under GE’s hallmarks of responsible leadership and operational excellence. Embodying kujenga means that while we run our businesses, we also ensure that we are making a difference—creating value for societies in ways that also support the Company’s business strategy. As our presence in Africa grows, so does our effort to be responsible citizens in the community. GE is committed to empowering the communities in which it operates by providing skills training and developing leaders. As a major employer in Africa, it is vital that we collaborate with local institutions to develop strong workforces and create opportunities for further growth. At GE, we know that empowering local communities not only benefits local stakeholders, but also contributes to our overall objective of building stronger markets. By investing in people, we are ultimately investing in this continent. How We Empower We work to empower communities through various initiatives, some examples of which are: • Leadership Programs: GE is proud to be known for its leadership programs around the world, which target new and emerging talent and develop future leaders. Some of the programs currently running in Africa are the Financial Management Program (FMP), the Operations Management Leadership Program (OMLP), the Human Resources Leadership Program (HRLP), the Experienced Commercial Leadership Program (ECLP), the Commercial Leadership Program (CLP), the Communications Leadership Development Program (CLDP), the Edison Engineering Development Program (EEDP), the Information Technology Leadership Program (ITLP) and the Early Career Development Program (ECDP). The ECDP identifies high-potential entry-level candidates across Africa and provides essential skills training and leadership training to prepare participants for successful careers in their chosen disciplines. The program combines hands-on experience with formal training to empower participants to become leaders at GE. • Partnership with the African Leadership Academy (ALA): GE is building a pipeline by supporting the development of a future generation of African leaders through partnerships with institutions like the African Leadership Academy. These partnerships are designed to enrich employability and provide a means for talented young people to access networks and opportunities that would otherwise be unavailable to them. GE works with the ALA to create employment opportunities through its Finalist Camp & Scholars program. To date, GE has committed up to $500,000 to this partnership, which will identify, develop and connect the next generation of African leaders. The program provides training as well as internship and postgraduate employment opportunities. In 2015, GE recruited six ALA graduates, making the company the largest employer of ALA graduates for the year. • GE Africa Learning Advisory Board: GE Africa has launched the first GE Africa Learning Advisory Board, with a focus on local technical-skills development. The Board brings together 20 members drawn from GE, Africa, Europe and North America with a primary focus on local technicaland engineeringskills development across Africa. • Investment in Calabar Tech: GE has partnered with Calabar Tech in Nigeria by investing in an upgrade of its facilities, equipment, instructor training and curriculum. This school is training students in areas of strategic importance to Nigeria’s economic development, such as process engineering, as well as in higher vocational skills, such as machining, welding and assembly. • Supplier Development: GE Africa operates a supplier development program for local companies that have been identified as having capabilities aligned to our engineering services needs. The program focuses on developing and expanding the companies’ technical and managerial capabilities through skills development and technology transfer. Currently, there are four Nigerian companies participating in this program. This initiative is in line with our commitment to empowering smalland medium-scale enterprises in Africa. • GE has pledged to equip its host countries with the material and systems needed to widen access to healthcare and other essential services. GE uses its expertise and technological track record to bring tools, technology and training to communities; strengthen rural healthcare provision and respond in times of natural disasters. How We Equip We work to equip communities through various initiatives, some examples of which are: • Developing Health Globally: GE places a particular emphasis on improving healthcare for mothers and children, as part of the global efforts to achieve Millennium Development Goals 4 and 5 targeted at maternal and newborn health. GE’s Developing Health Globally™ program, run through the GE Foundation, operates in 10 countries in Africa, and, in addition to supporting maternal and child health, also improves surgical care and provides equipment to communities. We estimate that as of 2014, Developing Health Globally has touched 12.8 million lives across Africa, and we continue to look for ways to further extend this program in the healthcare sector. Additionally, GE, in partnership with the GE Foundation, has committed to a range of healthcare projects, including ImPACT Africa, a program that assists in the delivery of safe surgery in rural Western Kenya, run in partnership with the Kenyan Ministry of Health, among other partners. This project focuses primarily on developing training programs that can lower surgical mortality rates, as well as improve anesthetic care. • healthymagination: Healthymagination is a GE business model that addresses one of the toughest challenges in the world: access to healthcare. This effort is focused on designing technologies, partnerships and solutions that enable better healthcare in rural settings. The Ifakara Health Institute, in Tanzania, is one of our core external partners in addressing Millennium Development Goals 4 and 5. GE provides Ifakara with portable ultrasound devices that are used by midwives and nurses to assess the well-being of pregnant women in rural areas of Tanzania. Midwives and nurses have been fully trained on use of the equipment by a team of GE trainers. The project will increase healthcare reach in rural areas and offers a cost-effective and simple method to track maternal health indicators. At GE, innovation is at the heart of everything we do. We are determined to elevate the communities in which we operate by lending scale and resources to transformative ideas that have the potential to solve local challenges. We support entrepreneurs in developing new technologies and approaches to tackle local problems, and fund research into new solutions, with a particular focus on energy. How We Elevate We work to elevate communities through various initiatives, some examples of which are: • Partnership with Burn Manufacturing: GE is committed to using its technical capabilities to support research into developing and implementing costeffective, sustainable solutions to everyday problems. GE has been supporting the BURN Manufacturing Co. (BMC) in its Cookstoves Project in Kenya, in partnership with Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC), the U.S. government’s development finance institution. BMC produces inexpensive, durable and high-efficiency cookstoves. These cookstoves will save lives and contribute to environmental protection by using clean energy rather than traditional fuels such as wood. GE has committed $1 million to the development of the project, which has supported the construction of a manufacturing facility in Kenya, as well as satellite facilities in Rwanda, Tanzania and Uganda. • Distributed Power University Challenge: In Kenya, GE sponsors the Distributed Power University Challenge Award to identify and reward projects that provide power for local communities. Projects that have been rewarded include one that uses mobile phones to control wind turbines, providing power to rural households in Kenya. The Distributed Power University Challenge offers young designers and innovators the opportunity to connect with industry partners that can help turn their projects into reality as well as into meaningful improvements for local communities. • GE & USADF Off-Grid Energy Challenge: GE Africa launched a partnership with the United States African Development Foundation (USADF) to run the Power Africa Off-Grid Energy Challenge. The objective of this initiative is to promote innovative solutions that increase access to reliable, affordable and sustainable power. By the end of the third round in 2015, the $5 million, threeyear challenge will have awarded 50 or more grants of up to $100,000 each to African companies and entrepreneurs providing off-grid solutions that utilize renewable resources in order to power economic activities. These energy entrepreneurs are finding solutions for rural communities to access power, including solar-powered mini-grids, home solar systems and revolving credit funds. The awardees come from nine countries across the African continent, and their solutions will provide over 400 kilowatts of new electricity capacity to sub-Saharan Africa’s most rural communities. The Off-Grid Energy Challenge is part of Power Africa’s Beyond the Grid sub-initiative, which aims to drive private investment in off-grid and small-scale renewable energy solutions. 3.9.2 China GE started doing business in China as early as 1906 and was considered one of the most active foreign companies in the country at the time. With a growing aging population and a burgeoning middle class predicted to increase from 6% in 2010 to 51% in 2020, China is faced with immense pressure to support sustainable growth. Our vision is to work with China to help solve its toughest problems and improve the quality of life through advanced technology and investing in local innovation and R&D capabilities. Ecomagination and healthymagination products—including lower-emission, fuelefficient aircraft engines; gas turbines; and a China-developed CT scanner—are two key strategies to help both our customers and China increase their growth while reducing costs and environmental impacts. GE is committed to developing highly skilled employees; suppliers that can meet international quality, environmental, and social standards; and a business environment that supports integrity and innovation. GE provides high-quality training in many sites to help develop 21st century talent not only for GE, but also for China, including training offered at the John F. Welch Leadership Center, which hosts “China CEO Program” sessions between GE, China’s Central Organizational Department, and communities. Our goal is to create innovations, value and opportunities everywhere we operate. Our Employees In 2013, 4,000 GE Volunteers contributed 22,000 hours on almost 200 projects in 22 locations in China. With a special focus on making a difference in education and healthcare, activities included workshops run by senior trainers from the GE China Learning Center for English teachers in local migrant schools; training in multimedia, presentation, essay writing and advanced teaching methodologies; and other activities. GE has played an active role in the activities of Junior Achievement in China for years. As part of this program, from 2010 to 2012, GE Volunteers contributed over 33,000 hours of volunteer time to almost 300 schools, reaching 13,781 students. Programs focused on schools in secondand third-tier cities and migrant schools that tend to lack resources to provide students with high-quality education and innovative teaching. As we do in all the regions where we work, GE actively responds when disasters strike in China. We support areas affected by disasters by donating GE equipment and technology to help rebuild communities. Our medical devices and lighting products enable local clinics and hospitals to provide patients with high levels of care that normally would be unavailable in remote areas. In April 2013, after a 7.0 magnitude earthquake struck Lushan County, near the city of Ya’an in the southwestern province of Sichuan, GE provided a wide range of medical equipment, and GE Healthcare employees traveled to the site of the disaster to show medical practitioners how to use the donated equipment so that it could be put to immediate use. Through recruitment, training and development, GE seeks to help people develop rewarding and enjoyable careers. By the end of 2013, GE China employed more than 18,000, more than 16% of whom have worked for GE for more than 15 years. In China, more than a third of all employees receive training from the GE China Learning Center every year, and about 70% of managementlevel positions are filled from within. EHS Capacity Building Since 2006, GE has been working together with peer companies to support an Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Center in China’s Guangdong Province. The Center has been developed together with the Institute for Sustainable Communities (ISC) and Lingnan College of Sun Yat-sen University, and draws on the expertise of EHS managers and auditors from GE and other companies to provide long-term, high-quality training for EHS managers. By the end of 2012, EHS managers from 7,000 GE factories took training courses at the Center, and 10 more multinational companies joined forces with GE, including Honeywell, Wal-Mart, Adidas, Citibank and Nike, to support the program. In 2011 GE collaborated with ISC and Nanjing University to launch a second EHS Center based in Suzhou, serving manufacturers in the Yangtze Delta area. Annually since 2009, GE China has released the “GE Environmental Report– China,” disclosing environmental performance data and demonstrating GE’s commitment to environmental transparency. Compliance with China’s laws and regulations is at the core of GE China’s EHS policy, and a precondition for any operation or investment in China. GE uses local EHS regulatory guidelines and self-assessment checklists, developed for national regulations on air, water, waste and other environmental areas, to ensure compliance with EHS requirements. This enables GE China to operate responsibly and increase its business in China’s growing market. GE is also a strong proponent of “Treasure Hunts,” competitions that leverage the expertise and creativity of GE employees in identifying energy-saving opportunities. The GE Aviation Suzhou site reduced its electricity consumption16% from 2011. It introduced new compressors and updated lighting in 2012, which saved 1,500 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents. And the GE China Technology Center reduced 1,200 metric tons of CO2e by replacing refrigerators with an energy-saving model. The total electricity consumption dropped 1.43 million kWh year-over-year and saved 1 million RMB. Innovation Center In May 2012, the first customer Innovation Center officially opened in Chengdu, China. In one of China’s high-growth western regions, the 33,000-square-meter compound, located in suburban Chengdu, will reengineer the way we develop industrial solutions and engage customers. China Innovation Center (CIC), Chengdu, provides an open platform for Chinese customers to better work with GE engineers to define and develop new products and technology solutions. As part of GE’s commitment to its healthymagination and primary-healthcare strategy in China, the majority of innovations at CIC Chengdu will be concentrated on primary-healthcare solutions, such as medical equipment and technology solutions for China’s growing pool of primary-care providers at the grassroots level (including diagnosistic solutions such as X-rays, ultrasound and computed tomography; medical imaging post-processing technologies; and healthcare IT solutions). Ecomagination Challenge Eco-Challenge China was launched in September 2011 with seven venture capital partners and received 200 submissions from individuals and organizations with innovative ideas for influencing China’s energy future. In May 2012, a judging panel that included GE Technology and Commercial leaders and external experts selected five projects to be funded. Winning ideas included an engineering solution that converts pressure, otherwise lost at natural-gas-pipeline gate stations, into a steady energy supply for urban heating or cooling systems; a chemical that helps significantly cut the cost of the natural gas–refueling process and potentially paves the way for commercialscale deployment of natural gas–powered automobiles; and a sophisticated membrane system that increases the efficiency of wastewater-stream purification on oil and gas fields. Since 2011, GE and partners have invested $100 million in this initiative in China. Read GE China’s 2014 Environmental Report here. http://www.ge.com/cn/ 3.9.2a GE Environmental Report – China 2014 GE Environmental Report – China (2014) Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) commitments are a priority for GE, no matter where it operates in the world. GE China has specific requirements for protecting the environment and safeguarding the health and safety of its employees, including: (a) complying with applicable Chinese laws and GE’s policies; (b) providing employees with a safe and healthy working environment; (c) assessing EHS legal and reputational risks impacts before starting or changing a business activity, venture or process in China; (d) to the extent reasonably practicable, reducing the generation, use and release of toxic and hazardous materials; (e) publicly disclosing GE China Environmental Report; and (f) continually improving the EHS management system and performance as an integral part of GE’s operational strategy. GE China publicly releases an Environmental Report as part of its strategy to meet these requirements and promote EHS awareness in China. Compliance with China’s laws and regulations is at the core of GE’s EHS policy, and is a precondition for any operation or investment in China. GE uses local EHS regulatory guidelines and self-assessment checklists developed for national regulations on air, water, waste and other environmental areas to ensure compliance with EHS requirements during China’s rapid economic transformation. This enables GE China to operate responsibly and increase business in China’s growing markets. Starting in 2004, GE began collecting greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions data for its worldwide operations. In 2006, GE began compiling waste generation and water consumption data. In 2009, GE China released the “GE Environmental Report – China (2008)”, disclosing environmental performance data for the first time and demonstrating a commitment to environmental information transparency. The current report presents key environmental data for GE China’s operating facilities in 2014. I. Data Sources In 2014, GE had 24 manufacturing facilities (wholly owned or controlled affiliates) in China, the same as 2013. However, in 2014 there were a few strategic changes concerning exactly which facilities were in operation, including: one facility was closed; another facility was sold; a different facility was newly built and started operation; and one other facility was acquired.. This report gathers environmental data from Pollutant Discharge Registration Forms submitted to government agencies or daily environmental monitoring/management by the 24 facilities in 2014. Greenhouse gas (GHG) emission data were collected from GE’s internal reporting system. In order to better represent real changes in environmental impacts caused by increasing 1 production capacity or affected by acquisitions and divestitures, this report tracks Environmental 2 Release Intensities: ratios between environmental impact and GE China Output 1. This metric reflects environmental impact per unit of manufacturing revenue, allowing for historical comparisons and reflecting productivity and material efficiency against production increases, which resulted from effective environmental program implementation. Data in this Report excludes GE Advanced Materials Business (Plastics, Silicone and Quartz) facilities, which were sold between 2007 and 2008. It also excludes other facilities that were divested or sold since 2007. II. Key Environmental Indicators As in past years, this report covers sulfur dioxide (SO2), greenhouse gases (GHG), fresh water use, chemical oxygen demand (COD) and hazardous waste. In addition, nitrogen oxides (NOx) and ammonia nitrogen (NH3-N) were added as targeted pollutants from 2011. 1. Air: Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) Emissions In 2014, sulfur dioxide (SO2) emissions from GE China facilities were 0.845 metric tons, a decrease of 0.49 metric tons compared with 2013 emissions. SO2 emissions have been continually reduced since 2007. The total emissions and intensity of 2014 were only 0.5% and 0.3% of the level of 2007, respectively. Unit: Metric Tons Unit: SO2 (Kg)/Revenue ($MM) SO2 emissions have been significantly reduced by GE operations in China through the steady replacement of coal, heavy oil or diesel-fired combustion equipment with natural gas systems. Historically, progress has been driven by GE Lighting facilities, which had successfully replaced all 1 China Output: revenues from all GE China facilities’ production, including sales in China and overseas, but imports to China and China’s service revenues excluded. 3 heavy oil industrial furnaces with natural gas substitutes by May 2010. The major source of SO2 emissions of GE China in 2014 was the oil fired boiler for heating. 2. Air: Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions GE China’s 2014 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions were 121 thousand metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e), a decrease of 14% from 2013. Emission intensity also decreased by 19%. These large reductions are mainly due to the closure of one energy-intensive Lighting site at Shanghai China in 2014. Prior to 2014, GHG intensity had been dropping steadily since 2007, the result of energy savings efforts by GE China Operations over the timeframe. Unit: Thousand Metric Tons Unit: GHG (Metric Tons)/Revenue ($MM) GE China's GHG emissions arise from electricity use and the consumption of fossil fuels during manufacturing. GE China has been displacing carbon intensive fuels with cleaner fuels—heavy oil to natural gas for example. Upgrading these combustion systems has increased fuel efficiency and reduced CO2 emissions. GE is also a strong proponent of “Treasure Hunts,” which are competitions that leverage the expertise and creativity of GE employees to identify energy-saving opportunities. In 2014, great results were achieved using this method. For example, GE China Technology Center replaced its heat pumps with a chilling system for air conditioning, which saved about 2,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents in 2014. More information on GE’s GHG inventory, including methodology, Quality Control/Assurance processes, baseline verifications, and the extent to which GE follows the World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) GHG Protocol can be found at http://www.gesustainability.com/building-things-that-matter/energy-and-climate/ecomagination -ghg-goal/ 4 3. Air: Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) Emissions Since 2011, GE China has been tracking and analyzing NOx emissions. GE China facilities released 80 metric tons of NOx in 2014, down nearly 50% from 2013, while intensity decreased by 52%. The reduction is mainly due to the shutdown of one GE Lighting facility in 2014, which was a strong contributor to NOx emissions of GE China. Unit: Metric Tons Unit: NOx (Kg)/Revenue ($MM) GE China NOx emissions are produced primarily by the combustion of lighting industrial glass furnaces. 4. Water: Fresh Water Use GE China used 778 thousand metric tons of fresh water2 in 2014, a 21% decrease from 2013.Fresh water use intensity also saw a decline of over 25%, which is mainly from the closure of one heavy-water-consumption Lighting facility in 2014. Through “Treasure Hunts”, opportunities for fresh water saving and waste water reduction have been identified. Besides simple methods like leakage inspection and repair of water facilities, pipes and valves in 2014, systematic water recycling projects contributed to the continual reduction of fresh water use in GE China sites. GE Healthcare Life Science’s Tonglu Whatman facility in Hangzhou produces specialized filter paper for laboratory and medical applications. To comply with new aggressive water efficiency regulations, HC Tonglu site decided to introduce waste water recycling project. After a year of design and construction, the system allows for recycling of more than 90% of wastewater using a flocculation sedimentation-bag filtration-ultra filtration (UF) 2 Fresh water use includes public potable water, process and domestic water, as well as non-contact cooling waters from freshwater sources. 5 process. In addition, the tertiary treatment phase, which uses GE‘s advanced Ultra Filtration technology, contributes significantly to the overall system efficiency. On average, the site now saves 60 tons of fresh water and captures 420RMB in cost savings per ton of product. Annual water use is projected to be reduced by 168,348 tons in 2015. Unit: Thousand Metric Tons Unit: Fresh water (Metric Tons)/Revenue ($MM) In 2008, GE announced a global water reduction goal for manufacturing operations – a 20% reduction by 2012 from a 2006 baseline. In early 2009, GE further proposed a 25% water reduction goal by 2015. In 2014, there has been a 42% fresh water usage reduction compared to 2006. As part of our Ecomagination goal to reduce our freshwater consumption, GE has a special program for those locations that consume more than 15 million gallons of freshwater a year. These locations account for approximately 90% of GE’s total freshwater usage. GE’s Global Research Center reviewed the 69 sites that used more than 15 million gallons of freshwater in 2014 against the Maplecroft Water Stress Index. 12 sites were identified as being located in potentially extremely water-scarce regions (Water Stress Index (WSI) ≥0.8; Maplecroft rating of ‘Extreme’), and 18 additional sites were identified as being in areas with a medium level of water scarcity (WSI between 0.40 and 0.8; Maplecroft rating of ‘High’). Overall, 1.51 billion gallons, or 19% of the total freshwater consumption by sites that used more than 15 million gallons in 2014, were consumed in water-scarce areas. In 2014, GE’s consumption of freshwater in water-scarce areas increased by 4.7% compared to what was reported in 2013. This slight increase is attributed to the addition to the inventory of a new acquisition that is located in a water-scarce region. Of most concern to GE were the sites in developing countries that historically have had less ability to react in the event of an actual water shortage. For example, our research center in Bangalore, India, is in a region that Maplecroft categorizes as one with extreme water scarcity. The facility underwent a major upgrade of its wastewater treatment system, installing a GE technology (a membrane bioreactor using Zee-Weed ultrafiltration membranes), plus other changes that have reduced per capita water usage by 47% between 2006 and 2014. 5 In 2014, 4 of GE’s sites that are categorized as being located in extremely water-scarce areas are in the Greater Shanghai region of China. Compared to the total water usage in the region, the usage of these Shanghai-area sites is minute. But we expect additional opportunities to reduce usage at these sites in the future. In recent years, GE has designed many other tools to help facilities implement water saving measures and assess water saving benefits. To learn more about this initiative, please visit: http://www.gesustainability.com/building-things-that-matter/water/ 5. Water: Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) GE China facilities discharged 88.9 metric tons of COD in 2014, nearly identical to 2013. The increase of COD due to the introduction of new facilities/production lines was nearly offset by the decrease from the shutdown of old facilities, which is the main reason for the flatness in the below chart from 2013 to 2014. All of the COD discharged by GE China 2014 was sent to local industrial park or municipal waste water treatment plants for further treatment before discharge to a natural water body. Unit: Metric Tons Unit: COD (Kg)/Revenue ($MM) 6. Water: Ammonia-Nitrogen (NH3-N) NH3-N discharge is mainly generated from sanitary wastewater streams. Since 2011, all sites in GE China have been tracking and analyzing NH3-N discharge. There were a total of 5.9 metric tons of NH3-N discharged in 2014, a 34%, or3 metric ton, reduction from 2013. Meanwhile, NH3-N 6 intensity dropped 38% from 2013. The reduction is due to the control of NH3-N with optimization of MBR systems as well as the decrease in number of employees in GE China operation sites in 2014 Unit: Metric Tons Unit: NH3-N (Kg)/Revenue ($MM) 7. Hazardous Waste In 2014, GE China facilities generated 843 metric tons of hazardous waste, a decrease of 6.4% from 2013. Similarly, 2014 hazardous waste generation intensity dropped by 10.4%. Both dropping rates are twice the figures of 2013. Besides the closure of one GE Lighting site, the continual improvement in hazardous waste management across GE China sites contributed to these considerable reductions. For example, GE Aviation Suzhou Site has been working on a waste reduction project for several years, and successfully reduced 25 metric tons of hazardous waste through the recycling of emulsion in 2014. Unit: Metric Tons Unit: HW (Metric Tons)/Revenue ($MM) 7 Moreover, GE China employs the GE global Waste Vendor Qualification Program, which requires all hazardous waste vendors to meet GE internal standards in addition to regulatory requirements. III. Environmental Awards In 2014, GE continues to be a steady recipient of EHS recognition from government authorities, nonprofit organizations and media outlets for outstanding EHS leadership or management system. Below listed are some examples: GE Power & Water  GE P&W Hangzhou site received numerous EHS awards in 2014. Hangzhou EPB rated the facility as “Environment Green Enterprise”(环境诚信绿色等级企业)for the sixth consecutive year in 2014, continuing a legacy of environmental management excellence. Xiaoshan Economic-Technological Development Area Management Office also awarded the Hangzhou Site as “Advanced Enterprise of Energy Saving and Emission Reduction “, Site Environmental Leader as “Advanced Individual of Environmental Protection”. GE Healthcare  GE Healthcare Tonglu Site was highly commended by Tonglu EPB in 2014 and awarded RMB 120,000 from an environmental fund for the successful Waste Water Recycling Project. Tonglu Site also passed Cleaner Production Audit in July 2014, and received awards from Hangzhou Economic and Information Commission, and Tonglu Economic Development Zone Management Office respectively.  GE Healthcare Beijing Site received an award as “Excellent Organizer of Environmental Protection Knowledge Contest” by Yizhuang Economic Development Zone Management Office. GE Aviation  GE Aviation Suzhou Site has successfully passed the Cleaner Production Audit by EPB in 2014. 8 3.9.3 Latin America GE has had a solid presence in Latin America for more than 116 years, since establishing our first operations in Mexico in 1896. Today, over 22,000 employees work in our 84 offices and 44 industrial facilities distributed in 31 Latin American countries. Our regional headquarters are located in the city of São Paulo, Brazil. We manufacture locomotives; equipment and solutions for water treatment and reuse; and healthcare equipment. We also develop and provide power generators; aviation equipment; overhaul services; lighting solutions; and financial services. The main industries we serve in the region are: energy, mining, oil & gas, water & process technologies, aviation, transportation, power generation and healthcare. With revenues around US$8.2 billion in 2013, Latin America is one of GE’s fastest-growing emerging markets, representing a key element of GE’s expansion strategy in emerging economies. Regionalizing GE’S Sustainability As in any other region of the world, the challenges that we face in Latin America are unique and require efforts that are developed and implemented locally. As part of our commitment to help address these challenges, we took a deep dive into localizing our global Sustainability agenda in Latin America. This regionalization effort began in 2012 by identifying challenges most material to GE in the region, and facilitating the incorporation of sustainability principles into our local business strategy. Our regional Sustainability agenda aims to address four key value drivers: localization, environmental regulation, customer orientation and reputation. We have identified six strategic sustainability areas as the focus of our local efforts: access to healthcare; water scarcity and quality; energy consumption; climate change; skills gaps; and localization. Localization and Customers’ Partnerships In order to better serve our customers’ local needs, we are building a Global Research Center (GRC)—GE’s first in Latin America and our fifth worldwide. Expected to be inaugurated in 2014 in Ilha do Fundão, in the city of Rio de Janeiro, our GRC already employs 80 researchers working on developing technological solutions in the oil and gas, bioenergy, mining, rail, aviation and healthcare industries. In Mexico, our GE Advanced Engineering Center (GEIQ) is another example of GE’s commitment to conducting local research and development (R&D) that will address our customers’ sustainability issues in the aviation and power generation industries. It is the largest technological center outside the United States for GE Aviation, and employs 1,500 local engineers. How GE Works Employees GE has a long tradition of investing in talent development. GE spent over US$18 million in Leadership Learning in 2013 in Latin America. The health and safety of our employees is also critically important to the overall success of our business. One of the ways in which we ensure our workers’ health and safety is through our global health and safety certification award program, GlobalStar™. Today, 17 sites in Latin America are GlobalStar-certified. Another 18 sites in Mexico are certified by Mexico Star, which is an equivalent certification program awarded by Mexican authorities. Building Things That Matter Access to Healthcare Through a partnership between GE, a leading cancer-treatment hospital in Barretos, Brazil, a shopping center, and a breast cancer project, more than 400 women received free mammography exams to identify possible breast cancer in its early stages. The tests were conducted in the only mobile unit in the world possessing two digital mammography machines. The outreach occurred during Outubro Rosa (Pink October), a nationwide effort to raise awareness about breast cancer and prevention. We also are helping improve national healthcare systems through the GE Foundation’s Developing Health Globally™ (DHG) program, a GE signature initiative to improve access to quality healthcare for some of the world’s most vulnerable populations through strategic investments in healthcare infrastructure and in medical technology and training. Through the DHG’s program in Honduras, we installed filtration systems to help increase access to potable water and lower the cost burden on local hospitals. GE Water redesigned the entire water-treatment system to make it simpler and lower-cost. Hospitals across Honduras are able to more easily operate and maintain the new system—even in resource-poor settings with harsh environmental conditions, common challenges in the region. Through the DHG program, GE Foundation has invested over US$700,000 on developing health in Honduras in 2013. Water Latin America has vast resources of freshwater, with some of the world’s largest rivers. However, due to rapid industrialization, population growth, pollution and socioeconomic inequality, more than 70 million Latin Americans lack access to clean water. In response to water scarcity and quality issues, GE promotes wastewater reclamation, treatment and recycling technologies, mainly for industrial applications and public utilities. We have deployed one of the world’s largest fleets of mobile water-treatment systems, providing rapid response for a full range of reverse osmosis, filtration, demineralization, softening, and deoxygenation treatment on demand. These mobile units are now being produced in our plant in Sorocaba, in the state of São Paulo. We also bring water purification solutions to industry and communities, such as our ZeeWeed®ultrafiltration membrane technology, one of the most advanced effluent-treatment technologies. We’ve deployed this technology in the city of Campinas, where untreated sewage was previously discharged into rivers, compromising communities and businesses downstream. In partnership with SANASA, Campinas’ municipal wastewater plant, ZeeWeed is allowing us to treat 100% of the city’s sewage. This is the first of many projects to help Brazilian municipal governments in their efforts to achieve universal water and wastewater coverage. Energy We have significantly increased Brazil’s wind power generation, with over 600 wind turbines installed in 2013. Historically, Brazil has relied heavily on hydropower, which accounts for 75% of the country’s electricity supply. However, although wind accounts for only 0.9% of Brazil’s energy supply, it is the fastestgrowing source of power generation in Brazil, and GE is leading this effort. We expect to have over 1,000 turbines installed by 2014. Environment and Resource Management Environment and resource management at GE is led by our Environment Health and Safety (EHS) team and relies on GE’s global Environmental Excellence management system. In 2012, GE Mexico won the first Environmental Excellence certification in Latin America for its GE Energy Management EDESA site in Saltillo. Additionally, all sites in Mexico have active recycling programs. We also continue to deploy our “Treasure Hunt” teams throughout all industrial sites across the region, which engage employees to identify opportunities and solutions to reduce our energy and water footprints, as well as our GHG emissions. Infrastructure Much work has already begun or been completed to prepare Brazil for the 2014 FIFA World Cup and the 2016 Olympic and Paralympic Games. We see these events as opportunities to build modern, affordable and sustainable cities and infrastructure that our region will enjoy for decades to come. For instance, we are equipping the new headquarters of the Organizing Committee for the 2016 Olympic and Paralympic Games with approximately 3,000 units of our light emitting diode (LED) technology. This will save the Organizing Committee about US$500,000 in energy costs over the four years of operation of the building, compared to using fluorescent technology options. We will light four of the 12 World Cup stadiums in Brazil. Enabling Progress Job Creation & Skills Development In Latin America, 30% of the population is under the age of 15, placing greater emphasis on the need to close education and skills gaps and to expand the number of available jobs. We are contributing to Latin America’s education efforts through our investment in skills development made on a continuous basis by GE businesses, as well as through the GE Foundation. In Brazil, we are partnering with the National Service for Industrial Training (SENAI), Brazil’s major institution providing vocational and technical training, to develop our future workforce and provide students and trainees apprenticeships with GE. We have already trained around 225 students across different businesses, and GE Healthcare is significantly expanding this partnership. In order to meet the demand for health-related professional training, technical trainings funded by GE will soon be offered in several medical areas, such as women’s health, cardiology and ultrasonography. Training sessions will teach 20–40 students each, and they can be attended by any health professional. We expect to train 13,000 students in five years, 2,000 of which will be trained this year. Finally, GE Foundation partners with Junior Achievement to provide thousands of disadvantaged students, in 8 countries in the region, access to free-enterprise education that addresses areas such as business, economics, ethics, sustainability, entrepreneurship, financial literacy and work-life skills. In addition, GE encourages employees to volunteer as mentors throughout Latin America. In 2013, more than 11,000 young students participated in Junior Achievement programs with 1,131 GE volunteers. Communities Community engagement and volunteerism are important aspects of employee life across all GE operations in Latin America. We have 23 GE Volunteer Councils across 8 countries in Latin America, each one managed by local employees. In total, more than 12,000 GE employees in Latin America volunteered in 2013, contributing more than 72,000 volunteer hours. The GE Foundation has also helped communities in Latin America through grant-funded programs and partnerships. In 2013, the GE Foundation provided more than US$2.6 million to 16 partners across Latin America in the areas of health, education and public policy. Learn more about GE’s Latin America Sustainability profile here. 3.9.4 Myanmar GE re-entered Myanmar in 2013 and opened an office in Yangon in 2014. We have been principally engaged in product sales and leasing in healthcare, electricity and aviation. In addition to our commitment to improving Myanmar’s infrastructure, improving healthcare and easing the country’s crippling energy shortage, GE has engaged in significant philanthropic and capacity-building activities. The GE Foundation has undertaken an initiative in conjunction with Myanmar’s Ministry of Health and Jhpiego, an affiliate of Johns Hopkins University, to supply training, technology and equipment to help reduce maternal and infant mortality rates. As of September 30, 2015, GE had delivered more than $500,000 in equipment and the GE Foundation had funded more than $2.5 million in healthcare training. GE also developed, at the government’s request, a comprehensive electricity plan to evaluate how to best address the country’s needs, as well as a series of energy technical-training programs. Finally, we launched a series of leadership training programs for Myanmar government officials, both in the U.S. and in Singapore. As of March 2016, nearly 100 officials had completed the training. GE recently has been awarded contracts for energy upgrades and installations that will help ease the crippling energy shortage suffered by the citizens of Myanmar. We have also leased aircraft to Myanmar Airlines and sold healthcare equipment to hospitals and clinics around the country. While GE Oil & Gas has had very limited involvement in Myanmar to date, the GE Foundation commissioned a human rights impact assessment to guide the Company’s future interaction with Myanmar’s extractive sector. The assessment, which was prepared by the Institute on Human Rights and Business, applies the UN Guiding Principles to facilitate sustainable engagement with business partners and civil society in Myanmar. The report was issued in July 2014, and we have made it public to highlight for all in the oil and gas sector the human rights issues that attend extractive industry operations in Myanmar. It is available at Myanmar Oil & Gas Sector Wide Impact Assessment. Although we do not believe GE’s activity in Myanmar constitutes “new investment” as defined by the applicable State Department regulations, out of an abundance of caution and in the spirit of the Company’s commitment to transparency and human rights, we voluntarily submitted a disclosure statement with the U.S. Department of State that can be found at http://burma.usembassy.gov/reporting-requirements.html. It serves as GE’s initial report on responsible investment in Myanmar. 4.0 2016 Performance How GE Works 41% Reduction in recordable illness and injury since 2005 Building Things That Matter $17B Spent on Ecomagination R&D between 2005 and 2015 Enabling Progress 1.1M GE Volunteer hours reported in 61 countries Ecomagination A Brighter Future Healthymagination Improving Health GRI Index UN Global Compact 4.1 CEO Letter At GE, we solve problems for customers and find solutions that make things better for society, the environment and the economy. We believe that innovation is at the heart of sustainability. Last year we celebrated the 10 year anniversary of Ecomagination, a business strategy through which we have invested $17 billion in clean tech R&D and generated $232 billion in revenues from more efficient products. From 2005 to 2014 we also lowered our energy intensity, GHG emissions and fresh water use by more than 30%. Market based approaches that don’t pick winners or losers will drive technology advances around the world more efficiently and creatively than ever before. Today, global resources are under pressure to meet rising populations, economic growth remains uneven and social unrest continues around the world. Yet we are also in the midst of a digital revolution that is hyper-charging innovation. Countries are working on actionable plans to tackle climate change and there is a newfound focus by the global community on energy access and affordable healthcare solutions. As a Digital Industrial company we have the tools to succeed in an evolving world and will continue to lead on sustainability through partnerships, digital solutions and new business models in the over 170 countries where we work. Partnering for Greater Impact Through Ecomagination, we have launched outcome focused partnerships with other like-minded companies to solve global challenges around energy, efficiency, GHG emissions and water. For example, we are partnering with Intel on digital solutions to make manufacturing more efficient, with Total to combine solar and gas for industrial use in developing markets and remote locations, and with MWH Global to further accelerate the use of water reuse technology around the world. These partnerships will have a greater positive global impact than any one company could have alone. Through healthymagination, GE is partnering with scientific and policy-thought leaders to address the world’s biggest health problems, namely the challenge to understand the brain and to combat conditions like Alzheimer’s and traumatic brain injury. Through our Brain Health Initiative, we have partnered with the Kavli Foundation and the Allen Institute for Brain Science to create a unified platform that allows neuroscientists from around the world to better share, aggregate and analyze research data. Unlocking Efficiency through Digital The world is marching towards an increasingly digital economy, driven by the efficiency and productivity gains of analytics and the power of the Internet to connect people and ideas. This year we launched Predix, the cloud-based platform for the Industrial Internet. With Predix as our foundation, we will increase energy and materials efficiencies and reduce emissions across industries using the power of analytics. For example, digital solutions running on Predix can boost a wind farm’s energy production by as much as 20 percent. In transportation, GE locomotive control software can analyze data on train operations, weather and routes to deliver fuel savings and emission reductions of up to 17 percent. In healthcare, the GE Health Cloud can help unlock data, quickly and seamlessly so that clinicians can take action to improve outcomes and patient care around the globe. New Technology and Business Models With our acquisition of Alstom’s power and grid business, we increased our ability to help provide energy for the more than one in six people in the world who lack access to electricity and the one in three who can’t depend on the sources they have. We now have one of the world’s largest renewable energy portfolios, including onshore and offshore wind, tidal and hydro technology. We are also able to deliver grid solutions to our customers on a much larger scale. Energy is a local issue and we will work to provide countries technologies that fit with their resources, existing infrastructure and social needs. Through our startup Current, we launched a new business model to accelerate the adoption of energy saving solutions. Current brings together GE’s LED, Solar, Energy Storage and Electric Vehicle businesses as an integrated offering for customers, and leverages GE’s Predix platform to collect data and help customers understand how they’re using, and losing, energy. This new offering will reduce energy consumption and related emissions, shave 10-20 percent off energy bills and help utilities better manage demand on the grid. Drawing on our long history of integrity, business ethics and sustainability results, GE remains focused on pushing for positive change while delivering value for our investors as we embark on this exciting new phase of our company. Jeffrey R. Immelt Chairman and CEO, GE 4.2 Reporting Process GE reports annually on our sustainability approach and progress with a focus on those areas most relevant to GE’s overarching business strategy and identified as important by our employees, customers, and other stakeholders. This website is the primary channel for communicating the alignment between our long-term sustainability strategy and current initiatives, which includes assessment of our own operations, the impact of customers’ use of our products, and the difference we and our partners make in communities around the world. Providing relevant and timely information about our sustainability strategy and progress to stakeholders inside and outside of GE enables us to gather feedback on our performance and evolve our strategies as needed. Input from customers, government bodies, NGOs, academics, investors, and other partners help us identify issues and topics of highest concern. Learn more about GE’s Sustainable Priorities. Each year, GE also publishes a Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index with links to the wide range of data required under the GRI reporting standard. The index for 2014 performance can be found here. GE’s reporting process has been informed by GRI G4 and we anticipate reporting relevant G4 metrics going forward. Our Sustainability Priorities, identified in this report, helped guide us in this process. In addition to the metrics and progress found on this site, we provide real-time updates through GE’s social media platforms, including on Twitter at @ecomagination, @GE_Foundation and @GE_Reports. 4.3 Ecomagination Progress By Deb Frodl, Global Executive Director, Ecomagination Ecomagination is GE’s business strategy to deliver improved economic and environmental outcomes for our customers and in our own operations. As GE continues to evolve, so does Ecomagination. We are demonstrating how a Digital Industrial company uses innovative and intelligent resource-efficiency solutions to help our customers grow and compete. Ecomagination drives global impact through innovative technology solutions, partnerships and new business models as well as convening key stakeholders to take action. In 2015, we announced the formation of Ecomagination 2020 Partnerships to help solve global resource challenges with such industry leaders as Wal-Mart, Total, Intel, Goldman Sachs, MWH Global, BHP Billiton, Masdar and Statoil. We believe that by partnering with other like-minded companies that focus on innovation, sustainability and problem-solving, we can have a greater impact than any company could have on its own. Our partnerships are about taking action. We are now starting the collaboration process with our partners in areas such as industrial energy-efficiency, water-reuse adoption, energy-neutral wastewater, and new hybrid renewable solutions. New business models are key to meeting water, energy and transportation challenges for our customers. We are excited about Current, Powered by GE, a new start-up at GE. Current is a first-of-its kind energy company that combines GE Ecomagination technologies and solutions in energy efficiency, solar, storage and on-site power with our digital and financing capabilities to help customers save 10-20% on energy costs. Ecomagination’s success has been and will continue to be based on our relentless focus on results and on investment in cleaner technology R&D. In 2015, we invested $2.3 billion in cleanertechnology R&D and generated $36 billion in revenues from Ecomagination technologies and solutions. Going forward, we will continue to increase our portfolio of digital applications that further the efficiency of our technologies and solutions to improve resource productivity. We are also focused on meeting our goals to further reduce GE’s GHG emissions and freshwater use by an additional 20% by 2020.* Today, many countries have actionable plans for less-carbon-intensive growth. GE Ecomagination has the proven experience and technology solutions to help execute on those plans. For a decade, we have worked with our global customers on solutions to improve efficiency as well as economic and environmental outcomes. The digital revolution is now allowing innovation to occur on an exponential scale. At Ecomagination, we will continue to drive ideas and results that will transform tomorrow. * Against a 2011 baseline. Download the 10 Year Ecomagination graphic. Download our Ecomagination brochure. View our Ecomagination–related performance metrics . GE Leadership A 27-year GE veteran, Deb Frodl leads GE Ecomagination, the company’s business strategy to accelerate innovation and growth in a resource constrained world through efficient and intelligent solutions. In this role, Deb was named the Women’s Council on Energy and Environment (WCEE) 2014 Woman of the Year. She held previous executive marketing, sales, and CEO roles for GE’s Capital Fleet Services, Capital Public Finance, Commercial Equipment Finance and Dealer Financial Services. In 2010, she was named Chief Strategy Officer for GE Capital Fleet Services and Global Alternative Fuels Leader. Deb is on the Board of the Advanced Energy Economy, US DOE Clean Energy, Education & Empowerment for Women and Masdar’s Women in Sustainability, Environment & Renewables. She earned her MBA at the University of St. Thomas and her Bachelors in Business from Minnesota State University. GE is a diversified infrastructure and finance company finding solutions in energy, health, transportation and finance. www.ge.com @GeneralElectric Meet the Ecomagination Advisory Board Expertise: Carbon trading, climate change policy Year joining the Board: 2006 In addition to his role at CCC, James serves as a member of GE’s Ecomagination board, is a member of the UK Prime Minister's Business Advisory Group, a member of PepsiCo UK’s advisory board and is Vice-Chair of the World Economic Forum's Global Agenda Council on Measuring Sustainability and their Advisory Board of the Global Competitiveness Index. James is also an advisor to the Climate Bonds Initiative, a trustee member of the UK Green Building Council and of the Carbon Disclosure Project and was a member of the Green Investment Bank Commission. Prior to CCC, James was Counsel to Baker & McKenzie and was the founder and the head of their Climate Change and Clean Energy Practice. He has spent much of his legal career working on climate change matters, including negotiating the UNFCCC and Kyoto Protocol as an adviser to the Alliance of Small Island States. Expertise: US energy policy; cleantech entrepreneurship and acceleration; renewables Year joining the Board: 2011 Dr. Johnson is the CEO of Enduring Energy, which specializes in advising clients on ways to increase the generation of clean electricity. She previously served as Under Secretary of Energy at the U.S. Department of Energy. At DOE, Dr. Johnson was responsible for managing a $10.5 billion Energy and Environment portfolio, including an additional $37 billion in energy and environment investments from the ARRA. The portfolio included research, development, demonstration and deployment (RDD&D) projects involving the national laboratories, universities, state and local governments and private industry in renewables, CCS, nuclear power, energy efficiency, smart grid and nuclear waste. Under Dr. Johnson’s leadership, the DOE developed an integrated Strategic Technologies Energy Plan (STEP) for reducing our dependence on imported oil by 75%, achieving GHG reductions of 83% by 2050, and achieving 80% lowcarbon electricity by 2035. Dr. Johnson brought a renewed focus on small business and entrepreneurship development, educating America’s future energy workforce, and enhancing the accessibility and quality of the RDD&D of energy projects funded by the Department. Expertise: Electricity market Year joining the Board: 2010 Mr. Kuhn is president of the Edison Electric Institute, the association of investorowned electric companies whose members generate and distribute approximately three-quarters of the Nation’s electricity. Prior to joining the Institute, Mr. Kuhn was president of the American Nuclear Energy Council, which subsequently merged with the Nuclear Energy Institute. From 1972 to 1975, he headed the energy section of the investment banking firm, Alex Brown and Sons. Prior to that, Kuhn was White House Liaison Officer to the Secretary of the Navy. Mr. Kuhn served on the Secretary of Energy Advisory Board and the Board of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. He currently serves on the Boards of the United States Energy Association, The Alliance to Save Energy, The Electric Drive Transportation Association and the American Council for Capital Formation. Expertise: Renewables, cleantech acceleration Year joining the Board: 2011 Michael P. Polsky, founder, president, and CEO of leading clean power company Invenergy LLC, has more than 30 years of energy experience. He is widely recognized as a pioneer and an industry leader in cogeneration and in independent power project development. Founded in 2001, Invenergy develops, owns, and operates utility-scale renewable and natural gas-fueled power generation and energy storage facilities in the United States, Canada, and Europe, and is North America’s largest privately-held wind power generation company. Prior to forming Invenergy, Mr. Polsky founded SkyGen Energy LLC in 1991, which became one of America’s largest independent power companies, and later was sold to Calpine Corporation. Before launching SkyGen, Mr. Polsky cofounded and was president of Indeck Energy Services Inc. An MBA graduate of the University of Chicago-Booth School of Business, Mr. Polsky endowed the Polsky Center for Entrepreneurship at the university in 2002; he also currently chairs the Chicago-Booth Entrepreneurship Advisory Board and is a member of the University of Chicago Board of Trustees. In addition, Mr. Polsky is co-founder and co-chair of the Clean Energy Trust, and serves on the boards of the Argonne National Laboratory and the United States Olympic and Paralympic Foundation. Expertise: Public relations, social media/marketing Year joining the Board: 2010 Richard is the president and CEO of the world’s largest public relations firm with 66 offices and 4,500 employees worldwide. The firm was recently named “PR Agency of the Decade” by both Advertising Age and The Holmes Report and “Large Agency of the Year” by PRWeek US for the third year in a row. Richard has extensive experience in marketing and reputation management, with current assignments for Hewlett-Packard, SAP and PepsiCo. Richard was named the fifth most powerful executive by PRWeek in 2012. He serves on the Board of Directors of the Ad Council, the Atlantic Council, the Children’s Aid Society, the Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy and the National Committee on U.S.-China Relations. He is a member of the World Economic Forum, the Arthur Page Society and PR Seminar. 4.3.1 Convening and Thought Leadership Ecomagination advances ideas through thought pieces and convening events with industry leaders, entrepreneurs and academia around the world. 2015 Events Transforming Tomorrow, Paris, France On the 10 year anniversary of Ecomagination, GE brought together global leaders for a discussion with businesses that are leading the world in uncovering transformational resource efficiency solutions. Future of Energy, Vancouver, Canada Ecomagination & GE Canada hosted customers and key stakeholders in Vancouver to discuss the future of energy. World Future Energy Summit, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates Ecomagination highlighted the potential efficiency gains that can be realized through the industrial internet though panel discussions and the launch an Energy Efficiency White Paper written in partnership with the Masdar Institute. We also celebrated the one year anniversary of the Ecomagination Center in Masdar City. The Connected Future, New York City, USA GE gathered industry thought leaders and influencers from places like Qualcomm, City of San Diego, City of Jacksonville to share insights on how intelligent LED lighting is transforming cities, buildings and homes. Visit site. The Economic Power of Water, San Francisco, USA GE and the Wharton’s Initiative for Global Environmental Leadership (IGEL) convened executives in both public and private organizations as well as leading thinkers in water policy and research. Set in California, one of the United States’ most water-challenged states, it explored the current challenges to unlocking the economic potential of water. Visit site. 2015 Reports Addressing Water Scarcity through Recycling and Reuse: a Menu for Policymakers Exploring the Role of Natural Gas in US Trucking Driving Productivity & Profitability of Energy Efficiency in the UAE GE Fuel Cells: The Power of Tomorrow 4.3.2 Partnerships In 2015 Ecomagination launched eight partnerships to solve looming environmental and sustainability challenges through collaboration. “Our goal is to create a network effect,” says Deb Frodl, Ecomagination’s global executive director. “We want to inspire more companies to work together and tackle the world’s greatest resource problems. This is about co-development of solutions that can be scaled globally. Global water and energy challenges require immediate action and the business community isn’t going to wait.” Read more about the partnerships here. 4.3.3 Technology Ecomagination brings new discipline and accountability to the way GE delivers products to market. We apply rigorous methodologies at every step to ensure the products drive maximum efficiency and productivity for our customers. Product highlights from 2015. Predix GE launched Predix, the cloud-based platform for the Industrial Internet. With Predix as our foundation, we will increase energy and materials efficiencies and reduce emissions across industries using the power of analytics. Flight Efficiency, an Ecomagination app is already being used by airlines around the world. Learn more. Eco ROTR GE tested a new experimental design called for windturbines called the ecoROTR. The large dome which can lead to increased efficiency captivated people around the world. Learn more. Digital Windfarm GE’s digital windfarm technology can boost a wind farm’s energy production by as much as 20 percent and create $100 million in extra value over the lifetime of a 100 megawatt farm. Learn more. 9HA The 9HA is GE’s latest, industry-leading high-efficiency, air-cooled gas turbine for large utility applications. The ability of the new turbine to go from cold to full power quickly will give customers new flexibility to integrate renewables onto the grid and respond quickly to weather changes. Learn more. Intelligent Cities GE has launched Intelligent Cities Programs in San Diego, CA and Jacksonville, FL. The programs uses LED street lights to connect, collect and analyze data to harness the power of the Industrial Internet – optimizing operations and making new connections with residents and visitors. Learn more. 4.3.4 Innovation In 2015, Ecomagination supported several open innovation challenges to bring the power of the innovation community together to tackle pressing water and energy challenges. Ecomagination Water Challenge The Ecomagination Water Challenge focused on using data and analytics approaches to match supply and demand of effluent water needs in the commercial & industrial sector. The challenge offered a total prize pool of up to $35,000 USD available in the form of a cash award (of $10,000 USD) and grant award (of $25,000 USD). Learn more about the challenge and winners. GE Statoil Challenge In 2015, GE and Statoil launched a new collaboration to accelerate the development of environmentally and economically sustainable energy solutions. The joint technology-focused program is aimed at driving an industrial response to some of the biggest challenges facing global oil and gas production, including flaring, CO2 and methane emissions, and water usage, while also optimizing business operations. In addition, GE Oil & Gas and Statoil are committed to catalyzing broader collaboration within and beyond the industry through open innovation. This includes active use of crowdsourcing as a channel to solicit innovative ideas to reduce the environmental footprint in oil and gas exploration, development and production. Learn more. 4.3.5 GE Ventures GE is committed to accelerating the commercialization of innovative ideas. In the spirit of Ecomagination, GE Ventures, Energy makes venture capital investments in innovative companies in the energy sector. The goal of GE Ventures, Energy is to be the global partner of choice to accelerate the commercialization of worldclass ideas and technologies by providing capital as well as access to GE’s expertise, resources and global scale. At GE, we strive to make energy cleaner and more affordable for every household. GE Ventures, Energy made a number of exciting investments in 2015 in portfolio companies that are innovators in the energy sector. 2015 Sample Investments Lucid Lucid enables the future of intelligent buildings by connecting hardware, software, and people through one collaborative interface. BuildingOS, the operating system for commercial buildings, brings all metering and building systems online, giving entire organizations a single point of access to optimize energy costs, comfort, and productivity. The intuitive suite of BuildingOS applications connects operations, finance, and sustainability teams to the building technologies and workforce they rely on every day, empowering them in building management, planning, and tenant engagement. Learn more about GE’s investment. Evolution Networks eVolution Networks is the world’s first company to provide operators with a purely software-based solution that slashes energy consumption on the base station level, providing unmatched savings and the ability to dramatically reduce energy consumption. Learn more about GE’s investment. 4.4 Healthymagination Progress By Sue Siegel, CEO GE Ventures & healthymagination Healthymagination is working to bring better health to more people. We remain committed to continuously developing and investing in innovations that deliver high-quality affordable and accessible healthcare to more people around the world. Combining our entrepreneurial acumen and strong global footprint with our colleagues’ efforts in GE Healthcare and the GE Foundation, healthymagination provides a unique position from which to drive healthcare innovation and enablement on a global scale. In 2015, we invested in six new companies that are disrupting healthcare as we know it. For example, one of our new portfolio companies, Omada Health, is pioneering a new class of therapy called digital therapeutics. Omada’s Prevent solution is a 16-week online digital health program that targets those at risk of developing preventable chronic conditions. Every participant receives a custom digital campaign, technical monitoring equipment, a personal health coach and access to an online peer group — support aimed at reinforcing better habits for a healthier life and lowering the risk of chronic conditions, such as diabetes. We also continue to build and grow strong partnerships with customers, governments, universities, industry leaders and patients to help drive solutions to the world’s biggest healthcare challenges. Our healthymagination commitment includes: • Brain Health. Through our “Neurodata Beyond Borders” initiative, healthymagination partnered with the Kavli Foundation and the Allen Institute for Brain Science to create a common data format that will allow researchers from around the world to share their research data and exchange complex information about the brain more easily. • healthyCities Leadership Academy. GE has launched the HealthyCities Leadership Academy, a program that encourages U.S. communities to work together to develop population health improvements by partnering with public and private entities. The goal of the program is to train community and business leaders to work together to develop and support new models for approaching population health challenges and improve the health of working families living in their cities, towns and communities. • Social Entrepreneurship. In partnership with Santa Clara University’s Miller Center for Social Entrepreneurship, GE is launching a new pilot program to develop social entrepreneurs in Sub-Saharan Africa to tackle one of the world’s most pressing problems: maternal and child care. The healthymagination Mother & Child program blends Silicon Valley entrepreneurial acumen with venture impact investing, and will help social enterprises operating in subSaharan Africa addressing maternal and/or child health strengthen their business models, refine business plans, reinforce organizational development, manage talent and learn how to scale sustainably. Healthcare is in a state of disruption worldwide, and that presents a tremendous opportunity to make changes for the good. With an aging global population, an increase in the incidence of chronic disease and high costs, the status quo just won’t do. What remains constant is the need to improve the quality, access and affordability of healthcare around the world. GE has the right team and the ability to convene partners to meet this global challenge. View our healthymagination–related performance metrics. GE Leadership Sue Siegel leads two of GE’s growth and innovation initiatives as CEO, GE Ventures & healthymagination. GE Ventures invests in and partners with the start-up ecosystem across Healthcare, Energy, Software, and Advanced Manufacturing. Healthymagination harnesses innovation and partnership inside and outside GE to improve the quality, access and affordability of healthcare. Sue has more than 30 years of experience in corporate and venture capital. Previously, as a financial VC, Sue led investments in personalized medicine, digital health, and life sciences at Silicon Valley-based Mohr Davidow Ventures. Before venture capital, she drove strategy and technology development as well as new market growth at Bio-Rad, DuPont, Amersham, and Affymetrix. As President and a Board Member of Affymetrix, Sue led the company’s transformation from a pre-revenue start up to a global, multi-billion dollar market cap genomics leader. Sue has served on over two dozen private and public corporate boards. She currently serves on the Boards of the National Venture Capital Association, Stanford Hospital Board’s IT Committee, Harvard Partners’ Innovation Advisory Board, the Cleveland Clinic’s Innovation Council, University of California’s Innovation Council, and she also serves on the Executive Committee of Santa Clara University’s Center for Science, Technology, and Society’s Advisory Board. She is a President’s Circle member of the National Academies of Science, a member of YPO-WPO, Women Corporate Directors, and a Henry Crown Fellow of the Aspen Institute. In the bestselling business book Multipliers: How The Best Leaders Make Everyone Smarter, Sue was a featured “Multiplier.” She was recognized as one of “The 100 Most Influential Women in Silicon Valley”. Sue lives in Silicon Valley with her husband and her two sons. When not working, you might find her hiking the scenic trails of Northern California. Alan Gilbert joined GE’s healthymagination in June 2011 as director of Global Government and NGO Strategy. In this role, Alan shapes, champions and messages GE’s positions on healthcare policy, reform and business objectives, and communicates them to internal and external stakeholders. He currently directs U.S. health policy for healthymagination; leads open innovation challenges on traumatic brain injury and has directed a similar innovation challenge on breast cancer; helps develop outreach and thought leadership around cancer, neurodegenerative, and other disease marketing initiatives; and is the leader of GE’s strategic partnerships and initiatives to change healthcare cost and quality trends to bring better health to more people in the communities in which GE operates. Alan joined the GE team after working at the intersection of healthcare policy and politics for over two decades in Washington, D.C. Before opening his own consulting practice in 2009, he was senior vice president and counsel for the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), creating and implementing all federal legislative strategy for the country’s largest pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. In 2002, Alan was selected by President George W. Bush to be a domestic policy advisor, leading the White House and the Administration’s healthcare agenda and creating a health information technology initiative and infrastructure. Earlier, he served as a senior advisor to the U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services, Tommy Thompson. Alan also worked in the U.S. Senate as chief health counsel to former Senator Judd Gregg (New Hampshire), and was a key health advisor to several members of the U.S. House of Representatives. Alan lives in Washington, D.C., with his wife and two children. He earned his law and BS degrees from Louisiana State University. Risa Stack leads incubations for healthymagination, which develops and invests in new opportunities in healthcare and energy. Risa joined the GE Ventures team from Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, where she was a partner. Prior to KPCB, Risa was a principal at J.P. Morgan Partners. Throughout her VC career, Risa has invested in over a dozen companies, such as Veracyte (NASDAQ:VCYT), Trius (acquired by Cubist), Corthera (acquired by Novartis), Ilex Oncology (acquired by Genzyme) and Triangle Pharmaceuticals (acquired by Gilead). Risa was also the founding CEO and a board member of several precision medicine companies, including CardioDx and Nodality. Before joining the venture capital industry, Risa worked as a derivative specialist on the Chicago Board of Trade, where she traded futures and options on government securities. Risa is a member of the steering committee for the Coalition for 21st Century Medicine and is on the advisory board of the Personalized Medicine Conference. She was also named as one of the “100 Most Influential Women in Business” by the San Francisco Business Times. Risa holds a degree in genetics and development, with distinction, from the University of Illinois, a PhD in immunology from the University of Chicago, and was a member of the second class of Kauffman Fellows. Rafael Torres leads the Venture Capital team for healthcare investments and directs portfolio strategy. Under Rafael’s leadership, GE Ventures has invested in multiple successful healthcare businesses, including Nanostring (NASDAQ: NSTG) and Veracyte (NASDAQ: VCTY). Previously, Rafael was the global healthcare leader for GE Equity, GE’s private equity platform, where he built a practice with over 30 investments, including ParadigmHealth (Alere), Navinet (Horizon Blue Cross) and Euromedic (BAML Capital). Rafael has had a variety of board roles, including with CardioDx, InSightec, Navinet, ParadigmHealth and LipoScience. In previous roles at GE, Rafael served as an operating executive in the integration of GE’s largest healthcare acquisition, Amersham, and in the M&A team of GE Healthcare. He has been a judge in GE’s Assembling Tools to Fight Cancer challenge and is featured in leading healthcare publications including The Gray Sheet, Medical Device Daily and MedCity News. Before joining GE, Rafael held various positions at The Boston Consulting Group, AT Investments and Citibank. Rafael received his MBA from Harvard Business School and a BA in economics from Universidad del PacÍfico. Rafael lives in Silicon Valley with his wife and two boys. He notes that when his four-year-old son needed a CT scan before his appendectomy, he asked the radiologist if it was a GE scanner. Could it be in the blood? Robert leads the healthymagination team in exploring key opportunities to increase the quality, accessibility and affordability of healthcare, including through the Brain Health Initiative and the Healthy Cities Program. Prior to joining GE, from 2009 to 2012, Robert served with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) in Paris as head of the biotechnology unit in the Directorate for Science, Technology and Industry. There he covered a broad range of policy-related topics in various emerging fields, such as innovation in human health and biomedicine, industrial biotechnology, synthetic biology, biosecurity, and the development of knowledge networks and markets using intellectual property. Robert did his undergraduate work at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, and holds a JD from the Wake Forest University School of Law. He resides in Boston with his wife and daughter. Meet the Healthymagination Advisory Board Andrew C. von Eschenbach, M.D. currently serves as President of Samaritan Health Initiatives, Inc. and as an Adjunct Professor at University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center. From September of 2005 to January 2009 he served as Commissioner of Food and Drugs, where he championed an agenda to modernize the FDA by process improvement of the regulatory pathway for drugs and medical devices and by fostering creative projects, including FDA’s Critical Path Initiative (designed to bring modern tools of science to the product development process); work plans like the FDA’s Food Protection Plan; and most especially the nurturing of the workforce through initiatives, such as an Agencywide fellowship program and development of a new integrated campus for the Agency in White Oak, Maryland. Dr. von Eschenbach joined FDA after serving for four years as Director of the National Cancer Institute (NCI) at the National Institutes of Health where he set an ambitious goal to eliminate the suffering and death due to cancer by rapid acceleration and integration of the discovery-development-delivery continuum. While at NCI, he committed resources to ensure the application to oncology of nanotechnology, genomics, proteomics, bioinformatics, and other emerging technologies. Dr. von Eschenbach entered government service after over three decades as a physician, surgeon, oncologist and executive that included numerous leadership roles from Chairman of the Department of Urologic Oncology to Executive Vice President and Chief Academic at the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. An internationally renowned cancer specialist and author of more than 300 scientific articles and studies, he has served in numerous leadership roles, including serving as one of the founding members of the National Dialogue on Cancer. In 2006, Dr. von Eschenbach was named one of Time magazine’s “100 most influential people to shape the world,” and in both 2007 and 2008, he was selected as one of the Modern Healthcare/Modern Physician’s “50 Most Powerful Physician Executives in Healthcare.” Dr. von Eschenbach earned a B.S. from St. Joseph’s University in his native Philadelphia and his medical degree from Georgetown University School of Medicine in Washington, D.C. He served as a Lt. Commander in the U.S. Navy Medical Corps. After completing a residency in urologic surgery at Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia, he was an instructor in urology at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine. He completed a Fellowship in Urologic Oncology at the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center. He has been married to his childhood sweetheart, Madelyn, for over 40 years, and they are proud parents of four children and elated grandparents of seven. Dr. Johns is the University of Michigan’s interim executive vice president for Medical Affairs, as well as a professor in the schools of Public Health and Medicine at Emory University. From 2007 to 2012, Dr. Johns served as Emory University’s fifth chancellor. From 1996 to 2007, he led Emory’s Robert W. Woodruff Health Sciences Center, which includes Emory Healthcare, the schools of Medicine, Nursing and Public Health, and the Yerkes Primate Center. Prior to his roles at Emory, Dr. Johns was dean of the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine and vice president of the Johns Hopkins medical faculty. Dr. Johns is a member of the Institute of Medicine (IOM), the Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC), the Commonwealth Fund Task Force on Academic Health Centers, and the Association of Academic Health Centers, among others. He also serves on various private-sector and philanthropic boards, including Johnson & Johnson, the Genuine Parts Company and the Georgia Cancer Coalition. He was recently appointed by the U.S. Secretary of Defense as a member of the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences (USU) Board of Regents. In 1969, Dr. Johns graduated with distinction from the University of Michigan Medical School. He remained at Michigan for his internship and residency. He joined the Medical Corps of the U.S. Army and was assistant chief of the Otolaryngology Service at Walter Reed Army Medical Center from 1975-1977. Helen Darling currently serves as Strategic Advisor at the National Business Group on Health (NBGH). She served for over 12 years as President and CEO of NBGH, a national non-profit, membership organization devoted exclusively to providing practical solutions to its employer-members’ most important healthcare problems and representing large employers’ perspective on national health policy issues. Its 392 members, including 69 of the Fortune 100 in 2014, purchase health and disability benefits for over 50 million employees, retirees and dependents. The Business Group’s Institute on Health Care Costs and Solutions is devoted to finding practical solutions from a business perspective to the nation’s growing crisis of rapidly rising costs and affordability of care, on top of continuing problems of patient safety and quality. In 2009, Helen was given the World at Work’s highest honor, the Keystone Award, in recognition of her contributions to human resources and benefits. In 2012, she was given NCQA’s Health Quality Leader Award. She was named in 2011, 2012 and 2013 as one of “100 Most Influential People in Health Care” in the United States by Modern Healthcare and One of the Top 25 Women in Health Care in 2011 and 2013. She was selected in 2003 as a National Associate to the National Academy of Sciences, in recognition of her contributions to the Institute of Medicine. She was given the President’s Award by the American College of Occupational and Environmental Medicine in 2010. Darling serves on: the Committee on Performance Measurement of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (co-chair for 10 years); the Medical Advisory Panel, Technology Evaluation Center (Blue Cross Blue Shield Association); the Institute of Medicine’s Roundtable on Value and Science-Driven Health Care; and the Medicare Coverage Advisory Committee. She is Chair of the Board of Directors of the National Quality Forum and a Director for the Congressionally created Reagan-Udall Foundation. She is featured on CNN, CNBC, ABC, and NPR on trends in health care costs and benefits. She is also widely quoted in the New York Times, Wall Street Journal, The Economist, Washington Post, Los Angeles Times, Business Insurance, and many other journals. Previously, Darling served as practice leader at Watson Wyatt Worldwide, and directed the purchasing of health benefits and disability at Xerox Corporation for 55,000 U.S. employees, plus their dependents and retirees. Before joining Xerox, Darling was a principal at William W. Mercer. Earlier in her career, Darling was an advisor to Sen. David Durenberger, the ranking Republican on the Health Subcommittee of the Senate Finance Committee. She directed three studies at the Institute of Medicine for the National Academy of Sciences. Darling received a master’s degree in demography and sociology and a Bachelor’s of Science degree in History and English, cum laude, from the University of Memphis. Professor Darzi holds the Paul Hamlyn Chair of Surgery at Imperial College London, the Royal Marsden Hospital and the Institute of Cancer Research. He is Director of the Institute of Global Health Innovation at Imperial College London and Chair of Imperial College Health Partners. He is an Honorary Consultant Surgeon at Imperial College Hospital NHS Trust. Research led by Professor Darzi is directed towards achieving best surgical practice through innovation in surgery and enhancing patient safety and the quality of healthcare. His contribution within these research fields has been outstanding, publishing over 800 peer-reviewed research papers to date. In recognition of his achievements in the research and development of surgical technologies, Professor Darzi has been elected as an Honorary Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering; a Fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences; and in 2013, was elected as a Fellow of the Royal Society. He was knighted for his services in medicine and surgery in 2002. In 2007, he was introduced to the United Kingdom’s House of Lords as Professor the Lord Darzi of Denham and appointed Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State at the Department of Health. Upon relinquishing this role within central government in 2009, Professor Darzi sat as the United Kingdom’s Global Ambassador for Health and Life Sciences until March 2013. During this appointment and beyond, Professor Darzi has developed his status as a leading voice in the field of global health policy and innovation. Professor Darzi was appointed and remains a member of Her Majesty’s Most Honourable Privy Council since June 2009. Dr. Nancy Snyderman is Chief Medical Editor for NBC News, reporting for Today and Nightly News with Brian Williams. Snyderman is an award-winning journalist and has garnered several of the industry’s most distinguished honors including Emmy’s, DuPont, Edward R. Murrow, and Gracie awards. She has reported on wide-ranging topics affecting all strata of society and has traveled the world extensively, reporting from many of the world’s most troubled areas. Dr. Snyderman also serves on the Institute for Healthcare Improvement, and The Forman School in Litchfield, Connecticut. She is on faculty in the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery at the University of Pennsylvania. Prior to joining NBC News, Snyderman served as Vice President of Consumer Education at Johnson & Johnson, where she focused on the importance of digital health. Before that, she served as the medical correspondent at ABC News for 17 years, contributing to 20/20, Primetime and Good Morning America. She was a frequent substitute co-host on Good Morning America. Snyderman attended medical school at the University of Nebraska and continued with residencies in Pediatrics and Ear, Nose, and Throat Surgery at the University of Pittsburgh. She joined the surgical staff at the University of Arkansas in 1983 and began her broadcasting career shortly after at KATV, the ABC affiliate in Little Rock, Arkansas. Snyderman’s medical work has been widely published in peer review journals and she is the recipient of numerous research grants. She was awarded a Kellogg fellowship in 1987. She is a New York Timesbestselling author, having written five books. She also writes a monthly column for AARP magazine. Snyderman lives in Princeton, New Jersey and is the mother of three children. She is an avid equestrian and hiker. Donald M. Berwick was President and CEO of the Institute for Healthcare Improvement (IHI) for nearly 20 years. In July 2010, President Obama appointed Dr. Berwick to the position of Administrator of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, a position he held until December 2011. Berwick was formerly Clinical Professor of Pediatrics and Health Care Policy at the Harvard Medical School, and Professor in the Department of Health Policy and Management at the Harvard School of Public Health. Dr. Berwick has served as vice chair of the US Preventive Services Task Force, the first “Independent Member” of the American Hospital Association Board of Trustees, and chair of the National Advisory Council of the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality. An elected member of the Institute of Medicine (IOM), Dr. Berwick served two terms on the IOM’s governing Council and was a member of the IOM’s Global Health Board. He also served on President Clinton’s Advisory Commission on Consumer Protection and Quality in the Healthcare Industry. Berwick is a recipient of several awards and author of numerous articles and books, including Curing Health Care and Escape Fire. 4.4.1 Tackling Big Challenges: Cancer In September 2011, GE launched an ambitious global campaign against cancer, committing $1 billion of its total R&D budget over the next five years to expand its advanced cancer diagnostic and molecular imaging capabilities, as well as its world-class technologies for the manufacture of biopharmaceuticals and for cancer research. By the end of 2014, more than $525M had been invested, setting GE on track to meet its five-year commitment. To accelerate progress, and to deliver better care to 10 million patients by 2020, the campaign against cancer combines the strength of GE’s portfolio of cancer technologies with the innovations born from collaborations with key partners. Women’s Health Clinics in Riyadh In October and November of 2014, the Saudi Ministry of Health launched two first-of-a-kind Women’s Health Screening Clinics at two Riyadh, Saudi Arabia shopping malls. By setting up these clinics in such convenient locations, the ministry hopes to screen 10,000 women for breast cancer over the next 12 months. Getting women screened is vital, given that breast cancer is the single most common type of cancer affecting women in Saudi Arabia, according to the ministry. It accounts for nearly one in every five new cancer diagnoses. What’s more, Saudi women generally are diagnosed with breast cancer at a later stage, resulting in increased mortality. Early detection is crucial to achieving the best possible outcome. Developed in association with GE Healthcare, Asala Holding and the Dr. Sulaiman Al Habib Medical Group, the clinics complement the ministry’s National Breast Cancer Screening Program, which has been running with the support of GE Healthcare since 2012. This unique concept in women’s health offers a general diagnostic check of height, weight and blood pressure; clinical breast examination and mammogram; and health education with an emphasis on promoting a healthier lifestyle. Learn more. Read more about how healthymagination is helping to fight breast cancer on our MENAT region page 4.4.2 Tackling Big Challenges: Brain Health In 2014 GE launched an extensive Brain Health Initiative linking numerous entities within the Company, such as GE Healthcare, GE Ventures & healthymagination and GE’s Global Research Center. Under GE healthymagination, the Company has worked to convene the traumatic brain injury community through its GE-NFL-Under Armour Head Health Initiative, a $60 million open innovation challenge to develop both next-generation imagining technology and to provide better devices to diagnosis and protect against traumatic brain injury. In 2014, GE, NFL and UA, announced 23 winners of the Head Health Open Innovation Challenges I & II with a total investment of more than $8 million to advance the winners research and technology into the diagnosis and prevention of traumatic brain injury. Healthymagination is also addressing critical public policy needs in neuroscience through its “Brain Trust” meetings to convene thought leaders and work together to address challenges to advancing brain health research. In addition, GE is supporting the “Neurodata Beyond Borders” initiative recently launched by the Kavli Foundation and including researchers from the Allen Institute for Brain Science, the Howard Hughes Medical Institute/Janelia Farm, New York University and CalTech. The goal of this one-year pilot is to begin developing the protocols and procedures necessary to share neurodata across many research platforms. Finally, GE Ventures, Healthcare is also investing in numerous start-up companies that are bringing new technologies to the neuroscience field. Among those are Ornim Medical, which recently released a new device, c-FLOW™, which monitors cerebral blood flow continuously, noninvasively and in real time; HeadSense Medical, whose first product is an Android mobile noninvasive ICP monitor offering accurate and continuous ICP monitoring through acoustic ear buds; and Chrono Therapeutics, which seeks to transform behaviors and disease through mobile digital transdermal drug delivery coupled with real-time behavioral support. Learn more. 4.4.3 Regional Health Transformation Launched in 2009 in the greater Cincinnati area, GE healthymagination’s Healthy Cities Program brings together city leaders, local employers, providers, payers and civic organizations to establish regionwide treatment standards, encourage more efficient information exchange, and improve health and wellness education among those battling chronic diseases. A study released in 2013 on the progress to date showed that the program had helped create more than 100 new primary care medical homes, resulted in fewer emergency room visits, and increased the percentage of the “high-risk” pediatric asthma population that was rated “well controlled” by physicians and parents from 29% to nearly 76%. Building on this success, GE expanded the program to Louisville, Kentucky, and Erie, Pennsylvania, in 2012. In 2013, GE, the Clinton Health Matters Initiative (CHMI), Houston Mayor Annise Parker and several partners announced the expansion of the initiative to the greater Houston area. The partnership is working to provide better health for more people by advancing community health, closing gaps in health disparities, and encouraging community members to lead healthier lives. It aims to be the largest coordinated community health improvement effort in the city’s history. Since 2015, the Houston Leadership Council, which is made up of 40 Houston and Harris County leaders and decision-makers, has started to focus on three key areas of the Houston and Harris County Blueprint for Health. The council has established three working groups: 1. Healthy Eating – Focused on providing all Harris County residents with access to fresh, nutritious and high-quality food 2. Health Care and Social Services – Focused on increasing access to coordinated and comprehensive healthcare services to support quality-of-life improvements among community residents 3. Built Environment – Focused on ensuring that Houston and Harris County will be viewed as among the world’s greatest places to live, work and succeed. These working groups will be focused on the deliverables that are highlighted in these three areas in the Houston and Harris County Blueprint for Action. The Leadership Council will be initiating projects and programs in 2016 focusing on health information technology, health care delivery, obesity, healthy eating and built environment improvements. Read more about GE’s health-related work in the U.S. in our Improving Health section 4.4.4 GE Ventures, Healthcare GE Ventures, Healthcare offers capital, technical and commercial expertise to help our portfolio companies’ scale. We are working to be the global partner of choice for disruptive healthcare solutions. We invest in entrepreneurs and companies to accelerate innovation and make quality healthcare more accessible and affordable. Two 2015 portfolio companies include: Iora Iora Health is a different kind of health system. Iora has built a new operating system for comprehensive, relationship-based care that includes new technology, processes and culture to engage patients, change behavior and help achieve better outcomes. As the only purely valuebased healthcare delivery system, Iora Health has gone from its founding in 2010 to launching its first two primary care practices in 2012 to operating 29 primary care practices across the country by the end of 2015. Iora Health was founded by Chris McKown and Rushika Fernandopulle, MD, MPP, a primary care doctor who spent over a decade involved in efforts to improve the quality of healthcare delivered to patients. Frustrated by a broken healthcare system in which outcomes are bad, cost is high and satisfaction—for patients and providers alike—is low, Rushika and the Iora Health team have built a new operating system to address all of these areas by fundamentally changing technology, processes and culture. To transform healthcare overall, we start with primary care. We believe that by investing more in primary care, we invest more in our patients. We take the time to get to know them as people, to learn about their goals and to understand how we can help them get there. As a consequence, our patients become more engaged, and therefore healthier. Technology: Iora has developed its own collaborative care platform built around the care of its patients, not billing or coding. Focusing on team care and population health, Chirp, Iora’s EMR, is a critical tool for the teams. In one doctor’s words, “I seriously felt a sense of excitement when using it—like the designers considered my needs as a user when creating the product…. I am thrilled to be working with Chirp.” Processes: Iora has built a unique care model and the processes to support it. Care teams include health coaches, providers and behavioral health specialists who work as a team with the patient. They spend more time with individual patients and empower them to manage their own health, whether in the office or across the complicated health system outside of Iora. And they do so with real empathy, offering dedicated customer service. Culture: Iora has formed and cultivated a world-class culture that starts with values of empathy, passion, courage, creativity and humility. These run through everything we do with each other, our patients, our partners and the rest of the healthcare system. There are no compromises, as the culture is a fundamental element of our success. The results delivered through this new model include: – better experience – better engagement – better outcomes – lower total spend …and more. Omada Omada Health is a digital behavioral medicine company that inspires and enables people everywhere to live free of chronic disease. Omada works with employer and health plan customers to provide scalable, effective, and evidence-based behavioral interventions for the tipping-point population—those most at risk of developing heart disease, diabetes and other chronic conditions. Combining proven behavioral science and the power of social networking with cutting-edge technology and world-class design, Omada is delivering clinically meaningful results for anyone with an Internet connection. In 2015, Omada was named Fast Company’s “Most Innovative” U.S.-based healthcare company. With a background at the intersection of technology and medicine, cofounder and CEO Sean Duffy is passionate about using insights into human behavior to tackle what the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention labeled “the public health challenge of our generation”—chronic disease. Sean holds a BS in neuroscience from Columbia University, has worked at Google and IDEO, and was an MD/MBA candidate at Harvard University before founding Omada. For the first time in human history, chronic disease is killing more individuals than infectious disease worldwide. Last year, the U.S. healthcare system spent over $500 billion treating just three obesity-related chronic diseases—an unsustainable expense that continues to rise every year. Such chronic conditions can often be prevented by changes in behavior and lifestyle—even with the existence of interventions that have been demonstrated to work. But the industry has lacked effective, scalable and sustainable solutions for empowering the 87 million Americans with prediabetes—let alone the tens of millions more at risk of heart disease and other obesity-related chronic conditions—to take control of their own health. Omada Health was founded to solve that problem—and is working with enterprise clients like Lowe’s, Iron Mountain and Costco, as well as health insurers like Humana and Kaiser Permanente, to do just that. 4.5 How GE Works: Goals + Metrics 2015 GE Sustainability 4.5 How GE Works Workforce & Idea Development 2013 2014 2015 U.S. and Non-U.S. Employees (in thousands) U.S. 134 136 125 Non-U.S. 172 169 207 Employees by Region (in thousands) U.S. 134 136 125 Canada & the Americas 28 29 33 Europe 87 84 107 Middle East & Africa 7 7 11 Pacific Basin 50 49 56 Total 307 305 332 Governance Metrics 2013 2014 2015 Ombudsperson Concerns by Area (Reports per policy) Fair Employment Practices 812 796 879 Conflicts of Interest 309 301 396 International Trade Compliance 124 123 147 Securing GE Operations Globally 163 149 155 Regulatory Excellence 140 203 202 Business Records (T&L, Time & Attendance) 175 226 293 Environment, Health & Safety 129 175 240 Routines, Documentation, Internal Measurements 224 264 243 Supplier Relationships 170 222 265 Improper Payments 96 91 91 Cybersecurity/Privacy 193 201 252 Controllership (Accounting, Financial Reporting, Billing) 141 112 165 Intellectual Property 141 147 196 Theft 36 58 52 Working with Governments 31 27 38 Competition Law 31 37 48 Violation of Law 31 34 38 Other Integrity Concerns (a) 158 159 144 Ombudsperson Process Investigation Results Concerns Reported (b) 3,104 3,325 3844 Disciplinary Actions 960 1,006 1095 Geographic Breakdown of Investigations Conducted (% of investigations) U.S. and Canada 48% 44% 39% EMEA 23% 28% 30% Asia 19% 17% 17% Latin America 10% 11% 13% Footnotes: (a) Other Integrity Concerns includes AML (2013=9, 2014=11,2015=4) (b) 2015 data represents concerns logged in to the GE Spirit & Letter open reporting database as of May 2, 2016; policy and risk area is included as of May 18, 2016 EHS Program Management Baseline 2013 2014 2015 Injury & Illness Areas (a) Recordable Incident Rate (b) 0.99 1.01 0.97 Days Away From Work Incident Rate (b) (c) 0.37 0.41 0.39 Total ISO 14001 sites 137 143 148 EHS Metrics (a) Global Penalties Paid (in $ thousands) 201 107 43 Training Units Completed (millions of units) U.S. 0.64 0.57 0.56 Training Units Completed (millions of units) Non-U.S. 0.55 0.44 0.38 Agency Inspections U.S. 759 580 538 Agency Inspections Non-U.S. 805 769 670 Spills & Releases 52 69 63 Air & Wastewater Exceedances (a) Air 8 12 4 Wastewater 43 53 18 GE U.S. Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) On-Site Data (d) TRI On-Site Releases (in millions of pounds) 0.22 0.2 0.2 Waste Generation (e) Baseline (2006) Hazardous Waste (in metric tons) 43,329 46,850 54,050 47,727 Nonhazardous Waste (in metric tons) 225,344 212,510 315,060 229,252 Footnotes: (a) Metrics for 2013 & 2014 have been updated to reflect information that has become available since the last published report. (b) Rates are based on 100 employees working 200,000 hours annually. (c) Days Away From Work Incident Rate uses the OSHA calculation for days-away-from-work cases (transfer or restricted cases are excluded). (d) This data will always lag by a year, since U.S. TRI data for the prior year is not submitted until July 1 as a matter of law. (e) Each year GE adjusts its 2006 waste generation metrics baseline inventory to account for divestments and acquisitions; waste data in the reporting years after 2006 and prior to acquisitions and divestitures are not adjusted. 2015 hazardous and non-hazardous wastes generation were lower than in 2014, largely due to lower production and fewer non-routine events at several large sites (less building demolition and asbestos abatement). Also, several sites began treating hazardous wastewaters onsite to render them non-hazardous; thus, reducing the volume of hazardous waste sent offsite. 4.6 Building Things That Matter: Goals + Metrics 4.7 Enabling Progress: Goals + Metrics 4.8 GRI Index GE’s reporting on its 2015 sustainability program was informed by the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (“The G4 Guidelines”). We anticipate reporting relevant G4 metrics going forward. Part I: Reporting In compiling the content for GE’s Sustainability Report, GE applied the Reporting Principles for Defining Content—see our Reporting Process—and the Reporting Principles for Defining Quality: Balance—provides both favorable and unfavorable results and covers a range of controversial issues relating to the application or misuse of GE products and services. Comparability—provides year-over-year metrics (less only when the information is not available) and includes a GRI Index. Timeliness—publishes reports at the same time every year, with updates to the website as new issues arise. Clarity—provides various formats for reporting to our stakeholders on GE activities, through the GE Sustainability website, which details our ongoing programs in these areas, as well as our long-term goals and annual performance metrics. Accuracy and Reliability—GE’s Finance Organization has reviewed the metrics and claims made in the 2015 report. The report has been reviewed and approved by GE senior management responsible for their subject matter area. Additionally, our Advisory Panel offers year-by-year commentary and guidance on GE’s reporting. Part II: Reporting Below you’ll find a full GRI Standard Disclosures Index for GE’s 2015 Sustainability reporting. 4.9 UNGC The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is both a policy platform and a practical framework for companies that are committed to sustainability and responsible business practices. As a multistakeholder leadership initiative, it seeks to align business operations and strategies with 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, and to catalyze actions in support of broader UN goals. GE became a signatory to the UNGC in 2008. In addition to our Sustainability reporting, GE has produced the following table as part of our UNGC Communication on Progress (COP). Business signatories to the UNGC are required to annually submit a COP for the UNGC website and to share the COP widely with their stakeholders. For more information about the UNGC strategic policy initiative, visit the UN Global Compact website: www.unglobalcompact.org
