2016 JOTUN VALUES CONTENTS INTRODUCTION At a glance // 02 Group key figures // 03 LOYALTY Highlights // 04 Reliable and trustworthy Long term relationships between OUR BUSINESS // 06 Jotun Group // 08 customers, Jotun and colleagues Loyalty Management summary // 10 Commitment to Jotun’s values, Marine Coatings // 12 strategies, policies and decisions Powder Coatings // 16 Protective Coatings // 20 Decorative Paints // 24 CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION // 28 Investing in the future // 30 A Majestic launch // 32 CARE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY (CR) // 34 Help and support others Every day, in every way // 36 Display trust and empathy EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE // 38 Appraise and judge fairly Managing growth // 40 Protect internal and external Crisis management // 42 Care environment Tools to meet standards // 43 Proud of our workplace // 44 Reducing risk // 45 Growing from within // 46 Building better teams // 47 RESPECT ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT // 48 Jotun GreenSteps // 50 Values differences in people Our carbon footprint // 51 Be honest and fair Less is more // 52 Documenting environmental impacts // 53 Build diverse teams across culture Respect and gender JOTUN AND SOCIETY // 54 Follow laws and regulations Applying change // 56 Local community service // 57 Treat others the way they expect Protecting people // 58 to be treated Combatting corruption // 60 FINANCIAL INFO // 62 Chairman of the Board // 64 Consolidated financial statements // 65 BOLDNESS Executive summary of the financial statement // 69 Take initiatives to create the future COMPANY OVERVIEW // 70 Initiate and nurture change Organisation // 72 Boldness Communicate openly, honestly and with integrity Be proactive Address difficulties constructively AT A GLANCE GROUP KEY FIGURES 2 The Jotun Group is a matrix organisation divided into seven regions responsible for the sale (NOK MILLION) 3 PROFIT/LOSS 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 of Decorative Paints and Marine, Protective and Powder Coatings. INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION Operating revenue 15 785 16 282 13 171 12 034 11 351 Operating revenue outside Norway in % 85 86 83 82 80 The company has 37 production facilities in 21 countries, 63 companies in 45 countries and Operating profit 1 763 2 064 1 314 1 258 1 126 is represented in more than 100 countries around the world. Profit before tax 1 594 1 918 1 301 1 191 1 055 Net cash flow from operating activities 2 027 1 500 919 819 902 PROFITABILITY Return on capital employed, in % 1) 20.5 24.2 17.2 20.0 19.5 Operating margin, in % 2) 11.2 12.7 10.0 10.5 9.9 Return on equity, in % 3) 14.1 17.9 14.0 15.5 15.8 9 819 YEAR-END FINANCIAL POSITIONS Total assets 15 158 15 187 13 300 10 799 9 317 PEOPLE Investments in intangible and fixed assets 1 133 922 911 733 590 Equity (including non-controlling interests) 8 035 7 932 6 739 5 515 5 016 Equity / assets ratio, in % 53.0 52.2 50.7 51.1 53.8 REGIONS AM SCA WE EECA MEIA NEA SEAP (NOK) Americas Scandinavia West Europe East Europe and Central Asia Middle East, India and Africa North East Asia South East Asia and Pacific 45 Number of employees in the Group Number of employees in the Group, including 7 281 7 284 7 158 6 695 6 379 37 100 per cent in joint ventures and associated companies 9 819 9 842 9 676 8 991 8 740 15 785 000 000 DEFINITIONS OPERATING REVENUE FACTORIES COUNTRIES 1) Return on capital employed % = Operating profit + amortisation of intangible assets Average capital employed x 100 SALES EBITA Operating profit 21 000 2 100 2) Operating margin % = x 100 Operating revenue Total comprehensive income for the year 3) Return on equity % = x 100 18 000 1800 Average equity SEGMENTS 10% 39+27+2410M Decorative Paints: Jotun manufactures, sells and distributes 15 000 1500 interior and exterior paints to consumers and professionals POWDER COATINGS worldwide. 39% 12 000 1200 Marine Coatings: Jotun is a world leading provider of marine coatings to the newbuilding, DryDock and SeaStock markets. In SALES AND EBITA DEVELOPMENT 24% DECORATIVE PAINTS 9 000 900 addition, Jotun supplies coating solutions for megayachts and (NOK MILLION) BUSINESS leisure yachts. PROTECTIVE COATINGS SEGMENTS Protective Coatings: Jotun’s protective coatings are sold to 6 000 600 companies active in industries related to offshore, energy, infrastructure and hydrocarbon processing industry. 3 000 300 Powder Coatings: Jotun Powder Coatings is a leading supplier 27% MARINE COATINGS to companies active in industries related to appliances, furniture, building components, pipelines and general industries. 1972 1974 1976 1978 1980 1982 1984 1986 1988 1990 1992 1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 0 0 HIGHLIGHTS 4 5 INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION EAST EUROPE AND SCA SCANDINAVIA EECA CENTRAL ASIA NEA NORTH EAST ASIA • Construction on-going for new Jotun headquarters • Jotun’s Single Source Solution specified for the Eurasia • Jotun establishes new company in Taiwan and R&D centre in Norway Tunnel that crosses the Bosporus Straits in Turkey • Jotun completes contract for YAMAL LNG, the • Jotun secures contract for Johan Sverdrup project • Decorative paints and protective coatings supplied to world’s largest LNG project (topsides for drilling platform and living quarters) two LEED projects in Istanbul • Jotun Cosco Marine Coatings (JCMC) awarded the • Successful launch of Lady Minerals, a premium • Jotun signs contract with shipyards Vard Braila and Environmental Protection Advanced Unit of Chinese interior matt mineral paint Vard Tulcea in Romania to supply marine coatings to ‘Twelve-Five” petroleum and Chemical Industry • Jotun’s Nonstop Supreme is the top selling antifouling 15 newbuildings • JCMC wins global account with Bernhard Schulte in the Norwegian leisure yachting market • Protective coatings supplied to Sheremetyevo Shipmanagement, Hong Kong • Jotun reaches long-term agreement with Hurtigruten, International Airport (terminal building), Russia • Expansion of R&D Centre in Busan, South Korea the famous Norwegian cruise, ferry and cargo • Opening of regional R&D laboratory in Turkey completed operator 1926 1102 2 1991 708 2 1983 2030 4 MIDDLE EAST, SOUTH EAST ASIA AM THE AMERICAS WE WEST EUROPE MEIA INDIA AND AFRICA SEAP AND PACIFIC • Jotun secures drydocking contract for 50 per cent of • Jotun wins contracts to supply protective coatings to • Jotun celebrates opening of new state of the art • New factory construction on-going in Myanmar, Chevron’s fleet (SeaQuantum) transformer platforms for the Dudgeon and Rampion factory in Muscat, Oman Malaysia and the Philippines • Jotachar specified for topsides of Appomattox, Shell’s offshore wind farms in the UK • Powder and protective coatings supplied to Khalifa • Jotun celebrates successful regional launch of largest rig in the Gulf of Mexico • Jotun reaches long-term decorative paint agreement Stadium in Qatar Majestic Design, a premium interior decorative • Focus on Maintenance (offshore) helps Jotun achieve with Hotusa, one of Spain’s largest hotel chains • Jotun successfully launches EasyCoat, a medium product range and Jotun Essence, a medium range strong growth in Brazil • Jotun protective coatings products specified for range exterior decorative paint throughout the region interior paint • Jotun secures first newbuilding contract at Atlântico various components for four separate power stations • Jotun completes contract for the ETHYDCO • Jotun Powder Coatings introduces the Imagination Sul Shipyard, Brazil in Poland petrochemical plant expansion project in Egypt Collection, a unique range of colours and finishes • Electrolux signs two-year contract with Jotun for • Jotun’s premium exterior decorative paint Jotashield specifically targeting furniture designers powder coatings in the Czech Republic achieves outstanding results throughout the region • Jotun opens finished good warehouse in Thailand • Greek-owned Stamco Shipmanagement awards Jotun • Jotun supplies paints to the Dubai Opera House • Jotun secures contract to supply paints and coatings maintenance contracts for NYK Line-managed vessels to the Jewel Changi Airport, Singapore for the next five years 1974 218 2 1969 757 3 1962 2692 14 1968 2312 10 OUR BUSINESS 6 Meeting customer demand // 08 7 Jotun Group // 10 OUR BUSINESS OUR BUSINESS Marine Coatings // 12 Powder Coatings // 16 Decorative Paints // 20 Protective Coatings // 24 JOTUN GROUP MEETING CUSTOMER DEMAND 8 By focusing on the needs of end-users, Jotun has become one of the largest and fastest growing paint 9 companies in the world. OUR BUSINESS OUR BUSINESS Jotun has a global network of 37 factories producing about 834 consumers, shipowners, energy companies, architects, million litres/kg of paints and powder coatings annually. Like all designers, consultants, specifiers, contractors and applicators to paint manufacturers, Jotun products are used to protect, colour answer one question: What coating system best helps the endor add texture to objects. But unlike many competitors, Jotun user achieve their goal? does not view paints and coatings systems as commodities. Rather, Jotun develops products to meet the more complex, ENHANCED SERVICES individual demands of end-users. Product development is a vital part of meeting customer demand, but Jotun also provides services to help end-users DIFFERENT NEEDS get the best results. After all, paints and coatings are not a For example, an individual with asthma might seek a hypofinished product until they have been properly applied. Services allergenic interior decorative paint (SENS) that will not range from providing quality technical service to applicator aggravate symptoms, while a young urban couple with small training, product customisation to reliable, on-time delivery. children might prioritise a scratch-resistant interior paint (Lady And for project owners who prefer to do business with one Wonderwall) in the latest colour trends. Both paint systems supplier, Jotun offers the Single Source Solution, a concept that are safe to use and protect and beautify the home, but each combines interior and exterior decorative paints with protective product has been developed to meet the needs of different and powder coatings. Jotun understands that a user buys paint end-users. not for the can, but to achieve a result when the product is applied. In this way, Jotun does not just sell paints or coatings, This approach applies to every segment, market and industry but solutions. where Jotun is active. To understand the customer, Jotun engages with a broad range of stakeholders, including BIG, SAFE AND GREEN: THE OMAN FACTORY • Jotun Oman’s new facilities are built over an expansive area • The Oman factory is Jotun’s first in the Middle East to be of 60 000 square meters. equipped with in-line slurry mixers for calcium carbonate • The new facility has a potential production capacity of and titanium dioxide. 35 million litres of paint per year. • The factory’s air conditioning system includes extraction • All buildings at the site are LEED-compliant and were and filtration units to remove potentially harmful constructed according to Group HSE standards, consistent emissions, creating a cooler and safer work environment with Jotun GreenSteps programme. for operators. Inauguration of the new production facility in Oman, from left; Anwar Ali Sultan, Chairman of Jotun Oman, His Excellency Dr. Ali bin Masoud Al Sunaidy, Minister of Commerce & Industry, Sultanate of Oman, Odd Gleditsch d.y., Chairman of Jotun. JOTUN GROUP COMMITTED TO GROWTH 10 Despite challenges in some regions and segments, Jotun performed well in 2016 11 and continued to pursue its long-term growth strategy. OUR BUSINESS OUR BUSINESS Jotun recorded good profitability and increased total sales production facilities and warehouses, invest in new markets volume by five per cent in 2016. These positive results were and in tools and systems to improve efficiency. In 2016, Jotun helped by double-digit volume growth in the Decorative Paints completed construction of a new factory in Oman, a distribution segment, significant improvement in the Powder Coatings warehouse in Thailand, and opened a sales office in Taiwan. segment and favourable raw materials prices. Jotun also Jotun also began construction of new factories in Myanmar, The performed well in key regions, including the Middle East, South Philippines, Malaysia and its new headquarters and R&D centre East Asia, East Europe and Central Asia. in Sandefjord, Norway, among other projects. CHALLENGING MARKETS DURABLE BUSINESS MODEL While underlying growth was positive, the company’s results Looking ahead, Jotun will continue to pursue an organic were impacted by weak demand for marine coatings and growth strategy that has helped the company more than a decline in offshore activity, which slowed growth in the double in size over the last decade. Jotun recognises that Protective Coatings segment. In addition, growth in some no two markets are the same, so by empowering regional regions was slowed by political unrest and economic turmoil personnel to make decisions closer to the markets they serve, in countries where Jotun has a strong presence, such as Saudi the company can adapt quickly to local demand. At the same Arabia, Egypt and Turkey. Despite a slowing global economy, time, Jotun continues to be active in four segments, allowing the company improved market share over a broad range of the company to shift resources when markets change. Jotun will product categories. continue to focus on growth by improving project execution, operational efficiency and work processes, while strengthening Jotun remains committed to achieving profitable growth. By the company’s environmental performance and Corporate bringing more volume through the network, the company can Governance. The basis for Jotun’s continued expansion of lower the average cost of producing a litre of paint, improving the strong organisation and a corporate culture that aligns its profits. Jotun continues to expand existing factories, build new commitment to growth. Jotun Group Management (from left): Vidar Nysæther, Group Executive Vice President/CFO, Bård K. Tonning, Group Executive Vice President – Decorative Paint, Morten Fon, CEO and Geir Bøe, Group Executive Vice President – Performance Coatings. FULL TIME EMPLOYEES PRODUCTION FACILITIES PRODUCTION VOLUME TOTAL SALES Litres/kilos (1 000 tonnes) Sales in NOK billion SCA SCA SCA SCA WE WE WE WE EECA 2016 EECA EECA EECA MEIA 2006 MEIA MEIA MEIA SEAP SEAP SEAP SEAP NEA AM NEA NEA NEA Corporate AM AM AM 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 0 3 6 9 12 15 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 MARINE COATINGS SAILING THROUGH TROUBLED WATERS 12 As the shipping industry continues to experience challenging times, Jotun remains focused on 13 delivering solutions to owners operating in the new market reality. OUR BUSINESS OUR BUSINESS While Jotun recorded a modest decline in sales in 2016 changes in ship-specific hull and propeller performance, which compared to last year, the company continued to gain market Jotun uses as the basis for the company’s High Performance share in the Marine Coatings segment. This growth was mainly Guarantee. In the DryDock concept, Jotun is focused on driven by strong performance in China and South Korea, strengthening relationships with existing customers to secure where the company performed well, completing newbuilding scheduled maintenance contracts. projects ordered in 2014 and 2015. However, with freight rates near historic lows, newbuilding activity has slowed HELPING OWNERS REDUCE WASTE dramatically, which will impact Jotun’s business in this segment going forward. Jotun is now working to achieve growth in the With an increased focus on cutting costs, many owners are DryDock and SeaStock concepts. delaying on-board maintenance to save money, impacting Jotun’s SeaStock concept. However, the company has found success with Jotun’s Smartpack Solutions, an easy-to-use A CHANGING INDUSTRY two pack system for brush and roller, which reduces waste. These uncertain market conditions have resulted in structural Better utlilisation of the paint is helping owners to save cost changes in the industry, creating fewer, larger players. Jotun is on maintenance. Jotun also continues to gain market share working to secure multi-vessel block tenders, bundling products, in the specialised tankcoatings segment and has upgraded services and technical support with companies operating large existing products, including Tankguard HB Classic, and the new fleets. And to help owners operate successfully in this new Tankguard Special, developed to give Jotun a competitive edge market reality, Jotun offers a number of products and solutions. in the newbuilding market. In 2016, Jotun secured about 150 Hull Performance Solutions Looking ahead, the company does not expect signs of recovery contracts, helping owners reduce fuel costs and corresponding to emerge until 2018. However, it should be noted that Jotun emissions and began pilot testing a new premium sylil has been active in the maritime industry for 90 years, and has methacrylate antifouling. In addition, Jotun welcomed the the products, competence and experience to succeed longterm publication of ISO 19030, a new standard conceived to measure in any market. JOTUN MARINE COATINGS 6+17+7512494M 4% 6% AM SCA SALES IN BILLION NOK 17% WE 2016 2015 SALES 7% 2014 PER REGION EECA 49% NEA 5% 2013 MEIA 2012 12% SEAP 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 MARINE COATINGS JOTUN HPS: HIGH STANDARDS 14 Jotun’s Hull Performance Solutions have been delivered to more than 400 vessels worldwide. And with 15 a new ISO hull and propeller performance standard now in place, Jotun is confident that demand for OUR BUSINESS OUR BUSINESS HPS will continue to rise. By some estimates, poor hull and propeller performance collaboration with Bellona/Clean Shipping Coalition and accounts for around 10 per cent of the world fleet’s energy 53 industry experts, formed a working group to develop consumption and is a significant contributor to the industry’s comprehensive, accurate and workable methods for measuring total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. To help owners cut changes in ship-specific hull and propeller performance. The costs, extend periods between drydockings and improve new standard (ISO 19030) was published in November 2016, environmental performance, Jotun has spent decades working allowing end-users seeking to improve performance access to with silyl acrylate technology to develop a range of advanced transparent, reliable and standardised tools to better evaluate self-polishing antifoulings (SeaQuantum). competing suppliers, including coatings manufacturers. PROVEN SOLUTION BUILDING ON OUR SUCCESS In 2011, the company launched Hull Performance Solutions In 2016, Jotun secured about 150 HPS contracts, consistent (HPS), which combines advanced silyl methacrylate antifouling with the new standard. In addition, the company began pilot (SeaQuantum X200) with enhanced technical service, backed testing a new antifouling hull coating solution and strengthened by a performance guarantee. Over the past five years, Jotun has its technical service. Jotun is confident that as the industry collected and published long-term hull performance data from applies the new ISO standard and more HPS data becomes multiple users, showing definitive proof that HPS lowers both available, owners will have the tools to make more informed fuel use and corresponding emissions significantly, resulting in decisions, generating more demand for Jotun’s range of more cost-effective and sustainable ship operations. antifoulings. Jotun has long been recognised as a leader in antifoulings. However, until recently, measuring speed loss remained a challenge due to lack of standards. In 2013, Jotun, in JOTUN YACHTING AND LEISURE BOAT PRODUCTS Jotun is a recognised leader in specialised coatings for leisure metres in length. Jotun offers the Single Source Solution boats and megayachts. Improving market conditions and (topcoats, fillers and hull coatings), representing a significant the growing success of NonStop Supreme, a self-polishing competitive advantage. In 2016, Jotun put strong focus on antifouling launched in 2014, helped grow sales in the the implementation of procedures and guidelines to ensure leisure boat segment, mainly in Scandinavia. In 2016, Jotun proper newbuilding and refit project processes. Looking launched NonStop Supreme White, which retains its brilliant ahead, Jotun is focusing on the Iconic Megayacht concept, white colour by resisting discolouration at the waterline. where the company has coated 35 per cent of the 200 In the yachting segment, Jotun enjoys an 11 per cent largest vessels of the world. global market share providing coatings for yachts above 25 POWDER COATINGS SUCCESS THROUGH TEAMWORK 16 Jotun recorded strong growth in the Powder Coatings segment by increased focus on achieving 17 a competitive edge in different market segments, better use of regional resources and improved OUR BUSINESS OUR BUSINESS coordination between local sales and technical personnel. In 2016, Jotun achieved sales growth in all regions except furniture manufacturers, such as IKEA. To serve customers in all for the Middle East, where the business was impacted by an concepts more effectively, Jotun has invested in concept-specific economic slowdown in Saudi Arabia. Volumes were particularly training and built client teams that include sales, technical strong in the Czech Republic, UAE, India, Pakistan, Vietnam, service and laboratory personnel (the ‘TROIKA’ approach) who Indonesia and China. Excellent growth was also recorded in work with industrial manufacturers and applicators to help them Turkey, despite uncertain political and economic conditions. achieve optimal results. SOLID PERFORMANCE GO FOR GROWTH In 2016, Jotun performed exceptionally well in the General Jotun’s differentiation strategy is built on a concept with clearly Industries concept, supplying light industrial manufacturers of branded products to challenge the ‘commodity’ culture. To products such as electrical switchgear, shelving, interior lighting increase sales penetration in geographically larger countries and automotive components like alloy wheels and coil springs. (e.g. China, Russia, India, Turkey), Jotun launched an initiative in Jotun also had success in the Building Components concept, 2015 to expand its dealer and distributor network, which makes especially in the UAE, where the company is a recognised leader up 12 per cent of total sales. Jotun’s target is to increase its in premium powder coatings for architectural elements (e.g. network from 75 to 102 dealers and distributors by 2018 and aluminium curtain walling, louvres, window and door frames to increase their share to 15 per cent of total sales. While R&D and steel rebar used to extend the life of concrete structures). in Jotun has high focus on core technologies, the company has Sales in the Pipeline concept were down, mostly due to the taken steps to empower regional laboratories to customise and slowdown in the oil and gas industry. adapt products to meet local needs better and faster, helping to support the segment´s growth ambition. In the Appliances & Furniture concepts, Jotun saw modest growth, supported in part by partnering with multinational appliance manufacturers such as Electrolux and Panasonic and JOTUN POWDER COATINGS 5+10+1642234M 4% 5% NEA SCA SALES IN BILLION NOK 23% 10% SEAP WE 2016 2015 SALES 16% EECA 2014 PER REGION 2013 2012 42% MEIA 0 1 2 3 POWDER COATINGS DESIGN INSPIRATION 18 Jotun Powder Coatings has gained recognition among some of the furniture industry’s leading 19 international designers by offering an inspiring range of dynamic colours and finishes. OUR BUSINESS OUR BUSINESS With an established reputation for providing high quality The collection offers three themes under one umbrella. The furniture while preparing sketches. This kit was included at powder coating solutions to a broad range of industries, Jotun Neutrals Range has been inspired by modern, minimalist a high-profile launch event in Malaysia that coincided with INTERNATIONAL PARTNERSHIP is now targeting the furniture industry. Powder Coatings have a Scandinavian design and features ten different shades, each presentations of Jotun’s decorative paint Majestic Design and range of benefits that suit a designer. With low environmental reflecting the variable interplay between light and shadow. The the 2017 Global Colour Trends. Denmark-based HAY is a leading multinational furniture impact, higher material utilisation and almost no waste, lively New Classics Range evokes the contemporary pastels of maker notable for creating durable, functional furniture Jotun products can inspire furniture manufacturers to create Miami’s Art Deco district and the Industrial Luxe Range includes Jotun has also given individual presentations to key influencers and home accessories at affordable prices. In 2015, HAY innovative designs. rich earthy tones juxtaposed with the bold aesthetic associated in the furniture manufacturing sector, including IKEA, HAY and specified Jotun products for their Palissades Collection, with raw industrial spaces. Steelcase. So far, the response to the Imagination Collection has created by the design team of Ronan & Erwan Bouroullec exceeded expectations, and by continuing to work closely with for a variety of environments, from cafes and restaurants to THE IMAGINATION COLLECTION applicators to support their growth through product innovation garden terraces and balconies. Jotun’s ability to meet the BUILDING MOMENTUM In 2016, Jotun’s Furniture Team drew on both internal and and efficiency programmes, Jotun is confident the company can designers’ creative vision while providing a coating option external resources to identify the latest colour trends and, The collection was presented to designers and the media in grow in this highly competitive market. that meets the functional requirements of furniture, helped following a lengthy selection process, chose a series of colours a special kit, with custom-coloured pencils that matched the Jotun secure the contract. and finishes. The concept, known as the Imagination Collection, shades found in the Imagination Collection. For the first time, was launched in November, 2016. designers can explore the actual look of a finished piece of In 2016, the company launched the Imagination Collection, a carefully selected mix of shades and finishes to inspire furniture designers. The Collection is available in three different ranges: Neutrals, New Classics, and Industrial Luxe. PROTECTIVE COATINGS ADJUSTING TO CYCLICAL MARKETS 20 Jotun’s steady growth serving infrastructure, energy and hydrocarbon processing industry projects helped 21 to offset weak demand for protective coatings in the offshore industry. OUR BUSINESS OUR BUSINESS Low crude oil prices combined with overcapacity in the offshore challenging projects, the company has also found success market have slowed investments in new construction projects, with specialised epoxy passive fire protection products. In impacting fabrication yards and suppliers – including Jotun. While addition, the company has identified significant potential in the industry is not expected to stabilise before the end of 2017, the maintenance market for refineries, petrochemical plants Jotun has moved quickly to develop products and solutions to and gas processing facilities. To serve these projects more help owners save money by extending maintenance intervals effectively, Jotun has launched an initiative to expand its dealer for existing offshore facilities. For example, Jotun has launched and distributor networks to make protective coatings products a number of specialised two-pack, thick-film products for brush more available, closer to where they are needed. Growth in and roller that are easy to mix and apply, and have excellent flow the Energy concept (wind towers, thermal, hydropower etc.) properties to ensure long-lasting corrosion protection. remains stable. AN EMERGING LEADER IN BUILDING INDUSTRY SPECIFIC STEEL PROTECTION COMPETENCE In the Infrastructure concept (stadiums, airports, convention Looking ahead, Jotun will concentrate resources on gaining centres, hospitals etc.) Jotun’s successful product development market share in Infrastructure and HPI markets, especially in helped support growth in 2016. For example, Steelmaster 1200 countries where Jotun already has a strong market presence. WF, a thin-film waterborne intumescent coating introduced The company continues to invest in the development of both in 2014, has established a strong market presence in the UK maintenance and specialised products, and has increased focus and the Middle East. While Jotun has a relatively modest global on concept-specific training to encourage a better internal market share, the company has excellent references and a diverse understanding of the unique issues faced by customers active product portfolio, especially for owners seeking ‘green building’ in different industries. While weak demand in the offshore certification, which represents a promising opportunity for Jotun industry is likely to impact sales going forward, it should be going forward. noted that Jotun has been serving the offshore market for more than 40 years and has experienced operating successfully in this Jotun is also focusing resources toward the Hydrocarbon cyclical industry. Processing Industry (HPI), where it supplies a broad range of coatings solutions for new construction projects. Despite some JOTUN PROTECTIVE COATINGS 3+7+112518333M 3% 3% AM SCA 7% SALES IN BILLION NOK WE 33% 11% 2016 EECA NEA 2015 SALES 2014 PER REGION 25% 2013 MEIA 2012 18% 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 SEAP PROTECTIVE COATINGS BUILDING TRUST 22 Supplying to the Hydrocarbon Processing Industry requires a comprehensive product portfolio, 23 expansion of its protective coatings dealer network to make Jotun innovative products, excellent technical service and a long-term excellent service and deep knowledge about the needs of different owners operating highly complex OUR BUSINESS OUR BUSINESS maintenance products more widely available. commitment to creating value for the customer. To gain market processes. share in this highly competitive industrial segment, Jotun will continue to focus on competence development to provide PARTNERING WITH CUSTOMERS The Hydrocarbon Processing Industry (HPI) includes gas facilities, for new projects requires a global approach to specification sales and service personnel with the knowledge they need to refineries, petrochemical plants, tank farms and fertiliser plants, management combined with strong local support. To remain Supplying HPI projects presents different challenges than better understand the specific challenges faced by operators of among other specialised installations. Over the past five years, competitive, Jotun must continue to develop innovative other concepts and segments, but Jotun’s approach to this different HPI installations. growing demand for petrochemical products has resulted in functional coatings and adapt existing products to meet project dynamic market is consistent with the company’s core offering – increased global investment in HPI, creating a significant growth specifications. And because many HPI facilities are in remote opportunity for Jotun. locations, ensuring maintenance products are available where they are needed can represent a logistical challenge. LONG-TERM PARTNERSHIP MANAGING COMPLEXITY In 2016, Jotun introduced Jotachar 1709, a mesh-free epoxy Due to the scope and complexity of these installations, passive fire protection material for pool fires, and Jotatemp In 1998, Jotun Egypt reached an agreement with Sidi technical service helped the company secure an exclusive serving the HPI industry represents some genuine challenges. 250, a two-component glass flake reinforced epoxy coating for Kerir Petrochemicals Co. (SIDPEC) to supply coatings for maintenance contract and tender successfully to supply the While most maintenance sales are local, winning contracts service in high temperature operations. The company initiated steel structures, pipes, tanks and decorative paints for subsequent construction of other facilities. In 2013, plans administrative buildings for a new petrochemical complex were announced to include facilities to produce ethylene, in Egypt. Jotun worked closely with global EPC contractors butadiene and related derivatives, operated by the Egyptian (Toyo and Samsung), the local contractor (Petrojet) and Ethylene & Derivatives Co. (ETHYDCO). Based on Jotun’s applicator (Xervon) to complete the first phase of the long-term performance at the complex, the company secured project. The performance of Jotun products and excellent the project, which was successfully completed in 2016. DECORATIVE PAINTS ANOTHER STRONG PERFORMANCE 24 Jotun’s performance in the Decorative Paints segment in 2016 is consistent with a steady growth trend 25 that has endured for more than a decade. OUR BUSINESS OUR BUSINESS Jotun’s success in the Decorative Paints segment is built on existing retailers to raise the standard of their shops to generate user-driven product development, long-term relationships with more business. In 2016, the company launched Global Colour dealers and project stakeholders and a strong market presence Trends (2017), developed to inspire consumers, architects and in high growth regions. In 2016, Jotun performed especially well designers with the latest trends in interior design, and provided in the Middle East, South East Asia and Turkey. sales training support. Jotun also continues to develop and upgrade Multicolor machines, which remain the industry gold standard in in-shop tinting. QUALITY BRAND Jotun is a recognised player in premium interior and exterior REGIONAL STRENGTH paints in the markets where the company is active. The company recorded outstanding results in 2016 for established While the overall strategy within the Decorative Paints segment brands such as Fenomastic and Majestic (interior), and is managed centrally, the company empowers regional Jotashield and Demidekk (exterior). The Jotun brand was marketing and R&D teams to develop products and sales further re-enforced with the launch of My Home Rich Matt in campaigns. This diversity allows them to make better decisions the Middle East and Optimal Optiwhite in Scandinavia. In the faster, based on local market conditions. Jotun is working to medium range segment, Jotun performed well in the Middle utilise resources more effectively to manage costs and improve East with the launch of Easycoat, and Jotun Essence in South efficiency. The company will continue to focus on product East Asia. In Turkey, the company continues to enjoy success development, good dealer relationships and local understanding with Fenomastic Güzel Evim (My Beautiful Home), a premium to grow in the Decorative Paints segment in the years to come. interior paint launched in 2015. Jotun decorative paints are sold through about 7 500 shops, all over the world. While Jotun will continue to expand its dealer network, the company is working more closely with JOTUN DECORATIVE PAINTS 22+2+35120M 2% NEA SALES IN BILLION NOK 20% 22% SEAP SCA 2016 2% 2015 SALES WE 2014 PER REGION 3% EECA 2013 51% MEIA 2012 0 3 6 9 DECORATIVE PAINTS SETTING THE TREND 26 With the annual launch of Jotun Global Colour Trends, Jotun has become recognised as a trendsetter 27 among consumers, architects and interior designers. OUR BUSINESS OUR BUSINESS Jotun has launched Global Colour Trends every year since 2013. In 2016, Jotun launched its latest (2017) Global Colour Trends LIFTING THE BRAND The process begins with a multinational group of Jotun colour selection in more than 20 countries worldwide in a series of INSPIRED BY TRAVEL specialists tasked with identifying emerging trends in colour high profile events. These events were attended by the press, While it is difficult to calculate the success of the Global Colour and interior design. They consult with designers, architects and leading architects, developers, designers and other influencers, Trends initiative in production volume, the interest Jotun has Jotun’s Colour Trends palettes were inspired by the rich forecasters to narrow down colour selections to help discerning helping to strengthen Jotun’s position as a trendsetter in generated from high profile architects, developers and designers hues experienced by world travellers. Nordic Living evokes consumers find colours best suit their lifestyle. Unlike many interior design. To maximise the impact of these carefully has grown every year. In addition to press mentions, events in the cool and natural blue and green colours found in competing suppliers who identify a “colour of the year”, Jotun choreographed events, strict presentation guidelines were different regions have been publicised and re-shared on multiple Scandinavia, while Urban Living adds a touch of soothing selects colour schemes, all linked by a common theme. distributed to each region, and Jotun worked closely with social media platforms. Jotun also participates in various high organic tones to chic city flats. The rich, leathery terracotta designers, filmmakers and local entertainers to create truly profile interior design trade shows to support its growing browns selected for Continental Living have been inspired by special events in unusual venues. reputation as a new voice in design. Re-enforcing the role paints the warm sunlit hues found on historic buildings and library play in interior design will not only lead to more direct sales to reading rooms. In addition to representing trending colour the consumer and project markets, but also help lift other Jotun schemes, each theme is connected to a story to appeal to decorative paint brands. consumers seeking to express themselves in different ways. CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION 28 Investing in the future // 30 29 A Majestic launch // 32 CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION INVESTING IN THE FUTURE 30 The foundations for Jotun’s international success are grounded in the company’s network of 31 laboratories, which test, develop and customise products to meet local demand. CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION Headquartered in Sandefjord, Norway, Jotun R&D has a global RESPONDING TO CHANGING MARKETS While Jotun works to adapt quickly to market changes, the EXPANDING RESEARCH CAPACITY network of regional laboratories in the Middle East (UAE and Group also recognises that driving innovation requires patience India), South East Asia (Malaysia and Thailand), North East In response to the demand for more affordable paints, Jotun and long-term investment. Five years ago, Jotun R&D began a Jotun R&D also welcomed the start of construction of a Asia (China and South Korea), East Europe (Turkey) and the launched a quality medium range exterior paint (Easycoat) in the binder technology research project, and for the first time in the new headquarters and R&D centre in Sandefjord, Norway. Americas (USA). In 2016, Jotun chemists not only strengthened Middle East. In South East Asia, the company introduced Jotun company’s history, produced its own alkyd emulsions. Alkyds, The new R&D centre will feature state of the art equipment the company’s position as a leader in premium decorative paints Essence, a lower priced alternative to the company’s leading which are synthetic resins made up of modified polymers, are and enough laboratories and office space for 350 chemists (Lady, Majestic, Fenomastic) and high performance functional premium paint brands, Majestic and Jotashield. Jotun also critical building blocks in many paints and coatings. By producing and related personnel. Consistent with Jotun GreenSteps, coatings (Jotatemp, Jotachar 1709), but also expanded the developed maintenance products (Smartpack Solutions). These their own alkyd emulsions, Jotun chemists will not only gain the building will be constructed in compliance with Group’s product portfolio to meet growing demand for more are cost effective, easy-to-use paint systems to help companies a better understanding of binder technology, but also be able BREEAM-NOR sustainability standards. Jotun is confident cost effective and environmental friendly solutions. active in the marine and oil and gas industries protect assets. to accelerate the development of a new generation of paint that the new R&D centre will not only help strengthen the systems. Jotun also announced the construction of a new passive company’s reputation as an industry pioneer, but attract and fire protection laboratory in the UK, complete with two testing recruit top talent to develop next-generation products. furnaces, scheduled to begin operations in early 2017. A MAJESTIC LAUNCH 32 Bringing a new premium interior decorative product range into the market requires a strong 33 marketing team that not only anticipates trends in interior design, but also knows how to generate CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION excitement for fresh home designs. In 2016, Jotun launched Majestic Design, a premium interior Scandinavia to provide consumers with the tools to ensure that paint collection, in South East Asia. The collection, adapted from the company’s signature designs are easy to replicate and apply. a similar Jotun range of products first developed in the Middle East, was inspired by nature’s beauty. Majestic Design captures Following an intensive development project, Majestic Design the essence of three inspirational natural scenes: Majestic was first introduced in November 2016 in Malaysia. Events were Design Pearl, which provides a pearlescent finish echoing a organised to celebrate the launch with Jotun dealers, architects, calming morning mist; Majestic Design Prestige, which offers designers and the press. These presentations were carefully a luxurious metallic finish evoking sunset clouds; and Majestic choreographed to generate excitement, linking each design Design Diamond, which mimics stars glittering in the night sky. with a different emotion, inspired by nature. Launches in other countries in South East Asia are scheduled for 2017. EASY TO SHOWCASE INDIVIDUAL TASTE LIFTING THE BRAND Jotun selected designs by closely tracking consumer trends in South East Asia and consulting with leading designers, Majestic Design follows the successful launch of Majestic True architects and external and internal colour specialists. Majestic Beauty (2014) and Majestic Perfect Beauty and Care (2015), Design reflects a renewed fashion focus on natural beauty, both premium products that enjoyed success. In addition to allowing homeowners a fresh approach to personal expression, being profitable, launching these ultra premium products helps with different designs to match different tastes. Because to generate interest in other Jotun products and strengthen the homeowners often find it difficult to use paint with special company’s brand. features, the Majestic Design team worked with Jotun in CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 34 35 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Every day, in every way // 36 EVERY DAY, IN EVERY WAY 36 Who we are isn’t defined only by what we produce, but also how we behave. Jotun has always 37 believed in corporate responsibility and, as our global organisation grows, so does our commitment to CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ensuring stakeholders are treated with respect. Corporate responsibility (CR) has been at the heart of Jotun 2017 will see a continuation of our long-term CR vision and since our formation in 1926. Today, with almost 10 000 further targeted activity, including an increased focus on easy employees and operating in over 100 countries, the structure to understand digital training and communication, and new of our CR activities has changed, but our principles have not. campaigns on compliance, particularly in non-financial areas. Our conduct is still anchored in the core Jotun values of Loyalty, Care, Respect and Boldness. It is Jotun’s aim to be a champion of high quality CR standards, with each one of our ‘ambassadors’ building our reputation It is an approach that helps build a positive and inclusive worldwide. corporate culture, while driving the success of our worldwide operations – building market reputation, trust, mitigating GOVERNING CR risk, and identifying new opportunities. In this way, strong CR programmes are not just good for society; they’re good for Operating with business transparency and optimal ethical business. standards is central to the strategic and cultural goals of Jotun. A stringent structure of corporate governance policies, audits Every employee is an ‘ambassador‘ for the business, and should and reviews facilitates this approach, driving not just our be aware of that responsibility, doing their part to promote a standards, but also our growing global success. brand that stakeholders can trust and society can rely upon. To ensure this we tailor CR policies and practices that adhere to the Jotun’s CR strategy is promoted and supported by the Board of highest standards. Directors and Group Management, cascading down through the organisation via policies, guidelines, reviews, audits, supplier Our policies and standards are based upon the Human Rights audits, CR reporting and a range of internal and external convention of the United Nations (UN), the International Labour activities conceived to promote uniform standards. “Corporate responsibility and sound governance are central to both Organization (ILO) convention, Organisation for Economic Cothe success and culture of Jotun. We continually invest in developing operation and Development (OECD) guidelines for multinational Jotun has a comprehensive system of evaluation relating to programmes and structure that help us maintain and promote the highest companies, and the UN’s Global Compact principles. corporate governance standards, spanning – standards, while delivering optimal results for all our stakeholders. • HSEQ audits • Business reviews BRICK BY BRICK • Financial audits Jotun’s Board fully supports our CR activities, which are defined by Jotun’s approach to CR is one of gradual evolution. Rather than • HR reviews our values and clearly aligned with the 10 United Nations Global transforming our successful long-term strategy, we continually • Supplier audits Compact principles.” refine our programme, leading to ongoing improvements. Our policies are developed centrally and promoted locally, Morten Fon, President and CEO In 2016, key bricks included: ensuring uniform standards across the Group, which each • The introduction of a refined human rights policy, aligned to company can understand, act upon and enforce. the United Nations Guiding Principles on Human Rights • A broad-based competition law campaign, including a new Jotun’s CR function reports regularly to Group Management policy, dedicated e-learning tools, workshops and supporting on all matters involving anti-corruption and whistle blowing material to make a complex global issue easier to understand activities. Boldness and comply with Loyalty Respect • Increased focus on anti-corruption activities, including new Care nano-learning modules and reporting tools EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE 38 Managing growth // 40 39 Crisis management // 42 EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE Tools to meet standards // 43 Proud of our workplace // 44 Reducing risk // 45 Growing from within // 46 Building better teams // 47 MANAGING GROWTH 40 Developing individuals creates better teams. Jotun drives Group success by investing in the careers 41 of everyone of its employees. EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE Jotun tailors and anchors all HR activities and initiatives to creating room for people to grow and develop is of the utmost enable the Group’s long-term organic growth ambitions. We do importance, so everybody can see their own way forward. this by attracting, hiring and continually developing our people, helping them to fulfil their potential. For this reason, Jotun invests heavily in a structure that feeds both young and more experienced people opportunities, allowing Jotun sees the value of having individuals that master their job for job rotation, international moves and personal coaching and roles. Human Resources (HR) builds that value through training development. As covered on page 46, our focus on creating an and development activities combined with an infrastructure even more dynamic workforce increases employee engagement allowing for mobility across departments, segments and and satisfaction, secures our leadership pipeline for future borders. In this way our people grow as we do, gaining growth, and provides opportunities to try new areas. This benefits understanding and skills that drive their own careers, and seasoned employees as much as their younger colleagues, Jotun’s success in the marketplace. helping enhance business experience and understanding. Jotun introduced dynamic workforce reporting into company CONTINUITY AND EVOLUTION business reviews in 2016. This allows the Group to focus and 2016 has been another year of prudent growth, managing and follow up the importance of internal versus external recruitment, expanding our employee base to adapt to new and existing participation in the Global Workforce programme, and the level challenges within markets. of job rotation taking place in all companies worldwide. Jtun has focused on a programme defined both by continuity BUILDING THE EMPLOYER BRAND and gradual evolution. This has seen an emphasis on Jotun’s ability to grow organically, alongside efficiency in operations, Jotun is a company that celebrates its diversity, employing 82 and the development of people and leadership skills. nationalities from across the globe in more than 200 business locations. FOCUSED ON THE FUTURE Making Jotun an attractive employer in all our existing and Young people are important for building a sustainable future markets is a huge but important task. In order to Jotun. It is one of Jotun’s principal challenges to attract and strengthen the inflow of well-qualified candidates into our develop highly competent and motivated young recruits that recruitment process, Jotun has developed an employer branding encapsulate our Penguin Spirit, drive to achieve, commitment, campaign that will be rolled out globally in 2017. This initiative, and our core values. targeting primarily 25 to 35 year olds, will equip local markets with material that promotes Jotun in a consistent, strong and Number of employees Female Male Nationalities Our systematic recruitment process is of a uniformly high attractive manner, communicating key messages and elevating Jotun total 9 819 1 776 8 043 82 standard across the Group, with at least one certified recruiter market awareness. Scandinavia 1 102 341 761 32 for every company leading and quality assuring the entire West Europe 757 177 580 31 process. However, retaining people, especially young people, in 2017 should be a year of further growth, in which we expect to East Europe and Central Asia 708 162 546 9 a successful business can be challenging. Therefore the need for surpass the 10 000 employee landmark. North East Asia 2 030 335 1 695 9 South East Asia and Pacific 2 312 553 1 759 23 Middle East, India and Africa 2 692 165 2 527 51 Americas 218 43 175 15 CRISIS MANAGEMENT TOOLS TO MEET STANDARDS 42 By preparing for potential crisis scenarios, Jotun can mitigate risk, protect people, and Jotun’s new HSEQ Management System rolled out in 2016, empowering local management to take 43 safeguard the Group’s assets and commercial reputation. clear roles and responsibilities. EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE In a manufacturing industry where chemicals are involved risk The crisis management team were not informed of the event’s If 2015 was a year of introduction, 2016 was defined by Centrally, the Group HSEQ department has been busy is inevitable. However, thanks to crisis management plans – details, with chosen employees playing roles including the implementation. introducing new initiatives to support this development, with at both Group and local levels – Jotun has the established media, family members, emergency services, and other key a committed focus on training. Jotun Academy is central to infrastructure to mitigate harm to people, the environment and stakeholders. Jotun’s new HSEQ Management System was embedded practical learning experience, but to reach individuals in a the business itself. throughout Jotun’s international network of facilities, with an targeted, convenient and globally effective format, e-learning is on-going implementation process spanning extensive training, increasingly important. CONTINUOUS LEARNING Jotun’s systems and procedures are centrally controlled and initiation activities, gap analyses and reviews. locally administered, with global and regional teams supporting The main objectives of the exercise are: 2016 saw the development of 12 fresh e-learning initiatives. local companies, all of which have their own crisis management • Test the emergency response from Local Crisis Management The system delegates clear HSEQ roles to local management The below table illustrates these courses and the number of teams and incident response leaders. teams teams, who, supported by their HSEQ manager, take individual completions in the year: • Ensure the local organisation assume roles, responsibilities responsibility for designated areas. Each of the following 14 • HSEQ management training: 751 In 2016 Jotun has focused on the development of a new crisis and tasks as defined in the Crisis Management Plan elements are thus assigned to ‘element owners’: • Work permits: 578 scenario to test and improve skills at each of our worldwide • Evaluate communication lines • Management requirements • Occupational health • Fire safety: 427 sites. This addresses the most severe risk we face, ‘Fire in • Test that the emergency organisation handles the crisis • Risk management • Environment • Safe storage: 407 production/offices’ and is designed to help the sites test their according to Jotun’s rules and regulations • Work permits • Product safety • Hazardous chemicals: 320 crisis management. • Incident and investigation • Management of change • Crisis management: 300 A full debrief and evaluation process was undertaken after the • Training • Security drills, with all findings summarised in an evaluation report. • Technical safety • Emergency preparedness REAL TESTS GROUP CERTIFICATION • Personnel safety • Quality To prepare for the test local HSEQ managers completed a three‘Fire in production/offices’ scenario will be completed by all The impact of Jotun’s HSEQ Management System was enhanced hour training workshop, accompanied by two new e-learning Jotun production sites within first tertiary 2017. The process will The system has been well received by local teams, who have in 2016 by its certification in compliance with ISO standards modules (Basic Crisis Management Training and Introduction to be evaluated, ensuring sites become self-sufficient in their key embraced their individual roles and understood the system’s 9001 (quality), 14001 (environment), and 18001 (safety) on a Scenario Training). They were then charged with facilitating a crisis scenario training. well-defined requirements, tools and best practices. global basis. Previously, each individual site was responsible for full-scale crisis drill, including a complete site evacuation. managing certification. On-going self-evaluation is assisting them on the path to full implementation, which is scheduled by 1 June 2017. Jotun’s customers and all stakeholders can now be assured that the Group has attained the optimal benchmark for its HSEQ structure, laying solid foundations for operations and INVESTING IN LEARNING products that are compliant, efficient, safe and of high quality, The new system provides the structure needed for uniform high worldwide. HSEQ standards across the Group, while ensuring a keen sense of involvement and ownership on local levels. PROUD OF OUR WORKPLACE REDUCING RISK 44 Jotun works continuously to develop, improve and embed systems and procedures that protect both Jotun is committed to safeguarding its employees, facilities and the environment, continually investing 45 people and assets. In 2016, 5S was a major focus. in preventative measures and procedures that proactively address risk and augment safety standards. EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE 5S is a global initiative that was introduced across Jotun’s As Jotun grows, so does the potential for risk. instrumentation systems, such as emergency stops, overfilling FACILITATING CHANGE operational facilities. Built on a clear set of requirements, 5S is a protection, level indicators and emergency lighting. systematic and mandatory programme designed to improve and To ensure the effectiveness of 5S a number of requirements Increasing numbers of facilities, people and production maintain safety and order in the workplace. have been set out: volumes means that our HSEQ performance must evolve In addition, a new one day training programme was introduced • Company management must commit to 5S with the business – introducing new initiatives, procedures for all electricians within the Group, covering: • Operational areas should be divided, with a delegation of and infrastructure to ensure we manage and minimise risk • Explosion risk PLATFORM FOR SUCCESS responsibilities throughout our organisation. • Static electricity Jotun has identified a clean and well-organised environment as • A uniform system of floor markings to be introduced • EX/ATEX requirements a cornerstone of any efficient and safe workplace. • Use of 5S boards for communication and follow up 2016 has seen a concerted effort to tackle the most pressing • Grounding • Follow up 5S inspections and audits risk facing our operations; fire in the workplace. • Cable terminations Jotun aims to create an optimal global standard that is clear, • Cable bridges, fixed cables, etc. effective and uniform. As of year-end, 5S has been introduced in all production • Work permits BEYOND ZERO facilities. Further work on implementation and embedding will • Personal Protective Equipment for electricians The initiative is built around five simple S words/phrases – Sort, continue in 2017. Jotun has a zero tolerance to fires. Every incident is reported, Set in order, Shine, Standardise, Sustain – communicating the investigated and analysed thoroughly, with ‘lessons learned’ FURTHER ACTIONS actions required to establish and maintain the desired standard. issued to improve standards. In 2016, we tightened procedures WINNER OF THE ‘I CARE’ CAMPAIGN 2016 The accompanying slogan ‘Proud of our workplace’ encourages even further, communicating to all facilities that every single In 2016, Jotun also: positive buy-in from all employees. The ‘I Care’ initiative in 2016 was focused on singling out incident, no matter how small, shall now be reported centrally. • Launched e-learning for fire safety and static electricity the best 5S implementation throughout the Group. After a • Conducted fire risk assessments, control of the installation thorough process of evaluation, Jotun India was selected as the Any occurrence with the potential to start a fire, such as an of all electrical wiring and thermographic surveys on all new ACHIEVING RESULTS proud winner. electrical short circuit or sparks from machinery, must now factories Jotun works continuously to reduce injuries and protect the be documented. That inevitably means that the number of health of our employees. In 2016, we achieved an all-time low reported incidents will initially rise, but the learning process In 2017, we will: Lost Time Injury Rate at 2.6 and the sick leave continue to be at will also be elevated, helping us to introduce measures to • Introduce new requirements for: a low level, 1.45 per cent. continually diminish risk. − smoking areas − maintenance of air condition units None of the reported fires in 2016 resulted in any injury to − use of electrical equipment in offices personnel or Jotun property. • Follow up the implementation of new maintenance procedures in HSEQ audits. LOST TIME INJURY RATE ABSENCE DUE TO SICKNESS Number of injuries resulting in more than one day absence Days of absence per injury POLICIES AND PROGRAMMES per million working hours – (H-value) for Jotun Group Electrical fires have major risk potential. In 2016, Jotun introduced three new maintenance policies to safeguard 2016 2016 personnel and property. 2015 2015 1. Control of electrical installations: To ensure high quality 2014 2014 maintenance and control of all electrical installations, 2013 2013 equipment and cables. 2012 2012 2. Inspection, testing and maintenance of fixed fire fighting and detection equipment: Maintaining high standards for all fire 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 0 0.3 0.6 0.9 1.2 1.5 1.8 fighting and fire detection systems throughout Jotun. 3. Control of safety and instrumentation systems: Ensuring optimal maintenance and control of all emergency and GROWING FROM WITHIN BUILDING BETTER TEAMS 46 Jotun develops in tandem with its employees. We invest in enhancing our personnel’s competence and Jotun’s success depends on that of its people. The Competence Development team creates the 47 understanding, so they can invest in us and build long-term careers in the company. structure and programmes to build individual skills and team effectiveness, worldwide. EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE Standing still leads to stagnation. Jotun believes that to move With clearer messaging and material that support all activities, Jotun’s Competence Development team interacts with almost As an overall goal, 70 per cent of learning will be delivered the business forward we must give people the opportunity including the Management Academy, Jotun has strengthened 8 000 internal customers, across 100 different countries, through experience and practical exercises, 20 per cent through to develop across borders, segments and skill sets. A wellits internal capacity to develop leaders capable of executing helping them fulfil individual potential and create added value knowledge sharing with colleagues, and 10 per cent in a formal functioning internal labour market is crucial in achieving that. effective leadership and facilitating our organic growth strategy. for the company and all its stakeholders. learning environment. By continually investing in development and offering job In 2016, the focus was on refining its offer to meet the needs Increased focus on preparation and post learning evaluation DYNAMIC WORKFORCE opportunities, we retain employees with a wide range of of an evolving global organisation – introducing digital tools to ensures maximum value from each delivery. experience and expertise. This also enables us to fill new Jotun faces a constant challenge to develop and keep provide on demand learning. management positions internally rather than externally, ensuring young people with relatively short company tenures. TEAM FOCUS we have solid foundations for on-going growth. Career opportunities combined with extensive training NANO MODULES, MACRO IMPACTS and development programmes are important in order to 2016 has seen renewed emphasis on creating more effective demonstrate the internal opportunities available. We also need 2016 saw the continuation of Jotun’s nano module programme teams, providing the tools, training and environments to LEADING THE WAY to constantly train and develop our employees in order to have development, whereby targeted bite-sized learning units are develop collective effort, rather than dependence on individuals. The past years have intensified the focus on securing Jotun’s qualified internal candidates for future management vacancies, delivered to employees via email. These modules are quick to leadership pipeline. We are committed to developing leaders created by either growth or replacement. complete, convenient to access (via PC or mobile phone) and Regional managers have been trained to deliver local workshops who develop people – driving growth and delivering results in a can be distributed instantaneously, either company wide or to in team effectiveness, new licences have been acquired for sustainable cycle of success. To meet strategic HR objectives, and develop individual select recipients. They are cost efficient and effective, meeting Culture Wizard – a culture awareness portal to enhance competency and business understanding, we have built user needs and corporate objectives, building the competence understanding of national and personal cultures and strengthen To this end 2016 saw the re-launch of Jotun’s Leadership our Global Mobility solutions. This initiative features three of all Jotun employees with access to digital technology. teams – and increased investment in online English learning Expectations programme, with a refined format outlining not complementary programmes: Short-term assignments, mobile company-wide has developed communication skills. only what we want leaders to do, but also how they can meet workforce and international assignments. Key nano modules developed and distributed in 2016 related to these requirements. IT-security, with 14 compulsory units, the migration of all Jotun In 2016, these programmes were heavily promoted at a Group, employees from the Notes to Outlook PC platform, and the As such we focused on the importance of perception – how regional and local level, offering increased opportunities for launch of the new intranet. In each case modules were tailored a leader’s team interpret their execution of the three equally job rotation and cross-department, functional and country to meet a hierarchy of objectives, ensuring that transitions were important components of a leader’s role, namely: experience. We believe this helps Jotun, building both individual made, and behaviour changed, in step-by-step processes. • Self Leadership – driving innovation, change and and business potential now and for the future. improvement Nano modules are also key to the retention of learning • Task Leadership – planning and accomplishing tasks with following training delivered through the Learning Gateway and reliability and efficiency Jotun Academy. In 2017, nano modules will roll out across the • People Leadership – enhancing competence, relationships 38 programmes provided by the Academy, with participants and commitment receiving between eight and 10 units post-training, ensuring lessons are learnt. 70-20-10 In 2016, Jotun increased efforts to refine the structure of its learning programmes, shifting focus away from classroom environments to more work-orientated situations. Jotun Academy learning events are still key, but more emphasis is placed on preand post-learning delivery, with mobilising competence as a key objective. ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT 48 Jotun GreenSteps // 50 49 Our carbon footprint // 51 ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT Less is more // 52 Documenting environmental impacts // 53 12+4+80M 12% EMISSIONS PER TONNE PRODUCED INTERNAL TRANSPORT (Kg CO2 per produced ton) for Jotun Group 4% ENERGY GENERATION 2016 EMISSION 4% CHEMICAL PROCESS 2015 SOURCE EMISSIONS 2014 80% 0 20 40 60 80 100 ELECTRICITY STEPS IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION 50 Jotun GreenSteps forms the foundations of the Group’s environmental efforts, laying five key building THE WAY AHEAD 51 • Invest in the development of more emissions free, low VOC blocks that enable us to reduce environmental impact, while enhancing both efficiency and our green ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT Jotun GreenSteps is an on-going initiative. In 2017, the products that contribute to greener, more sustainable projects product portfolio. company has set the following targets: • Cut TiO2 content without detrimental impacts on quality or • Continue to invest in smarter solutions for enhancing opacity Jotun GreenSteps informs everything Jotun does. It is both a hit the shelves. Offering a green profile and marketed as efficiency and reducing carbon emissions at our facilities • Continue to reduce the solvent content in our marine and programme and a philosophy. It structures our efforts to reduce a Healthy Home paint, the product has recorded a sales worldwide protective coatings products not just our own environmental footprint, but also that of our increase of 143 per cent since launch. The Pilot WF series, • Focus efforts on continually reducing waste, with the goal of customers, offering greener products that help reduce energy part of Jotun’s Green Building Solutions, was introduced reaching a level of two per cent of our production volume consumption and enable optimal long-term asset protection. globally, giving customers a high performance, durable, waterborne acrylic coating – protecting both the health of Jotun GreenSteps encompasses the way we run our factories, the applicator and the wider environment. the materials we use, the technology we develop, and our overall investment decisions. • Waste segregation Jotun is committed to reducing the waste its facilities send It is embedded within Jotun, steering the company and to landfill. In 2016, programmes to segregate waste were its stakeholders on a path to enhanced environmental introduced at targeted sites, with colour-coded bins and performance, responsibility and sustainability. awareness drives. As an example of its success, the Dubai facility has cut waste sent to landfill from 1.5 per cent to 0.79 per cent. ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2016 In 2016 Jotun has accelerated the development of green • Setting new standards initiatives, with key areas of focus including: Jotun has led the shipping industry in the development of • Reduced energy consumption at existing facilities ISO 19030, a new standard conceived to measure changes Jotun uses smart solutions to deliver energy efficiency and in vessel-specific hull and propeller performance. After emission benefits. The Dubai warehouse and production more than three years in development, the standard was facilities installed reflective light tunnels allowing electric published in 2016. Jotun has now adopted ISO 19030 as lighting to be turned off during the day. These features also the foundation for the High Performance guarantee on its enabled the removal of skylights, reducing air conditioning Hull Performance Solution (HPS). This will help facilitate requirements. improved hull performance, enhanced efficiency and reduced emissions. • Environmental focus in Sandefjord Jotun’s new Sandefjord headquarters are now in the • Carbon footprint report advanced engineering phase, with a range of energy Jotun is committed to openness and accountability regarding efficient solutions being incorporated to meet the stringent the Group’s environmental performance. Since 2009 we have requirements of BREEM NOR ‘very good’ certification. reported annually on our carbon footprint, detailing total CO2 emissions by region, source, area and company. This provides • Green product launches a comprehensive picture of our overall performance and onJotun has an on-going programme to launch more going development. environmentally sustainable products. In 2016, Majestic OMAN TAKES THE LEED Perfect Beauty and Care, a LEED certified decorative product, In 2016, Jotun Oman’s new administration building Through advanced and innovative design, site development, was accredited with a LEED (Leadership in Energy and water savings, energy efficiency, materials selection, and indoor Environmental Design) SILVER rating, demonstrating its environmental quality, the building creates a workplace that is conformance with an exacting set of environmental standards not only more sustainable, but also more cost effective for the established by the US Green Building Council. business, and healthier for Jotun Oman employees. DOCUMENTING LESS IS MORE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS 52 Jotun has a mission to reduce waste, energy consumption and the impact of its global In 2016, Jotun began the first phase of an effort to create Environmental Product Declarations for all 53 activities on the environment. This long-term dedication yielded positive results in 2016. Jotun products, helping end users understand how paints and coatings impact the environment. ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT Jotun is committed to doing more with less. Continuing the Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs) are created Phase one will focus on decorative paint and protective coating RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENTS growth of our global business, product range and overall in accordance with the ISO standard 14025. In Europe, products that make up Jotun’s Green Building Solution product customer satisfaction, while reducing our proportion of waste to Waste water was a key focus in the MEIA region in 2016. manufacturers also conform to EN 15804, which provides core suite, which provides project specifiers and building owners production levels. Product Category Rules (PCR) for any construction product and with approved systems that meet green building certification Previously waste water from Jotun’s production facilities was construction service. Impacts measured are comprehensive, requirements. It should be noted that while EPDs are a voluntary This means utilising materials, processes and recycling initiatives transported off-site for treatment at all locations in the Middle including extraction of raw materials, energy use during requirement, providing information related to Life Cycle that offer optimal levels of both effectiveness and efficiency. East – an activity demanding time, transportation and the use of production and transportation, chemical content of materials, Assessment will help Jotun attract more business consistent with It is a long-term strategy defined by continual refinement and valuable resources. waste generation, packaging, and emissions to air, water and Jotun’s environmental policy (Jotun GreenSteps Programme). improvement. soil, among others. In 2016, Jotun committed to tackling this issue, constructing ‘inEU PROJECT FOR DECORATIVE PAINTS house’ waste water treatment plants in Dubai and Saudi Arabia, MEETING WASTE GOALS GATHERING INFORMATION and developing a cutting edge facility in the newly opened In addition, Jotun has been participating in a EU project, In 2012 Jotun set the objective of reducing waste vs. production Oman factory. Jotun’s EPD team in the Product Safety Department uses paint together with five other coatings manufacturers, to provide levels to two per cent by 2016. We are pleased to confirm that formulations, existing technical product data sheets and works standardised environmental footprint labels to help consumers this target was achieved. This ensures our operations meet all regulatory demands, while closely with personnel in R&D, Purchasing, Logistics, Marketing make more informed decisions. Together with the European reducing our environmental footprint and supporting the longand Production Managers at Jotun factories to gather Paint and Printing Ink Council (CEPE) the EU commission is The reduction of waste water, a bi-product of our term objectives of the organisation with regard to waste. information. The information is entered into an online EPD tool developing accurate and comprehensive category rules, data manufacturing processes and the result of washing production (which includes an environmental impact calculator). The EPD and tools to calculate, document and communicate data on the equipment, has been a long-term focus. From 2013 to 2015 tool is edited and independently verified according to guidelines environmental impact of decorative paints – from cradle to grave. LIMITING EMISSIONS the Group reduced the level of waste water from 10 to seven kg established by the Norwegian EPD Foundation. per 1000 tonnes produced. This figure was maintained in 2016. 2016 saw the completion of a project to install Regenerative Thermal Oxidisers (RTO) at two plants in China and one in This was achieved through enhanced planning and efficiency, South Korea. but also through a redoubling of our commitment to recycle water wherever possible. RTOs help Jotun manage VOC to air discharge, enabling the combustion of solvents at much lower concentrations than normally required and thus limiting industrial emissions from our facilities. This safeguards local environments, satisfies regulations and contributes towards our wider global objectives. HAZARDOUS AND NON HAZARDOUS WASTE ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION (Kg waste per tonne produced) for Jotun Group (Per tonne produced) for Jotun Group Non hazardous waste Hazardous waste 2016 2016 2015 2015 2014 2014 2013 2013 2012 2012 0 5 10 15 20 25 0 30 60 90 120 150 Jotun has provided low and solvent-free paints and coatings to Masdar City, the world’s first planned sustainable development, located in Abu Dhabi, in the United Arab Emirates. JOTUN AND SOCIETY 54 55 JOTUN AND SOCIETY JOTUN AND SOCIETY Applying change // 56 Local community service // 57 Protecting people // 58 Combatting corruption // 60 APPLYING CHANGE LOCAL COMMUNITY SERVICE 56 Jotun takes pride in our role as a responsible corporate citizen, impacting positively on the communities Every year, Jotun provides financial support to both international aid organisations and local charities. 57 and companies we interact with, worldwide. JOTUN AND SOCIETY JOTUN AND SOCIETY Jotun works to deliver optimal value for all its stakeholders, and For example, Jotun ran a workshop for local Indonesian supplier While donations to global aid organisations are substantial, SKILLS TRAINING that includes the local people and communities we come into PT Aneka in October 2016. A previous audit had identified they represent only a fraction of Jotun’s total annual support for contact with. issues within the company’s procurement and HSE functions, various local charitable causes. In fact, Jotun’s multiple activities In South Africa, Jotun works with the Zoë Academy of Skills potentially impacting on business sustainability. in local communities have a greater and more direct and visible training centre outside of Cape Town, to help disadvantaged It is our ambition to be more than a business. We want to use impact on people’s lives. These projects, which range from young adults gain the skills to find and keep a job. The centre our resources and global presence to be a force for good, acting As a result, Jotun Indonesia, assembled a team and visited PT providing paint to schools to supporting orphanages, donating has about 30 teachers and administrators offering a broad visibly within local society to effect change and communicate Aneka, conducting a seminar on instilling high standards in funds to local charities or organising events to raise awareness range of courses to individuals seeking to learn a trade, such as our values externally. HSE, procurement and quality control. This included a focus about health and safety, are generated locally and executed by plumbing, bricklaying, cooking and basic computer skills. Jotun on Jotun’s 5S initiative (Sort, Set in order, Shine, Standardise, Jotun employees. sponsored nine trainees in 2016. In 2017, the programme will Sustain), a systematic approach to improving and maintaining expand to 10 trainees, who will participate in classroom activities MAXIMISING IMPACT order and cleanliness. and receive 10 days a month of formal, on-the-job training. A HOME FOR THE HOMELESS Every company within the Group contributes a set percentage of its revenue to external CR initiatives, with a dedicated CR Jotun believes such activity helps suppliers raise standards Since 2011, Jotun Vietnam has been working with the Que Examples of other local projects include: committee ensuring that all local activities are aligned with the and creates better, safer and more sustainable workplaces for Huong Charity Center in Ho Chi Minh City, a large orphanage • Poland: Jotun provided anti-corrosive paints to maintain and broader Group strategy and values. local people. It also impacts positively on our own business, with the capacity for 350 children ranging in age from three restore historic sites in Gdansk and Warsaw strengthening the supply chain and building our reputation as a months to 25 years. Established in 2001 by businesswoman • Oman: Jotun partners with the Dar Al Atta’a Charitable This creates a clarity of purpose, maximising the impact of our responsible company and partner. Huynh Tieu Huong, the Center provides food, housing, medical Organisation to provide support for various programmes for efforts worldwide. services and support for children seeking an education. In the poor addition to donating paint and application costs to coat a three• Since 2011, Jotun China has provided financial support to a SUPPORTING AID In 2016 we have stayed true to this vision, undertaking storey building, Jotun raises money for the children, among high school in Tongren County, Tibet. programmes that are tailored to make lasting impacts within Jotun is a long-term supporter of the International Committee other initiatives. communities. of the Red Cross (ICRC). The Group is committed to assisting the organisation in its mission to deliver much needed aid to areas, and people, affected by conflict and disaster. HELPING SUPPLIERS, RAISING STANDARDS High quality corporate values, procedures and standards are For example, in recent years Jotun has donated funds to important, but their impact will always be limited if they are only provide assistance to the Tsunami relief effort in Japan, the maintained internally. Jotun believes that by taking the values Syrian refugee crisis, the Ebola outbreak in Western Africa, and ‘outside the factory walls’ their benefits can be multiplied. flooding in Myanmar, among other initiatives. “Jotun has, over a number of years, enabled the Norwegian Red Cross to respond in emergencies. Both in terms of substantial financial support, as well as products and manpower. Jotun’s long-term involvement is important and highly appreciated.” Bernt G. Apeland, Secretary General of the Norwegian Red Cross Jotun sponsors students at the Zoë. Academy of Skills training centre in Cape Town, South Africa. PROTECTING PEOPLE 58 Jotun formalised its approach to the protection of Human Rights in 2016, launching a refined policy to 59 clarify its structure, objectives and to ensure the highest standards for all global stakeholders. JOTUN AND SOCIETY JOTUN AND SOCIETY Jotun has always worked to safeguard human rights. The • Freedom of association and the right to engage in collective value of the individual permeates through every strata of our bargaining worldwide business, moulding our internal culture and all Jotun recognises and respects the right to freedom of external activities. People always come first at Jotun. association and the right to collective bargaining in accordance with local laws and regulations In 2016 the business formalised its approach to human rights with a new policy aligned with the United Nations Guiding SUPPLIERS AND CONTRACTORS Principles on Human Rights (UNGPHR) and reviewed by external human rights consultants. This ensures greater structure, The protection of human rights should be equally as important clearer guidelines and an over-arching programme that meets to Jotun’s major suppliers. We will evaluate and select suppliers international standards. in accordance with our policy, auditing their human rights performance where appropriate. Jotun’s human rights policy relates to three core groups; employees, suppliers and contractors, and local societies. LOCAL SOCIETIES Jotun can positively contribute to the promotion of high human EMPLOYEES rights standards in the places where it undertakes business Jotun is committed to respecting and protecting the human activity, opposing, for example, human trafficking and the rights of our employees in line with the ILO’s Declaration on exploitation of children. Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. This encompasses: • Non-discrimination ESTABLISHED, STRUCTURED AND SAFE Jotun recognizes the value of diversity and is committed to preventing discrimination in all forms The new policy is now embedded throughout the organisation, • Prohibition of child labour with the necessary processes and reporting tools, including Education comes first. We do not allow children below the reviews and audits, in place to maintain uniform high standards. age of 15 to be employed in our operations. We do not allow children under the age of 18 to perform tasks that may Reporting channels are established and clear, on both a local jeopardise their health, safety or morals and Group level, and we are committed to the protection of • Prohibition of forced labour all genuine whistle blowers, ensuring they are not punished, Work relationships should be freely chosen and free from indirectly or directly, for bringing policy breaches to light. threats. We will not use any form of forced labour in our operations COMBATTING CORRUPTION 60 Corruption is a plague on both business and society. Jotun is committed to combatting it throughout its 61 global organisation, promoting awareness while enforcing strict standards and uniform codes of conduct. JOTUN AND SOCIETY JOTUN AND SOCIETY Corruption damages business, hinders development, Jotun Mexico, headquartered in Veracruz, was established in undermines the rule of law and contributes to poverty 2015 to serve the Marine and Protective Coatings segments. In worldwide. In a corporate sense it has the capacity to destroy a bid to communicate Group expectations and build vigilance both reputations and the delivery of shareholder value. Jotun is from the outset, a series of anti-corruption initiatives have been committed to fighting corruption on every level. conducted, including class room training facilitated by Jotun Corporate in April 2016. ONE JOTUN, ONE APPROACH Employees joining Jotun in Mexico, and other new markets, Jotun adopts a stringent and systematic approach to corruption. form the foundations of their companies – helping to set the The Group has a clear anti-corruption policy that every standards, practices and values that will define future growth. employee and all affiliated businesses must adhere to. In this It’s therefore vital that the correct attitudes and procedures are way we can maintain our own high standards while acting as a embedded in these businesses from the outset. beacon for other businesses – encouraging those we deal with to comply to the same values. CONSTANT EVOLUTION Internally we strengthen our anti-corruption culture through: Jotun takes a dynamic approach to anti-corruption, building • Dilemma training – presenting realistic and market adjusted on its long-term strategy through a range of continual business scenarios to employees and providing them with the improvements. The UNGC focuses on four key areas human rights, labour, the environment and As a member of Transparency International Norway Jotun is committed to zero tools and expertise to make the right decisions, every time anti-corruption – providing companies with 10 principles that help them conduct tolerance towards all forms of corruption and to work for the implementation business in a responsible, ethical and sustainable manner. of values, codes of conduct and anti-corruption programmes covering all of the • E-learning – a dedicated online anti-corruption programme to In 2016, Jotun has: organization. This table details how Jotun aligns itself with the UNGC framework, listing the enable greater understanding and preparedness • Invested in strengthening the structure of its anti-corruption individual principles and noting the pages of this report where they appear. • Reporting channels – employees are made aware of, and and compliance programmes encouraged to use, clear whistle blowing procedures to • Developed new anti-corruption nano learning modules, highlight potential areas of concern connecting with our global workforce in a clear, effective and • Business reviews – all companies regularly report on antieasily accessible format HUMAN RIGHTS PAGES corruption activities in business reviews and board meetings, • Created new anti-corruption reporting tools, enabling easier Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 36–37, 59 with the Group reporting yearly to the Board of Directors on overviews of programmes and actions across Jotun Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 36–37, 59 work throughout the organisation • Tailored an on-going programme of continual improvement • Standing strong – anti-corruption is an integral part of every for 2017 and beyond LABOUR new employees’ induction training, ensuring the correct Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to 36–37, 59 mind-set from their first day onwards collective bargaining; BEST PRACTICE Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 36–37, 59 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and 36–37, 59 Corruption can’t be fought in isolation – it demands a BUILDING STRONG FOUNDATIONS Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 36–37, 59 collaborative approach. Differing countries present different risk scenarios regarding ENVIRONMENT the potential for corruption. However, Jotun’s defence must Jotun works with Transparency International to further its aims Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 5, 8, 12, 15, 19, 20, 30–31, 36–37, 43, 50–53, 64 be equally resilient regardless of borders. In 2016 the Group of combatting corrupt business practices, while adhering to the Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 5, 8, 12, 15, 19, 20, 30–31, 43, 50–53, 64 ran a series of workshops to instil the correct attitudes and United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and contributing to a Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 5, 8, 12, 15, 19, 20, 30–31, 43, 50–53, 64 understanding in targeted regions. A particular focus is on new sustainable and inclusive global economy. ANTI-CORRUPTION places of business. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 36–37, 60 For more information on the Global Compact see www.globalcompact.org 62 63 FINANCIAL INFO FINANCIAL INFO FINANCIAL INFO Chairman of the Board // 64 Financial info // 65 Company overview // 70 Organisation // 72 CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD, ODD GLEDITSCH D.Y. MORE WORK TO BE DONE FINANCIAL INFO 64 Jotun has enjoyed uninterrupted growth for more than a decade, a trend that continued in 2016. CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 65 However, slow growth in some segments has encouraged an increased focus on efficiency. FINANCIAL INFO FINANCIAL INFO (NOK THOUSAND) 2016 2015 Operating revenue 15 784 604 16 282 314 Share of profit from associated companies and joint ventures 689 598 562 013 Cost of goods sold –8 141 537 –8 656 661 Payroll expenses –2 601 717 –2 520 743 Other operating expenses –3 421 406 –3 129 834 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment –546 817 –473 118 Operating profit 1 762 724 2 063 972 Net financial items –168 985 –145 916 Profit before tax 1 593 739 1 918 055 Income tax –461 518 –502 011 Profit for the year 1 132 221 1 416 044 Profit for the year attributable to: Equity holders of the parent company 1 107 985 1 338 284 Board of Directors, from left: Birger Amundsen, Terje Andersen, Ingrid Luberth, Einar Abrahamsen, Richard Arnesen, Non-controlling interests 24 236 77 760 Odd Gleditsch d.y. (Chairman), Karl Otto Tveter and Nicolai A. Eger. Total 1 132 221 1 416 044 While Jotun’s overall growth in 2016 was slower than the Meanwhile, Jotun continues a bold investment programme, previous year, the company recorded satisfactory results. Indeed, adding production and warehouse capacity throughout the when considering the macro-economic trends that impacted network. Jotun also began construction of a new headquarters CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME the sale of marine and protective coatings (and other segments and R&D centre in Sandefjord. Over the past five years, in regions experiencing political unrest), Jotun’s positive growth the Board has approved a broad range of investments in (NOK THOUSAND) 2016 2015 represents a genuine achievement. Growth in the Decorative systems and tools to support improved project execution and Profit for the year 1 132 221 1 416 044 Paints segment was especially strong and the Board is pleased operational and administrative efficiency. While these (and with developments in the Powder Coatings segment. other) investments have resulted in an unwelcome rise in costs, Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified these are in line with expectations. to profit or loss in subsequent periods: PRODUCT INTEGRITY Actuarial gain / loss (–) on defined benefit pension plans –22 638 –2 113 FOCUS ON SAFETY AND THE Jotun’s regional and segment diversity has helped the company ENVIRONMENT Other comprehensive income to be reclassified weather events beyond our control. For example, despite to profit or loss in subsequent periods: strong sales in Egypt, Jotun experienced significant losses due Jotun’s rapid growth will challenge the Group in other ways, Gain / loss (–) on hedge of net investments in foreign operations 16 051 –118 563 to the currency crisis. In other markets, Jotun’s profitability too. The company recognises that more factories represent Currency translation differences on net investment in foreign operations –472 324 459 498 was impacted by the performance of customers struggling in more risk to the environment. Furthermore, Jotun is likely to Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax –478 911 338 822 depressed markets. reach a critical milestone – 10 000 workers in 2017. The Board recognises its responsibility to ensure safe and healthy work Total comprehensive income for the year 653 310 1 754 866 However, in some areas where the company does have control, places for our growing organisation and limit the impact of our there is more work to be done. Despite Jotun’s excellent record growing size on the environment. While the Board will maintain Total comprehensive income attributable to: over the years, 2016 saw an increase in product integrity its support for Jotun’s ambitious growth strategy, these health, Equity holders of the parent company 676 244 1 648 330 and quality issues on some projects, which impacted overall safety and environmental issues will continue to be a priority Non-controlling interests –22 934 106 537 profitability. The Board is satisfied with the company’s rapid focus area going forward. Total 653 310 1 754 866 response to manage these issues and confident that systems put in place to prevent these errors in the future will make 2016 the exception, not the rule. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (NOK THOUSAND) 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 (NOK THOUSAND) 2016 2015 ASSETS Cash flow from operating activities Non-current assets Profit before tax 1 593 739 1 918 055 Deferred tax assets 219 768 164 287 Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows: Other intangible assets 364 028 312 000 Share of profit of associated companies and joint ventures –689 598 –562 013 Property, plant and equipment 4 542 575 4 220 218 Dividend paid from associated companies and joint ventures 712 571 491 634 Investments in associated companies and join ventures 1 766 487 1 839 810 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 546 817 473 118 Other investments 8 248 8 248 Change in accruals, provisions and other –100 153 293 375 Other interest-bearing receivables 125 419 165 557 Working capital adjustments: Total non-current assets 7 026 525 6 710 119 Change in trade and other receivables 252 740 –709 535 Change in trade payables –9 163 187 758 66 Current assets Change in inventories 157 052 –242 651 67 Inventories 2 041 432 2 198 483 Tax payments –437 072 –349 973 FINANCIAL INFO FINANCIAL INFO Trade and other receivables 4 504 319 4 757 059 Net cash flow from operating activities 2 026 933 1 499 769 Cash and cash equivalents 1 586 034 1 520 840 Total current assets 8 131 786 8 476 382 Cash flows from investing activities Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 6 848 46 837 Total assets 15 158 311 15 186 501 Purchase of property, plant and equipment –1 029 562 –856 858 Purchase of intangible assets –103 538 –65 293 Net cash flow used in investing activities –1 126 252 –875 314 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Cash flows from financing activities Share capital 102 600 102 600 Proceeds from borrowings 259 344 255 365 Other equity 7 783 384 7 620 141 Repayment of borrowings –299 413 –295 434 Non-controlling interests 148 573 209 757 Dividend paid to equity holders of the parent –513 000 –513 000 Total equity 8 034 557 7 932 497 Dividend paid to non-controlling interests –38 250 –48 136 Net cash flow from financing activities –591 320 –601 206 Non-current liabilities Pension liabilities 225 461 214 012 Net currency translation effect –244 166 76 169 Deferred tax liabilities 27 828 46 161 Net increase / decrease (–) in cash and cash equivalents 309 361 23 250 Provisions 33 980 32 539 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 1 520 840 1 421 421 Interest-bearing debt 2 357 102 2 323 512 Cash and cash equivalents as of 31 December 1 586 034 1 520 840 Interest-free debt 34 465 31 858 Total non-current liabilities 2 678 837 2 648 082 The Group had unused credit facilities of NOK 900 million as of 31 December 2016 (2015: NOK 900 million). Current liabilities Interest-bearing debt 877 352 954 374 Trade and other payables 1 693 379 1 702 541 Current tax payable 159 554 185 275 Other current liabilities 1 714 634 1 763 731 Total current liabilities 4 444 918 4 605 921 Total liabilities 7 123 754 7 254 003 Total equity and liabilities 15 158 311 15 186 501 Sandefjord, Norway, 9 February 2017 The Board of Directors Jotun A/S Odd Gleditsch d.y. Einar Abrahamsen Birger Amundsen Terje Andersen Chairman Richard Arnesen Nicolai A. Eger Ingrid Luberth Karl Otto Tveter Morten Fon President and CEO CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENT FOR 2016 ATTRIBUTABLE TO PARENT COMPANY EQUITY HOLDERS GENERAL Jotun Group’s share of total equity in associates and joint ventures Non– The consolidated financial statement consists of Jotun A/S amounts to NOK 1 766 million (2015: NOK 1 840 million), and is Share Other Translation controlling (NOK THOUSAND) capital equity differences Total interests Total equity and 53 subsidiaries, three joint ventures in China and South reported as non-current assets in the balance sheet. Equity as of 1 January 2015 102 600 5 502 749 982 063 6 587 412 151 356 6 738 767 Korea and six associated companies in UAE and Saudi Arabia. Dividends –513 000 –513 000 –48 136 –561 136 Subsidiaries are fully consolidated independent of shareholding, WORKING CAPITAL Profit of the year 1 338 284 1 338 284 77 760 1 416 044 while joint ventures and associates are accounted for based on Working capital fell to NOK 4 852 million as of 31 December Other comprehensive income –22 024 332 070 310 045 28 777 338 822 the equity method and share of profit reported in the income 2016 from NOK 5 253 million the previous year. The reduction Equity as of 31 December 2015 102 600 6 306 009 1 314 133 7 722 741 209 757 7 932 497 statement based on actual shareholding. is tied to the decrease in Group sales, particularly within the Dividends –513 000 –513 000 –38 250 –551 250 Marine Coatings segment. Currency translation effects also Profit of the year 1 107 985 1 107 985 24 236 1 132 221 The Jotun Group’s consolidated financial statement has been contribute to the lower working capital figure at year end. Other comprehensive income –41 176 –390 566 –431 742 –47 170 –478 911 prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Equity as of 31 December 2016 102 600 6 859 818 923 567 7 885 984 148 573 8 034 557 Standards (IFRS) and interpretations as adopted by the NET INTEREST BEARING DEBT 68 69 International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and approved The net interest bearing debt for the Group was NOK 1 523 FINANCIAL INFO FINANCIAL INFO by the European Union (EU). million at year-end 2016 compared to NOK 1 591 million as of 31 December 2015, and net interest bearing debt relative to the REVENUE operating profit before amortisation and depreciation (EBITDA) Operating revenue for the Group was NOK 15 785 million, was 0.7 (2014: 0.6). The Group’s main source of financing is down three per cent compared to 2015. While the Decorative bilateral loans from the Group’s relationship banks and loans in Paints and Powder Coatings segments reported solid growth, the Norwegian bond market. At year-end 2016, Jotun A/S had lower demand in the shipping and offshore markets led to NOK 1 000 million in bonds, of which all were long term, and reduced sales in the Marine and Protective Coatings segments. NOK 1 036 million in non-current USD bank debt outstanding. In addition, sales in some regions were impacted by political External borrowing in the subsidiaries is primarily short-term and unrest and economic turmoil in key markets. Total sales through local banks. volume, however, continued to grow, showing an increase of 10 per cent in 2016. Jotun A/S has NOK 800 million of long term credit lines. This committed funding serves as a back stop for certificate loans as OPERATING PROFIT well as a strategic reserve for short-term financing of the Group. Operating profit in 2016 decreased by 15 per cent to NOK At year end these credit lines, in addition to a short-term credit 1 763 million compared to 2015, yielding an operating margin line of NOK 100 million, were all unused. of 11 per cent (2015: 13 per cent). The reduction in profit is attributable to other operating expenses higher than normal SHAREHOLDER EQUITY due to product claims, currency losses due to the sharp Total equity including non-controlling interests amounted to NOK devaluation of the Egyptian pound and bad debt primarily tied 8 035 million (2015: NOK 7 932 million). The increase in total to a few large customers. Jotun Group’s share of net result after equity is due to the net effect of profit for the year of NOK 1 132 tax in associates and joint ventures totalled NOK 690 million million, other comprehensive income of NOK -479 million mainly compared to NOK 562 million in 2015. The increase is mainly relating to currency translation effects, and dividend payments attributable to continued good growth for the Decorative Paints of in total NOK 551 million. The equity ratio has increased one segment in the Middle East. percentage point from 2015 to a solid 53 per cent. PROFIT FOR THE YEAR The proposed dividend for Jotun A/S for 2016 amounting to The profit for the year amounted to NOK 1 132 million, a NOK 513 million will not be recognised in equity until finally reduction of NOK 284 million from 2015. Net financing charges declared in 2017. increased from 2015 mainly due to currency losses in Egypt, and net financial items for the year ended at NOK 169 million (2015: CASH FLOW NOK 146 million). Operating activities in 2016 resulted in a net cash flow of NOK 2 027 million (2015: NOK 1 500 million). The increase INVESTMENTS from 2015 is mainly due to a reduction in working capital and Total purchase of property, plant and equipment (PP&E) and higher dividends received from associates. The strong net cash intangible assets amounted to NOK 1 133 million for the Group flow from operating activities funded cash outflows related in 2016 (2015: NOK 922 million), representing seven per cent to dividend payments, investments in non-current assets and of operating revenue (2015: 6 per cent). Including investment reduction in net interest bearing debt. activity in associates and joint ventures, total investment in PP&E for production of Jotun-branded products was NOK 1 226 WORKFORCE million. The largest investments relate to new production In 2016, Jotun Group had on average 6 909 full-time equivalents facilities in Oman, The Philippines, Myanmar and Malaysia, related to its on-going business in Jotun A/S and its subsidiaries in addition to a new R&D centre and office buildings in (2015: 6 794 average full-time equivalents). Including employees Sandefjord, Norway. in joint ventures and associates, Jotun had in total 9 819 employees at year end 2016 (2015: 9 842 employees). KAZAKHSTAN Jotun Kazakhstan L.L.P. Almaty 100 S KENYA Jotun Kenya Ltd., Nairobi 100 S LIBYA Jotun Libya J.S.Co., Tripoli 80 S MALAYSIA Jotun (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd., Shah Alam 100 P Jotun Powder Coatings (M) Sdn. Bhd., Shah Alam 100 P Jotun Paints (Malaysia) Sdn. Bdh., Nilai 100 P MEXICO Jotun Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Veracruz 100 S MOROCCO Jotun Maroc SARL/AU, Casablanca 100 S MYANMAR Jotun Myanmar Company Ltd., Yangon 100 S Jotun Myanmar Services Co. Ltd., Yangon 100 S 70 NETHERLANDS Jotun B.V., Spijkenisse 100 S 71 COMPANY OVERVIEW COMPANY OVERVIEW Sales office NORWAY Jotun A/S, Sandefjord 100 P Production and sales Scanox AS, Drammen 100 S OMAN Jotun Paints Co. L.L.C., Muscat 62 P PAKISTAN Jotun Pakistan (Pvt) Ltd., Lahore 100 P Jotun Powder Coatings Pakistan (Pvt) Ltd., Lahore 98 P COUNTRY COMPANY SHARE HOLDING % PHILIPPINES Jotun (Philippines) Inc., Manila 100 S ALGERIA Jotun Algerie SARL, Algiers 70 S POLAND Jotun Polska Sp.zo.o., Gdynia 100 S AUSTRALIA Jotun Australia Pty. Ltd., Victoria 100 P ROMANIA Jotun Romania S.R.L., Otopeni 100 S BANGLADESH Jotun Bangladesh Ltd., Dhaka 100 S RUSSIAN FEDERATION Jotun Paints OOO, St. Petersburg 100 S BRAZIL Jotun Brasil Imp. Exp. & Industria de Tintas Ltda., Rio de Janeiro 100 P SAUDI ARABIA Jotun Powder Coatings Saudi Arabia Co. Ltd., Dammam 49 P BULGARIA Jotun Bulgaria EOOD, Sofia 100 S Jotun Saudia Co. Ltd., Jeddah 40 P CAMBODIA Jotun (Cambodia) Ltd., Phnom Penh 100 S Red Sea Paints Co. Ltd., Jeddah 40 P CHINA Jotun Coatings (Zhangjiagang) Co. Ltd., Zhangjiagang 100 P SINGAPORE Jotun (Singapore) Pte. Ltd., Singapore 100 S Jotun COSCO Marine Coatings (HK) Co. Ltd., Hong Kong 50 S SOUTH AFRICA Jotun Paint South Africa (Pty) Ltd., Cape Town 100 P Jotun COSCO Marine Coatings (Qingdao) Co. Ltd., Qingdao 50 P SOUTH KOREA Chokwang Jotun Ltd., Kyungnam 50 P Jotun Paints (H.K.) Ltd., Hong Kong 100 S SPAIN Jotun Ibérica S.A., Barcelona 100 P Jotun (Shanghai) Management Co. Ltd., Shanghai 100 S SWEDEN Jotun Sverige AB, Gothenburg 100 S Jotun Coatings (Taiwan) Ltd. Company 100 S THAILAND Jotun Thailand Ltd., Samutprakarn 95 P CYPRUS Jotun Cyprus Ltd, Limassol 100 S TURKEY Jotun Boya San. ve Tic. A.S., Istanbul 100 P CZECH REPUBLIC Jotun Powder Coatings (CZ) a.s., Usti nad Labem 100 P UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Jotun Abu Dhabi Ltd. (L.L.C.), Abu Dhabi 52 P DENMARK Jotun Danmark A/S, Kolding 100 S Jotun Powder Coatings U.A.E. Ltd. (L.L.C.), Dubai 47 P EGYPT El-Mohandes Jotun S.A.E., Cairo 70 P Jotun U.A.E. Ltd. (L.L.C.), Dubai 42 P FRANCE Jotun France S.A.S., Paris 100 S UNITED KINGDOM Jotun Paints (Europe) Ltd., Flixborough 100 P GERMANY Jotun (Deutschland) GmbH, Hamburg 100 S USA Jotun Paints Inc., Belle Chasse, LA 100 P GREECE Jotun Hellas Ltd. Piraeus 100 S VIETNAM Jotun Paints (Vietnam) Co. Ltd., Ho Chi Minh City 100 P INDIA Jotun India Pvt. Ltd., Pune 100 P INDONESIA P.T. Jotun Indonesia, Jakarta 99 P Decorative Paints Marine Coatings Protective Coatings Powder Coatings P.T. Jotun Powder Coatings Indonesia, Jakarta 100 P P Production and sales S Sales office IRELAND Jotun (Ireland) Ltd., Cork 100 S In addition to the companies listed above, the Jotun Group also owns a number of holding and inactive companies. ITALY Jotun Italia S.p.A., Trieste 100 S In addition to legal companies Jotun has branch offices, agents, distributors and licensees in Andorra, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Bosnia & Herzegovina, Botswana, Brunei, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Croatia, Cuba, Domenican Republic, Ecuador, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Ghana, Guinea, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, Irak, Iran, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Lichtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Malta, Mauritius, Monaco, Montenegro, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherland Antilles, New Caledonia, New Zealand, Nigeria, Panama, Peru, Portugal, Puerto Rico, Qatar, Rwanda, Saint Vincent & The Grenadines, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Switzerland, Syria, Tanzania, Trinidad, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, Uruguay and Zambia. President and CEO Morten Fon Group Functions CFO Vidar Nysæther Decorative Paints Performance Coatings Bård K. Tonning Geir Bøe 72 ORGANISATION Powder Marine Protective Ram Ramnath Alfie Ong Bjørn Wallentin Middle East, India and Africa North East Asia Esben Hersve Biren Arora South East Asia and Pacific West Europe Martin Chew Harald Hvalvik Scandinavia East Europe and Central Asia Stein Petter Lunde Sükru Ergün Americas Idar Salvesen BOARD OF DIRECTORS CORPORATE ASSEMBLY Odd Gleditsch d.y., Chairman Anders A. Jahre, Chairman Einar Abrahamsen Richard Arnesen d.y. Birger Amundsen Terje V. Arnesen Terje Andersen Kornelia Eger Foyn-Bruun Richard Arnesen Anne Cecilie Gleditsch Nicolai A. Eger Bjørn Ole Gleditsch Ingrid Luberth Thomas Hammer Karl Otto Tveter Kai Roger Johansen Thomas Ljungqvist Kristian O. Smith Jens Bjørn Staff Espen Wiik CREDITS Copywriting: Alexander Wardwell and Alan Johnstone / Blue-C AS The paper used to print this report Design: Charlotte Jørgensen / Charlotte.no has the Nordic Eco-labeling the Swan Print: BK.no and is also approved by the PEFC Photo: Fotolia (front cover, p. 6–7, 62–63), cover inside (Getty Images, Council (Programme for the Endorsement Luth and Scanpix), Morten Rakke Photography (p. 9, 11, 13, 14, 28, 34, of Forest Certifications schemes). 36, 38, 41, 42, 45, 47, 48, 51, 58, 61, 64), Jotun (p. 17, 18–19, 21, 26, 30–31, 32–33, 53), Siren Lauvdal (p. 25), Svein Brimi (p. 54, 57) Jotun A/S P.O. Box 2021 3202 Sandefjord Norway jotun.com
