Сommunication on progress Implementing UN global compact principles in PRCI.Storytellers 2017 1. Introduction I am pleased to confirm that communications agency PRCI.Storytellers affirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti Corruption. In our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations at PRCI.Storytellers. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our main communication channels. Yours sincerely, Maria Gvardeitseva, CEO 2 2. PRCI.Storytellers PRCI.Storytellers agency was founded in 2013 to implement projects in mass communications and PR in Belarus and abroad. Main agency focus was on social and charity projects oriented to solving various social issues in Belarusian society and also to developing trending spheres of Belarusian culture. In 2016, together with other three Belarusian PR agencies, PRCI initiated and founded professional association of communication consultants to develop local PR industry and contribute to increasing expertise of local community of communicators. PRCI.Storytellers follows objectives below in its everyday work: • Create sustainable communication agenda for its partners, based on work with local and international cultural context • Integrate socially important capital in projects and contribute to solving important social issues 3 3. Our approach to the 10 principles In 2016 PRCI.Storytellers signed up for the UN Global Compact program. At that point we could define three major stakeholders, which guide the direction of our CSR policy. Interaction with these groups of stakeholders allows us to implement socially important projects and use expertise of our team: • Society (locally & globally) • Government institutions • Business community In this connection we decided to implement our CSR programme in two directions. The first direction is professional development of agency team that is meant to introduce UNs basic principles to agency work and to implement sustainable solutions in agency projects. The second direction is pro bono projects and support of initiatives that promote sustainable solutions in larger cultural and social context of Belarus. LABOUR HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION 4 4. Contents of PRCI.Storytellers CSR programme year one The first set of initiatives implemented in PRCI.Storytellers within CSR programme have been concerning labour (employee rights) and human rights. 4.1 Labour (employee rights) PRCI.Storytellers believes that all employees have the rights to individual freedom of expression and opinion. This is upheld by regular team meetings between management and employees, weekly discussions of ongoing projects, educational events organized by employees group and also teamwork sessions that strengthen human capital of PRCI.Storytellers team. Every six months PRCI.Storytellers hold meetings to discuss quality of working environment and processes. Within these meetings every employee presents personal initiative to improve working processes and environment and provides feedback on improvements that have been introduced before. Such meetings have positive impact on employee motivation. Among initiatives supporting employee well being are home working, ergonomic workplace assessment, opportunity to implement personal initiatives. Goals: Our goal is to reach high degree of employee satisfaction. Monitoring and evaluating performances: PRCI.Storytellers supports ongoing dialogue with the team and conducts regular discussions to maintain friendly and healthy working environment and to prevent stress. Executive managers are responsible for monitoring and evaluation of team welfare. 5 4.2 Human Rights PRCI.Storytellers supports pro bono projects policy and provides free consultations and PR-support to social initiatives and non-profit organizations. This part of our CSR programme contributes to develop expertise in communications for nonprofit organizations and social entrepreneurs and also serves to solve social and cultural challenges in Belarus. As part of its pro bono projects PRCI.Storytellers is consulting social entrepreneurs and nonprofit organizations in questions of project promotion, support of stakeholders and partners, launch of new activities and fundraising. PRCI.Storytellers also acts as co-organizator of charity events and initiatives that serve to fundraise for vulnerable groups of society and for organizations that need financial support to buy necessary equipment and launch new programmes. Expertise of agency CEO and the team allows to come up with the most effective fundraising solutions and accomplish fundraising goals for Belarusian nonprofit organizations, healthcare institutions and social projects. Goals: Contribute to stronger communications expertise to nonprofit organizations and social entrepreneurs. Contribute to solving of social and cultural challenges in Belarus. Monitoring and evaluating performances: Evaluating KPI on each project (number of publications, funds raised) allows to measure the effectiveness of consultations conducted and work that was done. 6 5. Future initiatives In 2018 and 2019 CSR programme of PRCI.Storytellers will be oriented to professional community and society at large. We are planning to: • Launch a number of initiatives contributing to stronger expertise in communications for business community • Launch internal training programme for the team that will contribute to deeper understanding of sustainable development agenda • Continue to take pro bono projects with nonprofit organizations • Increase ecological sustainability of PRCI.Storytellers office ENVIRONMENT LABOUR HUMAN RIGHTS 7
