SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 proved to be another challenging year which has demanded even greater efforts on the part of our many teams at Hochschild to ensure that resources are targeted and that stakeholder benefits are maximised safety-first culture at Hochschild. Reducing our infrastructure project. Further details on these Dear Shareholder focus on this area has not been and will not be initiatives, as well as those of our Argentina I am delighted to introduce Hochschild an option as we continue to ensure that those operations can be found in this report and Mining‟s 2015 Sustainability Report. who work with us are secure in the knowledge on our website. that their physical welfare is being ANOTHER CHALLENGING YEAR safeguarded. This is perfectly demonstrated We have also made significant enhancements 2015 proved to be another challenging year by the in-house development, during the to the way the Group measures its for the Company with continued volatility in year, of a bespoke suite of behaviour-based environmental footprint. The considerable precious metal prices which trended lower as procedures which aims to develop a sense work in this area has resulted in the adoption the year progressed. As a result, management of collective responsibility for safety and of a new set of Environmental Key maintained its focus on managing costs recognition of safe practices. For further Performance Indicators which will measure which has demanded even greater efforts on details, please refer to the Safety section our performance in a more meaningful way the part of our many teams at Hochschild to of this report. and will require our operational teams to ensure that resources are targeted and that work to more rigorous environmental targets stakeholder benefits are maximised. OUR COMMUNITIES AND THE going forward. CONTINUING OUR EXCELLENT ENVIRONMENT I hope you will find this report informative. If In 2015, we continued to prioritise the you should have any questions or comments, SAFETY RECORD resources committed to our communities please do not hesitate to contact me. It gives me great pleasure to report that we with the ongoing focus on our three core have succeeded in achieving our long term areas: education, health and socio-economic goal of Zero Fatalities for an unprecedented development. Whilst the trading conditions second consecutive year. This, together with did not allow us to launch any new the year-on-year reductions in the frequency ROBERTO DAÑINO programmes, we built on the significant Chairman, CSR Committee and severity of accidents, are testament not achievements to date by increasing the reach only to our Safety team but also to those 8 March 2016 of the medical services we are offering to our tasked with ensuring that we embed a rural communities as well as our IT various sustainability issues, focusing on Given the vulnerability of the Group‟s Governance of CSR compliance and ensuring that appropriate strategy to Sustainability Risks (comprising The Board has ultimate responsibility for systems and practices are in place Group-wide Health & Safety, Community Relations and establishing Group policies relating to to ensure the effective management of Environmental risks), the full Board received sustainability and the CSR Committee has sustainability-related risks. a presentation on the potential impact of the been established with the responsibility change in Government in Argentina and of focusing on compliance and ensuring As Chairman of the CSR Committee, Roberto 2016 elections in Peru on community that appropriate systems and practices Dañino has Board level responsibility for relations. In addition, the Board considered are in place. sustainability issues to whom the Vice a presentation from management on the President of Operations and the Vice President lessons learnt following the community-led WHAT IS HOCHSCHILD MINING‟S of Legal & Corporate Affairs report to for blockades at the access roads to Inmaculada APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY? sustainability issues. and the Selene plant. The Company has adopted a number of policies demonstrating our commitment to: THE CSR COMMITTEE‟S WORK REPORTING OF TARGETS AND IN 2015 INDICATORS • a safe and healthy workplace; During the year, the CSR Committee: As part of the Company‟s strategy to make • managing and minimising the • approved the 2014 Sustainability report for more information available online, detailed environmental impact of our operations; inclusion in the 2014 Annual Report; sustainability related performance indicators and • monitored the execution of the yearly plan as well as targets for 2016 are available on the • encouraging sustainability by respecting Company‟s website. the communities of the localities in which in each of the four key areas of focus we operate. including progress updates; • considered a presentation on the status For further information on how we prioritise of community relations related issues at our resources and the Committee‟s terms of a proposed exploration project in Peru; reference, please visit www.hochschildmining. • considered the status of the Group‟s com/en/sustainability. various community relations projects including the Travelling Doctor programme MANAGEMENT OF SUSTAINABILITY and Digital Chalhuanca; The Board has ultimate responsibility for establishing Group policies relating to • reviewed the environmental and sustainability and ensuring that appropriate community relations related risks and related work plans; and standards are met. The CSR Committee has been established as a formal committee of • reviewed the 2016 budgets for the the Board with delegated responsibility for Environment and Community Relations functions. 16 Mining 2015 proactive approach to safety. All operating Safety THE HOCHSCHILD APPROACH units achieved a Level 7 rating under the Given the inherently high risk profile of TO SAFETY International Safety Rating System („ISRS‟) mining, safety is our highest priority. Mining has an inherently high risk profile and (6th edition) except for the Inmaculada safety is our highest priority. Ensuring the project which achieved a Level 5 rating safety of the Group‟s employees is considered under the same rating system 2015 HIGHLIGHTS crucial in measuring the successful • The implementation of a bespoke suite of • Zero fatalities for an unprecedented implementation of corporate strategy to which behaviour-based safety procedures at the 2nd consecutive year the Board and management are committed. Peruvian operations. These procedures • Almost 40% reduction in Accident incorporate the use of a 5 step process to Frequency Index to 1.85 (2014:3.07) OUR ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2015 observe and register safety checks. Positive • Zero fatalities across all operations – for an reinforcement is a core part of this • 25% reduction in Accident Severity unprecedented second consecutive year observation, which is undertaken through Rate to 112 (2014:149) • Continued implementation of the Group‟s weekly awards events at the operating Safety Management System (designed by units to acknowledge those who have the risk management firm DNV GL) at all demonstrated safety excellence in their operating units to support the Group‟s operational activities. HOW WE PERFORMED AGAINST OUR 2015 SAFETY OBJECTIVES Target Status Commentary To fully transition to the 8th edition of DNV GL‟s International Safety X The transition began in 2015 but was not fully completed. Rating System which will incorporate the additional training for DNV GL is in the process of providing training to the supervisors under the Behaviour Based Safety programme programme‟s auditors and instructors. To commission and implement the first five modules of a safety Final testing of the software tool was successful and software tool which will facilitate document sharing, legal compliance, training for users is scheduled to take in place in Q1 2016 hazard identification and risk assessment, accident investigation and inspections that treatment can be provided, the Hygiene Health & Hygiene team looks to reinforce the importance of the OUR ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2015 2015 was the year in which the Corporate The Group‟s Health & Hygiene department is quality of life at work through the prevention Health team focused on enhancing the quality tasked with providing an integrated approach of occupational illness. of its processes. In addition, the team has to employee welfare. widened its remit from the traditional areas Given the nature of the work and the twoof “curing” and “prevention” to a wider role week shift patterns which result in frequent 2015 HIGHLIGHTS of influencing the way the Group operates. periods of absence from families, the Group • Design of a work plan on health, recognises the importance of ensuring the During the year: hygiene and psychology for the mental wellbeing of its employees. For this reason, the Group‟s Health & Hygiene teams • the health team reviewed and designed Exploration and Geology function are also trained in occupational psychology. medical care protocols which were uploaded • Design and implementation of a onto our online health record management software system to closely monitor Our Health & Hygiene teams undertake system, Sisalud; levels of gas in the mine for the their work in line with the following • senior members of the team participated in hygiene team guiding principles: discussions with respect to new legal • Prevention comes first requirements and provided training to team members;and THE HOCHSCHILD APPROACH TO • Maximising quality of life • following a risk assessment, a series of HEALTH AND HYGIENE • Adopting measures for the long-term actions were taken to improve the control Underlining the importance we place on our benefit of our people of emissions within the mine. people and their wellbeing, the Group‟s Health • Proactively identifying and controlling & Hygiene department is tasked with hazards at source providing an integrated approach to employee • Contributing to the continuous improvement welfare. Whilst the Health team is focused on in the Group‟s Health & Safety culture ensuring that employees have access to the relevant services and infrastructure to ensure HOW WE PERFORMED AGAINST OUR HEALTH AND HYGIENE 2015 OBJECTIVES Target Status Commentary To continue the department‟s active participation in national This was accomplished during the year. All doctors discussions on new regulation in the area of occupational health in the Group have participated in a structured training programme on new requirements and procedures have been implemented to ensure that they are kept updated on new developments. To improve the offering of services to ensure the mental well-being The provision of services to ensure the mental well-being of our workers of our workers has been enhanced and is now aligned with DNV‟s 12th stage To review our corporate audit procedures on the provision of employee After review, joint annual audits have been organised in health data to our insurance partners conjunction with our insurance partners to ensure good practice in the management of data relating to occupational health and industrial hygiene. 17 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTINUED Our people Group values, labour relations and ACTIVITIES IN 2015 The people-focused initiatives during the year human rights Amongst the primary responsibilities of the included the following: 2015 HIGHLIGHTS HR team is the clear communication of the Group‟s corporate values: Integrity, Teamwork, Developing our people • Workforce trained: 79% (2014: 61%) In light of the limited budgetary resources, Quality and Excellence, Responsibility and • Average number of hours of training Commitment to our People. These values are training and development programmes were per year per employee: 33.3 hours embodied in our Code of Conduct which, targeted on key technical areas. In Peru, (2014: 27.31 hours) amongst other things, sets out our managers from across the mining units undertakings to treat all employees fairly and participated in various leadership-based courses. to respect the right to be free of harassment Managing our talent THE HOCHSCHILD APPROACH or intimidation in the workplace. We recognise The People Review process was undertaken TO OUR PEOPLE the core labour rights principles and, in this which maps talent within the organisation and respect, support the right to freedom of Training and development association and collective bargaining. identifies key positions and succession plans. The quality of our people is key to the success of the business in achieving its strategic Approximately 56% of our total workforce is Creating a better place to work & objectives and our ongoing objective is represented by a trade union or similar body. Enhancing the Working Environment therefore to attract and retain high quality As a signatory of the Global Compact of the The Group continues to make use of an personnel. The Company‟s Human Resource United Nations, Hochschild Mining respects Organisational Climate Survey which has team seeks to achieve this by providing the human rights of all of the Company‟s been widely acknowledged as a key tool competitive remuneration, a positive working stakeholders including those of our employees, to measure levels of satisfaction amongst environment through the promotion of social our contractors and suppliers, as well as the employees and to identify opportunities and recreational activities, and ongoing members of our local communities. for further development. The latest survey professional development. was initiated in December 2015 and its The importance placed by the Company findings will be considered in Q1 2016. on human rights is reflected in the Group‟s The Group continually reviews its offering of training programme which seeks to ensure non-financial benefits which currently that all employees are aware of their rights comprise flexible working hours for Head and the Company‟s commitments. Office staff over the summer period and the holding of regular social events. PEOPLE INDICATORS of Male 3,492 3,468 4,080 – 237 229 276 – 2 of managers Male 34 31 23 – 2 2 2 – of Members Male 8 8 8 – Female 0 0 0 – 1 As at 31 December 2 Defined as those who qualify under the UK statutory definition of „senior manager‟ as at 31 December. Working with our OUR VIEW OF WORKING WITH OUR OUR ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2015 COMMUNITIES During the year we accomplished the goals communities With the experience of operating in different set for our high impact initiatives, further parts of the Americas, the Group has adopted details of which are provided below. a culture of collaborating with the local 2015 HIGHLIGHTS communities surrounding our projects and Education • Formation of partnerships with local Elementary Education – For the third operations. This desire to promote the communities and the State to develop consecutive year, the Company has supported development of the communities, respect approximately 200 students in 12 schools synergies and leverage social projects for their human rights and their environment close to the new Inmaculada mine by focused on education, health and form the core of our corporate strategy that enhancing their offering in literacy and economic development. we describe as “Operating Responsibly”. numeracy and by providing IT equipment. • Restructuring the way we implement COMMUNITY RELATIONS Secondary Education – The third year of the and manage our Community Relations IN PRACTICE Secondary Programme has been particularly strategy to best serve the needs of Despite the restrictions in financial resources successful, with efforts focused during the all stakeholders resulting from the trading challenges during year on classes promoting entrepreneurship the year, the Group continued to prioritise the and the benefits of further education. In ongoing implementation of its social addition, we continued to facilitate the programmes with the communities thereby Friend´s Club, which provided over 450 minimising any direct impact. This was largely students with the necessary personal skills For more information visit achieved through more efficient internal to enable them to deal effectively with the www.hochschildmining.com for our processes and synergies in order to maximise demands and challenges of everyday life. Sustainability indicators the resources available for allocation. 18 Mining 2015 The Company‟s joint-venture in Argentina has Health population of Chalhuanca. The purpose-built also been active with the provision of training Medico de Cabecera (the Travelling Doctor digital centre established by the Group in various disciplines such as environmental programme) achieved Cisco Networking Academy status welfare, traffic management etc. In addition, We have continued to working closely with during the year and, with the support of staff the operation has organised visits to the the local offices of the Peruvian Ministry of who have been trained to internationally mine for young people who are about to Health to provide free access to medical care, recognised standards, the Group looks to build finish school. workshops for health prevention and health upon the technical skills that have already education for those communities close to our benefited the local community. Scholarships – Through the Group‟s operations, which comprise approximately Argentinian and Peruvian operations, For further information on the Chalhuanca 5,000 people. Hochschild has provided scholarships so that project and the rural business networks students can benefit from further technical Socio-economic development supported by the Group, please visit: http:// studies or college. In addition, the Group has Digital Chalhuanca www.hochschildmining.com/en/sustainability/ sponsored a number of students on various In the fourth year of the project‟s case_studies mining courses which has resulted in job implementation, the Group made significant opportunities being offered. progress beyond the provision of wi-fi to the HOW WE PERFORMED AGAINST OUR 2015 COMMUNITY OBJECTIVES Target Status Commentary Continue the development of socio-economic programmes See below for details on the specific programmes supported by the and validate proposals for future innovative initiatives Group Review and restructure, as necessary, the Community This was completed during the year. The CR team was relocated and Relations team to maximise the efficient delivery of services refocused its functions in line with the objectives of each operation. Maximise employment opportunities to members of the Standard procedures have been adopted across the Group in the community recruitment and selection of community workers which were put to use during the year. Enhance sustainability in the communities living close to See further details on the specific projects close to Inmaculada our Inmaculada project available on the Group‟s website Managing our THE HOCHSCHILD APPROACH TO OUR ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT • Continued resourcing of the environmental environmental impact We are committed to ensuring the integrity team with more than 100 people We are committed to ensuring the integrity of of the environment in which we develop working in related operational roles the environment in which we develop our our operations and new projects. Our and environmental management operations and new projects. environmental management system has been • Installed more efficient and effective established at a corporate level incorporating environmental controls in mining operations best management practices and is backed • Implemented a more rigorous framework of 2015 HIGHLIGHTS by the continued ISO 14001 certification of audits to provide assurance on the adequacy • Launched new Corporate our operations. of environmental controls Environmental Policy and new KPI • Supported the business by securing the: dashboard as part of re-inforcement of Hochschild Mining recognises that environmental and social responsibility • approval of Inmaculada´s revised an environmentally conscious culture Environmental Impact Assessment (“EIA”) extends beyond the life of our operations • Significant improvement in water and as a result, mine closure plans are in and Mine Closure Plan; management at mining operations place to restore areas where mining activity • approval of Arcata‟s updated EIA to reflect has ceased. new components; • environmental permits for the Arcata exploration project; and • necessary permits and approval of the execution and closure-related activities for the Yanacochita exploration project. HOW WE PERFORMED AGAINST OUR 2014 OBJECTIVES Target Commentary Launch new corporate environmental KPIs Completed. New monthly KPI dashboard launched during the year Review and update corporate environmental policy, In progress. environmental management system and organisation of the department Implement efficiencies on waste water and drinking water Completed. Installed new waste water treatment plants at Pallancata and treatment plants across all units Inmaculada; overhauled existing waste water treatment plants at Arcata and Sipan. New drinking water treatment plant at Arcata and improvements to existing plants at Selene and Sipan. Reduced water consumption overall at mining operations Greenhouse gas emissions data1 (tonnes of CO2e) 2015 20142 2013 2012 Emissions from combustion of fuel and operation of facilities (tCO2e) 46,790 73,244 56,234 41,756 Emissions from purchased electricity (tCO2e) 78,163 69,933 72,946 76,637 Emissions intensity, per thousand ounces of total silver equivalent produced (CO2e/k oz)3 5,531 5,533 4.890 – 1 Includes data for the whole year for Ares, Arcata, Selene, Pallancata, San José and office locations and for the period from June to December 2015 for Inmaculada. 2 Restated following a review of underlying data. 3 Total production includes 100% of all production, including attributable to joint venture partners at San José and Pallancata (prior to becoming a wholly owned operation). 19
