COSMO REPORT 2017 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS COSMO REPORT 2017 Corporate Communication Department/CSR Management Department 1-1, Shibaura 1-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8302, Japan Phone +81-3-3798-3180 Fax +81-3-3798-3841 COSMO REPORT 2017 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS Introduction Message from Fifth Consolidated MediumGrowth Strategy Review of Operations Corporate Governance CSR Activities Financial Section Outline the President and CEO term Management Plan This slogan is the Cosmo Energy Group’s message to customers, conveying how Filling Up Your Hearts, Too we want to be, since 1997. Twenty years have already passed but our passion incorporated in the slogan remains the same. ココロも満タンに We are committed to the stable supply of energy while we keep filling up the hearts of our customers. INDEX Introduction 01-06 Corporate Governance 27-32 Index 02 Corporate Governance 27-28 Aiming at the Sustainable Development 03-04 Directors and Executive Officers 29-30 Long-term Performance 05-06 Interview with Outside Directors 31-32 Message from the President and CEO 07-12 CSR Activities 33-44 CSR Initiatives of the Cosmo Energy Group 33-34 Fifth Consolidated Medium-Term Strict Safety Management 35-36 Management Plan 13-14 Business Operation with Integrity; Raising Customer Satisfaction 37-38 Growth Strategy 15-16 Enhancing Human Rights / Personnel Policies 39-40 Promoting Environmental Initiatives 41-42 Review of Operations 17-26 Implementing Better Communication with Society 43-44 Business Overview 17-18 Oil Exploration and Production Business 19-20 Financial Section 45-52 Petroleum Business 21-24 Outline 53-54 Petrochemical Business 25 Other Businesses (Renewable Energy) 26 01 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS COSMO REPORT 2017 02 Introduction Message from Fifth Consolidated MediumGrowth Strategy Review of Operations Corporate Governance CSR Activities Financial Section Outline the President and CEO term Management Plan Aiming at the Sustainable Development INPUT OUTPUT OUTCOME SOCIAL ISSUES The Cosmo Energy Group’s business (capital investment) Products and services Generated value Strength Strength Relationships of Oil Exploration and Production trust with Middle Business East oil producing Operatorship countries for (self-operation) approximately 50 years Social value Oil exploration and production, Procurement Marine transportation Crude oil procurement through Transportation by tankers of independent development and purchased or independently from oil producing countries; developed crude oil and Securing of stable Oil development and procurement; Strong competitiveness by use of operatorship (self-operation) petroleum products based on supply and demand. energy sources transportation to refineries Petroleum Business (Refining and Sales) Low energy selfsufficiency rate Export of petroleum products Stable energy supply Storage Oil refining and Stockpile of petroleum for production Export of petroleum products, in 70 days or more in case of accordance with overseas demand Production of gasoline, diesel emergency oil, kerosene, and feedstock for petrochemicals, in accordance with market needs Refining and sales of petroleum products Car leasing for individuals Support social Domestic sales infrastructure Petroleum products Industrial use Strength Gasoline, kerosene, diesel oil, fuel oil, etc. Provision of life line Approx.4,440,000 in disasters Number of the “Cosmo the Card”* Holders Frequent occurrence of Research & Domestic transportation Domestic sales Empowerment of natural disasters development Use of appropriate Service stations and service station operators seniors and women by Advanced research on transportation methods in Sales of gasoline, diesel oil, and other products, offering new motoring consideration of costs and and general support of customers’ car-life manufacturing technologies regional characteristics. Supply lifestyle value of petroleum products to customers of various industries Cosmo’s target Number of visits and service station operators, by customers in accordance with their needs ¥36 trillion car-life-related 500,000 market cars/day Stable supply of materials Motoring lifestyle solutions Car leases for individuals for daily necessities A low-risk business model with no vehicle inventory, targeting the ¥36 trillion car-life-related market. We take advantage of the high frequency of customer contact at service stations. Aging population, a decline in working Petrochemical Business Expanding production of population domestic clean energy Manufacturing of petrochemical products Manufacturing of raw materials Petrochemical products for plastics, textiles, and other Materials for products for daily life products, in accordance with Plastic shopping bags, plastic bottles, Manufacturing and sales of market needs clothes, tires, frames of electric Economic value petrochemical products appliances, etc. Wind power generation Renewable Energy Business capacity Return on Equity (ROE) No. 3 in Japan Market share of Target for 11.6% Environmental 6% problems FY2017 Renewable energy Nationwide operation of wind power and solar power generation facilities, and distribution of electricity Electric power Wind power generation * Service Station member card 03 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS COSMO REPORT 2017 04 Introduction Message from Fifth Consolidated MediumGrowth Strategy Review of Operations Corporate Governance CSR Activities Financial Section Outline the President and CEO term Management Plan Other (mainly wind power generation) Oil E&P* Long-term Performance Oil E&P* Petroleum and other** Petrochemical What have not changed What have changed Change in profit FY2017 composition The first half of Stable supply of energy Business portfolio (ordinary income excluding inventory the 2000’s Final year of the Fifth Consolidated MediumExpansion of the oil exploration & production business valuation by business segment) Term Management Plan “Customer First” mindset * The size of the circle shows the size of ordinary income. Enhancement of the petrochemical business Energy-related business domains Entry into the wind power generation business * oil exploration & production Petroleum ** “Petroleum and other” includes petrochemical. Petrochemical Petroleum Aiming for sustainable HCP4 was established, and entered Keiyo Seisei JV (Chiba JV) 5 was established. IPIC3 became our largest shareholder. paraxylene business. Oil E&P Renewable energy Agreed to the United Nations Global Compact2. Began strategic comprehensive cooperation with CEPSA. Acquired Eco Power shares. growth and harmony with Petrochemical Transformed to a holding company structure. CM Aromatics was established. Petroleum Oil E&P Gyxis Corporation6, an integrated LPG our planet and society Renewable energy Abu Dhabi Oil renewed business operator, was established. concessions and was granted Commencement of Petrochemical a new concession area (Hail). (billion yen) Commercial Operation of Cosmo Oil Sakata Wind Maruzen Petrochemical became a 4,000 Petroleum consolidated subsidiary. Power Plant Entered the car leasing Petroleum We have always been engaged in the energy business. We will not fear change Oil E&P business for individuals. Entered into a capital Abu Dhabi Oil alliance with Kygnus Sekiyu. and take up challenges so that we can continue to contribute to the implements the Zero Flare Project at its oil Entered into a business production facility for alliance in the Yokkaichi development of society in the energy field. the first time in the area with the Showa Shell Middle East region Sekiyu Group. 3,000 Oil E&P The Hail Oil Field will begin Petroleum operation in the beginning Cosmo Oil of October Launched IPP was established through tripartite merger of (Independent Daikyo Oil, Maruzen Oil, and the former Power Producer) Cosmo Oil (Cosmo Refining). operations. Oil E&P (billion yen) Asian Oil was merged into Cosmo Oil. Qatar Petroleum 2,000 Development was established. United Petroleum Development was established. Abu Dhabi Oil was established1. Asian Oil was established. 1,000 Daikyo Oil was established. Maruzen Oil was Bars on the right established. graph indicate sales after Cosmo Oil was established. 0 19 19 20 20 20 20 20 97 19 19 19 86 19 19 1987 19 1998 FY 19 1988 89 20 20 2099 00 01 02 33 39 52 68 70 13 14 15 16 17 19 19 19 19 90 91 92 93 20 20 20 20 20 20 03 04 05 06 07 19 19 19 94 95 96 20 20 20 20 08 09 10 11 12 1. Maruzen Oil, Daikyo Oil (Cosmo Energy Holdings, currently), and Nippon Mining (JXTG Holdings, currently) made joint investments to establish Abu Dhabi Oil. 2. GC: Global Compact 3. International Petroleum Investment Company (IPIC) merged with Mubadala Development Company (MDC), an energy-related investment management company fully owned by the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, to become Mubadala Investment Company (MIC) at present. 4. HCP: Hyundai Cosmo Petrochemical 5. 50:50 joint venture with TonenGeneral Sekiyu (currently JXTG Energy) 6. Cosmo Oil (currently Cosmo Energy Holdings), Showa Shell Sekiyu, Sumitomo Corporation, and TonenGeneral Sekiyu (currently JXTG Energy) jointly invested to establish Gyxis. 05 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS COSMO REPORT 2017 06 Introduction Message from Fifth Consolidated MediumGrowth Strategy Review of Operations Corporate Governance CSR Activities Financial Section Outline the President and CEO term Management Plan Goals to realize sustainable growth Our aim is to construct a resilient business 1 Profitability that enables reinvestment portfolio to changes in the environment and to 2 Resilient business portfolio promptly improve 3 Healthy financial condition financial strength at an early stage. President and CEO Hiroshi Kiriyama 4 Corporate social responsibility next medium-term management plan, which will start in FY2018. Petrochemical, which became a consolidated subsidiary in emergence of a rival group with a high market share has Commitment to raising long-term As an overall policy we intend to realize profitability that allows FY2015. The oil exploration & production (E&P) business created a wide gap with our Group. However, we are intent corporate value us to reinvest to build a business portfolio that is resilient to recorded profit despite a decline in selling prices of crude oil. At on leveraging our strength of agility and speed in I am Hiroshi Kiriyama and was appointed President of Cosmo changes of business environment such as a gradual decrease the end of FY2016, the equity ratio improved 3.1 points from a management and operations, and on promptly building a Energy Holdings in June 2017. I am humbled to become in domestic demand as well as promptly achieve healthy year ago to 10.8% and the net debt-to-equity ratio (based on the balanced business portfolio that is resilient to changes in the President at this time of significant changes in Cosmo Energy finances that support sustainable growth. We will also deliver credit rating) improved 1.0 point to 3.6 times. environment. I believe that in the current rapidly-changing Group’s surrounding environment but at the same time I am corporate social responsibility to our various stakeholders For FY2017, ending March 31, 2018, which is the final year of environment, the size of a company is not necessarily an confident that our Group can exploit our potential and create through our business activities, including social contribution the medium-term management plan, we are forecasting advantage and the two critical elements are speedy more value. I will strive my utmost to raise long-term corporate and environmental preservation efforts. ordinary income of ¥54.0 billion and net profit attributable to management decision and efficient use of management value by keeping in mind our management vision “In striving By generating appropriate profit and contributing to society, all owners of parent of ¥20.0 billion. Ordinary income excluding the resources, which are our characteristics. for harmony and symbiosis among our planet, humankind, and of us at the Cosmo Energy Group will strive hard, aiming at inventory valuation, is expected to increase ¥22.0 billion to society, we aim for sustainable growth toward a future of becoming a greater, long-prevailing corporate group in which ¥64.0 billion. We are projecting an increase in ordinary income FY2016 Results and FY2017 Forecasts limitless possibilities” and by devotedly sticking to our employees and their families can be proud of. excluding inventory valuation in the petroleum business, mainly (Billion yen) corporate message “Filling Up Your Hearts, Too.” due to a start of business alliance in the Yokkaichi Refinery and FY2016 FY2017 Results Forecasts The purport of our corporate message includes conveying to our due to higher operating ratio at our refineries, as well as in the Ordinary income 81.4 54.0 stakeholders our commitment to endeavor every day to provide oil E&P business, due to an increase in production volume Impact of inventory valuation 39.4 -10.0 products and services that can satisfy each of our customers. I FY2016 results and FY2017 forecasts driven by a production start at the Hail Oil Field in the second Ordinary income excluding inventory valuation 42.0 64.0 also think that this corporate message well demonstrates how half of FY2017 and due to higher oil prices. The petrochemical Each Segment much our employees care about our customers and how In FY2016, ended March 31, 2017, ordinary income improved business is expected to decrease its ordinary income excluding Oil exploration and production business 9.3 26.0 much satisfaction they find in co-existing harmoniously in the ¥117.5 billion from the previous year to ¥81.4 billion and net profit inventory valuation, in view of our conservative margin Petroleum business 1.8 14.0 society, as stated in our vision of management. I believe that attributable to owners of parent improved ¥103.4 billion to ¥53.2 projection between ethylene and naphtha. Petrochemical business 22.2 14.0 the value we provide lies in helping to enrich customers’ lives billion. Ordinary income excluding inventory valuation increased Other* 8.7 10.0 through a reliable supply of energy. Our strength is derived from by ¥9.4 billion to ¥42.0 billion. On top of the positive effect from Profit attributable to owners of parent 53.2 20.0 our employees’ sharing of the feelings behind our corporate inventory, the petroleum business increased ordinary income Speedy management and alliances in order Dividend per share ¥50 ¥50 (plan) message “Filling Up Your Hearts, Too” and from the natural from the previous year due to an improved operating ratio at our to prevail within industry consolidation * Including consolidated adjustment manner by which this is evidenced at each work site. refineries, mainly at the Chiba refinery which commenced the FY2017, ending March 31, 2018, is the last year of our current two-year long-run operation of skipping regular maintenance in Japan’s oil industry is surrounded by a challenging business Reference medium-term management plan (FY2013 to FY2017). We are the fall. The petrochemical business also increased profit due to environment and is undergoing realignment so as to make Dubai crude oil price (US$ /barrel) 46.9 50.0 making our utmost efforts to achieve its targets while planning our favorable product market conditions and the inclusion of Maruzen the market more appropriate and to reduce fixed costs. The Foreign exchange rate (¥/US$) 108.4 110.0 07 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS COSMO REPORT 2017 08 Introduction Message from Fifth Consolidated MediumGrowth Strategy Review of Operations Corporate Governance CSR Activities Financial Section Outline the President and CEO term Management Plan In the next medium-term plan, we intend to present a vision for the Cosmo Energy Group in 2030 future. The alliances include a joint venture business in management plan, which starts in FY2018. Establishing a resilient business portfolio Strength in the oil E&P business: Strong Chiba, a business alliance with Showa Shell Sekiyu Group in Cash flow generated from collection of returns from the past to environmental changes partnership with Abu Dhabi Yokkaichi, a strategic comprehensive alliance with investments and positive impacts from alliances will be used Oil prices and currency fluctuations greatly affect our Compañía Española de Petróleos, S.A.U. (CEPSA)1, and a to repay debts, and we aim to swiftly return to a net debt/ Our Group’s strength in the oil E&P business derives from our earnings but are beyond control of individual companies. In capital and business alliance with Kygnus Sekiyu. Further, equity ratio of 2 times or less, its former level before the participation in oil development as an operator, based on our light of this, we focus on achieving stable earnings by our major investments for growth in the future include the 2011 earthquake. Concerning return from investment, we are strong relationship of trust -for nearly 50 years so far -with the balancing the upstream oil E&P business with the Hail Oil Field (Abu Dhabi) and development of multiple new expecting a contribution especially from start-up of Emirate of Abu Dhabi. As we can take the lead position in downstream oil refining and oil product sales business and sites for wind power generation. These investments will production in the Hail Oil Field in FY2017 and synergies from development projects as an operator, make independent by strengthening businesses that are less sensitive to oil generate a full-scale investment return from FY2018 and we Chiba JV from FY2018. Meanwhile, large-scale investments, investment decisions, and control costs well, we are highly prices and currency fluctuation, such as the petrochemical are expecting a significant improvement in cash flow. such as for the Hail Oil Field, Chiba JV, and the IPP’s competitive. This is evidenced by generating profit (¥1.5 billion) business and the wind power generation business. As upgrade work, will peak in FY2017, and significant decline in when the Dubai oil price was averaged at $30 in the Januaryspecific measures, in the oil E&P business, we are the amount of current investment is expected in FY2018. We March period of 2016. In the oil E&P business, our Group does expanding production in the cost-competitive Middle East. In will continue to make investment to raise our long-term not start from high-risk exploration work to detect deposits of oil. the oil refining and oil product sales business, we are Top priority in the next medium-term competitiveness but we plan to do it efficiently with minimal We are engaged in a low-risk operation by mainly developing enhancing competitiveness through business alliances. At management plan: Financial improvement burden on the balance sheet. We have identified oil E&P, discovered but undeveloped oil fields. The Hail Oil Field project the same time, we are enhancing profitability of the retail, and wind power generation as the three growth that Abu Dhabi Oil is currently developing, is cost-competitive, businesses which are less sensitive to oil prices and other Many challenges still remain to be addressed in the next businesses. With a focus on alliances, we will expand areas similar to our other fields which are now in production. The Hail external factors. In the petrochemical business, with medium-term management plan. While aggressive of strength (e.g. the alliance with CEPSA1 in oil E&P) and Oil Field is scheduled to launch production in FY2017 and to attention given to the growth potential of Asia and elsewhere investment aiming for growth will contribute to the creation complement areas of weakness (e.g. the Chiba JV and operate at full capacity from the beginning of FY2018, where we are active, we strive to enhance competitiveness of corporate value in the long term, our balance sheet has business alliance in Yokkaichi) in order to make our business contributing to about a 50% increase in total production of our and to generate synergies with the oil refining business, been significantly impaired in the short term, coinciding with portfolio resilient to environmental changes. Ultimately, we three operating companies in FY2018 compared to the level in while we are expanding capacity in the wind power the huge inventory valuation loss caused by a drop in oil wish to present a vision for Cosmo Energy Group as it FY2016. Furthermore, we can lower operating cost per unit generation business and strengthening retail business prices. We plan to stipulate the return to a healthy balance should be in 2030, which is far beyond the period covered along with increase in production as the Hail Oil Field, being focusing on car leasing business for individuals. sheet as one of the top priorities in the next medium-term by the next medium-term plan. adjacent to the existing oil field, can share existing facilities. We are therefore expecting that the combination of output growth and a decline in per-unit operating cost will make the project a Enhanced competitiveness through Business alliances Net Debt-to-Equity Ratio* and Dividend per Share significant profit contributor from FY2018 and onward. alliances, and execution of large-scale Net D/E ratio (credit rating-based) (RH) Dividend per share (LH) Moreover, both Cosmo Energy Holdings and CEPSA have investments for future growth in the 2013 Commenced operation of one of Asia’s largest (Yen) (Times) MIC (formerly IPIC) 2 as a major shareholder. Through our new Paraxylene manufacturing facilities at HCP* current medium-term management plan * Hyundai Cosmo Petrochemical. A joint venture with 100 5.0 respective relationships with Abu Dhabi National Oil Company, Hyundai Oilbank (HDO) in South Korea. Cosmo and CEPSA are considering joint business opportunities The current medium-term management plan (FY2013 2017) Entered into a strategic comprehensive alliance Net D/E ratio such as in new oil concessions, marketing of crude oil and oil 2014 80 target 4.0 was launched in the midst of a crucial challenging with CEPSA, a major Spain-based oil company 2 times or less products, and sales assistance in the retail area. invested by the Abu Dhabi government. environment with the Chiba Refinery being shut down, Integrated LPG business with Showa Shell Sekiyu, 60 3.0 mainly due to the accident after the Great East Japan Sumitomo Corp, and TonenGeneral Sekiyu Earthquake of March 2011. I was directly involved in that (currently JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy). Strength in the retail business: Points of 40 2.0 situation as Director from 2013 and then as Representative 2015 Established KeiyoSeisei JV G.K. with contact with customers and highly Director and Executive Vice President from 2016. We have TonenGeneral Sekiyu (currently JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy). satisfactory products in the ¥36 trillion also recorded a significant inventory valuation loss (over Business alliance with Showa Shell Sekiyu in 20 1.0 car-life market ¥180 billion), due to a crash of oil prices. We are therefore Yokkaichi area. unlikely to achieve the financial targets set for the final year 0 0 Our strengths in the retail business include our entry in 2016 Acquired shares of Maruzen Petrochemical and of the medium-term management plan. On a positive side, made it a consolidated subsidiary. FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY Japan’s massive car-life-related market, which is estimated 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 we have made steady and solid progress in raising (Plan) to be roughly ¥36 trillion, mainly in the form of car leasing for 2017 Entered into a capital and business alliance with competitiveness, thanks to alliances in each business and Kygnus Sekiyu. * One of indicators to measure a company’s financial soundness. Measured by dividing net individuals; the service station infrastructure, to which about interest bearing debts by shareholders’ equity. A lower ratio generally means that a each region, and in making growth investments for the company is financially more sound. as many as 500,000 cars visit per day; our staff who share 09 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS COSMO REPORT 2017 10 Introduction Message from Fifth Consolidated MediumGrowth Strategy Review of Operations Corporate Governance CSR Activities Financial Section Outline the President and CEO term Management Plan the vision “Filling Up Your Hearts, Too” and approximately CSR activities should go hand in hand and that we must conditions, and to assign priority to improving financial 4.44 million “Cosmo the Card” members. Our “Cosmo Smart achieve both to expand corporate value. Furthermore, we strength at the same time. I sincerely appreciate our Vehicle 3” leasing program, which provides a new vehicle have been a signatory of the “Global Compact” since 2006 shareholders’ understanding in these matters. leasing contract to consumers for around ¥30,000 – 50,000 and have been promoting CSR management by respecting Cosmo Energy Group provides oil products such as per month, has been favorably received especially by basic principles on human rights, labor, the environment, gasoline and numerous other products and services that women and seniors. The cumulative total number of and the prevention of corruption. support people their daily lives. Our mission is to fulfill the contracts has exceeded 39,000. At present, Cosmo Group’s For example, concerning promotion of diversity, we believe needs of our customers by safely and stably providing service stations are the point of contact with customers but we can raise productivity by incorporating various ideas and high-quality products and services, as we declared to our expansion of the platform through alliances can be one of opinions of employees with diverse backgrounds. Other customers, shareholders, and all other stakeholders, our options in the future. In addition, as the vehicle important initiatives include fostering human resources “Filling Up Your Hearts, Too”. We can create sustainable ownership pattern is changing in Japan, we may be able to capable of global operations, promoting the active value only if we are needed and desired by society. We explore opportunities in the peripheral businesses of leasing. engagement of women, and mid-career hiring of specialists sincerely hope that our shareholders understand our From a broad perspective, we are targeting a ¥36 trillion in specific fields. As different work fields create different management vision and will continue to extend their car-life-related market as a whole and to enhance types of work, workstyles should also vary. We will adopt support to us for many years to come. competence of our service stations. flexible workstyles, including work-at-home and work for Furthermore, Cosmo Oil Eco Card Fund4, launched in 2002, short hours. My longstanding motto is “Be strict at work, be is our unique initiative, which also works to enhance happy during off duty hours.” I encourage our employees to competitiveness of our service stations, as we can lock in work in a highly-productive and intense manner and enjoy a eco-conscious customers. The Fund is also an important private time with family or pursuing their interests, as I part of our environmental preservation activities. strongly believe that such balanced way of life can be fulfilling and also result in raising corporate value. Strength in the wind power generation business: stable profits in the market Conversion to a holding company with high demand growth potential structure has led to progress in Reasons for selection of President corporate governance and Representative Director Watarai Wind Farm (28,000 kW) commenced operation in Hiroshi Kiriyama spent many years in the FY2016 and the wind power generating capacity of our Roughly a year and a half have passed since we converted Corporate Planning Department and has group company Eco Power Co., Ltd. has increased to about to a holding company structure. We have steadily begun to in-depth insights and ample experience 211,300 kW, Japan’s third largest wind power generation see some outcome. For example, the Board of Directors for the overall business domains of the capacity. Its ordinary income is expected to be about ¥4.0 now has four Outside Directors out of a total of ten and a Cosmo Energy Group. In addition to a strong ability with figures and business billion in FY2017. Due to environmental consideration, the sense of healthy tension has been emerging in the meetings. expertise, Kiriyama is cheerful and wind power market has further growth potential but the The delegation of more authority and responsibility to core extroverted and has established a wide number of entrants is limited requires high-level expertise in business companies in oil E&P, oil refining, and network of contacts in and out of the industry. In the past year, as location selection, environment assessment, etc. We are petrochemicals as well as oil product sales has also resulted Representative Director and Executive identifying this business as one of our group’s growth in more thorough cooperation of management and work Vice President, he was heavily involved drivers, as stable profit can be expected based on the sites, and enhanced motivation at work. Managers can in corporate management from a top 20-year feed-in tariff (FIT) scheme, and reduction in CO 2 better see details of each business operation. In the oil executive position, proving his impeccable credentials to become emissions can be achieved. As one of our options, we are refining business, for example, this has led to initiatives President. I am confident that Kiriyama is considering the use of leasing and other financial methods in aimed at shorter regular maintenance periods, as well as capable of making flexible and prompt expanding this business without impairing our balance safer operation and stability of supply, based on the decision making in the rapidly changing business environment and to lead the sheet. Our target is to reach about 500,000 kW in the near corporate-wide unified operation management system. Group to achieve sustainable growth. term and to further expand generation capacity. Concerning nomination of the new president, the Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee Message to shareholders discussed the matter and the Board of Promoting CSR management Directors subsequently resolved it. In the current medium-term management plan, we have Chairman and Representative Director Although our Group provides stable energy that is essential already achieved one of its targets to resume dividend Chairman and Representative Director President and CEO Keizo Morikawa to everyone’s daily lives, we are also aware that we inevitably payments at an early stage. We paid dividend of ¥50 per Keizo Morikawa Hiroshi Kiriyama place some degree of burden on the global environment, as share in FY2016, up ¥10 from FY2015. As a top executive, I we mainly handle fossil fuels. Based on our full awareness am keenly aware of importance of rewarding shareholders. and consideration of this fact, our group is promoting CSR Looking at FY2017 and beyond, I am determined to make 1. Major general oil company in Spain 2. An energy-related investment company wholly owned by the government of Abu Dhabi. Formerly International Petroleum Investment Company (IPIC) and formerly Mubadala Development management that combines the management plan and our sustainable and stable dividend payments with due Company (MDC) merged and formed a holding company Mubadala Investment Company (MIC). 3. Vehicle sales business, with car leasing as a core business CSR initiatives policy. We believe that profit generation and consideration being given to profitability and financial 4. A program to support environmental NPOs and projects, funded by ¥500 a year donation by eco card members and a part of the sales of the Cosmo Energy Group 11 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS COSMO REPORT 2017 12 Introduction Message from Fifth Consolidated MediumGrowth Strategy Review of Operations Corporate Governance CSR Activities Financial Section Outline the President and CEO term Management Plan Production start at the Hail Oil Field Completion of IPP upgrade work Completion of the Chiba JV Fifth Consolidated Medium-Term Steady execution of measures is helping to EBITDA, Investments, and Net Debt-to-Equity Ratio (credit rating-based) construction improve earning power while large-scale 160 (Billion yen) 6.0 Management Plan Production start at the Hail Oil Field, (Times) investments aimed at growth are peaking EBITDA excluding inventory valuation (LH) Synergies in the Chiba JV out under the current Medium-Term Plan Investments (LH) Net D/E ratio (credit rating-based)(RH) 120 We started the fifth Medium-Term Management Plan (FY2013 FY2016, and alliances in Yokkaichi and Chiba going forward. The We have steadily executed various measures, in 4.0 2017) with the aim of improving our financial position and financial issue is also likely to be improved. The sharp drop in oil particular through alliances by business and by region, resuming dividend payments at an early stage, under the four prices in FY2014-2015 resulted in an inventory valuation loss and have enhanced our earning power. From FY2018, 80 basic policies. We have steadily executed measures aligned with (approx. ¥180 billion) but gradual upturn of crude price in the profit contribution from the initial stage of the Hail Oil the four basic policies and resumed the payment of dividends in FY2016 resulted in regaining as inventory gain. Also thanks to Field and synergies from the Chiba JV are anticipated to 2.0 FY2013. However, the competitiveness disparity of refineries the collection of investments and a decline in investments going boost earnings. On the otherhand, while we have 40 compared to other companies and the weak balance sheet still forward, cash flow began to improve and the financial position is carried out multiple large-scale investments aimed at remain to be challenged. The competitiveness disparity of expected to improve. In FY2017, the final year of the current growth during the current medium-term management refineries is expected to be resolved due to the start of the Medium-Term Plan, we will continue to strengthen our earning plan. However, investments will substantially decline due 0 0 2-year long-run operation of the main Chiba Refinery since power and improve the financial position. to the completion of the Hail Oil Field’s development, FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 IPP upgrade work, and Chiba JV’s pipeline construction (plan) and after Four Basic Policies and their Steady Execution etc. (Billion yen) (Billion yen) Enhance profitability in the oil refining sector Strengthen alliances FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Closure of Sakaide Refinery (¥10 billion in rationalization impact) Strategic comprehensive alliance with CEPSA, fully-owned by MIC 2 (formerly IPIC) (announced in (announced in Establishment of Keiyo Seisei JV (¥10 billion/year in Chiba JV synergy) Integration of four companies in LPG business May) May) Chiba Refinery’s 2-year long-run operation (¥7 billion in profit improvement) Capital and business alliance with Kygnus Sekiyu Dubai crude oil price EBITDA excluding Start of business alliance in Yokkaichi (¥1 billion/year in synergies at Cosmo) Maruzen Petrochemical became a consolidated subsidiary 104.6 83.5 45.7 46.9 50.0 58.9 110.1 69.7 90.6 113.4 (US$ /barrel) inventory valuation Foreign exchange rate Investments 41.2 70.4 82.8 120.3 127.6 Collect return from investments made in the previous medium-term plan Enhance CSR management (¥/US$) 100.2 109.9 120.1 108.4 110.0 The Hail Oil Field’s start of operation Thorough safety management Net Debt-to-Equity Ratio Ordinary income 41.8 -49.6 -36.1 81.4 54.0 HCP’s newly-established paraxylene production facilities started operation1 Working style reform to raise work efficiency (credit rating-based) 3.1 3.6 4.6 3.6 3.3 Expansion of wind power generation capacity Promotion of environmental measures Ordinary income (Times) Enhancement of governance system excluding inventory 25.8 66.5 32.6 42.0 64.0 valuation 1. Hyundai Cosmo Petrochemical. A joint venture with Hyundai Oilbank (HDO) in South Korea. 2. Mubadala Investment Company (MIC), a holding company was established by an integration of International Petroleum Investment Company (IPIC), an energy investment company that is fully Profit attributable to owned by the Abu Dhabi government and Mubadala Development Company (MDC). 4.3 -77.7 -50.2 53.2 20.0 owners of parent FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 and after Next Medium-Term Management Plan: Large-Scale Investments Aiming for Growth The Hail Oil Field development, new wind farms, etc. Investment to decline Strengthen financial position and Production to 3 operating companies’ production volume construct a business portfolio that is The Hail Oil Field Acquisition of mining areas development Oil E&P start Up 1.5 times vs. FY2016 resilient to environmental changes Alliance with CEPSA Strategic comprehensive alliance CEPSA’s capital participation in Abu Dhabi Oil New interests to acquire Moving ahead into the next management plan, which starts from FY2018, heavy Agreed on alliance with TonenGeneral Sekiyu Established Keiyo Seisei JV (Chiba JV) Construction of the pipeline Completion of the pipeline in FY2018 Chiba Refinery Joint venture (currently JXTG Energy) ¥10 billion/year in JV synergy investments such as those for the Hail Oil Acquisition of factory 2-year long-run operation Aiming at 4-year long-run operation Field and the Chiba JV will be completed, certification Approx. ¥7 billion in profit improvement More reduction in refining cost and those projects will enter the stage of Sakai Refinery Operation of a new Delayed Coker Unit (heavy oil thermal cracking unit)1 Enhancement of competitiveness returning profits. The cash flow generated will be allocated first to improving the Agreed on business alliance Began business alliance ¥1 billion/year in synergies at Cosmo Yokkaichi Refinery with Showa Shell Sekiyu Group financial position but also to shareholder Petroleum returns, according to earning power and the refining and Sakaide Refinery Closure ¥10 billion in rationalization impact Transformation to an oil terminal sales financial position, and to investment needed IPP Power selling capacity: 200,000 kW Upgrade work (diversification of feedstock) Resumption of operation for long-term growth. We will also continue (Independent Power Producer) Highly-competitive electricity supply alliances to grow areas of strength (such as Capital and business alliance with Concluded the capital and business alliance agreement Start of fuel supply (aiming in 3 years) Kygnus Sekiyu Acquired a 20% equity stake the alliance with CEPSA in the Oil E&P Reached 19,000 units, cumulative Reached 37,000 units, Reach 48,000 units, cumulative Business) and to reinforce areas of Car leasing for individuals cumulative Further business expansion weakness (such as the business alliances in Integration contract of distribution and Establishment of Gyxis (integration of four companies 3 ) the Chiba JV and in the Yokkaichi Refinery). LPG business integration retail businesses At the same time, we will expand earning Start of the new PX production plant 2 Energy-saving investment Establishment of profit base resistant to market fluctuations HCP (Aroma business) and rationalization power in the petrochemical, wind power Petrochemical Generation of synergies with oil refining Maruzen Petrochemical Made into a subsidiary generation, retail etc., which are less Generation of synergies with Arakawa (Olefin business) Chemical Industries sensitive to oil prices, in order to construct a Feed-in Tariff (FIT, 20-year fixed-price purchase agreement) business portfolio that is resilient to Renewable Wind power generation Start of operation at Hirogawa Start of operation at Watarai Start of operation at Sakata Port and Ishikari Further business expansion environmental changes and as a result, energy Power generation capacity 150,000 kW in total and Aizu (approx. 180,000 kW in total) (approx. 211,300 kW in total) Bay New Port (approx. 230,000 kW in total) 500,000 kW in total maintain sustainable growth. 1. A heavy oil thermal cracking unit used to produce naphtha, jet oil, and diesel oil from asphalt fraction. Upgrading heavy oil to middle distillates and cracking heavier crude oil will lead to 3. Cosmo Oil, Showa Shell Sekiyu, Sumitomo Corporation and TonenGeneral Sekiyu (currently JXTG Energy) reducing costs and thereby raise profitability. 2. Paraxylene is an aromatic product and is a raw material of plastic bottles and polyester fabric etc. 13 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS COSMO REPORT 2017 14 Introduction Message from Fifth Consolidated MediumGrowth Strategy Review of Operations Corporate Governance CSR Activities Financial Section Outline the President and CEO term Management Plan The Cosmo Energy Group aims to generate profits that will enable it to reinvest in two ways —expanding business in growth markets and strengthening competitiveness mainly Growth via business alliances. We will also realize a healthy financial position at an early stage Strategy and build a business portfolio, which is resilient to environmental changes, such as a decline in domestic demand. Our ultimate mission is the enhancement of long-term Oil Exploration and Production Business corporate value. Amid the prospect of firm global oil demand due to increasing population, we have been engaged in highly competitive oil exploration and production, based on strong relationships of trust with Middle East oil producing countries for about Oil a half century. The Hail Oil Field will start production in the middle of FY2017, and Exploration we aim to expand production volume by acquiring new oil fields in the long-term. and Production See pages 19-20 Business Petroleum Petroleum Business (Refining and Sales) Renewable Energy Business We have established a joint-venture company with TonenGeneral Sekiyu Business (Refining and (currently JXTG Energy) at the Chiba Refinery and a business alliance with Sales) the Showa Shell Sekiyu Group in Yokkaichi area to enhance competitiveness. We are also raising our competitiveness through alliances in the petroleum product sales business. For example, we have entered into a capital and Expansion of businesses in growth field business alliance agreement with Kygnus Sekiyu. See pages 21-22 and Strengthening competitiveness via Retail Business business alliances The retail business is targeting the entire car-life-related market in Japan, which is worth roughly ¥36 trillion, including vehicle sales and vehicle safety inspections and insurance etc, in addition to the domestic gasoline and diesel fuel market, which is worth around ¥9 trillion. By leveraging our service station strengths (i.e., frequent visits by customers and the number of card members), we aim to become a motoring lifestyle value provider, with car leasing for individuals as a Petrochemical Retail Business core business, and to enhance the profitability of service stations. Business See pages 23-24 Petrochemical Business Measures to enhance our competitiveness include cost reduction through energy-saving modification work at Hyundai Cosmo Petrochemical (HCP), a Profitability that enables reinvestment joint venture with South Korea’s Hyundai Oilbank (HDO). We also aim to generate synergies at refineries with Maruzen Petrochemical, which became a consolidated subsidiary of Cosmo Energy Group. See pages 25 Construction of business Healthy financial portfolio that is resilient to Renewable Energy Business position changes The market for wind power generation is expected to grow mainly due to environmental measures. With the 20-year feed-in tariff (FIT) scheme acting as a tailwind, Japan’s first wind power generation specialist Eco Power, a Enhancement of long-term group company of the Cosmo Energy Group, is using its know-how to achieve a high level of availability at sites in operation. By developing new sites as well, we aim to further increase power generation capacity. corporate value See pages 26 15 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS COSMO REPORT 2017 16 Introduction Message from Fifth Consolidated MediumGrowth Strategy Review of Operations Corporate Governance CSR Activities Financial Section Outline the President and CEO term Management Plan Business Oil Exploration and Production Business Petroleum Business (Refining and Sales) Petrochemical Business Other Businesses (Renewable Energy) Overview Total Business of exploration and production of Business to refine imported crude oil and sell Business to manufacture raw materials Businesses that are not related to oil or Business summary crude oil in Abu Dhabi in the United Arab the products to nationwide service stations, of polyester fiber, pet bottles, plastics, petroleum. Mainly engaged in wind Emirates (UAE) and in the State of Qatar factories, and other places including overseas synthetic rubber, etc. power generation as renewable energy. Net sales1 44.5 billion yen 2,099.9 billion yen 378.4 billion yen 60.6 billion yen 2,292.3 billion yen3 Ordinary income1 9.3 billion yen 41.2 billion yen 22.2 billion yen 3.8 billion yen 81.4 billion yen3 Ordinary income1 9.3 billion yen (excl. inventory valuation) 1.8 billion yen 22.2 billion yen 3.8 billion yen 42.0 billion yen3 Number of employees2 285 4,541 1,098 935 4 6,859 Crude Oil Reserves (Proved and Probable) 154.0 million barrels Crude Oil Processing Capacity 2 Number of service stations in Japan 2 Ethylene production capacity 2 Equivalent to approx. 23 years of supply 400,000 barrels/day Number of Cosmo brand stations 1,290,000 tons/year Corporate brand 2,957 Crude Oil Production (of the Group) 5 Domestic market Share: Domestic market share: Wind power generation capacity 2 awareness Approx. 11.4% Approx. 18% Major assets Approx. 40,000 barrels/day 211,300 kW 98.5% Comparison with refining capacity: Survey of 1,239 customers (men and Approx. 10% Number of the Car leasing business No. 3 in Japan and a 6% Paraxylene production capacity 2 domestic share women, 18-64 years old) who used a “Cosmo the Card” Holders for individuals 2 service station in the past one month Partnerships Cumulative total 1,180,000 tons/year (as of January 16, 2017) Approx. 4,440,000 2 Solid relationship of trust with oil producing countries 37,077 cars for nearly 50 years Cosmo Energy Cosmo Oil Maruzen Petrochemical Eco Power Exploration & Production Cosmo Oil Lubricants Cosmo Matsuyama Oil Cosmo Engineering Abu Dhabi Oil Keiyo Seisei JV CM Aromatics Cosmo Trade and Service Major Hyundai Cosmo Petrochemical neo ALA Qatar Petroleum Gyxis business companies Development 1. Results in FY2016 related companies Cosmo Oil Marketing 2. As of March 31, 2017 United Petroleum 3. Including consolidating adjustment Development Cosmo Oil Sales 4. Including 96 employees of the wind power Sogo Energy generation business (EcoPower) 5. Results for 2016 (January – December 2016) Impact of inventory valuation 1 Inventory valuation impact based on the periodic average method When crude oil prices rise When crude oil prices fall This indicates the impact in terms of income based on the “periodic average method,” Average of the unit prices of Average of the unit prices of The “impact of inventory valuation” indicates the which is an inventory valuation method. In a phase when crude oil prices rise, the cost of Cost of sales is pushed purchased inventory during the purchased inventory during the Cost of sales is pushed up down sales is pushed down (cost decrease = inventory valuation gain) because the unit prices term with the “lower” inventory unit term with the “higher” inventory unit (inventory valuation loss) impact on the cost of sales in the financial prices at the start of the term. (inventory valuation gain) prices at the start of the term. of purchased inventory that have risen during the term are averaged with the lower statements, according to the inventory valuation inventory unit prices at the start of the term. Conversely, in a phase when crude oil Impact of prices fall, the cost of sales is pushed up (cost increase = inventory valuation loss) inventory method, when there is a change in the price of Impact of because the unit prices of purchased inventory that have fallen during the term are inventory $70 for crude oil. It can be separated into the following averaged with the higher inventory unit prices at the start of the term. $70 for 70 days 365 days $ 65 $40 for $45 $40 for two categories: 70 days 365 days 2 Inventory valuation impact based on reduction in book value Inventory at the Purchase during Inventory at the Purchase during If the market value of inventory at the end of the term falls below the book value, it is start of the term the term Cost of sales start of the term the term Cost of sales necessary to reduce the book value to the market value, and this indicates that a Average Average resulting loss is incurred (cost increase = inventory valuation loss). 17 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS COSMO REPORT 2017 18 Introduction Message from Fifth Consolidated MediumGrowth Strategy Review of Operations Corporate Governance CSR Activities Financial Section Outline the President and CEO term Management Plan Oil Exploration Ordinary income and Production 80 (Billion yen) (USD/BBL) 120 109.1 105.5 Operating Performance Ordinary income(LH) Business 96.6 60 60.7 Dubai crude oil price(RH) 90 58.1 In FY2016, owing to depressed crude oil prices, the Oil E&P per U.S. dollar in Jan-Dec 2016), we are expecting segment 47.5 40 60 Business segment struggled but strived to reduce operating ordinary income to grow by ¥16.7 billion to ¥26.0 billion. This 50.9 50.0 41.3 costs, which resulted in ordinary income of ¥9.3 billion. growth will be driven by an increase in production volume 26.0 20 30 18.6 For FY2017, assuming an average crude oil price of US$50/ resulting from the start-up of production at the Hail Oil Field in 9.3 barrel (versus an actual $41.3/barrel in Jan-Dec 2016) and an mid-FY2017 and the expansion of production at existing oil 0 0 exchange rate of ¥110 per U.S. dollar (versus an actual ¥108.8 fields, in addition to a rise in crude oil prices. FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 (Plan) * Operating companies (Abu Dhabi Oil, Qatar Petroleum Development, and United Petroleum Development) end their FY on December 31. The Hail Oil Field’s production start-up and its impacts Strong relationships of trust based on the stable off-shore oil fields production in Abu Dhabi extending for approximately 50 years The Hail Oil Field is expected to begin production in the middle of Crude Oil Production Volume (of the three operating companies) and Abu Dhabi Oil’s Operating Cost1 Strengths Extension of interests in three existing oil fields of Abu Dhabi Oil for 30 years and FY2017 and to reach peak volume in FY2017. Full-year production at acquisition of the Hail Oil Field the Hail Oil Field in FY2018 will lead to an increase of about 50% in Crude oil production volume (of three operating companies) (RH) (%) Abu Dhabi Oil’s operating cost index2 (LH) (KB/D) the Cosmo Energy Group’s overall production volume from the three Alliance with CEPSA1, a wholly-owned company of our largest shareholder MIC2 (formerly IPIC) 120 70 operating companies* compared to that of FY2016. As the Hail Oil Volume up app. 50% 1 CEPSA is a Compañía Española de Petróleos, S.A.U. (CEPSA) is a major Spain-based oil company. 2 Mubadala Investment Company (MIC), a holding company was established by an integration of International Petroleum Investment Company (IPIC), an energy Field is adjacent to the existing fields, the existing facilities can be vs. FY2016 investment company that is fully owned by the Abu Dhabi government and Mubadala Development Company (MDC). shared, and the unit operating cost is projected to decline along with 100 60 an increase in production volume, thereby resulting in a significant Operatorship (the right to operate one’s own oil source) in the Middle East is valuable for expanding production profit contribution beginning in FY2018. 80 50 * Abu Dhabi Oil, Qatar Petroleum Development, and United Petroleum Development. The Cosmo Energy Group produces the largest volume of crude oil Expansion of production volume Hail Oil Field’s Progress and Development Schedule 60 40 in the Middle East region for a Japanese operator. We have realized Hail Oil Field’s start of production + Acquisition of new oil fields FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 low-risk and low-cost development, based on strong relationships Exploration 3D of trust with Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), which (3D seismic seismic Data analysis 40 30 Synergies with prospecting) survey was developed through the stable production of about 50 years. In MIC (formerly IPIC), CEPSA Dredging Construction December 2012, Abu Dhabi Oil Company (ADOC) renewed existing Base of waterway, of above-ground plan construction of an facilities 20 20 concessions for three oil-producing fields for 30 years. In addition, Development artificial island FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Strong relationship of trust with oil (Plan) (Plan) ADOC acquired a concession for a new oil field (The Hail Oil Field), producing countries Preparation Excavation Start of for excavation production 1 Includes oil fields’ renovation expenses, facility utility, repair expenses, personnel costs, etc. which is as large as the three existing fields. 2 Abu Dhabi Oil’s operating cost in FY2013 = 100 Moreover, through the ACC Workshop, which comprises Abu Dhabi Nearly 50 years of stable oil National Oil Company, Cosmo Energy Group, and CEPSA (owned production (operator) Contributing to a better society by MIC or former IPIC), we aim to acquire new concessions. CSV (Creating Shared Value) Cosmo Energy Group’s Oil Fields Going beyond countries and cultures Environmental preservation activities Equity MIC (formerly IPIC) Stable supply of energy is critical for resource-poor Japan, investment Abu Dhabi Oil received the ADNOC which heavily relies on imports. The Cosmo Energy Group Qatar Petroleum 100.0% 20.7% Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) er Arabian has focused on building relationships with Middle East oil Performance Award in FY2014. This State of Qatar Development’s oil fields rd bo Peninsula is the highest award given by Abu producing countries from an early stage. Especially with the CEPSA Cosmo Energy Holdings Dhabi National Oil Company Emirates of Abu Dhabi, the United Arab Emirates(UAE), we (ADNOC) to honor the best Strategic comprehensive practices in HSE at companies United Petroleum alliance 100.0% have built strong relationships of trust for about 50 years, Development’s oil field under their supervision. starting before the foundation of the UAE, by maintaining Abu Dhabi Oil’s oil fields 20.0% Japanese-language training Cosmo Energy Exploration & Production stable production in addition to environmental preservation 80.0% activities and education. In conjunction with the Ritsumeikan Trust in Japan, we provide 75.0% Japanese-language programs to Cosmo Abu Dhabi Energy Qatar Petroleum Development Applied Technology High School Hail Oil Field Exploration & Production Safe and stable operation (ATHS), a local high school in Abu Dhabi. Eleven students who 64.4% Abu Dhabi Oil was established in completed the program are 1968, before the foundation of the 45.0% currently studying in Japan with the Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates UAE, and has maintained safe and Abu Dhabi Oil United Petroleum Development support of a scholarship from Abu stable operation for about 50 years. Dhabi National Oil Company. 19 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS COSMO REPORT 2017 20 Introduction Message from Fifth Consolidated MediumGrowth Strategy Review of Operations Corporate Governance CSR Activities Financial Section Outline the President and CEO term Management Plan Ordinary Income Ordinary income (LH) Petroleum 60 (Billion yen) Ordinary income excluding inventory valuation (LH) Dubai crude oil price (RH) (USD/BBL) 120 Operating Performance Business 40 20 107.0 104.6 83.5 22.0 45.7 41.2 46.9 50.0 80 40 In FY2016, the Petroleum Business segment recorded ordinary income of ¥41.2 billion, up ¥104.0 billion from the beginning of the year while crude price rose during the year. For FY2017, ordinary income is expected to decrease by 14.0 0 5.8 1.8 4.0 0 previous year. The positive impact of profit originated from ¥37.2 billion to ¥4.0 billion, due to the absence of inventory -20 time lag for naphtha and jet fuel, which was generated valuation gains generated in FY2016. However, ordinary -40 -23.7 -25.3 during the period of crude price decline in FY2015, income excluding the impact of inventory valuation is -60 -39.0 -41.4 disappeared. However, profit was boosted by an increase in projected to increase by ¥12.2 billion from the previous year -80 -62.8 capacity utilization resulting from the start of the two-year to ¥14.0 billion, mainly due to domestic product market -100 -93.5 long-run operation of the Chiba Refinery and a decline in the improvement, the business alliance with Showa Yokkaichi FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 cost of sales reflecting lower price for inventory stored at the Sekiyu, and higher capacity utilization at refineries. (Plan) Enhanced competitiveness of refineries through promotion of alliances Example of the Chiba JV synergy Crude Oil Import Share by Country (FY2016) Other 5.3% United Arab Strengths Aiming at tapping into the ¥36 trillion car-life-related market with car leasing business Bottomless refinery Iran 6.0% Emirates for individuals at the core (Improve refinery economics by maximizing production of gasoline and diesel oil) 38.4% Kuwait 6.3% ¥10 billion in JV synergy Mexico 8.3% COSMO Alliances help eliminate the gap in competitiveness Enhancing competitiveness of service stations with 22,598 Qatar 10.4% thousand KL of our refineries compared to other companies the core car leasing business for individuals Keiyo Seisei JV G.K. Saudi Arabia 25.3% The Cosmo Energy Group has three refineries across Japan—in The Cosmo Energy Group sold 12,904 thousand kiloliters of Optimal selection of crude oil Chiba, Yokkaichi and Sakai—and aims to strengthen the four main products (gasoline, kerosene, diesel oil, and heavy Other 10.9% Saudi Arabia Cosmo Oil JXTG Russia 5.8% 37.4% competitiveness of each refinery mainly by promoting alliances with fuel oil A). By making use of our nationwide network of 2,957 (former TonenGeneral Sekiyu) Japan’s Chiba Refinery other companies. At the Chiba Refinery, it commenced two-year service stations (SS), the Group is strengthening efforts to NewlyChiba Refinery Kuwait 6.6% oil industry long run operation in FY2016, we realized profit improvement of capture the car-related market, in addition to sales of fuel established Iran 7.0% 191,047 pipelines thousand KL United Arab LPG FCC 1 RFCC 2 LPG Emirates about ¥7 billion. Also, Keiyo Seisei JV G.K. (Chiba JV), which was oils such as gasoline and diesel fuel. “Cosmo Smart Gasoline Gasoline Qatar 8.7% 23.7% established with TonenGeneral Sekiyu (currently JXTG Energy), is Vehicle,” the core car leasing business for individuals, has Diesel oil Direct Vacuum Diesel oil expecting to generate ¥10 billion in synergies at both companies been particularly supported by seniors and women and the desulfurization distillation * Other includes countries where percentage of imports is less than 5%. Improvement unit unit Improvement * Source for Japan’s oil industry: Petroleum Association of Japan, “Crude Oil from FY2018. The Sakai Refinery is highly competitive thanks to the cumulative total number of contracts exceeded over 39,000. in yield ratio in yield ratio Import by Countries” installation of the Delayed Coker Unit (heavy oil thermal cracking (as of June 30, 2017) Not making Pipeline Not making Capacity Utilization Rate at Refinery (calendar-day basis) unit) in FY2010. In Yokkaichi, at the end of March 2017, we interior piping Japan’s oil industry average Cosmo oil 100.0 (%) Heavy oil Heavy oil launched a business alliance with Showa Yokkaichi Sekiyu (Showa (Bottom) (Bottom) 93% 90.0 Shell Group), which is expected to generate about ¥1 billion in Domestic Sales Volume of Petroleum Products 88% (thousand KL) Optimal production plan Optimal equipment and facility 84% 83% synergies for the Cosmo Energy Group. FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 80.0 Gasoline 5,999 6,053 5,722 5,673 5,544 70.0 The Group’s Crude Oil Becoming a top-class competitive refinery in Asia Kerosene 2,246 2,261 1,941 1,823 1,820 70% Processing Capacity 60.0 Sakai Refinery Diesel oil 4,414 4,399 4,150 4,133 4,120 1 Fluid Catalytic Cracking (FCC) is an equipment to convert heavy oil to LPG, gasoline, diesel oil etc. 400,000BD1 100,000BD Heavy fuel oil A 1,963 1,847 1,555 1,420 1,420 2 Residue Fluid Catalytic Cracking (RFCC) is an equipment to convert extra heavy oil to LPG, gasoline, diesel oil etc. FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 (Plan) * Including the supply of petroleum product/semi Enhanced competitiveness due to * Source for Japan’s oil industry average: Agency for Natural Resources and product (37,000 barrels/day equivalent) from higher yield of jet and diesel fuels. Sub-total 14,622 14,560 13,368 13,049 12,904 Energy of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry Showa Shell Sekiyu with “Business Alliance”. Delayed Coker Unit began operation in 2010 * As of April 1, 2017 Higher value-added products Naphtha 5,916 6,556 6,240 6,204 6,027 TOPICS Alliance with Kygnus Sekiyu to enhance competitiveness Former Sakaide Refinery Jet fuel 476 486 468 519 520 * Closed in July 2013 Heavy fuel oil C 2,993 2,038 1,663 1,578 1,370 Entered into a capital and business Kygnus Sekiyu 140,000BD Total 24,007 23,640 21,739 21,350 20,821 alliance with Kygnus Sekiyu in February Conversion to an oil Fuel oil sales volume 3,860 thousand KL terminal 2017 and acquired a 20% equity stake Number of SS 474 SS Streamlining effect Number of Service Stations and Self Service Stations of Kygnus Sekiyu in May 2017. As of March 31, 2017 About ¥10 billion Service station Chiba Refinery FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Cosmo Oil’s refineries Capital and operators 177,000BD Cosmo SS 3,325 3,228 3,133 3,054 2,957 Will begin to supply fuel oil to Kygnus (Chiba, Yokkaichi, Sakai) business alliance Yokkaichi Refinery Established Chiba JV with Cosmo self SS 999 1,011 1,031 1,036 1,038 Sekiyu in about three years. TonenGeneral Sekiyu Cosmo Energy Group 86,000BD (currently JXTG Energy) SS in Japan 36,349 34,706 33,510 32,333 31,467 Will discuss and study further business Domestic fuel oil Business alliance with Showa sales volume 20,821 thousand KL Integration of both refineries 8,862 9,275 9,530 9,728 9,856 Yokkaichi Sekiyu (after the pipelines are constructed) Self SS in Japan alliances, without being limited to the Number of SS 2,957SS Factories and others Synergy for Cosmo Synergy for both sides * The number of SS includes the number of self SS. supply of fuel oil. As of March 31, 2017 ¥1.0 billion/year (from April 2017) ¥10 billion/year (FY2018 and after) * Source: Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry for the number of SS in Japan; The Oil Information Center for the number of self SS in Japan 1 Barrels per day See page 22 21 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS COSMO REPORT 2017 22 Introduction Message from Fifth Consolidated MediumGrowth Strategy Review of Operations Corporate Governance CSR Activities Financial Section Outline the President and CEO term Management Plan Petroleum Business Contributing to a better society CSV (Creating Shared Value) Utilizing Cosmo’s Strength in Providing a Pleasant Car-life Voice of service station owners The Cosmo Energy Group is moving ahead on transforming itself from an oil retailer to a value provider for customers’ motoring lifestyles, by proactively selling and expanding the “Cosmo Smart Vehicle”, a car leasing business for individuals. This service offers all vehicle types of all Japanese car makers at favorable terms. Since April 2011, when the “Cosmo Smart Vehicle” was launched, it has been favorably received particularly by seniors and women who want to avoid various car-life related annoyances. We are committed to continuing to provide the distinctive services of our SS to ensure customers enjoy a pleasant car-life. Mr. Yukihiro Nomura Mr. Norihide Kudeken Representative Director and President Representative Director and President Kanazawa Maruzen Co., Ltd. Yamato Sekiyu Co., Ltd. Social issues C o s m o ’s s t r e n g t h s Decline in working Frequent customer services Customer service Aging society capability Three attractive points of the “Cosmo Smart Vehicle” Expanding customer base with value only SS can provide population (a half-million customer visits/day) (car-life concierge) The “Cosmo Smart Vehicle” has three attractive points for us Car dealers recently tried harder to lock in customers, who then Accelerated decline in the number of SS 4.44 million card Patent in business model who run service stations: Use of the Cosmo Oil brand, good increasingly resign the first mandatory car inspection service to (social infrastructure reduction) members (fuel oil discount system) training courses, and easy-to-understand concepts. We the dealers. We therefore handled fewer cars for these believe that the “Cosmo Smart Vehicle” is a tool to convert inspections. In order to stop this trend, we decided to sell cars, customers’ trust into profits. which prompted us to handle the “Cosmo Smart Vehicle.” We Car leasing for individuals now want to expand our customer base by providing services Merits for customers (satisfaction) Merits for SS that dealers cannot provide and value only SS can offer. Leaving all car-life related matters Particularly well received by New source of profit that does not depend (maintenance, insurance, etc.) to Cosmo seniors and women only on fuel oils Number of “Cosmo Smart Vehicle” Can select from all vehicle types Expansion of Target Market Contracts A wide variety of choices in new cars Building relationships of trust with customers of all Japanese carmakers Fixed monthly rate Raising the motivation of staff Entire car-life market Annual sales scale (LH) Cumulative lease contracts (RH) ¥36 trillion Satisfied with response by staff Fulfilling training courses 30 (Billion yen) (Units) 40,000 Discount for fuel oil Insurance ¥5 trillion Car-life market 30,000 Inspection and ¥9 trillion ¥27 trillion maintenance 20 * Based on a questionnaire provided to “Cosmo Smart Vehicle” lease-signers The domestic market of Customer Evaluation of “Cosmo Smart Vehicle” (conducted in October 2016, n=82) car-related businesses is expected to grow Dissatisfied 4% No 3% steadily regardless of 20,000 Relatively dissatisfied 5% Very Vehicle sales ¥13 trillion power source (gasoline, satisfied Yes electricity, etc.) 10 48% 49% 10,000 Gasoline Gasoline ¥9 trillion ¥9 trillion Has it Diesel oil Diesel oil How satisfied are you? 92% eliminated your annoyances? 98% Before the launch of the After the launch of the 0 March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 0 responded that responded “Cosmo Smart Vehicle” “Cosmo Smart Vehicle” they were very “yes” or relatively Relatively satisfied satisfied Partially yes Win-win Business Model 44% 49% Customers Drive a brand-new car of any model made by any Cosmo Energy Group and SS operators Satisfying factors What has changed? manufacturer at a favorable price Discount for fuel oil 17% More pleasant car-life 23% No more annoying procedures Fee income, Agency Customer contact Negotiation on Use of the car model I desired 19% Example: Expense smoothing when owning a car (monthly fixed etc. agreement Leave all car maintenance to Cosmo 16% vehicle pricing rate, including mandatory car inspection, tax, insurance, etc.) Fixed monthly rate 14% Use of a brand-new car 18% Response by staff 11% Eliminated my dissatisfaction with car-life 10% Leasing Capture a new customer base Discount for car wash service 9% More fulfilling car-life 8% companies Customer Leasing Car dealer Ability to switch to a new car 9% More meaningful car life 8% company Select my favorite car 8% My family is also happy 7% Cosmo Energy Ensure a source of profit that does not depend only on All-inclusive services and rates 7% More fun with my car-life 6% Group and SS fuel oil Follow-up services 6% I can brag about my car to my friends 2% operators Leasing contract Purchase of vehicles Reasonable pricing 4% 23 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS COSMO REPORT 2017 24 Introduction Message from Fifth Consolidated MediumGrowth Strategy Review of Operations Corporate Governance CSR Activities Financial Section Outline the President and CEO term Management Plan Operating Performance Ordinary Income Operating Performance Petrochemical Other Businesses Ordinary Income Ordinary income excluding 30 (Billion yen) inventory valuation In FY2016, the Petrochemical Business segment increased 6.0 (Billion yen) Ordinary income In FY2016, Other Businesses segment Business 22.2 ordinary income by ¥18.0 billion from the previous year to ¥22.2 billion, mainly due to the full operation of Maruzen (Renewable Energy) 4.9 5.5 EcoPower’s ordinary income 5.0 increased ordinary income by ¥0.3 billion from the previous year to ¥3.8 billion. EcoPower 20 4.4 Petrochemical excluding the period of regular maintenance increased wind power generation capacity by 4.0 3.8 14.0 and the favorable ethylene market. 3.5 about 15% year-on-year to approximately 10 In F Y2017, segment ordinary income is expected to 211,300 kW, due to the start of operation at the decrease by ¥ 8.2 billion to ¥14.0 billion, as we have Watarai Project (Mie Prefecture). 3.3 3.7 4.2 2.0 adopted a conservative projection for the margin In FY2017, EcoPower plans to start production at 0 between ethylene and naphtha market. However, as the Sakata Port (Yamagata Prefecture) and the Maruzen Petrochemical’s plan to fully operate highlyIshikari Bay New Port (Hokkaido) to further -10 -7.0 competitive ethylene production units through the 0 increase generation capacity by about 8%. The FY FY FY FY FY FY fiscal year (non-shut down maintenance year) is FY FY FY FY FY FY Other Businesses segment is expected to increase 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Plan) anticipated profit at high levels. (Plan) ordinary income by ¥1.2 billion to ¥5.0 billion. Group incorporation in 2010 of EcoPower, a pioneer in the wind power generation Established production chain in Asia, a world-leading region in demand business (established in 1997) Cost competitiveness based on Japan’s largest-scale ethylene production capacity Realization of a high level of availability (at least 90%), as development, construction, Strengths (Maruzen Petrochemical) Strengths operation and maintenance are carried out within the Cosmo Energy Group Cost competitiveness based on one of the largest-scale paraxylene production Plan to expand business over the long term by expanding land-based sites as well as capacity in Asia (Hyundai Cosmo Petrochemical*) participating in offshore site projects* * A joint venture with Hyundai Oilbank (HDO) in South Korea. * The Akita offshore wind farm project is a large-scale one led by the private sector. Augmenting competitiveness in a growth market Secure stable profit, supported by FIT, in a growing market In the Cosmo Energy Group, Maruzen Petrochemical, which World Ethylene Demand World Paraxylene Demand The Cosmo Energy Group acquired EcoPower, Japan’s first Ishikari Bay Port, Hokkaido boasts Japan’s largest-scale ethylene production capacity, and Asia Other regions Asia Other regions wind power development specialist, in 2010, when the Plan to start operation(Second half of FY2017) Wind Power Production Capacity 200 (millions of tons) 50 (millions of tons) Approx. 7,000kW (Medium-Term Management Plan) Hyundai Cosmo Petrochemical (HCP), which owns worldrenewable energy market was anticipated to grow mainly due 5.0 (Billion yen) (kW) 250,000 leading paraxylene production facilities, are highly competitive, to the implementation of environmental measures. Supported Sakata Port (Yamagata Pref.) Power production capacity (RH) 160 40 Plan to start operation as they are continuing to run at full capacity. by the FIT (Feed-in Tariff), which was implemented in FY2012, EcoPower’s ordinary income (LH) (Second half of FY2017) Moreover, Maruzen Petrochemical is considering joint wind power generation has been identified as a growth area. 4.0 200,000 Approx. 9,000kW commercialization of hydrogenated polymer resins with Cosmo 120 30 EcoPower has about 211,300 kW capacity as of March 31, Watarai, Second Phase (Mie Pref.) Energy Holdings and Arakawa Chemical Industries. At the same 2017 and ranks third in the domestic market based on Plan to start operation 3.0 150,000 time, Maruzen Petrochemical is aiming to materialize synergies 80 20 generation capacity. We are aiming to further boost capacity (First half of FY2019) with the Cosmo Oil Chiba Refinery at an early stage and thereby to reach 500,000 kW in the medium term. In solar power Approx. 22,000kW 2.0 100,000 augment the competitiveness of petrochemical complexes 40 increase rate in demand 10 increase rate in demand generation, as well, CSD Solar, which was established jointly through integrated operation with the oil refining business. +3% on average +4% on average with another company, is steadily supplying power at eight Himekami (Iwate Pref.) 0 0 locations nationwide. 1.0 increase rate 50,000 Plan to start operation (First half of FY2019) 2015 2021 2015 2021 +12% EcoPower’s Key Data (As of March 31, 2017) Approx. 18,000kW Maruzen Petrochemical (Chiba Plant) ¥7.1 billion Power generation Located in the Keiyo Industrial Complex, one of the Cosmo Energy Group’s Production Capacity Capital capacity 211,300kW 0 0 top class in the world March March March March March Japan’s largest-scale ethylene production capacity Product Company Production Capacity Number of power 157 (23 areas) Industry share Approx. 6% 31, 31, 31, 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 31, 31, High capacity utilization of competitive facilities (tons/year) generators (third ranked) (Plan) (partially exporting ethylene) Olefin Ethylene Maruzen Petrochemical 1,290,000 Going forward, pursuing synergy with refinery Contributing to a better society Aromatics Paraxylene Hyundai Cosmo Petrochemical 1,180,000 CSV (Creating Shared Value) Benzene Maruzen Petrochemical 600,000 Hyundai Cosmo Petrochemical Boosting the energy selfLocated near area of demand (China) Hyundai Cosmo Petrochemical 250,000 Reduction in CO2 emissions by Reduction volume in Asia’s largest-class paraxylene production capacity sufficiency rate wind power generation CO2 emissions Cosmo Matsuyama Oil 90,000 250 (thousand t-CO2) Subtotal 940,000 In resource-poor Japan, we are expanding The Cosmo Energy Group is Paraxylene Mixed xylene Mixed Cosmo Oil (Yokkaichi Refinery) 300,000 the use of renewable energy, mainly wind proactively involved in 200 xylene power generation, which is highly promising environmental preservation 150 China CM Aroma CM Aroma 270,000 World largest point of as a purely domestic energy source with no activities and contribute to Cosmo Matsuyama Oil 50,000 FY2016 100 demand in paraxylene Yokkaichi Refinery environmental burden, so as to contribute reduction in CO 2 emissions Maruzen Petrochemical Subtotal 620,000 Approx. 50 (Yokkaichi Plant) to raising the energy self-sufficiency rate. In 110,000 households through provision of clean energy. Aromatics total 2,740,000 0 FY2016, we provided electricity to around In FY2016 we reduced CO 2 * Includes production capacity of Keiyo Ethylene FY FY FY Cosmo Matsuyama Oil (55% owned, consolidated subsidiary of Maruzen Petrochemical) 110,000 households. emissions by 222,861 t-CO 2. 2014 2015 2016 25 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS COSMO REPORT 2017 26 Introduction Message from Fifth Consolidated MediumGrowth Strategy Review of Operations Corporate Governance CSR Activities Financial Section Outline the President and CEO term Management Plan Reflecting our corporate mission and our responsibility to society at large, we have established the ”Cosmo Energy Group Management Vision” and the “Cosmo Energy Group Code of Conduct,” which serves as a specific set of guidelines to fulfill Corporate Governance this vision. On this basis, we aim to satisfy the requirements of all stakeholders including shareholders to the utmost by seeking to achieve “sustainable growth and mediumto long-term growth in corporate value”, “improvement in transparency and efficiency of corporate management”, “swift operational executions”, and “thorough risk management and compliance”. Furthermore, the Company has implemented all of the principles related to Japan’s Corporate Governance Code. Basic Governance Structure and Business Execution System Executives' Remuneration Plan The Cosmo Energy Group transitioned to a holding company structure in October 2015 and became a company with a The Company has introduced a remuneration plan linked to business Executives' Remuneration Plan supervisory committee structure in order to increase the ratio of outside directors and strengthen the audit and supervisory performance with the purpose of enhancing medium-term business functions of the Board of Directors. Moreover, with the aim of clearly separating management oversight and business execution, performance, increasing corporate value, and sharing profits with Remuneration linked to business performance (performance-linked coefficient: 0-200%) 20 % the Company has adopted an executive officer system. As a result, some authority has been transferred to executive officers in shareholders. It applies to directors (excluding outside directors and Long-term incentive remuneration (stock remuneration) 1,2 order to enable the Company to respond promptly to changes in the business environment and carry out swift decision-making. directors who are Supervisory Committee members) and executive officers. This plan consists of annual incentive remuneration Board of Directors Executive Officers' Committee (bonuses) linked to consolidated performance indices for each fiscal Fixed remuneration The Board of Directors is composed of ten members in total, The Company has adopted the executive officers’ system to year and long-term incentive remuneration (stock remuneration) Basic remuneration and comprises 6 internal directors (1 of whom is a member of the Supervisory Committee) and 4 outside directors (2 of clarify the roles and responsibilities of “Directors” in charge of decision-making and management oversight, and linked to the level of achievement of targets in the Consolidated Medium-Term Management Plan. A ratio of 5:3:2 has been 50 % whom are members of the Supervisory Committee). It decides “Executive Officers” in charge of business execution. The established for basic remuneration, annual incentive remuneration, Remuneration linked to business performance (performance-linked coefficient: 0-150%) 30 % important matters such as the basic management policy and Executive Officers' Committee comprises major executive and long-term incentive remuneration. The stock remuneration plan is Annual incentive remuneration (bonuses) 1,3 also supervises the execution of business duties. To reinforce officers, including the Chief Executive Officer, and directors an incentive plan that uses a trust system, and is a mechanism that the supervisory function of the Board of Directors and realize that are members of the Supervisory Committee, and creates management motivation based on awareness of increasing 1. Remuneration linked to business performance is not applicable to directors who are outside directors or Supervisory Committee members. fair and highly transparent management, the Company functions as an advisory body to the President. The corporate value in the long term, as directors and executive officers 2. Linked to the level of achievement of the Fifth Consolidated Medium-Term Management Plan, which ends on March 31, 2018 increased the number of outside directors by 2 members (2 of committee makes decisions concerning the execution of share changes in shareholder value with shareholders. 3. Linked to consolidated performance indices for each fiscal year the 4 outside directors are independent outside directors) in business in accordance with management policies tandem with the transition to a holding company structure. determined by the Board of Directors. Stock remuneration plan Outside directors have immediate access to necessary Shares, which a trust company acquires using the money Evaluation Fiscal year ending March 31, 2016 through fiscal year ending contributed by the holding company, are granted in accordance period March 31, 2018 information via the Corporate Planning Department. Mechanism with the degree of achievement of target performance indices Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee for the 5th Consolidated Medium-Term Management Plan (ROE, consolidated ordinary income, and net D/E ratio). Trust term November 6, 2015 to August 31, 2018 The Company has established the Nomination and Supervisory Committee Remuneration Advisory Committee, which is an advisory Recipients Directors (excluding Outside Directors, and Directors who are Timing of July 2018, promptly after the end of the final year of the members of the Supervisory Committee) and Executive Officers share grants Consolidated Medium-Term Management Plan (FY2017) The Supervisory Committee, which is composed of 3 body to the Board of Directors, to ensure transparency and Supervisory Committee members that include 2 objectivity in the selection of director candidates and the Upper Limit of Remuneration for Executives independent outside directors, uses the internal control compensation determination process. This committee is Cash remuneration (basic remuneration + bonuses) Stock remuneration system to audit and supervise the business execution of composed of three members in total, namely, one internal 500 million yen or less (total amount per year; no more than Trust money contributed directors as well as the state of execution of other business director and two independent outside directors, and Directors 687 million yen 12, the number of such Directors prescribed in the Articles of during the trust term (who are not members of the Supervisory Committee) Incorporation of the holding company) duties in general that are related to the management of the deliberates on the nomination and remuneration of executive Maximum number of 380,000 shares Group. The Chairperson is an independent outside director. officers. The Chairperson is an internal director. Directors 90 million yen or less (total amount per year: no more than 5, shares granted the number of such Directors prescribed in the Articles of (who are members of the Supervisory Committee) Incorporation of the holding company) Corporate Governance Structure Director Independent outside director Outside director General Meeting of Shareholders Election, Dismissal Right to state opinions on nominations and remuneration Election, Dismissal Election, Dismissal Inclusion in the ESG indices Supervisory Committee The Cosmo Energy Holdings has been selected as a constituent of Audit and supervise business execution of directors Accounting Decide proposals to elect or dismiss the Accounting Auditor Auditor the “FTSE Blossom Japan Index”, which the Government Pension Board of Directors Investment Fund (GPIF)1 has adopted as a passive investment Audit and Audit of Supervision Cooperation accounts index for Japanese equities. This index, developed by FTSE Russell2 is composed of Japanese companies with outstanding Election, Dismissal and Supervision Directors in charge of business execution Internal Auditing performance in the Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Reporting Representative Director and President Office Audit standards. In addition, the Cosmo Energy Holdings has been 1. The Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF) is the world’s largest pension Nomination and included in the “FTSE4Good Index Series” for 15 consecutive years fund. The GPIF manages and invests the reserve funds of the Employee’s Pension Remuneration Advisory Executive Officers' Committee Audit Insurance and National Pension Programs out of Japan’s public pension funds. Committee since 2003 when the Company was adopted as the first Japanese 2. FTSE Russell belongs to the London Stock Exchange Group plc and is a major Nominate candidates for director, deliberate and report on their remuneration Divisions and affiliates provider that constructs and manages indices on a global basis. oil company. 27 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS COSMO REPORT 2017 28 Introduction Message from Fifth Consolidated MediumGrowth Strategy Review of Operations Corporate Governance CSR Activities Financial Section Outline the President and CEO term Management Plan Directors and Executive Officers (As of June 22, 2017) Chairman, President, Representative Director, Director, Representative Director Chief Executive Officer Senior Managing Executive Officer Director, Senior Executive Officer Keizo Morikawa Hiroshi Kiriyama Yasushi Ohe Kenichi Taki April 1971 Joined Daikyo Oil Co., Ltd. April 1979 Joined Daikyo Oil Co., Ltd. April 1979 Joined Daikyo Oil Co., Ltd. April 1975 Joined Daikyo Oil Co., Ltd. June 2000 Director of Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. June 2011 Senior Executive Officer, General Manager, Corporate Planning June 2009 Executive Officer, General Manager, Supply & Demand June 2008 General Manager, Internal Auditing Office, Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. June 2002 Managing Director Dept. and Change Promotion Dept., Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. Coordination Dept., Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. June 2012 Executive Officer, General Manager, Accounting Dept. June 2004 Senior Managing Director June 2012 Senior Executive Officer June 2012 Senior Executive Officer, General Manager, Crude Oil & Tanker Dept. June 2014 Senior Executive Officer, General Manager, Accounting & Finance Dept. June 2006 Representative Senior Managing Director June 2013 Director, Senior Executive Officer June 2013 Senior Executive Officer June 2015 Senior Executive Officer, General Manager, Accounting Dept. June 2008 Executive Vice President, Representative Director October 2015 Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer of the Company June 2014 Director, Senior Executive Officer October 2015 Senior Executive Officer, General Manager, Accounting Dept. June 2010 Executive Vice President, Representative Director, Executive Officer June 2016 Representative Director, Executive Vice President October 2015 Director, Senior Executive Officer of the Company of the Company June 2012 President, Representative Director, Chief Executive Officer June 2017 President, Representative Director, Chief Executive Officer of June 2016 Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer (current position) April 2016 Senior Executive Officer the Company (current position) June 2016 Director, Senior Executive Officer (current position) October 2015 President, Representative Director, Chief Executive Officer of the Company June 2017 Chairman, Representative Director (current position) Director, Independent Outside Director, Senior Executive Officer Outside Director Outside Director Supervisory Committee Member Koji Moriyama Musabbeh Al Kaabi Khalifa Al Suwaidi Sakae Kanno April 1984 Joined Daikyo Oil Co., Ltd. October 1997 Joined Abu Dhabi National Oil Company September 2000 Joined Abu Dhabi Polymers Company April 1971 Joined The Kansai Electric Power Co., Inc. June 2008 General Manager, Sales Support Dept., Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. July 2007 Manager, Exploration Division October 2008 Senior Vice President, Corporate Planning & Support Unit, June 2003 Managing Director, The Kansai Electric Power Co., Inc. June 2014 Executive Officer, General Manager, Corporate Planning Dept. October 2013 Chief Growth Officer, Mubadala Petroleum Abu Dhabi National Chemical Company June 2007 Executive Vice President and Director, The Kansai Electric October 2015 Executive Officer, General Manager, Corporate Planning Dept. December 2014 Chief Executive Officer October 2010 Deputy Chief Executive Officer Power Co., Inc. of the Company February 2017 Chief Executive Officer, Petroleum and Petrochemicals, February 2016 Acting Chief Executive Officer June 2011 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, The Kansai Electric Power June 2016 Senior Executive Officer, General Manager, Corporate Planning Dept. Mubadala Investment Company (current position) March 2017 Executive Director, Refining & Petrochemicals, Mubadala Co., Inc. April 2017 Senior Executive Officer June 2017 Director of the Company (current position) Investment Company (current position) June 2013 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. June 2017 Director, Senior Executive Officer (current position) June 2017 Director of the Company (current position) October 2015 Director of the Company (Supervisory Committee Member) (current position) Independent Outside Director, Director, Full-time Supervisory Supervisory Committee Member Committee Member Reasons for Selection of Outside Directors Engagement with Shareholders Teruo Miyamoto Katsuhisa Ohtaki and Investors Musabbeh Al Kaabi has engaged in the Oil Sakae Kanno has experience as a director and audit IR activities are conducted mainly by the IR Office, Exploration and Production Business at Abu Dhabi & supervisory board member at the Kansai Electric which was established within the Corporate National Oil Company, and has experience serving Power Co., Inc. He has served as an Audit & Communication Department, and it actively visits April 1969 Joined Tokyo Electric Co., Ltd. (Currently Toshiba Tec Corporation) April 1978 Joined Daikyo Oil Co., Ltd. as an officer at many corporations in the energy Supervisory Board Member of Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. institutional investors in Japan and overseas. Besides February 1997 Acting General Manager on Corporate Planning of General Affairs industry outside of Japan. The Company judges him since 2013, and as an Outside Director who is a individual meetings, the IR Office is increasing June 2005 General Manager, Sendai Branch Office, Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. Group and Acting General Manager on International Affairs of capable of properly executing the duties of an Member of the Supervisory Committee of the opportunities for dialogue with shareholders and General Affairs Group, Toshiba Tec Corporation June 2007 Executive Officer, General Manager, Industrial Fuel Marketing Dept. Outside Director with his international viewpoint on Company since 2015. The Company judges him investors, including business results briefings for June 1999 Deputy General Manager of General Affairs Department and June 2009 Executive Officer, General Manager, Yokkaichi Refinery the petroleum industry. capable of properly executing duties from his investors that are held each quarter and oil refinery Acting General Manager on Legal Affairs of General Affairs Group, Toshiba Tec Corporation June 2011 Senior Executive Officer, General Manager, Yokkaichi Refinery wide-ranging viewpoint, which extends beyond the tours that are regularly conducted. Moreover, the Khalifa Al Suwaidi has worked at Abu Dhabi industry to which the Company belongs. Company is striving to enhance tools for constructive June 2002 Full-time Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Toshiba Tec Corporation March 2012 Senior Executive Officer, General Manager, Chiba Refinery National Chemical Company for many years and dialogue. This includes expanding investor October 2009 Managing Director & Assistant Secretary General, Japan Audit & possesses abundant knowledge and management Teruo Miyamoto, after serving as an Audit & information on the Company website as well as June 2014 Director, Senior Executive Officer Supervisory Board Members Association October 2015 Director, Full-time Supervisory Committee Member experience regarding petrochemicals. The Supervisory Board Member at Toshiba Tec issuing shareholder communications and integrated October 2010 Executive Managing Director & Secretary General, Japan Audit & Company judges that he will provide proper (current position) Corporation and holding important positions at the report of “Cosmo Report.” Supervisory Board Members Association oversight of management as an Outside Director. Japan Audit & Supervisory Board Members October 2011 Representative Executive Managing Director & Secretary General, Association, has served as an Outside Director who is Japan Audit & Supervisory Board Members Association a Member of the Supervisory Committee of the November 2014 Advisor, Japan Audit & Supervisory Board Members Association Company since 2015. The Company judges him October 2015 Director of the Company (Supervisory Committee Member) capable of properly executing duties while making the (current position) most of his experience and knowledge as a corporate governance specialist. 29 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS COSMO REPORT 2017 30 Introduction Message from Fifth Consolidated MediumGrowth Strategy Review of Operations Corporate Governance CSR Activities Financial Section Outline the President and CEO term Management Plan Interview with Outside Directors The Cosmo Energy Group currently has 4 outside directors out of 10 directors. Two outside directors are from Japan and the remaining two from the Emirate of Abu Dhabi. Enhancement of long-term We interviewed two of them and received candid feedback and useful suggestions: from Mr. Kanno, Independent Outside Director, mainly on the changes in the management before and after the transforming to a holding company corporate value structure; and from Mr. Kaabi who joined the Board as Outside Director in June 2017, mainly on measures for further enhancing corporate value. Accelerating management Improve free cash flow generation for speed in a rapidly changing realizing more robust financial position business environment and stable and attractive dividends Independent Outside Director, Supervisory Committee Member Outside Director Sakae Kanno Musabbeh Al Kaabi * See details of his biography on p. 30. * See details of his biography on p. 29. How do you see the Cosmo Energy Group? What role do you intend to play as an outside Please tell us what you think the advantages or What does MIC, as a top shareholder of the Cosmo Q Please also tell us what you think the advantage or Q director? Q strengths and the issues of the Cosmo Energy Group. Q Energy Holdings, want Cosmo management to do? strengths and the issues of the Cosmo Energy Group. In addition to attending meetings of the Board of Directors, I I think that Cosmo’s strengths are a long-standing history and Since its transformation to a holding company structure in As a general oil and energy company, Cosmo Energy Group A have discussions with each segment. I try to speak out A extensive experience in the Japanese downstream sector, A October 2015, as separating the supervisory function from A operates an integrated business from oil exploration and candidly on issues emerging from these meetings in order to which has enabled it to respond to drastically changing operational execution, Board of Directors of the holding production (upstream) to oil refining and marketing contribute to active discussions at the Board meetings. business environment. On the other hand, Cosmo is facing a company is focusing more clearly on the strategic (downstream) and petrochemical business, has a strong very challenging business environment in Japan. The biggest management of the group. We support several business profit structure, and has established a robust value chain issue at this stage is its highly leveraged balance sheet, which transformation initiatives taken by management since the Is there anything you particularly keep in mind structure as the third strongest player among its peers Q when speaking out at the Board meetings? may limit its ability to pursue new growth opportunities and transformation to the holding company. We expect Cosmo despite being small in scale. Our challenge going forward is withstand volatility in the energy market. management to strive to improve cash flows and the balance to complete the measures for the Medium-Term Management Whatever an agenda item is, I try to understand the logic sheet, ensure stable dividends, and identify new areas of Plan and to infallibly profit from all the outcome. A behind it. In particular, I think the current and future market growth in local and overseas markets. What do you think is necessary for the Cosmo Energy assessment and visualizing risks are important. Q Group to further improve its corporate value? How do you evaluate the management as an Q outside director? I believe that Cosmo should develop a solid five-year Q Will you give a message to shareholders? Q What do you think is needed for Cosmo Energy A strategy, which should focus on enhancing the profitability I evaluate the fact that the Medium-Term Management Plan Group to further raise corporate value? of the refining and marketing business. In addition, a The demand for oil products in Japan has been in A is identified as the main pillar of all management plans, not strong emphasis should be put on the expansion of its A structural decline, driven by the aging population and As roles of the holding company and each core operating merely as a wish list. Cosmo has overcome tremendous A company have become clear, I feel that the management wind power business and petrochemical segments. improved fuel efficiency. Cosmo Energy Group has handicaps from the major earthquake in 2011 and have Cosmo should strive to improve its free cash flow responded to the challenges by undertaking several speed has increased. However, given a rapid change in the speedily strengthened foundation of each business. This has generation to improve its financial position and pay stable initiatives to enhance competitiveness of its refining, business environment, we need to accelerate more. resulted in exceeding the targets in improving business and attractive dividends to its shareholders. marketing and petrochemical segments, as well as portfolio and significant enhancement of profit structure. developing the Hail Oil Field in Abu Dhabi and increasing its footprint in wind power business. All these measures Q Will you give a message to shareholders? are expected to strengthen Cosmo’s position. Do you see any change in management after the As you join the Board of Directors as an outsider director, Q transformation to a holding company structure? In the Fifth Consolidated Medium-Term Management Plan, Q will you share with us what kind of role you hope to play? A triggered by the transformation to a holding company Due to separation of supervision and execution, the roles As an outside director, I intend to bring an objective and A for each have been clarified: the holding company to take structure, the development of the business portfolio and A external perspective to the evaluation of a company’s the enhancement of competitiveness for refining segment an overview of the whole group and each core operating prospects, assist in setting and revising strategy and have been advanced more than planned. As their impact company to take responsibility for execution. As a result, objectives, support the company as it navigates through should appear on earnings over time, I sincerely hope that specific issues and challenges for each business segment an uncertain commodity prices outlook, and consider you keep looking forward to the future of the Group. have been identified. As each takes responsibility in management’s plans for succession planning. addressing to the issue, I feel a sense of speed in management and that outcome is emerging. 31 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS COSMO REPORT 2017 32 Introduction Message from Fifth Consolidated MediumGrowth Strategy Review of Operations Corporate Governance CSR Activities Financial Section Outline the President and CEO term Management Plan Major Initiatives by Business Segment CSR Initiatives of the Cosmo Energy Group In order to realize the Management Vision of the Cosmo Energy Group, all employees are CSR Initiative Policy Strict Safety Management Oil Exploration and Production Business Petroleum Business Enhanced risk management Petrochemical Business Promotion of safety management activities P.35 P.35 Renewable Energy Business Safe stable operations P.20 Adoption of OMS P.36 conscientiously engaged in CSR activities. CSR management is being promoted under the Consolidated Medium-Term Management Plan and the CSR Initiative Policy, based on the Cosmo Business Corporate ethics promotion structure P.37 Energy Group Code of Conduct. Operation with Penetration of Code of Conduct P.37 Integrity; Raising CSR initiatives at service P.38 Customer stations Ensuring customer support P.38 Satisfaction Evaluation for three Promises P.38 Initiatives on diversity P.39 Cosmo Energy Group Management Vision Facilitating work-life balance P.40 Enhancing Reducing long working hours P.40 In striving for harmony and symbiosis among our planet, Human Rights / Personnel humankind, and society, we aim for sustainable growth Policies Human resources development and human P.39 toward a future of limitless possibilities. resources capable of global operations Harmony and Symbiosis Creating Future Value Environmental impact of business activities P.42 Harmony and Symbiosis with the Creating the Value of “Customer First” Promoting Global Environment Environmental Creating Value from the Diverse Ideas Harmony and Symbiosis between of the Individual Initiatives Energy conservation at P.41 Boosting the energy P.26 Environmental P.20 refineries self-sufficiency rate Energy and Society preservation activities Creating Value by Expressing Use of water and wastewater measures P.41 Reduction in CO 2 emissions P.26 Harmony and Symbiosis between Collective Wisdom Companies and Society Business Continuity Plan (BCP) P.43 Implementing Better Cosmo Energy Group Code of Conduct Communication Cosmo Oil Eco Card Fund P.44 with Society Cleanup campaign Japanese language lessons P.20 P.44 Chapter 1 We are determined to be a safe and accident free Social contribution activities P.44 corporate group Chapter 2 We live up to customer expectations concerning reliability and satisfaction Internal Control System Chapter 3 We value people In order to implement its Management Vision and Code of establishing four committees, chaired by each director in Chapter 4 We take care of the global environment Conduct while ensuring that operations are carried out in an charge. These committees evaluate the performance of CSR Chapter 5 We value communications with society appropriate and efficient manner, the Cosmo Energy Group activities, bring important matters to the Executive Officers’ Chapter 6 We strive to maintain our position as an honest has established and maintained systems for carrying out Committee for discussion, and forward them to the Board of corporate group director and employee duties of the Company and its Group Directors. Such matters are also brought to the Cosmo Energy companies, risk management and internal audit systems, and Group CSR Promotion Liaison Meeting to be shared by Group audit performed by the Supervisory Committee. companies for the control of the entire Group companies. CSR Initiative Policy (FY2013-2017) We also have an organization for internal control by “Filling Up Your Hearts” and Safety Cosmo Energy Holdings Committee Structure Initiative Themes Board of Directors Safety and Integrity Sharing and Self-driven Executive Officers’ Committee Restore social trust Share across the organization until established as routine Corporate Ethics and Human Rights Committee Cosmo Energy Group—Earning social Safety and Risk Management Committee Cosmo Energy Group CSR Promotion Goal for FY2017 trust and always making a positive Environmental and Social Initiatives Committee Liaison Meeting contribution to society Information Disclosure Committee 33 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS COSMO REPORT 2017 34 Introduction Message from Fifth Consolidated MediumGrowth Strategy Review of Operations Corporate Governance CSR Activities Financial Section Outline the President and CEO term Management Plan TOPICS Always bear in mind the risk involved. CSR Operations Management System Initiatives of the Cosmo Energy Group Risk Base Strict Safety Management The Cosmo Energy Group prioritizes strict safety management as part of the CSR Initiative Policy. Adoption of Operations Management System 1 Under the Consolidated Medium-Term Safety Plan (FY2013–2017), by holding strong commitment In January 2016, Cosmo Oil adopted the Operations Management to the stable supply of energy, the Safety and Risk Management Committee is promoting safety System (OMS) with the aim of achieving safety operation and stable Three Key Points management at the group-wide level. Committee strives to eliminate work-related accidents and supply of world best class. We have identified 23 important items for (Basic Concept) 3 2 incidents in each office and each division and to secure safe operations and stable supply. operation to recognize the gap between the current state and the of OMS ideal state and to make continuous improvements. The Adoption of the OMS has established the base for operating-related management Enhanced Risk Management of the Entire Group systems, and we will achieve safety operation and stable supply, Continuous Completely improve operations, and avoid opportunity losses on top of this base. improvement done Perform securely Continue improvements Safety and risk management committee Board of Directors Affiliated Companies under while running PDCA. according to rules Cosmo Energy Holdings and procedures. Requirements for the The Group convenes a Safety and Risk Management Submission of matters, Reporting Approval, Supervision Cosmo Engineering management OMS Framework Committee meeting twice a year to discuss the group-wide Cosmo Trade & Service Executive Officers’ Committee Cosmo Business Associates Management leadership, safety policy and to verify progress in safety initiatives for the Cosmo Computer Center Management leadership, Top 1 Set management policy, 2 3 Establish operation Policy OMS implementation enhancement of safety management. Submission of EcoPower Commitment, accountability Management Provide resources and Communication Instruction matters, Reporting Each of the three core companies has a committee that matches Driving force its business and functions: the Environmental Safety and Health Safety and Risk Management Committee Committee in Cosmo Energy Exploration & Production, the Sharing Risk 4 Risk assessment and management 5 Management of change COSMO ENERGY Instruction Safety Environmental Committee in Cosmo Oil and the Safety HOLDINGS Safety first 6 Incident investigation and analysis 7 Emergency preparedness Cosmo Energy Group CSR Requirements for all Committee in Cosmo Oil Marketing. These committees make Three core companies Promotion Liaison Meeting operation planning for safety initiatives and conduct inspections to verify Reporting Maintenance 8 Facility design for maintenance and supervise initiatives for safety management. Cosmo Energy Exploration Environmental Safety and Health Committee/ Requirements for Safety and stability 9 Construction work & Production Risk Management Committee Common systems actual work Safety Environmental Committee/ Reviewing Cosmo Oil Process 10 Productive quality 11 Environmental protection Risk Management Committee Basic and Reliability and Cosmo Oil Marketing Safety Committee/Risk Management Committee 12 Management of operation 13 Production planning reflecting Systems satisfaction 18 Implementation of operation Operation procedure/Work permit/Critical equipment policies Promotion of Safety Management Activities Human Valuing people 14 Personnel safety, Occupational health 15 Employee participation 19 Responsibility and Authority 16 Third party services* 20 Training Safety initiatives Number of Work-Related Accidents in FY2016 Social 21 Documentation and Information 17 Regulatory Compliance and Moral Based on the Group’s Safety Policy “Establish a culture of safety for Act with integrity 22 Communication and Interface Accidents involving Accidents at compliance in good faith,” safety initiatives have been implemented. Total work-related accidents directly-hired subcontracting employees companies, etc. In FY2016, the number of work-related accidents was 118 (30 Check accidents requiring time off from work and 88 accidents not Accidents Accidents Accidents Accidents Accidents Accidents requiring not requiring requiring not requiring requiring not requiring requiring time off), and the number of work-related accidents time off time off time off time off time off time off Assessment & Improvement Audit 23 OMS Assessment from work from work from work from work from work from work during commuting was 20. There were no fatal accidents from * contractor work or during commuting. Accidents Requirement for auditors 30 88 13 52 17 36 and evaluators From FY2017, the scope of the survey is expanding to include during work BASE LINE Define the requirements and employees of subcontracting companies in addition to directlySetting up our ideal state Accidents expectations of world best class hired employees of Group companies. We will continue our strong during 1 19 1 14 0 5 commuting Four steps of OMS Recognition of the vision for OMS A result of activities efforts to reduce work-related accidents. * Including Cosmo Energy Holdings, Cosmo Energy Exploration & Production, Cosmo Oil, STEP 4 Cosmo Oil Marketing, Maruzen Petrochemical, and 33 related companies The OMS comprises (1) Manualize rules and STEP 3 procedures; (2) Instruction and Training; (3) Continuous STEP 2 Completely done; and (4) Continuous improvement. improvement STEP 1 Completely done Increase in capacity utilization Capacity Utilization Rate at Refinery (calendar-day basis) By repeating the process step by step, the OMS Instruction and enables us to be closer to our ideal state (safety Manualize rules Training Since the Great East Japan Earthquake of 2011, we had suffered 100.0 (%) National average Cosmo Oil operation and stable supply of world best class). and procedures from our main Chiba Refinery not being in operation for roughly 93% We are embedding this process of documentationExecute instruction Accomplish according Find an 90.0 training-accomplishment-improvement in our Document rules two years. From FY2013, the Chiba Refinery gradually resumed 88% and procedures. and training for rules to rules and improvement item in 84% culture to improve ourselves further. and procedures. procedures. daily operation. operation and it has significantly improved its capacity utilization by 83% 80.0 achieving two-year long run in FY2016. Our entire manufacturing division is striving to further enhance safe operation and stable Although we are still at the starting phase one year after improvement), and have begun to incorporate them in 70.0 supply by introducing a new Operations Management System in One year after the adoption of OMS, gradual changes have appeared in their actual work. 70% January 2016. In addition, we will begin a business alliance with adoption of the OMS, employees’ mindsets. In FY2016, the first year, we In FY2017, the second year of adoption, we plan to 60.0 some changes began focused on STEP 1 (Manualize rules and procedures) and implement the OMS concept more deeply by finding more another company in Yokkaichi in FY2017 and integrate the refining FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 to appear in STEP 2 (Instruction and Training). As a result, employees opportunities to execute STEP 3 (Completely done) and operation once the Chiba JV pipeline is completed in FY2018 in (Plan) employees’ mindsets have become more conscious of the three key points of STEP 4 (Continuous improvement). * Source for national data: Agency for Natural Resources and Energy of the Ministry of order to further enhance our competitiveness. Economy, Trade and Industry the OMS (risk base; completely done; and continuous 35 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS COSMO REPORT 2017 36 Introduction Message from Fifth Consolidated MediumGrowth Strategy Review of Operations Corporate Governance CSR Activities Financial Section Outline the President and CEO term Management Plan CSR Initiatives of the Cosmo Energy Group Raising Customer Satisfaction Business Operation with Integrity; CSR initiatives at Service Stations Raising Customer Satisfaction Cosmo Oil’s service stations are promoting CSR activities PP Points and EM Points PP points EM points such as thorough compliance and consideration of the 100 99.2 99.1 All employees of the Cosmo Energy Group are engaged in their work with social responsibility environment, and believe appreciation of this will be good for 98.3 98.7 98.6 98.0 98.0 and integrity, and high morale. We provide products and services that deliver comfort, peace of the Cosmo Brand. As a CSR survey, the Cosmo Energy Group 98 conducts annual privacy policy (PP) surveys to check proper 98.6 98.5 mind, and trust to customers, in order to fulfill their satisfaction. 97.8 96 97.6 management of personal information and environmental 97.1 96.5 96.6 management (EM) surveys to check if environment/safety94 Corporate Ethics Promotion Structure related equipment and facilities are properly managed to 92 prevent oil leakage, prevent its diffusion, and treat contamination at service stations. In FY2016, inspectors 90 The CEG corporate ethics consultation helpline Corporate Ethics Promotion Framework Structure visited 1,198 service stations, while 1,529 service stations FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 The Cosmo Energy Group (CEG) has established the conducted their own self-assessments. Corporate Ethics and Human Rights Committee Corporate Ethics and Human Rights Committee to promote and implement the CEG’s Code of Conduct, and check its status. The Committee’s operation is supported by the CEG Cosmo Energy Group Corporate Ethics Office Ensuring customer support Customer Support Hotline Calls by Type Corporate Ethics Office. The CEG Corporate Ethics The Cosmo Oil Customer Center operates a customer support Other 536 Feedback Consultation Helpline, by which compliance issues or ethical Cosmo Energy Group Corporate Ethics Consultation Helpline hotline 24 hours a day. 567 issues can be reported or consulted anonymously, has also In FY2016 the support hotline received 9,378 calls, down 768 Advertising or promotions 81 been established within the Corporate Ethics Office and at an from the previous year. Among the calls, the smart vehicleFuel oil or lubricant outside law firm. related inquiries increased 616 from the previous year, 178 Number of Inquiries Details of the reported and consulted issues and the response by suggesting some impacts of TV commercials and internet ads. FY2016 the respective office are forwarded to the Supervisory Committee 30 Inquiries to the Corporate Ethics Consultation Helpline Inquiries to the Harassment and Human Rights Consultation Helpline On the other hand, the support line also received feedback Cosmo Smart Vehicle 9,378 and are reflected in future CSR activities. There were zero accounting for 567 calls, of which 539 concerned service 1,500 calls incidents involving serious compliance violations* in FY2016. 30 stations. We heed those voices of customers so that we can 20 17 From FY2017, the Harassment and Human Rights Consultation 16 better provide satisfying services, as declared in our message Service stations Cards Helpline is eliminated and integrated into the CEG Corporate 10 9 9 “Filling Up Your Hearts, Too.” 1,998 4,518 13 Ethics Consultation Helpline. 11 0 4 6 7 Calls to the Customer Support Hotline * The most serious violations stipulated in the internal rules or accidents. FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Praise Feedback I signed a contract for a Cosmo My Car Lease, expecting the car to be I used a self-service gas station for the first time and didn’t know delivered soon. However, the car I was using today didn’t start and I was how to use it, but the staff member at the station was not helpful. Penetration of Code of Conduct in big trouble. I called the head of the Cosmo Oil service station for help and he arranged a substitute vehicle for me. Thank you very much. Although it is a part of our job to dispose of the We take your feedback seriously, share it within Corporate ethics training Reply from an Reply from an operator in current vehicle and arrange a substitute vehicle, operator in the company, and strive to thoroughly train our To promote employee training for appropriate work execution charge we appreciate your compliment very much. charge staff and further improve services. and thorough ethical corporate activities, the Corporate Ethics Training was held 65 times in total from October 2016 to March 2017 and was attended by 47 related companies. Our aim in FY2016 was to “learn the right behavior and ways of TOPICS Employees who thinking as Cosmo people.” Group discussion was conducted took the training Regular Checking of Service Stations for Total Scores of the Survey by Outside Mystery Examiners (100 points at best) on how to practice CSR management and the Code of Conduct, as well as human rights and diversity measures, 92.4% Fulfillment of Three Promises True to the “Filling Up Your Hearts, Too,” declaration, Cosmo Oil service FY2006 FY2016 according to the CEG Code of Conduct. 4,195 employees stations are working to fulfill the following three brand promises to Corporate Ethics Training customers. We are confident that keeping these promises at all service Corporate ethics e-learning course As a follow-up study to the Corporate Ethics Training, the stations will result in favorable attitudes toward the Cosmo Brand and its being preferred by more customers. To check the status of our initiatives 67.9 points 83.4 e-Learning Course was implemented in February-March 2017 and enhancing services, outside mystery examiners investigate services points for all Group employees to individually take online. Using the at stations three times a year. original textbook, it is aimed at better understanding the Code of Conduct and maintaining high morale. Ratio of employees who took the course Comfort Customers will be greeted with a welcome and a smile at clean Cosmo Oil service stations. “Filling Up Your Hearts, Too” 97.4% Declaration Three brand promises Peace of mind Cosmo Oil service stations will offer quality-assured products and services. 6,011 employees Trust Cosmo Oil service station staff will be responsible for their answers to customers’ queries. e-learning log-in screen 37 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS COSMO REPORT 2017 38 Introduction Message from Fifth Consolidated MediumGrowth Strategy Review of Operations Corporate Governance CSR Activities Financial Section Outline the President and CEO term Management Plan CSR Initiatives of the Cosmo Energy Group Facilitating Work-life Balance Enhancing Human Rights / Creating the system that allows employees to continue to work Personnel Policies The Cosmo Energy Group has adopted various programs so Number of Employees Taking Childcare Leave The Cosmo Energy Group believes that our human resources are the source of our value creation. that our employees can work in good mental and physical 30 Men Women We strive to develop people who proactively tackle issues of the changing business environment personal condition and balance their work with their life events. 26 with a sense of speed. At the same time, we respect diversity and make efforts to encourage Employees who are having babies and raising children can utilize 25 24 employees to play an active role by making use of their diverse backgrounds. childcare leave and also the arrangements for working reduced 20 hours or the work-at-home program. Moreover, we encourage 17 15 16 employees to take the special occasion paid holidays that we Human Resources Development and “Global Human Resources” provide for each child’s first birthday. We have also prepared 10 some programs that allow employees with a change in family 5 circumstances to continue to work: namely, a program with 4 4 Development of professionals and dealing with globalization 2 2 limited workplace options due to childcare or elderly care; a 0 The personnel system has identified a desired employee as a Number of Employees Stationed Outside Japan by Country: re-employment program for employees who have forced to leave FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 professional with aspirations and willingness to improve. We a company due to needs related to childcare or elderly care; and * Employees taking childcare leave ranging over two years are counted in both years. * Employees of Cosmo Oil (including those seconded outside, and excluding depart from conventional seniority-based personnel UK China a work-leave program due to work re-assignment of a spouse. seconded employees to Cosmo Oil from other companies) management in favor of aiming at selectively developing 2 2 USA We also have a career support program for employees who take personnel that match objectives. We have included knowledge 3 child care leave to facilitate their return to work. Employees Working Reduced Hours UAE South Korea and skills needed for business as an item included in promotion Qatar For childcare For elderly care 100 16 Singapore 5 25 reviews, as one means we encourage personal development. We 9 Child Care Support Programs 20 21 22 have conducted training courses for managers to improve their fostering of subordinates and have enhanced the training course Leave of absence for child care (up to the Work-at-home program 17 end of a fiscal year after the child turns 3) 15 for female employees to further encourage their development. Limited workplace options 14 Number of Employees Stationed Outside Japan: Short working hours for child care (up to The Cosmo Energy Group has 137 employees stationed in seven 137 the beginning of the 4th grade of the child) Subsidy for use of child care and other 10 125 128 facilities countries outside Japan. Aiming to become a vertically Time-off for child care (only for female 94 104 employees) 5 integrated global energy company, we urgently need to foster 89 Use of outside services to find a nursery global human resources with diverse experience and skills. Limit to overtime and night work Use of support services of wiwiw, inc. 1 1 0 0 0 Therefore we send young and mid-career employees to work on Off-days needed for child care and Benefits for child care leave (Mutual aid nursing care associations) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 projects outside Japan and to study abroad for continuing * Employees taking childcare leave ranging over two years are counted in both years. education. We have sponsored select employees study at FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Special occasion paid holidays * Employees of Cosmo Oil (including those seconded outside, and excluding seconded employees to Cosmo Oil from other companies) overseas universities or international universities in Japan (12 * The number of employees includes employees of Cosmo Oil and Cosmo Engineering, Cosmo Trade & Service, and Cosmo Energy Exploration & Production (as of March employees in the past five years.) 31, 2017) Reducing Long Working Hours Initiatives on Diversity Enhancing productivity and achieving appropriate working hours Valuing the health of employees and working to facilitate Total Annual Work Hours Focus on empowering women in the workplace Respecting for human rights work-life balance, we have aimed to optimize working hours by 2,000 (Hours) The Cosmo Energy Group is committed to achieve diversity in its We respect the human rights of each employee and endeavor improving productivity since FY2014. 1,966 workplace. We aim to achieve high productivity and continue to to make pleasant positive workplaces by preventing Targeting at 1,900 total annual work hours, initiatives in 1,954 1,952 1,950 1,950 grow by having a workplace that allows motivated employees harassment. The CEG Corporate Ethics Consultation Helpline FY2015 include the encouragement of employees to work with diverse backgrounds go about their work proactively. is open to dispatched workers and part-timers in addition to mornings rather than nights (revision in additional pay rate for 1,917 For that purpose, the Diversity Promotion Office was full-time employees, to consult on issues concerning human overtime), to take a so-called “refresh day” (no-after-hours 1,900 established in June 2015 to promote development and use of rights and harassment for improving workplaces. work day), to turn off the light in the workplace at 20pm (to diverse human resources and the human rights measures. In discourage non-essential after-hours work), and to factor in 0 particular, we are focusing on encouraging female employees’ the actual number of hours worked by subordinates and its work, by implementing an action plan targeting the ratio of Respecting diversity improvement into personnel assessment of managers. These FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 * Cosmo Energy Holdings, Cosmo Energy Exploration & Production, Cosmo Oil, and Cosmo female managers at 5% of total by 2020 (compared to 1.8% as Under the continuing theme of promoting diversity and offering efforts have resulted in a decline in working hours for the third Oil Marketing (including employees seconded from Cosmo Engineering and Cosmo Trade & of March 31, 2017.) fair employment opportunities, we are striving to increase our consecutive year and more employees have made plans to Service) employment of persons with disabilities. take their paid holidays. Ratio of Female Managers Average Monthly Overtime Hours and Average Annual Paid The persons with disabilities as of June 1, 2016 fell short of the In FY2017, we plan to continue these initiatives and also to Holidays Taken 5.0 (%) 5.0% 2.0% rate mandated in Japan but increased to 2.36% as of introduce a new IT system for achieving higher productivity 4.0 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 June 1, 2017, exceeding the mandate rate. and workstyle innovation. 3.0 Average monthly 22.5 23.2 22.3 22.5 19.6 We are also striving for development of workplaces and 2.0 overtime hours hours hours hours hours hours promotion of employment for persons with disabilities. In 1.0 0.6% 1.8% Paid holidays 17.8 17.4 17.7 18.4 18.5 0 FY2016, we hosted internships for one student with mental taken days days days days days FY2011 FY2016 FY2020 disabilities and another student with hearing disabilities as one * In the case of employees who join the company in April: 15 paid holidays in their first (plan) measure to expand workplaces for such persons. year, then 17 days after one year of employment, 19 days after two consecutive years, * Employees of Cosmo Oil (including those seconded outside, and excluding seconded and 21 days after three consecutive years. employees to Cosmo Oil from other companies) 39 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS COSMO REPORT 2017 40 Introduction Message from Fifth Consolidated MediumGrowth Strategy Review of Operations Corporate Governance CSR Activities Financial Section Outline the President and CEO term Management Plan CSR Initiatives of the Cosmo Energy Group Environmental Impact of Business Activities in FY2016 Promoting Environmental Initiatives INPUT Business Activities OUTPUT The Cosmo Energy Group advocates “promoting environmental initiatives” as one of the priorities Energy Crude oil production1 Emissions of our CSR Initiative Policy. In the Consolidated Medium-Term Environmental Plan (FY2013-2017), Fuel 22,487 TJ CO 2 1,254 kt-CO2 we have three priorities: responding strategically to global warming while ensuring business continuity, reducing environmental impact, and promoting environmental contribution activities. We Energy Crude oil transport 1 Emissions Fuel 11,033 TJ CO 2 754 kt-CO2 are taking action to realize the corporate messages of “Living with Our Planet” addressed to society. Petroleum Business Manufacturing2 3 4 Petroleum Business Initiatives in Response to Global Warming Energy Emissions Purchased power 3,828 TJ CO 2 4,029 kt-CO2 Energy conservation at refineries (395,519 MWh) SO x 3,244 t Fuel 56,681 TJ NO x 2,036 t The Cosmo Energy Group’s refineries represent over 60% of (crude oil equivalent Water discharge CO 2 emissions generated by the Group. The Group is working to 1,462 thousand KL) Water discharge 399,645 kt Water reduce this figure and conserve energy by introducing highChemical oxygen demand (COD) 106 t Seawater 389,088 kt efficiency equipment and improving operational performance. Industrial waste Industrial water 36,492 kt In FY2016, an increase in crude oil refining volume resulted in Final disposal 83 t Underground water 240 kt an increase of the aggregate amount of energy consumption. Tap water 151 kt However, due to the promotion of energy conservation Petrochemical Business Petrochemical Business activities at refineries, unit energy consumption and CO 2 emissions per unit of crude oil equivalent throughput Energy Emissions Purchased power 1,440 TJ CO 2 2,404 kt-CO2 decreased compared to the previous year. (148,439 MWh) 792 t SO x CO 2 Emissions and CO 2 Emissions per Unit of Crude Oil Fuel 41,919 TJ NO x 897 t Energy Consumption and Unit Energy Consumption Equivalent Throughput (crude oil equivalent Water discharge CO 2 emissions (LH) 1,082 thousand KL) Energy consumption (LH) Unit energy consumption* (RH) Water discharge 33,770 kt CO 2 emissions per unit of crude oil equivalent throughput (RH) Water Chemical oxygen demand (COD) 64 t 3,000 (thousand KL-crude oil) (KL-crude oil/thousand KL) 12 6,000 (kt-CO2) (kg-CO 2/KL) 30 Seawater 29,340 kt Industrial waste 10.11 10.16 26.09 26.52 Industrial water 20,898 kt 25.19 24.25 Final disposal 467 t 9.45 9.26 8.96 23.21 23.13 Underground water 42 kt 8.92 2,000 8 4,000 4,207 4,046 3,987 20 Tap water 0 kt 3,600 3,756 1,578 1,555 1,522 1,559 4,023 1,396 1,439 Production of oil products Electricity sold5 Steam sold6 CO2 sold Products 1,000 4 2,000 10 23,908 thousand KL 134,279 MWh 4,127 TJ 144 kt-CO2 0 0 0 0 Energy Product transport Emissions Purchased power (storage) 132 TJ and storage CO2 (storage) 28 kt-CO2 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 (oil depots) Fuel (storage) 275 TJ CO2 (transport) 183 kt-CO2 * Unit energy consumption indicates total energy consumption divided by the total crude oil * As the Sakaide Refinery was turned into a distribution terminal in FY2014, the data has been 2 3 7 equivalent throughput, taking into account the complexity of refining technology. The unit collected from three refineries since FY2014, compared to from four refineries up to FY2013. Fuel (transport) 2,636 TJ used is kiloliters of crude oil equivalent/thousand kiloliters (KL-crude oil/thousand KL). Total * In addition to the figures shown in the graph, N2O released from the catalyst regeneration tower energy consumption is calculated by converting heat, electricity, and other energy use into the amounted to 17 kt of CO2 equivalent in FY2016. thousand kiloliters of crude oil equivalent (thousand KL-crude oil). Energy Sales Emissions Purchased power 474 TJ (service stations) CO2 22 kt-CO2 Fuel 1 TJ 23 Reducing Environmental Impact Consumption Emissions (product use) CO2 (product use) 52,455 kt-CO2 Use of water and water discharge measures Amount of Water Used COD Load of Effluent 5689 SOx (product use) 144,481 t The Cosmo Energy Group’s refineries and plants use a vast Tap water 600 (t) CO2 (electricity sold) 65 kt-CO2 amount of water (over 90% is seawater) mainly for cooling but 147kt CO2 (steam sold) 202 kt-CO2 also for cleaning and boiler feed water. In FY2016, 452,622kt Underground “Total Pollutant Load Control”:454t of water was used, of which 38,931kt was industrial water. We water 400 Energy R&D centers and offices Emissions are striving to use water efficiently, including the reuse and 240kt Purchased power 102 TJ 2 3 10 11 CO2 9 kt-CO2 Fuel 56 TJ recycle of water. Industrial water Concerning water discharge, we discharge the seawater used 38,931kt 1. “Crude oil production” and “Crude oil transport” are estimated 5. “Electricity sold” refers to electricity supplied externally by Cosmo 8. CO 2 emissions for “Consumption (product use)” are calculated by 200 based on LCI for Petroleum Products by Fuel and Environmental Oil’s Chiba Refinery and Maruzen Petrochemical’s Chiba Plant. CO2 multiplying shipped volume of fuel products (such as gasoline and for cooling into the sea, and properly treat the water used for Seawater Impact Assessment for Petroleum Products, published in March emissions from “Manufacturing” were calculated by deducting the heavy fuel oil) by CO 2 emission coefficient. CO2 emissions 2000 by the Japan Petroleum Energy Center. portion of CO 2 emissions attributed to electricity sold. CO 2 attributable to generated “Electricity sold” and “Steam sold” are cleaning and other operating processes at stricter levels than 413,305kt 2. For “Manufacturing” and subsequent stages, energy consumption is emissions from utility (power) were included in the CO 2 emissions calculated separately. calculated in accordance with the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. from “Manufacturing.” 9. SOx emissions for “Consumption (product use)” are for reference, required by the legal standard levels for minimizing 109t 3. CO2 emissions for “Manufacturing,” “Product transport and storage (oil 6. “Steam sold” refers to steam sold by the Chiba Refinery, Cosmo and were estimated from the sulfur content of products without environmental impact when discharged. In FY2016, the total 0 (approx. 24%) depots),” and “Sales (service stations)” (based on data from Cosmo Oil Matsuyama Oil, and Maruzen Petrochemical’s Chiba Plant. CO2 accounting for sulfur reduction during use. Accordingly, actual Sales Corp.), “R&D centers, offices, and other facilities” are calculated emissions for “Manufacturing” were calculated after deducting the SOx emissions are lower than the estimate. amount of Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD, an indicator used to FY2016 FY2016 in accordance with a manual for GHG emissions accounting, portion of CO2 emissions that results from the generated steam sold. 10. Data for “R&D Centers” includes the R&D Center of Cosmo Oil, the reporting, and disclosure systems published by Japan’s Ministry of the 7. CO 2 emissions from “Product transport” include data from the R&D Laboratory of Cosmo Oil Lubricants, and Research Center of quantify the amount of oxidizable pollutants found in water * The amount is an aggregate amount for refineries and plants of Cosmo Oil, Cosmo Environment and Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. specified consigners in accordance with the Act on the Rational Maruzen Petrochemical. Matsuyama Oil, and Cosmo Oil Lubricants. 4. Figures given for “Manufacturing” include data from Cosmo Oil’s three Use of Energy. discharge) was at a low level, equivalent to about 24% of the * Total Pollutant Load Control amount (annual value for reference): The prescribed daily load refineries, Yokkaichi Kasumi Power Station, and Cosmo Oil Lubricants 11. Figures given for “Offices and other facilities” are the amount of electricity use of Cosmo Energy Holdings, Cosmo Energy Exploration in the Petroleum Business and Cosmo Matsuyama Oil and Maruzen “Total Pollutant Load Control amount” (annual value for reference.) is multiplied by 365 to get an annual amount. In the case that the amount temporarily Petrochemical in the Petrochemical Business. However, figures for & Production, Cosmo Oil, Cosmo Oil Marketing, Group companies exceeds the legal limit, we report to the relevant authority and promptly take measures to that share the eco-office activities, and Maruzen Petrochemical. SOx and NOx exclude data from Cosmo Oil Lubricants. make the amount fall below the legal limit. * The Cosmo Energy Group’s total direct (Scope 1) emissions from business activities were 6,060kt CO 2 equivalent, and its indirect (Scope 2) emissions were 431kt CO 2 equivalent. 41 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS COSMO REPORT 2017 42 Introduction Message from Fifth Consolidated MediumGrowth Strategy Review of Operations Corporate Governance CSR Activities Financial Section Outline the President and CEO term Management Plan CSR Initiatives of the Cosmo Energy Group Unique Environmental Social Contributions Utilizing Business Activities Implementing Better Communication “Cosmo Oil Eco Card Fund” with Society The Cosmo Energy Group has been issuing the Eco Card as a Our mission and role as a company that supports energy infrastructure centered on oil are membership card to our loyal customers who frequently use substantial. We believe that our obligations are to establish a system to maintain the stable our service stations and have a high level of environmental consciousness since 2002. There are 64,000 card holders. supply of energy and to continue our own environmental activities through our business This Eco Card has an add-on feature to contribute to activities in order to resolve social issues in the world. environmental activities: both card members and the Cosmo Cosmo the Card Eco Energy Group make donations to fund the Cosmo Oil Eco Structure to Persistently Protect Stable Supply Card Fund, which supports projects to counter environmental problems across the world. In FY2016, the Fund supported 14 projects, and was involved in a project to plant 35,000 trees Business continuity plan (BCP) BCP organizational structure as well as another to preserve a 38,000 hectare forest. The We have revised the Earthquake BCP Manual in tandem with Formulation of company-wide policy (coordination between core operating companies) Verification and management of basic resources (personnel, systems, and buildings) roots of climate change problems are often poverty, the transition to a holding company structure, established Control of external announcements education, economic growth, and other social issues in Crisis Response Headquarters respectively at the holding emerging countries. The projects the Fund supports tend to company and other Group companies, and changed the Cosmo Energy Holdings help resolve these issues as well. In FY2016, we received an system to initiate the BCP. Moreover, even if we are unable award from a local government for our contribution to a Crisis Response Headquarters to establish the Crisis Response Headquarters at the head (Secretariat) project in the Solomon Islands in the South Pacific. This office due to factors such as an earthquake directly under project, which began in 2002, aimed to balance the the Tokyo metropolitan area, we have prepared manuals for Cooperation preservation of tropical rain forest and economic growth. We Award ceremony in the Solomon Islands the Provisional Crisis Response Headquarters to be will continue to help resolve social issues in the world jointly Cosmo Oil Eco Card Fund Activity Report 2017 Crisis Response Headquarters Crisis Response Headquarters Detailed established at the Cosmo Oil Sakai Refinery and the Kansai (Secretariat) (Secretariat) with our Eco Card members. information https://ceh.cosmo-oil.co.jp/eng/envi/ecoreport/index.html Branch of Cosmo Oil Marketing. In FY2017, we are planning Cosmo Oil Cosmo Oil Marketing to conduct more effective training. Formulation of supply policy Formulation of sales policy Rapid recovery of refineries and oil storage depots Rapid resumption of service station operations BCP facilities at head office Efficient management of supply and demand Securing and managing tanker trucks “Cosmo Earth Conscious Act” cleanup campaign Cooperation with central government administration Cooperation with central government administration The Group has installed satellite phones and MCA wireless* Since 2001, the Cosmo Energy Group, in a partnership with at each business site, and has a system that enables the Japan FM Network Association, has been promoting Summary of Earthquake BCP of Cosmo Energy Group communication to be conducted even in situations where Cosmo Earth Conscious Act initiatives for the preservation and Unifies disaster estimation in the BCP framework and the BCP manuals fixed phones and mobile phones cannot be used. Key points of each division conservation of the global environment. These efforts include Furthermore, at the head office, emergency-use generators Estimates damage at each company and each division based on disaster cleanup campaigns, where participants enjoy nearby nature assumptions have been installed while, in the main conference room, Clarifies business continuity objectives in terms of the Company, based while cleaning up throughout Japan. Cleanup Campaign on disaster assumptions and damage estimations in Mt. Fuji which is to be used as the Crisis Response Headquarters, At 631 locations over the past 16 years, 239,590 Separates operational flow at each company and each division power switching boards for normal use and emergency use chronologically, clarifies operational details during this period, and participants of these campaigns have collected a total of strengthens inter-divisional cooperation (BCP enabled boards) and electrical outlets that can be 6,852,072 liters of garbage. Basic policy (1) Priority on human life, prevent secondary disaster, secure stable supply used when using emergency-use power sources (BCP (2) Rapid restoration of sequential supply chain BCP (encompassing the Each summer, a cleanup campaign is also held at Mt. Fuji. Ken Digging up and collecting scope from refineries and oil depots to service stations) enabled electrical outlets) have been installed. Noguchi, a Japanese alpinist, and 160 volunteers from all over garbage that was (3) Consistency with “Japan’s Petroleum Supply Plan for Disasters*” based on the Oil Stockpiling Act unlawfully dumped and * A Multi-Channel Access (MCA) radio system is a business-use mobile communication Japan clean up Mt. Fuji while enjoying eco trekking. system that can be used at the time of a major disaster in Japan. buried on Mt. Fuji Scenarios Major earthquake in Tokyo and/or Nankai Trough great earthquake Business continuity We will strive to continue oil refinery shipments to service station Crisis response headquarters training objectives operations to prevent suspension of the stable supply of oil products or enable resumption within 24 hours. Since FY2015, we have been conducting training to ensure Advance response Regular implementation of earthquake BCP training business continuity, based on the assumption that an (disaster prevention, Hardware countermeasures against earthquakes and tsunami Social contribution activities disaster mitigation) (safe shutdown of equipment, lateral flow countermeasures, etc.) earthquake may occur directly under the Tokyo metropolitan Based on “Harmony and Symbiosis between Companies and area and the headquarters will be unable to function. * Plans where oil refiners supply oil by cooperating in implementing joint operations, including Society,” one of the principles of the management philosophy, the establishment of a joint operating system, joint use of facilities, and cooperation relating On October 17, 2016, we carried out a drill to set up a provisional to transportation the Cosmo Energy Group is undertaking various social crisis response headquarters at a refinery and branch in the Kansai contribution activities. region, on behalf of the headquarters in Tokyo. By collecting The Cosmo Waku Waku Camp, a nature camp for elementary damage information and conducting procedures to maintain supply, school-aged children who have lost their parent(s) in traffic we verified the items required until the resumption of shipments. accidents, is a representative project that was launched in After resolving the issues extracted from this training, we have 1993. At the 24th camp in FY2016, 42 children and nine reflected improvement points in manuals, and we intend to voluntary employees participated. The children experienced Cosmo Waku Waku Camp capitalize on them. gorge climbing, thinning of trees, and craft production using As part of risk management, we will continue to conduct BCP Training at the the felled trees to appreciate nature for three days. Detailed Website on social contribution training in an integrated way and strive for the stable supply of provisional crisis information https://ceh.cosmo-oil.co.jp/eng/social/index.html response petroleum products. headquarters 43 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS COSMO REPORT 2017 44 Introduction Message from Fifth Consolidated MediumGrowth Strategy Review of Operations Corporate Governance CSR Activities Financial Section Outline the President and CEO term Management Plan 11-Year Selected Financial and Operating Data FY2006 FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2016 For The Year Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars1 Dubai crude oil price (US$ /barrel) 60.8 77.1 82.8 69.6 84.1 110.1 107.0 104.6 83.5 45.7 46.9 — Foreign exchange rate (¥/US$) 117.0 114.5 100.6 92.9 85.8 79.1 83.0 100.2 109.9 120.1 108.4 — Net sales ¥3,062,744 ¥3,523,087 ¥3,428,211 ¥2,612,141 ¥2,771,523 ¥3,109,746 ¥3,166,689 ¥3,537,782 ¥3,035,818 ¥2,244,306 ¥2,292,280 $20,432,130 Cost of sales 2,852,242 3,290,688 3,389,408 2,435,366 2,539,032 2,918,238 2,989,274 3,369,007 2,944,919 2,154,615 2,079,727 18,537,549 Selling, general and administrative expenses 140,859 148,602 145,809 142,568 128,393 127,937 124,992 129,060 129,346 119,433 120,370 1,072,920 Operating income (loss) 69,643 83,797 (107,006) 34,207 104,097 63,570 52,422 39,715 (38,447) (29,742) 92,182 821,662 Inventory valuation gain (loss) 2 2,800 45,000 (180,100) 52,600 22,300 25,200 15,264 16,068 (116,177) (68,703) 39,400 351,190 Operating income (loss) excluding the impact of 66,843 38,797 73,094 (18,393) 81,797 38,370 37,158 23,647 77,730 38,961 52,782 470,472 inventory valuation Ordinary income (loss) 74,789 94,330 (125,004) 36,411 96,094 61,420 48,439 41,847 (49,640) (36,121) 81,448 725,987 Ordinary income (loss) excluding the impact of 71,989 49,329 55,095 (16,189) 73,829 36,238 33,173 25,778 66,537 32,644 42,048 374,793 inventory valuation Petroleum 23,254 1,450 5,022 (43,283) 36,124 (17,181) (38,960) (41,394) 22,067 5,784 1,770 15,777 Petrochemical — — — — (329) 2,075 3,343 3,692 (6,977) 4,291 22,177 197,674 Oil exploration and production 48,607 46,864 45,900 29,418 34,657 52,023 60,688 58,141 47,538 18,637 9,347 83,314 Other 128 1,015 4,173 (2,324) 3,377 (679) 8,102 5,339 3,909 3,932 8,754 78,028 Profit (loss) before income taxes 71,243 95,561 (117,180) 35,527 73,451 35,381 (2,536) 49,443 (44,599) (43,797) 78,565 700,292 Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent3 26,536 35,153 (92,430) (10,741) 28,933 (9,084) (85,882) 4,348 (77,729) (50,230) 53,235 474,508 Capital expenditures 36,127 48,958 67,025 87,677 64,369 27,933 83,429 41,243 70,396 82,775 120,302 1,072,309 R&D expenses 3,753 3,840 3,863 3,657 3,834 3,791 3,765 3,271 3,077 3,104 4,269 38,055 Depreciation and amortization4 37,788 42,776 41,492 42,746 51,068 50,601 44,953 35,330 32,399 30,713 37,769 336,661 Cash flows from operating activities 25,005 (4,215) 82,136 2,262 26,297 43,616 (20,950) 35,837 163,384 18,427 47,625 424,505 Cash flows from investing activities (35,868) (32,806) (55,953) (93,306) (73,109) (25,805) (80,481) (61,007) (30,126) (32,839) (112,038) (998,650) Cash flows from financing activities 80,023 (5,229) 57,854 159,302 (86,077) 11,606 104,695 12,555 (178,920) 32,499 9,626 85,803 At Year-End Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Total assets ¥1,579,156 ¥1,627,904 ¥1,440,396 ¥1,645,048 ¥1,579,424 ¥1,675,070 ¥1,743,492 ¥1,696,831 ¥1,428,628 ¥1,409,615 ¥1,525,679 $13,599,068 Non-controlling interests 5 21,912 26,815 19,016 15,833 17,508 20,506 26,475 29,214 40,326 94,665 108,063 963,218 Net assets excluding non-controlling interests 339,701 442,912 328,434 315,747 332,730 316,931 230,456 231,927 167,194 108,046 164,722 1,468,247 Total current assets 882,082 933,722 688,310 845,337 793,363 920,412 967,148 921,790 621,578 516,254 561,604 5,005,830 Total current liabilities 811,846 812,028 683,883 744,174 622,173 744,275 816,611 799,199 603,860 555,519 655,473 5,842,530 Net interest-bearing debt6 483,784 438,930 438,689 548,832 605,789 598,773 713,190 723,257 597,701 666,179 727,259 6,482,386 Number of outstanding shares (thousands)7 671,705 847,705 847,705 847,705 847,705 847,705 847,705 847,705 847,705 84,770 84,770 — Per Share Data8 Yen U.S. dollar Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent ¥ 39.54 ¥ 46.72 ¥ (109.11) ¥ (12.68) ¥ 34.16 ¥ (10.72) ¥ (101.39) ¥ 5.13 ¥ (91.77) ¥ (594.85) ¥ 633.32 $5.65 Diluted profit attributable to owners of parent 37.91 44.98 — — 33.58 — — — — — — — Net assets 506.15 522.84 387.71 372.74 392.80 374.15 272.07 273.81 197.39 1,286.03 1,958.91 17.46 Cash dividends 8.00 8.00 8.00 8.00 8.00 8.00 0.00 2.00 0.00 40.00 50.00 0.45 Ratios Return on assets (ROA) (%) 1.7 2.2 (6.0) (0.7) 1.8 (0.6) (5.0) 0.3 (5.0) (3.5) 3.6 — Return on equity (ROE) (%) 8.0 9.0 (24.0) (3.3) 8.9 (2.8) (31.4) 1.9 (39.0) (36.5) 39.0 — Equity ratio (%) 21.5 27.2 22.8 19.2 21.1 18.9 13.2 13.7 11.7 7.7 10.8 — Debt-to-total capital ratio (%) 38.6 32.0 41.6 47.3 44.3 43.1 48.3 50.9 48.5 53.7 50.6 — Net debt-to-equity ratio (times) 9 1.4 1.0 1.3 1.7 1.8 1.9 3.1 3.1 3.6 4.6 3.6 — 1. U.S. dollar amounts are translated from Japanese yen, for the convenience of readers only, at 4. Depreciation and amortization includes cost recovery under production sharing. In FY2011 7. On October 1, 2015, Cosmo Energy Holdings Co., Ltd. was established as the wholly9. The ratio from FY2015 is credit rating-based. the rate of ¥112.19 to US$1.00, the approximate exchange rate prevailing on March 31, 2017. and FY2012, depreciation and amortization includes recovery of recoverable accounts owing parent company of Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. through the share transfer. To one common 10. Up to FY2009, the figures are rounded up or down to the nearest million. From FY2010 2. “Inventory valuation gain (loss)” from FY2006 through FY2007 are based on the periodic under production sharing as well as depreciation applicable to fixed assets idled as a share of the former Cosmo Oil, 0.1 common share of the holding company was allocated onward, the figures are rounded off to the nearest million. average method of inventory valuation, whereas “Inventory valuation gain (loss)” from FY2009 result of the fire at the Chiba Refinery caused by the Great East Japan Earthquake. (for example 1,000 Cosmo Oil shares to 100 Cosmo Energy Holdings shares). 11. The Petrochemical Business, which had previously been included in the Petroleum Business are based on the lower of cost or market method as dictated by ASBJ (Accounting Standards 5. Up to FY2014, “Minority interests” is presented. 8. “Per share data” for FY2015 and FY2016 are data for one share of Cosmo Energy segment, was separated into a different segment from FY2010. Board of Japan) Statement No.9, “Accounting Standard for Measurement of Inventories.” 6. Up to FY2012, “Cash and deposits” and “Short-term investment securities” are deducted Holdings, according to the allocation of 0.1 share of the holding company to 1 share of 3. Up to FY2014, “Net income (loss)” is presented. from “Interest-bearing debt.” From FY2013, “Cash and deposits” is deducted from the former Cosmo Oil. “Interest-bearing debt.” In FY2015, “Cash and deposits” and “Securities” are deducted from “Interest-bearing debt.” 45 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS COSMO REPORT 2017 46 Introduction Message from Fifth Consolidated MediumGrowth Strategy Review of Operations Corporate Governance CSR Activities Financial Section Outline the President and CEO term Management Plan Consolidated Balance Sheets FY2015 (As of March 31, 2016) FY2016 (As of March 31, 2017) FY2015 (As of March 31, 2016) FY2016 (As of March 31, 2017) LIABILITIES Millions of yen ASSETS Millions of yen Current liabilities Current assets Notes and accounts payable-trade ¥ 115,803 ¥ 170,539 Cash and deposits ¥ 60,972 ¥ 45,292 Short-term loans payable 200,619 225,169 Notes and accounts receivable-trade 192,572 216,602 Commercial paper 12,000 51,400 Securities 30,000 — Accounts payable-other 94,582 92,428 Accrued volatile oil and other petroleum taxes 93,788 66,528 Merchandise and finished goods 87,825 111,905 Income taxes payable 8,094 11,237 Work in process 391 279 Accrued expenses 3,716 3,182 Raw materials and supplies 94,211 131,181 Provision for bonuses 4,962 5,326 Accounts receivable-other 28,709 36,010 Provision for directors’ bonuses 293 315 Deferred tax assets 3,812 3,760 Deferred tax liabilities 52 266 Other 17,954 16,752 Provision for business structure improvement 4,534 2,001 Allowance for doubtful accounts (195) (181) Other 17,070 27,079 Total current assets 516,254 561,604 Total current liabilities 555,519 655,473 Noncurrent assets Noncurrent liabilities Property, plant and equipment Bonds payable 46,700 46,700 Buildings and structures, net 129,074 150,866 Long-term loans payable 497,831 449,282 Oil storage depots, net 32,693 33,027 Deferred tax liabilities 31,202 33,608 Machinery, equipment and vehicles, net 149,609 161,690 Deferred tax liabilities for land revaluation 5,249 5,243 Land 320,971 320,496 Provision for special repairs 15,078 13,781 Lease assets, net 761 674 Provision for business structure improvement 1,171 212 Construction in progress 53,586 99,980 Provision for environmental measures 3,416 1,997 Other, net 6,571 6,584 Net defined benefit liability 9,586 5,516 Total property, plant and equipment 693,267 773,320 Provision for executive remuneration BIP trust 41 296 Asset retirement obligations 11,375 19,338 Intangible assets Other 29,730 21,441 Software 3,158 3,032 Total noncurrent liabilities 651,384 597,420 Goodwill 1,452 721 Total liabilities ¥1,206,903 ¥1,252,893 Other 42,812 40,830 Total intangible assets 47,423 44,585 NET ASSETS Investments and other assets Shareholders’ equity Investment securities 112,040 105,720 Capital stock ¥ 40,000 ¥ 40,000 Long-term loans receivable 2,048 2,857 Capital surplus 84,509 84,359 Long-term prepaid expenses 7,986 6,716 Retained earnings 259 49,985 Net defined benefit asset 1,738 1,928 Treasury shares (1,223) (1,113) Cost recovery under production sharing 16,917 17,302 Total shareholders’ equity 123,545 173,231 Deferred tax assets 2,437 2,608 Other 9,330 8,899 Accumulated other comprehensive income Allowance for doubtful accounts (481) (365) Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities 3,042 4,794 Total investments and other assets 152,019 145,667 Deferred gains or losses on hedges (1,601) (233) Total noncurrent assets 892,710 963,573 Revaluation reserve for land (20,660) (20,576) Foreign currency translation adjustment 8,507 7,215 Deferred assets Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (4,786) 292 Bond issuance cost 651 502 Total accumulated other comprehensive income (15,499) (8,508) Total deferred assets 651 502 Non-controlling interests 94,665 108,063 Total net assets 202,712 272,786 Total assets ¥1,409,615 ¥1,525,679 Total liabilities and net assets ¥1,409,615 ¥1,525,679 47 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS COSMO REPORT 2017 48 Introduction Message from Fifth Consolidated MediumGrowth Strategy Review of Operations Corporate Governance CSR Activities Financial Section Outline the President and CEO term Management Plan Consolidated Statements of Income Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows FY2015 FY2016 FY2015 FY2016 (From April 1 2015 to March 31,2016) (From April 1 2016 to March 31,2017) (From April 1 2015 to March 31,2016) (From April 1 2016 to March 31,2017) Millions of yen Millions of yen Net sales ¥2,244,306 ¥2,292,280 Cash flows from operating activities Cost of sales 2,154,615 2,079,727 Profit (loss) before income taxes ¥ (43,797) ¥ 78,565 Gross profit 89,691 212,553 Depreciation 27,447 34,507 Selling, general and administrative expenses 119,433 120,370 Amortization of negative goodwill (16,302) (493) Operating income (loss) (29,742) 92,182 Amortization of goodwill 730 730 Non-operating income Loss (gain) on step acquisitions 10,190 — Interest income 167 218 Impairment loss 6,241 842 Dividends income 1,322 671 Rent income on noncurrent assets 870 1,144 Loss (gain) on sales of non-current assets 324 (127) Equity in earnings of associates 3,012 1,796 Business structure improvement expenses 6,923 802 Other 3,907 2,764 Loss (gain) on disposal of non-current assets 6,189 6,274 Total non-operating income 9,280 6,594 Loss (gain) on sales of investment securities (161) (910) Non-operating expenses Loss (gain) on valuation of investment securities 692 808 Interest expenses 12,758 12,274 Loss (gain) on sales of shares of subsidiaries and associates — (1,282) Foreign exchange losses — 1,058 Other 2,899 3,995 Subsidy income (5,716) (3,346) Total non-operating expenses 15,658 17,328 Interest and dividend income (1,489) (890) Ordinary income (loss) (36,121) 81,448 Interest expenses 12,758 12,274 Extraordinary income Foreign exchange losses (gains) 119 754 Gain on sales of noncurrent assets 160 322 Share of (profit) loss of entities accounted for using equity method (3,012) (1,796) Gain on sales of investment securities 161 910 Increase (decrease) in allowance for doubtful accounts (59) (148) Gain on sales of shares of subsidiaries and associates — 1,282 Subsidy income 5,716 3,346 Increase (decrease) in provision for special repairs 234 (2,375) Gain on change in equity 1,565 — Increase (decrease) in provision for environmental measures (314) (583) Gain on bargain purchase 16,302 493 Increase (decrease) in net defined benefit liability 753 581 Other 554 558 Decrease (increase) in notes and accounts receivable-trade 53,968 (23,948) Total extraordinary income 24,460 6,914 Recovery of recoverable accounts under production sharing 3,265 3,262 Extraordinary loss Decrease (increase) in inventories 79,904 (61,495) Loss on sales of noncurrent assets 484 195 Loss on disposal of noncurrent assets 6,189 6,274 Increase (decrease) in notes and accounts payable-trade (96,090) 55,031 Impairment loss 6,241 842 Decrease (increase) in other current assets 24,245 (1,528) Loss on valuation of investment securities 692 808 Increase (decrease) in other current liabilities (18,151) (22,773) Business structure improvement expenses 6,923 802 Decrease (increase) in investments and other assets 860 1,699 Loss on litigation 405 — Loss on step acquisitions 10,190 — Increase (decrease) in other non-current liabilities 4,171 (2,306) Land trust expenses 1,010 — Other, net (75) 1,535 Other — 873 Subtotal 53,849 73,665 Total extraordinary losses 32,137 9,796 Interest and dividend income received 2,154 1,014 Profit (loss) before income taxes (43,797) 78,565 Interest expenses paid (13,490) (12,407) Income taxes–current 13,293 18,267 Payments for business structure improvement expenses (5,107) (3,916) Income taxes–deferred (12,690) 644 Proceeds from subsidy income 4,978 3,487 Total income taxes 602 18,912 Payments for land trust expenses (1,010) — Profit (loss) (44,400) 59,652 Income taxes paid (22,945) (14,218) Profit (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests 5,829 6,417 Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent ¥ (50,230) ¥ 53,235 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities ¥ 18,427 ¥ 47,625 49 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS COSMO REPORT 2017 50 Introduction Message from Fifth Consolidated MediumGrowth Strategy Review of Operations Corporate Governance CSR Activities Financial Section Outline the President and CEO term Management Plan Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Major Indicators FY2015 FY2016 (From April 1 2015 to March 31,2016) (From April 1 2016 to March 31,2017) Millions of yen EBITDA excluding the Impact of Inventory Valuation Cash flows from investing activities EBITDA excluding the impact of inventory valuation Purchase of investment securities ¥ (976) ¥ (1,341) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 120,000 (Millions of yen) Millions of yen Proceeds from sales and redemption of investment securities 243 7,190 Operating income 90,000 excluding the impact of ¥37,158 ¥23,647 ¥ 77,730 ¥38,961 ¥52,782 Purchase of shares of subsidiaries and associates (8,401) (1,240) inventory valuation Proceeds from sales and liquidation of shares of subsidiaries and associates — 178 Depreciation and 60,000 44,953 35,330 32,399 30,713 37,769 amortization1 Proceeds from sales of shares of subsidiaries resulting in change in scope of EBITDA excluding the consolidation — 1,261 30,000 impact of inventory 82,111 58,977 110,129 69,674 90,551 valuation 2 Proceeds from purchase of shares of subsidiaries resulting in change in scope of consolidation 35,502 — 0 1. Including “Recovery of recoverable accounts under production sharing” 2. EBITDA excluding the impact of inventory valuation = Operating income excluding the impact of inventory valuation + Purchase of property, plant and equipment (55,743) (108,683) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Depreciation and amortization Payments for disposal of property, plant and equipment (4,645) (4,310) Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 1,243 593 ROA and ROE Payments for purchases of intangible assets and long-term prepaid expenses (16,126) (5,977) Return on assets (ROA) Return on equity (ROE) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Decrease (increase) in short-term loans receivable 2,713 399 40 (%) Millions of yen Profit (loss) attributable to Payments of long-term loans receivable (1,840) (1,425) ¥(85,882) ¥ 4,348 ¥(77,729) ¥(50,230) ¥ 53,235 20 owners of parent Collection of long-term loans receivable 1,074 589 Total assets 1,743,492 1,696,831 1,428,628 1,409,615 1,525,679 Total shareholders’ equity 230,456 231,927 167,194 108,046 164,722 Payments into time deposits (100) (489) 0 Return on assets (ROA1) (%) (5.0) 0.3 (5.0) (3.5) 3.6 Proceeds from withdrawal of time deposits 14,193 — -20 Return on equity (ROE 2 ) (%) (31.4) 1.9 (39.0) (36.5) 39.0 Proceeds from withdrawal of investments in anonymous association — 1,233 Other, net 23 (15) -40 1. ROA = Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent/Average total assets at beginning and end of the fiscal year × 100 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 2. ROE = Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent/Average shareholders’ equity at beginning and end of the fiscal year × 100 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (32,839) (112,038) Cash flows from financing activities Net increase (decrease) in short-term loans payable (13,138) (2,828) Cash Flows by Activity Proceeds from long-term loans payable 73,692 43,861 Cash flows from operating activities Cash flows from investing activities Cash flows from financing activities 200,000 (Millions of yen) Repayment of long-term loans payable (45,165) (66,333) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Payments into deposits of restricted withdrawals — (6,393) 100,000 Millions of yen Proceeds from issuance of bonds 8,886 — Cash flows from operating ¥(20,950) ¥35,837 ¥163,384 ¥18,427 ¥47,625 activities Net increase (decrease) in commercial paper 12,000 39,400 0 Cash flows from investing (80,481) (61,007) (30,126) (32,839) (112,038) activities Cash dividends paid — (3,359) -100,000 Cash flows from financing 104,695 12,555 (178,920) 32,499 9,626 Cash dividends paid to non-controlling shareholders (1,578) (947) activities Cash and cash equivalents Proceeds from share issuance to non-controlling shareholders — 6,229 -200,000 at the end of year 129,699 123,280 80,765 89,418 36,126 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Other, net (2,196) (4) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 32,499 9,626 Total Assets, Equity Ratio, and Net Debt-to-Equity Ratio (credit rating-based) Effect of exchange rate change on cash and cash equivalents (189) (621) Equity ratio (LH) Total assets (RH) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 17,898 (55,408) 40 (%) (Millions of yen) 2,000,000 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 80,765 89,418 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Millions of yen 30 1,500,000 Increase in cash and cash equivalents from newly consolidated subsidiary — 2,107 Total assets ¥1,743,492 ¥1,696,831 ¥1,428,628 ¥1,409,615 ¥1,525,679 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents resulting from merger of Net interest-bearing debt 713,190 723,257 597,701 666,179 727,259 — 8 20 1,000,000 subsidiaries Net assets excluding 230,456 231,927 167,194 108,046 164,722 non-controlling interests Decrease in cash and cash equivalents resulting from exclusion of (9,245) — 10 500,000 subsidiaries from consolidation Equity ratio (%) 13.2 13.7 11.7 7.7 10.8 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period ¥ 89,418 ¥ 36,126 Net debt-to-equity ratio (times) 0 0 3.1 3.1 3.6 4.6 3.6 (credit rating-based) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 51 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS COSMO REPORT 2017 52 Introduction Message from Fifth Consolidated MediumGrowth Strategy Review of Operations Corporate Governance CSR Activities Financial Section Outline the President and CEO term Management Plan Share Information (As of March 31, 2017) Corporate Data Record date for term-end dividend Company Name Cosmo Energy Holdings Co., Ltd. General meeting of shareholders every June March 31 payment Securities Code 5021 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Number of shares per trading unit 100 shares Shareholder registration agent 1-1, Shibaura 1-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8302 Limited Tokyo Stock Exchange, First Head Office Stock listing Phone +81-3-3798-3180 Number of common shares issued 84,770,508 shares Section Established October 1, 2015 Number of Shares by Type of Shareholders and their Trend Capital ¥40 billion Type of Business Management of subsidiaries involved in oil businesses ranging from upstream to downstream and others Japanese financial Japanese financial institutions and securities firms (including trust accounts) Japanese individuals and institutions and securities Other Japanese companies and corporations (including treasury stock) Cosmo Oil was established through tripartite merger of Daikyo Oil Co., Ltd., Maruzen others firms (including trust April 1, 1986 14,640 Foreign investors Japanese individuals and others Oil Co., Ltd., and former Cosmo Oil (Cosmo Refining) accounts) thousand shares* (17.3%) Corporate History 33,651 38.9 38.2 39.7 October 1, 1989 Asian Oil Co., Ltd. was merged into Cosmo Oil. thousand shares* 34.6 36.3 (39.7%) 32.9 October 1, 2015 Cosmo Energy Holdings Co., Ltd. was established. Common shares issued 32.4 33.4 35.5 33.7 84,770,508 shares Other Japanese Main Banks Mizuho Bank, Ltd.; The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd.; and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation 22.4 companies and 18.4 19.7 18.6 17.3 corporations (including Foreign investors treasury stock) 28,564 9.6 9.6 9.7 9.6 9.3 7,914 thousand shares* thousand shares* Key Data of the Cosmo Energy Group (33.7%) (9.3%) March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, Number of SS Operators 224 * Thousands of shares, rounded down 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Branches Eastern Japan, Kanto, Chubu, Kansai, Western Japan Number of Shareholders by Type and their Trend Refineries Chiba, Yokkaichi, Sakai Japanese financial institutions and securities firms (including trust accounts) Other Japanese companies and corporations (including treasury stock) Japanese financial Other Japanese Foreign investors Japanese individuals and others institutions and companies and securities firms corporations 97.8 (including trust (including 97.6 accounts) treasury stock) 97.5 97.5 92 (0.3%) 422 (1.4%) 97.4 Number of Shareholders 1.4 1.4 Foreign investors 1.3 1.3 Editorial policy For a better understanding of the Cosmo Energy Group’s creation of values to all 29,488 257 (0.9%) 1.2 stakeholders, the Annual Report and the Corporate Report have been integrated into 0.7 0.9 the Cosmo Report since FY2016. Japanese 0.8 individuals and 0.6 0.8 others 28,717 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Period covered Mainly the fiscal year from April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017 (97.4%) (including some information for FY2017) March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Report boundary Cosmo Energy Holdings Co., Ltd. and major consolidated subsidiaries and affiliated Principal Shareholders (As of March 31, 2017) companies. * The section on CSR covers mainly Cosmo Energy Holdings and 54 Group companies, which share the “CSR Initiative Policy” but includes data on employees Number of shares Percentage of of Cosmo Oil, data for three core companies, and data only for some other Shareholder owned (Thousands) shares owned (%) companies. The scope of coverage for these data is provided individually in appended notes. Infinity Alliance Limited 17,600 20.76 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust account) 5,757 6.79 Month of issue August 2017 (next publication scheduled for August 2018: to be issued every year) Mizuho Bank, Ltd. 3,153 3.71 Cosmo Report, IR website, Cosmo Report (booklet) is designed to be easily looked at, while further details and CSR website are available on our IR website and CSR website. The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. 1,975 2.32 CSR activity reporting is focused on priority issues while using GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 4th edition and The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 1,899 2.24 Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 Version) established by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan as reference. The Kansai Electric Power Co., Inc. 1,860 2.19 The links to Cosmo Energy Holdings’ official websites are as follows: Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. 1,767 2.08 IR website http://ceh.cosmo-oil.co.jp/eng/ir/ CSR website http://ceh.cosmo-oil.co.jp/eng/csr/ Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. 1,580 1.86 Cautionary notes on forward-looking This report contains forward-looking statements about the plans, strategies and Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Insurance Inc. 1,579 1.86 statements performance of Cosmo Energy Group. These statements include assumptions and judgments that are based on information currently available to us. As such, the Cosmo Energy Holdings Client Stock Ownership 1,529 1.80 actual results may differ from those mentioned herein, due to various factors in the external environment. * Three decimal places are rounded down. * In calculating the percentage of total shares issued, total shares issued excludes treasury stock. 53 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS COSMO REPORT 2017 54
