MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 ANNUAL CORPORATE SOCIAL 2016 RESPONSIBILITY REPORT MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 PREFACE MediaMonks is one of the biggest and fastest growing OUR WAY FORWARD creative production companies in the world. In the past couple of years, we took our business to the far ends In the upcoming years we want to continue using of the world; we are proud to have set foot in Buenos our expertise and services to doing good in the world Aires, São Paulo, Shanghai and other world cities. In this by offering modern solutions for modern problems. leading position, our business involves an ever-growing These include solutions for cyber crime, digital divide, responsibility to contribute to a better world. e-waste and other polluting artifacts of our modern society. The digitalization of the economy is an ongoing We strongly believe in the power of combining strengths development. As a leader of the industry, it’s our job to and creating shared value when it comes to contributing make sure this development happens as responsible as to society. As a creative production company, we possible. dedicate ourselves to produce digital innovations. Therefore, we are most valuable when we make it In the following report you will find the results of our possible for other parties to benefit from our digital 2016 operational daily practices as well as the choices expertise. we’ve made in our efforts to become a more responsible global company. This is why we dedicate a significant number of voluntary hours to creating impactful digital campaigns and products for charities and other projects for the public good. One of the projects we worked on in 2016, was for the Missing Children Europe initiative. We produced the Remumber app that helps children memorize important phone numbers by changing their smartphone’s security code to the number they should know by heart. The app is made for the ever-growing number of kids who completely rely on their smartphone for memorising numbers. We realize that the energy and data centers needed to digitalize our economy put a great pressure on the environment. The emissions we expel as an industry shouldn’t be underestimated. Therefore, we continuously strive to optimize our own organizational processes and make them more energy efficient. As we can’t do this alone, we actively involve and encourage our stakeholders and employees to do the same. What’s more, setting foot in international cities helps us reducing our overall footprint and contributes to a low-carbon economy too, especially when it comes to our worldwide logistics. VICTOR KNAAP Main Monk MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 This report reviews MediaMonks’ Corporate Social Responsibility performance of 2016. Complying with United Nations Global Compact, the report follows the GRI guidelines. MediaMonks is a member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2012. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) The Global Reporting Initiative is a non-profit organization that promotes economic, environmental and social sustainability. GRI provides all companies and organizations with a comprehensive sustainability reporting framework that is widely used around the world. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) The United Nations Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Corporate Social Responsibility is a form of corporate self-regulation integrated into a business model. CSR is titled to aid an organization’s mission as well as a guide to what the company stands for and will uphold to its consumers. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 CONTENT 01 MANAGEMENT SUMMARY 02 2016 IN NUMBERS 05 GIVING TALENT THE OPPORTUNITY TO GROW I PEOPLE II EDUCATION & INNOVATION 08 OFFERING OUR TALENTS AND EXPERTISE I CHARITY 10 A FAIR, SUSTAINABLE AND EFFECTIVE WAY OF WORKING I ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT II SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT 15 APPENDIX MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 1 MANAGEMENT SUMMARY MEDIAMONKS 2016 Many of our employees can be considered to belong to Generation Y, the demographic cohort that’s also MediaMonks is a creative production company that known as Millennials.This generation is ascribed to works for and with advertising agencies to craft amazing show an increased use and understanding of media, digital work for global brands. You can find us anywhere communications and digital technologies. We do not online as well as in Amsterdam, London, Stockholm, only want to learn from their notions and know-how, Dubai, New York, LA, Buenos Aires, São Paulo, Singapore we’re very keen to provide them with the time and and Shanghai. As of 31.12.2016, MediaMonks consist of resources to further explore and advance these fields of an in-house team of 600+ Monks that are versed interests. in a wide range of digital disciplines, jointly able to produce digital projects from A to Z. We’re very proud Moreover, we have given ourselves the task of taking that MediaMonks is being awarded the most FWA’s Dutch Digital Design to the next level and bring it onto worldwide and that, also in 2016, we’ve received the international stage. To educate new talent and to numerous Webbies and Cannes Lions. make Dutch Digital Design internationally recognized, we have developed the Digital Design Master. In September CREATING SHARED VALUE 2016, 25 international students started this master that is funded by the government for the coming 10 years. MediaMonks strives to be the best creative production company in the world. This requires taking initiative, 2. Offering our talents and expertise. responsibility and adding long-term value with regard to We share the opinion that digital design and production our stakeholders and the world around us. In 2016, we can contribute to a better world as they offer modern have actively addressed the exercise of creating shared solutions to contemporary challenges and problems. value, and therefore we set ourselves the goal to go As in previous years, in 2016 we made our talents and beyond a regular Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expertise available to contribute to the mission of program. various projects and social initiatives. CSR is a response to a growing concern from employees, 3. A fair, sustainable and effective way of working customers and investors about our business conduct MediaMonks puts a strong effort in working fair, and is therefore reactionary. Creating shared value is a sustainable and effective as this benefits the world as progressive attitude as it opens up the opportunity for well as the company. Being the best can only be achieved businesses and society to achieve success in a joined when this way of working is applied and maintained effort. throughout the entire company. We haven’t dedicated a separate department to this end, but we make sure We can be most effective in creating shared value when it’s integrated in our general procurement and facility we tap into and apply our core business and expertise. management. As a result of our efforts, we have Our evaluation of our sources, abilities and expertise has successfully reached our energy efficiency target for our led to formulating the following three pillars which we’ve Amsterdam headquarters. We changed our energy label incorporated in our business strategy: from D to A, by installing solar panels, PV panels, LED lighting and making other energy saving changes, to 1. Giving talents the opportunity to grow work on our energy efficiency goals. At the heart of our business are the people who work here, their talents form the engine that keeps our PERFORMANCE 2016 business going. MediaMonks aims to be the best employer possible by taking care of its people. Many of MediaMonks has started with measuring its performance our employees start their working life at our company on CSR indicators with the evaluation of the year 2012. and consider MediaMonks to be a home base. As these We have and will continue this type of assessment yearly employees enter MediaMonks at a young age, it’s also as it forms the foundation of our improvement policy. the place where they develop themselves. We take our responsibility in this matter utterly serious and provide This report contains the performance overviews of 2016 our employees with a work environment and company of the Amsterdam, London, LA and New York offices. culture that allows them to grow on both a personal and The overviews of the offices in São Paulo, Stockholm, professional level. Shanghai, Buenos Aires, Singapore and Dubai are not included as they operate according to their own and separate conduct of business. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 2 2016 IN NUMBERS 10 OFFICES (AMSTERDAM, LONDON, STOCKHOLM, DUBAI, NEW YORK, LA, BUENOS AIRES, SÃO PAULO, SINGAPORE AND SHANGHAI) 600+ EMPLOYEES 1071 PRODUCTIONS DELIVERED 66m TURNOVER IN EUROS 1113 tonnes CO2 EMISSIONS 6 CHARITIES SUPPORTED *Figures at 31.12.2016 MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 3 MOST IMPORTANT FIGURES *The MediaMonks CSR performance figures are based on the yearly average number of 363 employees in 3 countries. PEOPLE PEOPLE Employee / Employer ratio 0.09 lowest gross income / highest gross income [ratio] Health & Safety Absenteeism 2.95% absent hours / yearly worked hours [%] Accidents 0 number / year [#] Training & Education 89.40 € / FTE [€] Nationalities 46 number [#] Diversity 0.26 female / male [ratio] ENVIRONMENT & ENERGY CO2 emission [tonne] CO2 emission [kg] / FTE Mobility Car 131 380 Public Transport 218 629 Flights 557 1609 Energy 194 560 Water 1268 3.66 MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 4 BUSINESS BUSINESS Innovation 62,662 hours / yearly worked hours [#] Suppliers CSR policy 58% number of top 20 suppliers [%] Publically disclosing CSR policy 53% number of top 20 suppliers [%] COMMUNITY Donations Projects for Public good 6 projects per year [#] Unpaid / voluntary hours 777 hours per year [#] MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 5 GIVING TALENT THE OPPORTUNITY TO GROW MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 6 I PEOPLE PERFORMANCE 2016 Employee / Employer ratio 0.09 lowest gross income / highest gross income [ratio] Health & Safety Absenteeism 2.95% absent hours / yearly worked hours [%] Accidents 0 number / year [#] Training & Education 89.40 € / FTE [€] Nationalities 46 number [#] Diversity 0.26 female / male [ratio] TAKING CARE OF OUR MONKS A DIVERSE FAMILY WITH EQUAL FAMILY VALUES The health & well-being of our employees is an As is common for most global companies, there is a lot of important and serious matter to us. Our Monks work diversity amongst our employees. Numerous nationalities hard and we want to ensure that they are provided from all over the world work at MediaMonks, almost with a safe and healthy work environment. This entails 20% of the employees is non-Dutch. We consider having all important safety procedures and standards diversity to be highly valuable and the management of in place, such as having emergency response qualified MediaMonks encourages this diversity as it really benefits staff (in Dutch: BHV) and applying all health and safety our organization. In our effort to attract and attach the regulations (in Dutch: ARBO). most talented people in our field to our company and create a positive work environment, we pay a lot of We also make sure to provide healthy catering. We attention to maintaining values and work ethics that concern ourselves with both offering nutritious meals create a pleasant, safe and fair atmosphere for all Monks. as well as contributing to sustainability. To accomplish the latter issue, we’ve introduced ‘vegetarian Tuesday’ We are careful to preserve MediaMonks cultural values and work with local food suppliers as much as possible. among the entire family across the globe. Moreover, to promote a healthy lifestyle we encourage Furthermore, we recognize that many companies our people to take part in sport events such as the specialized in digital services have more male than annual skiing trip and outdoor activities like Mud female employees. To this day, the majority of people Masters and bootcamp sessions. graduating from studies related to digital technology (digital design, software development, etc) is male. This Next to installing health and safety measures that automatically results in the fact that the vast majority concern employees’ working life, MediaMonks also of people responding to vacancies concerning digital offers support to its employees when it comes to technology roles is male. But as we also offer many jobs their personal lives. If needed, we will provide loans outside of the digital tech departments (sales, PR, HR, and assistance with debt as well as offer general creatives, producers, project managers, etc), we have advice and administrational support. As many of the opportunity to execute our aim to create an equal our employees come from all over the world, we female/male ratio. Moreover, as part of our hiring policy, concern ourselves with the issue of housing and for many functions we ask applicants to fill out an online accommodation. We not only offer assistance in finding test as a first round of assessment. By implementing this a house, each MediaMonks office has a MediaMonks procedure, we feel confident that we invite the people house. Full-time employees are offered a room at low cost and interns at no cost at all. This doesn’t only most qualified for the job based on their professional contribute to the potential for people from abroad abilities and background. to work at MediaMonks, it makes their move and relocation a far less stressful experience. In 2016, the combination of an outstanding working environment and our health and safety measures have led to the successful prevention of any accidents and a very low degree of absenteeism. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 7 II EDUCATION & INNOVATION PERFORMANCE 2016 Innovation 62,662 hours / yearly worked hours [#] It’s our ambition to be at the top in digital design and inspire young talent as we work to achieve our goal. We want to offer talented people a platform where they can develop themselves and provide them with an environment that allows them to get enthusiastic about our working field. We also continuously strive for innovation within our sector and are always searching for the latest technologies that will contribute to improving the world of digital design. DIGITAL DESIGN MASTER DIGITAL LEADERSHIP & INNOVATION In collaboration with several partners from the digital MediaMonks wants to play a leading role in advancing design industry, MediaMonks started the development digital design and digital communication. This involves of the first Digital Design Master in the Netherlands. improving and optimizing all of our organizational This Digital Design Master was set up to educate new processes as well as sharing our findings, learnings talent and to create a better connection between higher and integrated improvements with other parties both education in digital media and the actual digital media within and outside the sector. Collaborating instead of industry. With this master, MediaMonks wants to competing with each other is also part of our shared provide (young) talented people with a platform that value-vision. By sharing our latest innovations and enables them to develop themselves and give them findings with our clients, suppliers and partners, we want the opportunity to get an internationally recognized to enable them to grow along with us. Openly sharing the degree in digital design. This master also positively latest software developments and updates via an online affects MediaMonks’ efforts to push Dutch Digital platform is an example of how we employ our shared Design to the international stage and to improve its value-vision. reputation worldwide. With that, this master adds to the opportunity for innovation, making it beneficial for the MediaMonks’ innovation and development work is entire sector in the Netherlands. eligible for the fiscal stimulus of WBSO (Wet Bevordering Speur en Ontwikkelingswerk). In 2016, 62,662 hours of The Digital Design Master is a two year-study that WBSO grant have been assigned to MediaMonks, which provides students with an official title after completion. amounts to 9,24 % of the total amount of hours worked. In 2016, the master received an official quality status This gave us the time and capacity to perform research (NVAO onderwijsplan/macrodoelmatigheidstoets). & development activities and search for innovations We also safeguarded 10 years of financing for the master regarding new software and creative products. The from the Dutch government. The master started in increase of the amount in hours in comparison to the September 2016 with 25 international students. In the year 2015 is due to an increase in employees that were years to come, we will intensify our efforts to support assigned WBSO hours and the amount of hours we have the development of young talent and in making the filed. Digital Design Master a comprehensive and progressive master study. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 8 OFFERING OUR TALENTS AND EXPERTISE MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 9 I CHARITY PERFORMANCE 2016 Donations Projects for Public good 6 projects per year [#] Unpaid / voluntary hours 777 hours per year [#] OFFERING OUR EXPERTISE WHERE NEEDED We are investing a substantial amount of time and resources into great charitable projects. In 2016 we Another way we employ our ambition to contribute to have donated a total of 777 hours to 5 foundations and society is by actively sharing our expertise and offering projects for the public good in the Netherlands and 1 in it to social initiatives and charity projects. As indicated the US. before, we believe that our expertise in digital design and communication provides modern time solutions Our aid goes to a wide variety of charities, from health to modern time problems in society. From our point of care related projects (The Danish Cancer Association) view, digital design and communication can be strong and a project created to help homeless people to drivers to enhance positive social change. By making our organizations that specifically focus on children. knowledge and resources available to social initiatives and charity projects, we contribute to the corresponding For example, in 2016 we teamed up with N=5 to realize goals. This means we provide voluntary hours to help the Helping Heart project. With the Helping Heart jacket, build digital communication platforms, digital videos, homeless people can receive money through NFC. We applications or productions to help them convey their developed a connected jacket with contactless payment message. In 2015, we experienced a peak in the amount technology sewn into its chest pocket. By holding your of voluntary hours on charitable projects or projects for wallet to this ‘helping heart’, people can effortlessly wire the good of the public. In 2016, this amount is lower, a fixed small amount of €1 to help out another person. however it has still increased compared to 2014. We’ve also dedicated voluntary hours to Unicef’s Unfairy Tales project. Unfairy Tales is a series of animated and In working on charity projects, we make sure to interactive stories by Unicef that lets people connect always coordinate with our customers: for many with the personal stories of children from Syria. We years now we’ve supported our largest clients to produced one of the stories as an interactive storybook develop the best and most innovative charitable to strengthen the connection between the reader campaigns by contributing our talents and skills in and content. Furthermore, together with FamousGrey, digital communication. Last year we spent a significant we worked on the Missing Children Europe project of amount of time working on projects like Helping Heart which we have given a description in the preface. and Unicef’s Unfairy Tales, on which we will elaborate below. NEW PARTNERSHIP CHARITY NL2025 In 2016 MediaMonks set up a new partnership with In working on charity projects, we make sure to NL2025: a platform where directors and leaders from the always coordinate with our customers: for many cultural and scientific world are united, together with years now we’ve supported our largest clients to artists, CEOs and sports people. In supporting initiatives develop the best and most innovative charitable and bringing people and ideas together, the platform is campaigns by contributing our talents and skills in committed to contribute to a better world and working digital communication. Last year we spent a significant on a better future in Holland at the same time. amount of time working on projects like Helping Heart and Unicef’s Unfairy Tales, on which we will elaborate below. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 10 A FAIR, SUSTAINABLE AND EFFECTIVE WAY OF WORKING MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 11 I ENVIRONMENT & ENERGY PERFORMANCE 2016 Amount CO2 emission [tonne] C02 emission [kg] / FTE Mobility Commuting Car 526,938 km 109 313 Public Transport 4,951,074 km 218 629 Business Car 106,981 km 23 66 Flights 3,732,335 km 557 1609 Energy Gas 22,613 m 3 41 119 Electricity 336,085 kWh 153 441 Water 4,252 m 3 1268 3.66 TOTAL CO 2 TONNE PER FTE 0 1.25 2.5 3.75 5 AVERAGE MEDIAMONKS TOP SCORE MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 12 MediaMonks strives to be the best in all its doings. makes use of cold corridors, smart meters and extensive Therefore we also pay a lot of attention to the way virtualization of its servers. And these measurements we organize our business processes and how we have payed off; we have experienced a decrease in handle the impact it has on the world. In our notion, electricity and gas use this year. the ICT industry plays a major role in contributing to a low-carbon society and can be of great influence As we’re an international company that experiences when it comes to pushing the world in this direction. continuous growth, our carbon footprint, due to mobility Digital communication products provide a low-carbon (especially international transportation), increases as alternative to the printing industry. And the digital well. Therefore, we have been encouraging our Monks interfaces we build can offer people concerned with to use public transport when commuting to work. We sustainability innovative and low-carbon tools. offer every employee a yearly subscription for free public We are highly aware of the fact that companies in transport to and from work. Furthermore, we made the the ICT sector are big consumers of electricity as careful decision of situating our headquarters next to the intensive use of computers, displays and servers train station. As in the years before, this led also in 2016 requires a considerable amount of energy. To tackle to a growing number of Monks that commute to work issues like this, we feel it’s of importance to have an by train. As for our increasing number of flights abroad, understanding of the impact caused by our sector as we opened offices in those parts of the world we were a whole. And we found that all the data centers in the visiting regularly, such as Singapore, New York, London, world combined, consume 2% of the global electricity LA, Dubai and very recently Stockholm, São Paulo and supply, which is similar to the carbon footprint of the Shanghai. By promoting video conference calls and airlines industry. reducing the need to go abroad to visit our partners, we try to actively decrease our carbon footprint. MediaMonks has the ambition to bring this amount of consumption considerably down. We are constantly OUR WASTE HANDLING looking for ways we can decrease the environmental impact of our operations. To this end, we’ve As we are a production company working in the digital implemented all necessary means to improve our field, we produce minimal physical waste. Due to the business processes and reduce emissions over the last use of digital administrative processes and our efforts years. In doing so, we distinguished three key areas: to use as less paper as necessary, we produce hardly any energy, waste and sustainable procurement. paper waste. In addition to paper and glass recycling, MediaMonks also collects plastic waste. Notably, the ENERGY EFFICIENCY MEASURES majority of waste produced at MediaMonks is organic, Regarding our carbon footprint, we can be most effective and therefore biodegradable. As MediaMonks is growing, in the conservation of energy. One of the means to reduce we see it as our responsibility to have all our employees our carbon footprint is applying some basic efficiency cooperate in keeping physical waste production to measures in our electricity usage, which is one of our a minimum. largest emissions. These are measurements such as central power switches and energy saving lights, as well Moreover, we also apply a sustainable end-of-life policy as purchasing green-certified electricity. regarding old hardware. This policy distinguishes three scenarios: Our aim is to work on an improved energy label and that’s why we put effort in placing solar panels on our rooftops 1. In case of malfunctioning hardware, we first try last year. Because of these solar panels, the PV panels to repair it. If this turns out to be impossible, the we placed, the switch to LED lighting and the hardware will be recycled in appropriate ways; replacement of old boilers, we were able to achieve 2. Workable parts of old hardware, will be re-used; energy label A in 2016.For us, it was an important 3. Hardware (or parts of old hardware) that we achievement to make the step from label D to A in the cannot use anymore will be sold. last period. Especially, because our main ambition was to reach label B initially. Also, together with our strategic partners we keep looking for ways to improve our energy efficiency. For example, we constantly strive for innovations in our data center. We’ve deliberately chosen a data center that MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 13 II SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT PERFORMANCE 2016 Suppliers CSR policy 58% number of top 20 suppliers [%] Publicity disclosing CSR policy 53% number of top 20 suppliers [%] We put a lot of effort in making our supply chain more sustainable, which can be seen in the improved performance of our supply chain management in 2016: From 48% of our suppliers with a CSR policy in place, to 58% in 2016. This is a result of our policy to make a conscious decision when choosing suppliers. For all business partners and suppliers we apply basic sustainable procurement principles: in 2016 58% of our suppliers has a CSR policy and publicly disclosed their CSR performance on their website. This is a rise of more than 20% compared to 2015. Because we take into account the size of the potential order and the influence it has on our operational excellence, we’re able to make the best decision when it comes to sustainability. Moreover, we encourage our suppliers and business partners to pay attention to CSR by underlining its importance. We make sure to carefully look at energy, office supplies and other facility requirements when assessing procurements. This approach helps us to maintain a fair and transparent relationship with all parties involved. SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT business, or are in direct contact with our customers also sign a confidentiality agreement. We are aware of the fact that our choice of supplier has a significant impact on the total of our carbon footprint. To ensure the confidentiality is top of mind, By annually tracking the CSR policies and publications employees are informed by their team leader about of the largest 20 suppliers, we assess the sustainability developments regarding customer data, privacy and behavior of our current suppliers. By doing so we ensure integrity on specific assignments. the transparency of our sourcing. As indicated above, more than 58% of our suppliers are transparent about When desired, customers can require individual their CSR policy and activities and present them openly MediaMonks project team members to sign a special on their website. Examples of our top 5 suppliers who non-disclosure agreement. are transparent and serious about their CSR efforts are NS, Vodafone and Sligro NV. As part of our procurement Also, in 2016 our data and our office have been secured by policy of 2016, the amount of suppliers that are following the highest industry standards. This is a result transparent substantially increased again, since 2015. from the measurements we take to optimally secure all our and our customers’ data and information. All our CLIENTS NDA work is processed on in-house servers, managed by certified datacenter managers and secured by hardware Our business exist by the virtue of our clients. Therefore, firewalls. And our in-house servers are protected by we take our relationship with them, their data security an alarm and secured electric gates. and their privacy very seriously. Our approach in this is twofold: 2. Integrity To maintain fair relationships with our customers, our 1. Confidentiality employees are prohibited from purchasing goods or Both customer data and information about productions services from a client, unless the purchase is made at the are treated completely confidential. We don’t accept any same price and if it is subject to the same conditions as form of breaking this confidentiality. All MediaMonks in place for the public. Furthermore, MediaMonks doesn’t employees have signed a confidentiality agreement/ allow employees to accept money, gifts or goods or oblige nondisclosure agreement, acknowledging that they oneself in any way to the client. As in previous years, also cannot disclose data or information from MediaMonks, in 2016 we made sure this regulation was executed. our customers or other business partners. And this applies MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 14 MEDIAMONKS ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 2016 The results below indicate MediaMonks’ performance relative to the ‘average’ office and best practices in the Netherlands. The scores are based on a benchmark set by the Dutch government. ELECTRICITY 2016 kWh PER FTE 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 GAS 2016 M3 PER FTE 0 75 150 225 300 WATER 2016 M3 PER FTE 0 3.5 7 10.5 14 COMMUTING BY CAR 2016 KM PER FTE 0 1750 3500 5250 7000 TOTAL CO2 AVERAGE 2016 MEDIAMONKS TOP SCORE TONNE PER FTE 0 1.25 2.5 3.75 5 MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 15 APPENDIX TEN UNIVERSALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption: PRINCIPLES UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT PAGE Principle 1 Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 6, 7, 13  MediaMonks takes a clear position and global responsibility against violations of basic human rights, such as the right to privacy and integrity. Principle 2 Make sure business is not complicit in human rights abuses 6, 7, 13 We contribute to this by promoting fair labour conditions in all our offices, and have integrated this in our human resource policy and procurement policy. Principle 3 Uphold freedom of association and right to collective bargaining 6, 7 MediaMonks respects the freedom of association and employees’ rights to organize or join employee organizations. Principle 4 Support elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor 6, 7 Diversity is a prerequisite for success and all discrimination is prohibited. For example, in total 28 different nationalities are working for MediaMonks. Principle 5 Support effective abolition of child labor 6, 7 We do not tolerate bullying or other physical or verbal acts of an abusive character. Decisions that concern employment, promotions, development and compensation are based on the employees’ job knowledge and competence. Principle 6​ Eliminate discrimination in employment and occupation 13 Active responsible supply chain management helps us track possible human rights violation such as child, forced or compulsory labor. Principle 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 11, 12 MediaMonks works actively with minimizing our environmental impact it is part of our everyday business. Focus areas within our environmental policy are energy, mobility and waste. Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 11, 12 Active sustainable supply chain management helps us raise awareness on energy efficiency amongst our suppliers, and work with them on innovations. Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly 11, 12 technologies Knowledge is an important factor to our environment and energy management. We work together with our strategic partners on innovative energy measurements. For example with our datacenter supplier. Principle 10 Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery 13 MediaMonks has zero tolerance with regard to all forms of bribes and corruption. We neither offer nor accept gifts and hospitality that are improper. This is integrated in our contracts with our employees. Also, they have signed a non-confidentiality agreement to prevent data breaches.  Our undertaking is to conduct ourselves in an ethically correct manner in everything we do, in compliance with applicable legislation and our company values, industry standards and international guidelines. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 16 OUR CSR PROGRAM For questions, recommendations or ideas about the MediaMonks policy, please contact us: facility@mediamonks.com MEDIAMONKS HQ MEDIAMONKS UK MEDIAMONKS STO MEDIAMONKS DBX Schapenkamp 2 23 Heddon Street Norrlandsgatan 18 Boutique Offices, Villa No. 8 1211 PA Hilversum London, W1B 4BQ 111 43 Stockholm Knowledge Village (Dubai Media City) T +31 35 621 21 50 T +44 (0)20 7440 3580 T +46 8 50 70 35 00 Po Box no. 502921 Dubai E info@mediamonks.com E london@mediamonks.com E stockholm@mediamonks.com T +971 52 948 6613 E dubai@mediamonks.com MEDIAMONKS NY MEDIAMONKS LA MEDIAMONKS BA MEDIAMONKS SP 127 Elizabeth St 1214 Abbot Kinney El Salvador 5137 Palermo R. Fidalga 162, Vila Madalena 10013 NY New York Venice CA, 90291 C1414BPS Ciudad Autónoma 05432-000, São Paulo, SP T +1 347 767 6929 T +1 907 891 8571 de Buenos Aires T +55 11 3097 0508 E ny@mediamonks.com E la@mediamonks.com T +54 11 5368 2189 E saopaulo@mediamonks.com E ba@mediamonks.com MEDIAMONKS SG MEDIAMONKS SH 30 Bukit Pasoh Road 135 Yanping Rd, Jing’an 089844 Singapore Shanghai 200042 T +65 6438 9897 T +86 151 2109 7484 E singapore@mediamonks.com E shanghai@mediamonks.com www.mediamonks.com
