UN Global Compact United Nations – Two UN Plaza New York, NY 10017 – USA UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 Period Covered 01.07.2016 – 30.06.2017 Massagno, 01.07.2017 To our stakeholders, With the present report, we are pleased to confirm that Intertrade International Services reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. This document will present the progress that our company has achieved and it is seeking to accomplish. Intertrade is pleased also to announce further progress in the monitoring of its results and the relative initiatives that will aim for a more responsible business. It is also my personal and professional commitment to continuously make the Global Compact principles part of the business strategy, culture and daily operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, our main client. Further to that, we also commit to share these information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication, by including this COP also on our website. Sincerely yours, Gianfranco Esposito Managing Director Human Rights Principle 1 businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Intertrade International Services is committed to the UN Global Compact’s principles on human rights as expressed in the Code of Ethics. In particular, by understanding the responsibility over its employees and all the human capital involved in the business, including partners and suppliers, Intertrade provides more than the minimum requirements by the laws of Switzerland. Apart from assuring that no abuse or discriminatory behaviour is conducted, Intertrade provides same opportunities for all people, from the applicants that want to start a career in this company to the suppliers that wants to begin working together, to the employees that would like to carry out their personal interests. All Intertrade employees are covered by Private Medical Insurance which guarantees the retribution at 80% in case of illness. All personnel benefits from the availability of a fully equipped room for eating and taking breaks during the work hours, furnished with all the comfortable appliances. The office facilities are kept clean by a contract with a cleaning company, which maintains the environment hygienic, suitable for work and safe. Intertrade conducts its business operations with integrity, clearness, honesty, with respect for the human rights and interests of its employees. It recognizes the responsibility to uphold the rights of each individual in its workplace avoiding forms of discrimination; wages are equal and fair among the staff, and it is never requested to work after business hours. Intertrade does not accept any type of abuse, especially in regard to the human rights. The company culture assures that every human being is respected and furthermore the business partners must follow the same vision. The disciplinary measures are fair and accepted and in line with the national laws. It is important that even though every employees has the freedom to speak and to express their opinions, this must be done in respect of other people. Intertrade values for the promotion of human rights are: • Integrity • Respect • Teamwork To make sure that every stakeholder is in line with the business environment, Intertrade organizes training programs and information seminars, together with any new change in the ISO system procedures. Employees misbehaviour is sanctioned as per office regulations in order to protect workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological abuse or threats. The results of the implemented actions are measurable through various controls: Annual meeting with each individual employee, in order to verify the satisfaction of the workplace, to understand specific needs of the person, to examine possible events of misconduct, and to discuss eventually the business objectives. Team meetings to review the business strategy and the long-term goals both in terms of business and in terms of social responsibility. Supplier meetings are also conducted by interviews to improve our daily business and make sure that other companies are also behaving responsibly. Labour Principle 3: business should uphold the freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collect bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Intertrade offers equal employment opportunities without regards to race, religion, colour, nation, origin, sex and sexual orientation, civil status, age. The needs of the individuals is important, therefore Intertrade believes that each employee is allowed to express the opinions in order to improve the satisfaction and working conditions; it is also critical to balance work and family life of each employee. Intertrade has a responsibility to respect labour rights and to promote safe working practices. Every single employee is encouraged to speak up when the witness labour violation and have methods to report these incidents. The laws of Switzerland assure that the minimum wage are met, and that no child-labour, or forced labour, is conducted. Moreover, all employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria. To measure and control that these laws are followed, Intertrade conducts internal (in the company) and external (to sub-suppliers) audits and reports harassments or discrimination or forced labour to the authorities. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Intertrade respects the environment. The company policies include best practices and procedures to reduce the environmental impact to a minimum. In fact, the measures adopted include: • Reduction of consumption of electricity • Increase the use of new environmental-friendly technologies • Reduction in the quantity of paper used • Increase the use of recycled products The company conducts regular maintenance of the machineries, in order to maintain efficiencies and all its partners are ISO14001 qualified. 98% of the PET and 100% of the aluminium coffee capsules used in the company are recycled. PET RECYCLED ALUMINUM RECYCLED Recycled Aluminum Coffee Capsules Recycled PET Not Recycled PET Not Recycled Aluminum Coffee Capsules In regards to the toner cartridges, Intertrade has partnered the Red Cross, which collects all the used toners for recycling. All chemicals used by the cleaning company are environmental friendly. The company also monitors the purchase of papers, which is mostly recycled. Paper Purchase July-2015/June-2017 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 The aim is to reduce the resource consumption by promoting staff awareness of the benefits of energy saving. Anti-Corruption Intertrade has a zero-tolerance policy on corruption in all its forms, including and not limited to extortion and bribery. The company values of honesty and integrity are the foundation of the reputation and of the way business is conducted. Intertrade makes sure that neither its employees nor the clients nor the suppliers are involved in corruption practices. In the ethic code is also prescribed which conducts should be avoided as they may lead to possible corruption accusations and ruin the company integrity and/or the personal integrity of the individual. In each order made or received it is clearly mentioned the anti-corruption policy to be followed to be allowed to make business. The internal procedures ensure and support Intertrade anti-corruption commitment. Any gift received by the employees, are reported to the management for further action. Measurement of Outcome Yearly audits include many relevant indicators to measure outcomes of the UN Global Compact principles as for example the demographics of management and employees broken down by diversity factors. In these audits, Intertrade also registers sick leaves, and absenteeism monthly as per local legislation. Recycled material is always registered for internal purposes and therefore available for statistics and, during staff meetings, reports are provided to all the employees. Should a violation be reported, the company undertakes an investigation. Intertrade efforts towards the UN Global Compact visions is remarkable; every employee feels the responsibility of their job and it is essential that monitoring and measuring of the outcome of the policies is recorded because it helps to reach the goals of continuously improve what it is possible to do on this planet for the present situation and for the future of humanity.
