9th of June, 2017 Statement of Support Travel Sentry gladly renews its commitment to supporting the ten principles of the United Nationals Global Compact which seeks to implement policies supporting human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Travel Sentry remains committed to adopting the Global Compact ideology which strives to influence both societal and environmental conditions in a positive manner. As this is our third consecutive Communication on Progress (COP), Travel Sentry can now publish the results of the actions that have been undertaken in accordance with Global Compact principles. We will also share this information with our stakeholders and the general public via Travel Sentry’s communication platforms. Statement of Progress Travel Sentry has made great strides towards implementing Global Compact policies in our field of work. Travel Sentry adopted and implemented a Code of Conduct that advocates human rights, labor rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption policy. It was approved by the Board of Directors and signed by the Board, all employees and already most of our business partners. Travel Sentry has assessed its total carbon footprint and has reduced the use of Epoxy and other environmentally damaging chemicals in our company’s signature red logo mark. With a net Epoxy reduction of 10%, Travel Sentry’s carbon footprint has been further diminished. Travel Sentry purchased 2,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide certificates within UNFCCC Program 3436 which offset its carbon footprint ten times for the period October 2016 until September 2017 Travel Sentry will reduce Carbon Emissions by 50% in the packaging process of promotional goods and reduce plastic packaging weight by 65%. Travel Sentry will also use lighter promotional products which create less of a carbon footprint during air transportation. Those decisions were confirmed in April 2016 and will be gradually implemented before end 2017. Travel Sentry actively supports equality and diversity amongst the workplace so there is no discrimination nor harassment. Travel Sentry also promotes an inclusive culture enabling individuals to reach their full potential where unique differences are welcomed. As of May 2017, Travel Sentry’s workforce is comprised of 50% women, supporting gender equality. Travel Sentry Inc. 110 SE 6th St, Ste 1754 Fort Lauderdale FL 33301-5000 USA www.travelsentry.org Travel Sentry proudly maintains that all suppliers and customers are selected based on merit and quality, in which they are held to the same standard as our company. We have distributed our code of conduct to all of our major partners. Travel Sentry strongly promotes anti-corruption in all functions of its business. Our company strictly maintains a zero tolerance policy for bribery and corruption. On behalf of the Travel Sentry Team Sincerely, John Vermilye Chairman and CEO Travel Sentry Travel Sentry Inc. 110 SE 6th St, Ste 1754 Fort Lauderdale FL 33301-5000 USA www.travelsentry.org
