2016 Education for Sustainable Development Strengthening of the Mexican Economy Respect for Human Rights Cultural Heritage Environmental Education Economic Development Sustainability Efficient Use of Resources Animal Wellbeing Natural Heritage Business Ethics Responsible Marketing Quality of Life Impulse to the Development of the People Introduction 1 We are a 100% Mexican business group dedicated to sustainable tourism entertainment through parks and tours such as Xcaret, Xel-Há, Xplor, Xichén, Xplor Fuego, Xenotes Oasis 9 Maya, Xoximilco Cancun, and most recently, Xenses. Sustainability C Geographically we are located in the tourist corridor of Cancun and the Riviera Maya, which traditionally has been a “sun and beach” tourist destination. As such, we create unique and unforgettable experiences for our visitors, inspired by a respect for nature, culture and life. People 13 ontents Since 2005 we have been part of the Coordinating Committee of the Global Compact Network in Mexico. For 15 years we have been distinguished as a Socially Responsible Company, and we have been named Great Place to Work in Mexico. Planet 35 Prosperity 53 Memory 72 Sustainability Report 1 Experiencias Xcaret Message from the President and General Director Experiencias Xcaret is a leading organization in sustainable It is doing the right thing in all areas. It is not only about tourism, it is about everything: in the home, tourism recreation. The philosophy established in 1990 in the car, in the office. If you want to live in a healthy community, companies have to be sustainable. by the founding members, to only consist of coworkers who pride themselves on making our visitors happy, This responsibility is not only with the shareholders of a company, it is with everyone. With the people has been practiced since the day that Xcaret, our first you work with, with the community and with the environment. It is analyzing what we are doing, what park, opened. Attached to our principles, the same has we are consuming, from where we acquire it. I say that we always have to start at home, to support occurred with our genuine concern for the environment, here, the community, our state, our country, and then the rest of the world. to positively impact regional development, and to maintain a business model focused on prosperity. On behalf of Carlos, Marcos and Óscar Constandse, and myself, I would like to express our deep gratitude to all of our stakeholders; to our coworkers for their commitment and high level Today, Xcaret is not only the most important park in of performance, for their hospitality; to our visitors for their confidence and recommendation; our our country, but also a model of tourist sustainability. business alliances for believing in our products and helping us acquire more colleagues; to our The success of Xcaret has generated many other suppliers for offering quality products that help us deliver excellent services; to our friends, opinion products: first Xel-Há, then Xplor, Xichen and Xenotes leaders, media and digital communicators for spreading the stories that are lived in our parks and tours, Xplor Fuego, Xoximilco, and now Xenses. tours, and for recommending us. And especially to all members of the communities of northern Quintana Roo for allowing us to be yet another citizen. Our tourist products are unique; none are the same, they are complementary, so we can offer different Transcending time and getting a smile from all the people that know us, are the commitments under experiences to various types of visitors who arrive which we have built the history of our group for more than 25 years. And we are about to write the at the Cancun Riviera Maya destination. But in all magnificent second part of this great story. of them we apply the best practices that we have harvested over the years to be better, more efficient and generate greater positive impacts to the tourism industry in our country. This report consolidates our interest and commitment Arq. Miguel Quintana Pali to make our management transparent on sustainability. President and General Director Nowadays sustainability is not an option, it is a necessity. Experiencias Xcaret Group 2 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 3 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret Organizational Mission To guarantee the scope of the Experiencias Xcaret Group by maximizing our value along the journey we are in. Marcos Constandse Redko CEO and Director of Destino Xcaret Structure V Lizeth Álvarez Gorosave Corporate Director Equality Miguel alues Congruency Integrity Juan Manuel Soriano Macías Director of Administration Quintana Pali President and General Director and Finance Honesty Creativity David Quintana Morones Profitability Development Director V Commitment Spirit of Service Elizabeth Lugo Monjarrás Operations Director Social Responsibility ision To be unique in sustainable tourist entertainment. Memoria de Sostenibilidad Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 4 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret 5 Parks and tours Playa del Carmen Cozumel’s Continental Zone Playa del Carmen Yucatan Peninsula Playa del Carmen Puerto Morelos Cancun Playa del Carmen Mexico’s Majestic Paradise A Natural Wonder facing the A unique park where Exclusive and fascinating Venture into an Unique and exclusive Xoximilco from start to finish An incomparable park, a place with unique activities Caribbean Sea, with an you will live an incredible tours to the archaeological adrenaline-fueled tour to four different is the best and most traditional as fun as it is magical, as where you can have fun incomparable set of coves, adventure exploring the sites of the area, with adventure exploring cenotes, with diverse Mexican fiesta in Cancun, astonishing as it is enigmatic, discovering the natural lagoons, cenotes and Earth from above, on the highest level of the jungle at night! activities at each where you can’t get enough and as crazy as it is rational. and cultural wealth of crystalline water caves to the surface, and into the knowledge about the From the treetops one, surrounded by of the food, tequila and You are the protagonist in a place admire the impressive with different real and imaginary Mexico. practice snorkeling and interior of the planet. history and secrets of an environment of mariachi. Toast, dance and view of the Riviera Maya scenarios that surround your discover the abundance of the Mayan world. Visit nature, history, and sing with all the rhythms of under the light of the senses and take you to a fantastic marine life. the Magical Town of stars on the only Mayan legends. Mexico, and live a night full world, where your perception Valladolid and enjoy nocturnal zip-lines. of fun, culture and tradition. is challenged. the cuisine of the region. 1990 1994 2009 2010 2013 2016 6 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 7 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret Sustainability Strategy SUSTAINABILITY Our vision emphasizes the importance of sustainability as a strategy that will allow us to continue offering unique tourist experiences inspired by a respect for nature, culture and life. That is why our model of sustainability considers three dimensions: People, Planet and Prosperity. Through these three aspects we show our social and environmental actions sustained by our economic performance, always taking into consideration the value we generate for all of our stakeholders. Sustainability Report 9 Experiencias Xcaret Sustainability Model Planet Prosperity People Prosperity Respect for Human Economic Performance Dignity Animal Wellbeing Planet Responsible Marketing Quality of Life Sustainability Conservation of the Natural Heritage (species and Preservation and ecosystems) Boost of the Mexican Dissemination of Cultural Economy Heritage People Intersections Business Ethics Efficient Use Impulse to the Development Education for Sustainable of Resources of the People Development 10 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 11 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret At Experiencias Xcaret we are convinced that the people are the most important. That is why one of the maxims of our organization is respect for human dignity as the basis of all our relationships. We contribute to the wellbeing of all, respecting ideological differences, gender, social class, race, nationality, religion, skills and language, as well as equal opportunities for all our stakeholders. PEOPLE Sustainability Report 13 Experiencias Xcaret Coworkers Employability and Working Relationships The most important values of our organization We total more than 4,200 coworkers working Coworkers by gender: are our coworkers. We create bonds of trust to with excellence, and always looking to make continue to build together a great organization. the experience of our visitors extraordinary. It’s important to mention that our coworkers We have focused our management on are under a direct contracting scheme, which Women strengthening the organizational structure and ensures the fulfillment of their rights, and 27% 73% improving labor relations in order to increase assures their employer’s obligations. commitment, learning, development and communication among our coworkers. Men Coworkers by age In 2016 we were recognized as one of the Best Companies to Work for in Mexico, a distinction awarded by the Great Place to Work Institute. 0.5% 1.5% 33% 65% 0% In addition, Mariano Jiménez González, Coordinator of Xtours and Xenotes Operations, 65 years Between 56 Between 35 Between 18 Under 18 was recognized as “The Best Leader” by and older & 64 years & 55 years & 34 years years having the highest rating of all companies in the “congruence” dimension. Always ready to share Coworkers according to provenance our experience with the business community, in Yucatan 1% Foreigners Peninsula 36% May we participated in the 2016 Latin America Conference of Great Place to Work, in which 63% we presented to our CEOs and human resource Rest of the country leaders our strategy of assisting coworkers and their alignment with sustainability. 14 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 15 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret Coworkers by functional category Operations and Middle Health and Job Administrations Management Executives Security Women We have developed and implemented programs 42% for the prevention of special and general 30% diseases, as well as the creation of awareness 26% 74% 70% about self-care. Under this program we Men 58% provide sports activities, a health day, nutrition counseling, and a motivating challenge to help those who are under risk of being overweight to change their habits. We remain committed to promoting healthy and active lifestyles among our employees. In 2016, 3,841 coworkers participated in activities and sporting events in the different business units. Most of these events took place at our new sports complex at Xcaret, which has excellent facilities such as multipurpose courts for soccer, basketball and volleyball, including restrooms and shower areas. “I challenge you, I care for you” Program 41 coworkers improved their lifestyle by changing their eating habits and losing weight. 16 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 17 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret Training and Development Xplor Workers’ Self-Management Program: Its objective is to certify coworkers that can Key Personnel Program: Focused on the development of a selective train other coworkers, in subjects such as cable group of coworkers with high potential and high For Experiencias Xcaret it is very important inspection, fauna management, inspection of PPE performance standards, identified by directors to The most featured programs are: (Personal Protective Equipment), vertical work, and train them in management subjects. that our coworkers have the competence, knowledge, skills and attitudes that allow them to rescue in confined spaces. Federal Guides Certification perform their work better, as well as to develop Program: personally and professionally. Our Training and Development Program is aligned with the Contributes to the increase of the capacity and 225 training courses organization’s strategic objectives and is divided quality of attention of the tours to archaeological 3,282 TRAINED COWORKERS 25 average per coworker. hours of training on into three types of training: zones, which promote in visitors the cultural richness of Mexico. It is endorsed by the Secretary Institutional: of Tourism of Mexico (SECTUR). We have a continuing education program; as part of the academic development of our coworkers, we offer them the opportunity and facilities to start or continue middle school, high school and/ Oriented to basic knowledges about the or college in the Group’s installations, providing consultations and exams within working hours. In organization. 2016, 31 coworkers benefited from this program. Strategic: Focused on the development of leadership skills and directed to aspiring positions with management responsibilities. Technical: Destined to the development of specific abilities of each function or position in the organization. 18 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 19 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret Recognitions Balance Between Work and Personal Life In November we held the annual ceremony for recognition of Loyalty and Performance, with which we At Experiencias Xcaret we take care that our strengthen the ties of the families of Experiencias inaugurated the Hall of Hacienda Henequenera of Xcaret Park. In it we thanked and congratulated coworkers have a full life. This is achieved by Xcaret coworkers. our coworkers with greater permanence in the organization, as well as those who stood out for high balancing the biological, psychological and performances during 2016. social aspects of the people. We have several Experiencias Xcaret’s End of Year Celebration programs aimed at this purpose. is a grand party to celebrate with our coworkers and show gratitude for achievements and 226 For the second consecutive year, we celebrated successes. The Gran Tlachco Theater at the “Experiencias Xcaret Family Day”, an Xcaret becomes once again the stage where event in which more than 3,500 people we mingle and visit with the coworkers of the participated. This event has as its purpose to Group in an environment full of color and fun. in the Ceremony 114 226 of Loyalty and Performance coworkers recognized in recognized in the program the semiannual Smiles Coworker Coworkers Meetings recognized 517 Number of promoted employees 20 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 21 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret Coworker Coworker Courtesy Admissions Program: Discount Programs: benefits With the aim of our coworkers getting to know We established 106 agreements with different and enjoy all of our products, in the company of companies and local businesses to offer their family and friends, we granted more than discounts to our employees, as well as providing Cell Phones: Transportation: 75,866 passes in 2016. back to the economy of our communities. We provide a smartphone for all of our coworkers With the aim of facilitating the trajectories Coworker Cafeterias: with a data plan to keep us in constant of our coworkers, and at the same time, communication. In 2016, we granted 3,097 cell reducing our carbon footprint, we offer phone lines. This benefit was extended to their personnel transport. In 2016, we benefited We offer the benefit of buffet-style dining rooms with balanced, low-fat, sugar-free and gluten-free families, opening 635 additional lines. an average of 2,715 employees daily with foods. All the dining rooms are certified with the H Distinctive. During 2016 we served more than one this service, having a fleet of 26 units with 11 million, among coworkers, purveyors and interns. different routes in Tulum, Puerto Maya, Playa del Carmen, Puerto Morelos and Cancun. Scholarships for Children of Coworkers: Every year we offer financial support in recognition of the academic performance of the children of our coworkers, who have an average grade of 9 (A minus) or higher. School Supplies Support: We offer coworkers a preferential price in the acquisition of school supplies by discounting their paychecks over a period of four paydays. 22 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 23 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret Community Mexican Red Cross, Quintana Roo Delegation Sustainable communities are spaces where north of Quintana Roo. We not only offer full people share social, cultural and environmental employment opportunities and strengthen Our alliance with the state delegation of the Mexican Red Cross is based benefits. All its members, citizens, businesses, the economy through the purchase of local on the commitment to support the wellbeing of the people of Quintana Roo governments and nonprofit organizations, work suppliers, we also develop programs and and tourists in emergency and disaster situations. That’s why in 2016, we in partnership to improve the quality of life in actions aimed at preserving and disseminating reaffirmed our support through a donation during their Annual Collection, the community. cultural heritage, consolidating alliances with as well as through the activities that take place within the framework of nonprofit organizations that help solve social the Xel-Há Triathlon. At Experiencias Xcaret we collaborate to and environmental problems, and promote the consolidate sustainable communities in the development of skills for future generations. Alliances with nonprofit organizations Strategic alliances between nonprofit they also have as a priority the people and organizations and companies favor the solution the planet. Through them, we support causes of the challenges of the communities where relevant to the communities where we have a they have a presence. We have established presence, such as community development and alliances with organizations with common protection of natural heritages; prevention and principles and values, and above all, with which care of emergencies and disasters; protection of we share a passion for sustainability, that is, children; education and job training. 24 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 25 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret FLORA, FAUNA AND CULTURE Projects: OF MEXICO, A.C. Flora, Fauna and Culture of Mexico is a non-profit organization that promotes conservation, community welfare and environmental education, through Sewing Workshop of the Sea Turtle Conservation multiple locations and projects. Community Center of the Program: LOCATIONS: City of Chemuyil: •La Ceiba Park This is an alternative productive occupation that Program for the protection, monitoring, •Community Center of the City of Chemuyil generates income for women in this community research and conservation of sea turtles that •Turtle Camps of Quintana Roo. nest in the Central Coasts of Quintana Roo. •Riviera Maya Tree and Forest Nursery •La Ceiba Community Center, El Corazón de Tulum Sea Turtle Friend Hotel: Mangroves Project: Recognizes hotels that meet key criteria for not Project for the restoration of the mangrove affecting sea turtle nesting. forests of the Protected Natural Area of Mangroves of Nichupte in Cancun. CONSERVATION COMMUNITY WELLBEING ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION Green School: Project that promotes a new environmental culture in children, parents and teachers, in public and private schools. Environmental Festival: An initiative, with free entry, that brings School Gardens: together and links organizations, companies, Environmental awareness of educational schools and citizens committed to the establishments through the creation of environment. school gardens. Teacher Support Network: Vacation Courses: Project that supports the teaching community Provides knowledge to participating children in the investigation of educational resources, that allows them to value natural resources. encouraging culture and environmental education in school curricula. 26 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 27 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret CITIZENS FOR TRANSPARENCY We are in favor of accountability, Academics transparency, and the eradication of Our Academic Link Program includes the invited to participate as potential candidates corruption. For this reason, we support integration of students under a scheme of work to fill a vacancy. In 2016, 11% of recruitments the non-profit organization “Citizens for practices, where they are formed through tutorial corresponded to practitioners who completed Transparency”, that works for an Open programs to develop them in specific positions. their internship in the Group, thus supporting Government in Quintana Roo and the Upon completion of their stay, practitioners who their first job initiative. empowerment of its citizens. stand out for their excellent performances are SAVE THE CHILDREN QUINTANA ROO Through our alliance with Save The Children, we promote the protection of the rights of children and young people. Our donation supports the operation of the Playa del Carmen and Tulum play centers, adding to Save the Children’s goal of inspiring advances in the way the world treats children, and achieving immediate and lasting changes in their lives. United for the rights of boys and girls. TRANSFORMING EDUCATION Our alliance with this non-profit organization that has 20 Interns provenance years of experience in community development in the Riviera Maya, allows us to support the educational and labor development of the towns of Akumal, Chemuyil and Puerto Aventuras. 54% 36% 8% 2% 895 interns. from central from the from the international Mexico south north 28 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 29 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret Preservation and Dissemination of cultural heritage SACRED MAYAN JOURNEY 2016 In 2016 we celebrated the tenth anniversary of the revival of this Throughout these 10 editions we have undergone countless life experiences that have allowed us to tradition that took place during the late postclassic period (900 understand the transcendence of having rescued a pre-Hispanic tradition that had been forgotten to 1550 AD), in which several villages of the Mayan community for more than five centuries, with the intents of sowing the seed of love for our land and our history crossed the open sea aboard canoes from the port of Polé (today in the new generations that live in Quintana Roo. Xcaret) to the Island of Kuzamil (today Cozumel) to worship Ixchel, the goddess of fertility, health and water. In addition, in October 2016, the Mexican Center for Philanthropy (Cemefi) recognized the Sacred Mayan Journey with Best Practices of Social Responsibility in the category of Linkage to the Community. After three years of extensive research and documentation in coordination with institutions such as the Center for Mayan Studies of the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM), and with the assistance of specialists from the National Institute of In 10 years: Anthropology and History (INAH), Xcaret restored this tradition in 2007, the Sacred Mayan Journey. Since then, it has been realized 2,660 383,000 80 578 annually. Today it is an event that commends pride to Quintana Roo and its inhabitants. canoers hours of hours of navigation kilometers training on the high seas 30 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 31 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret Reconocimientos a colaboradores FESTIVAL OF LIFE AND DEATH TRADITIONS 2016 With an attendance of more than 50 thousand visitors, we celebrated the eleventh edition of the Festival of Life and Death Traditions of Xcaret. During the four days of this event of the Day of the Dead, and through various cultural activities, the festival honors the faithful departed, celebrating the emblematic moment of passing from life to death. The festival represents and supports the beliefs that the souls of the departed return during these days, so that we can coexist with them in a reunion that year after year is held with our loved ones that have already moved on. music, dance, altars and folklore offered by a delegation of more than 300 people from this In 2016 we had the participation of the state of Puebla as region of central Mexico. a special guest with its Atlixcáyotl party, a cultural music and dance festival of Atlixco through which its participants In 2003 the Day of the Dead was declared an thank Mother Nature for the benefits obtained from her. Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity by Thus, our visitors enjoyed the gastronomy, handicrafts, UNESCO. 32 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 33 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret Our environmental strategy, which contributes to protecting the planet and ensuring a sustainable future, is based on five pillars: conservation of ecosystems, efficient use of resources, conservation of species of flora and fauna, animal wellbeing, and environmental education. PLANET Sustainability Report 35 Experiencias Xcaret Care for the ecosystems The privilege of operating in such diverse ecosystems carries with it the great commitment to use its resources in a responsible manner, to protect them, and to renew them to guarantee their availability to future generations. Among the actions we undertook in 2016, one of the highlights was the impulse to the initiative “Reforesting Our Home”, with the support of the Secretary of Communications and Transportation and companies affiliated with the Hotel Association of the Riviera Maya. This program consisted of planting more than 22,000 native plants of different species (ciricotes, cedars, marculis, ceibas, akits and palms) in the central ridge of the federal highway from Xcaret to Cancun. 36 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 37 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret WATER At the Xcaret, Xel-Há, Xplor and Xoximilco Xplor, and in the case of Xenotes, we have plants, 168,466 liters of water were treated. dispensers that are provided to them before starting the tour. In this way we ensure the Through our Chemical-Free Sunblock Exchange quality of the water in the ecosystems where we Program, in 2016, we provided 128,347 free operate, as well as the marine life that inhabit it. samples to our visitors at Xcaret, Xel-Há and Efficient use of resources The water, the air, the soil and the services that the ecosystems provide are necessary for the well-being of the people and of the planet. These are limited resources, so they must be managed efficiently. 128,347 free samples of chemicalfree sunscreen. 38 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 39 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS RESPONSIBLE WASTE MANAGEMENT In order to optimize energy consumption and reduce greenhouse gas emissions , in 2016 Xcaret and Responsible waste management is essential in saving natural resources, Xel-Há Parks realized a change in its air conditioners, moving from mini-split technology to inverters, which is why we have waste recovery programs for aluminum, cardboard, as well as the introduction of a high-efficiency LED lighting system. paper, metals, plastics and glass. From the organic waste generated in our parks and tours, we produce compost to nourish the plants of the During 2017 we will carry out an in-depth study of greenhouse gas emissions throughout the Group, nurseries that are in our parks. so that we can identify aspects of energy improvement and reduce our emissions to combat climate change and its effects. 2,063 TONS OF COMPOST P R O D U C E D F R O M O R GAN I C WASTE 78% ORGANIC AND INORGANIC WAST E R E CYC L E D TONS RECOVERED 51 OF PLASTIC 67 OF ALUMINUM AND METAL 198 OF PAPER AND CARDBOARD 51 OF GLASS 40 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 41 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret Species Southern Stingray Research Program Conservation Ten reproduction programs: crested SEA TURTLE CONSERVATION PROGRAM guan, pink flamingo, great green 10,988,545 macaw, great curassow, Mexican parrot, butterflies, quetzal, tapir, sea turtle hatchlings released from the start nurse shark and royal toucan. of the program until 2016 Four conservation programs: elkhorn coral, scarlet macaw, manatee and sea turtles. 1,061,152 sea turtle hatchlings released in 2016 27,342 JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC butterflies reproduced 1,671 specimens of queen conch monitored 42 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 43 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret Species Conservation Conservación de especies SCARLET MACAW REPRODUCTION CORAL REPRODUCTION PROGRAM PROGRAM Elkhorn Coral (acropora palmata) Conservation Program, for the restoration of the reef. 229 280,000 In 2016: specimens of scarlet macaws released in Chiapas and Veracruz, COLLECTED EGGS 60,000 achieving an increase of 91% of the free-living population of this species in Mexico. CORAL GAMETES (GERM CELLS) 1,000 ARRIVED AT THE REEF 44 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 45 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret Species Conservation We work in partnership with various research centers, universities, civil society organizations and At the 13th United Nations Conference on Biodiversity (COP 13), held in Cancun, Quintana Roo, government agencies: we signed an agreement with the National Commission of Protected Natural Areas (CONANP) to strengthen the conservation program of the scarlet macaw In the jungles of Mexico. The agreement formalizes actions of joint collaboration in environmental education, specimen management, research, training and financing, aimed at the reproduction and reintroduction of the scarlet macaw in natural areas susceptible of receiving them, which will allow the expansion of the obtained results. In addition, we collaborate with environmental authorities in the care of confiscated species. We have 690 specimens of 25 different species under our protection at the request of the Federal Office of Environmental Protection (PROFEPA). Arroyo Negro Nonprofit Organization, Chiapas (Environmental Management Unit) 46 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 47 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret Animal Wellbeing We have developed a model of knowledge which include research guidelines (measurement generation with the learning obtained in the and monitoring of species), environmental years of work with the species that we have enrichment, habitat design, feeding programs, under our care. This model is based on the breeding programs, conservation programs, efforts of documentation, monitoring, data population management, education and training banks, information analysis, and in the production actions, and guidelines for the interaction of of knowledge for species management techniques, specimens or organisms with humans. habitat development, and in general everything related to achieving the objective of animal wellbeing. Our wildlife department is one of the most recognized in its sector. Its members are highly We continue to persevere in the improvement recognized professionals in their sector, and of our standards of animal wellbeing, and we are constantly invited to share their knowledge integrate international methodologies proposed in different forums and conferences about the by organizations that are experts in the subject, care of the species that we have experience in. 48 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 49 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret We are committed to the formation of the new generations of Quintana Roo. Through the Environmental Environmental Education Program of Xcaret and Xel-Há, we received 12,986 students and teachers of basic education from 296 public schools in Quintana Roo, to whom we stress upon the importance of conserving the natural and cultural wealth of the state. education Under the sea turtle release program, 600 pupils and teachers had the opportunity to set turtle hatchlings free to the sea. Through the Xplor Academic Excellence Program, 60 upper-level students participated in an educational journey to enter underground caverns full of stalactites and stalagmites, with the purpose of creating awareness and inspiring conservation actions. 50 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 51 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret Economic development of the business We are one of the most solid Mexican companies, having evolved exclusively with national capital. We maintain healthy finances, which will continue to provide valuable experiences for our visitors and ensure our growth, permanence and development of new projects. PROSPERITY 6 Memoria deExperiencias Sostenibilidad Xcaret Sustainability Report Experiencias Xcaret 53 Visitor Visitors Influx 4.7% We closed 2016 with a 4.7% growth in the influx of visitors compared to the previous year, with a figure of 3,059,541 people who enjoyed our parks and tours. Of these, 24% were Mexican, and 3’059,541 Increased visitors enjoyed our parks influx of 76% were foreign, particularly from the United States, the United Kingdom, Colombia, Argentina, and tours visitors Canada, Brazil, Spain, Chile and Peru. 54 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 55 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret Special 2016 was a year to thank our Under the motto “25 years celebrating life... coworkers, visitors, business Thanks to you”, Xcaret Park developed several alliances, suppliers, interns and the new activities throughout 2016: entire community, for being part of events the first 25 years of Xcaret Park. The Xcaret Aviary was inaugurated, an impressive habitat that houses more than Since its opening in 1990, Xcaret 1,500 birds of 50 representative species. Park has received more than 20 million visitors, and has become the A new scene was added to Xcaret Mexico most important tourist attraction Espectacular, “Carnaval”, which projects the in Cancun and the Riviera Maya multicolored joy that frames this tradition of the for extolling the history, culture, different states of the Mexican Republic. gastronomy, architecture, nature, Visitors had the opportunity to take behind music, and traditions of Mexico. the scenes tours, to get to know the operations of the Gran Tlachco Theater. Visitors were invited to participate in the Mayan Ballgame, wearing traditional attire. During their stay at Xcaret, visitors got to enjoy a special parade in honor of Mexico that paid homage to traditional Mexican dress, with Indian and mestizo nuances. Also presented was the exhibition “25 Years, 25 Traditions of Mexico”, which projects the pluricultural wealth of our country; and the photographic series “25 Years of Developing Xcaret” was displayed, which reveals how the park has grown over time. 56 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 57 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret Special Events In June 2016 we started a new adventure: Xenses, a unique park in the world, an amazing, enigmatic, magical place. Simply fantastic. Located in the Riviera Maya, Xenses involved an investment of 25.5 million dollars, generating 119 direct jobs and 476 indirect jobs. The park operates in two half-day turns, with a maximum reception capacity of 1,500 people per turn. It is part of our strategy of diversifying the supply in the destination, through the creation of a tourism genre that could be called “sensorial tourism”, since all of Xenses’ attractions represent a challenge to human perception, and allow ludic experiences for each of the senses of the body. Through more than 15 activities, visual games and optical illusions are discovered at Xenses. You will experience different types of ecosystems, the freedom to fly through the air, the adrenaline of sliding down to land in refreshing waters, and moments to revive the senses and remember that what is valuable and important in life is to dare to do things out of the ordinary. 58 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 59 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret Special Events Special Events Xel-Há Triathlon 2016 • Eighth edition Xplor Bravest Race Together with the Mexican 2016 Triathlon Federation, we promote • Fourth edition this competition as a green sport with a focus on caring for the Incredibly fun race along a S E PTE M B E R environment. 5km route with obstacles through the jungles of Xplor Park. 2016 WASTE TONNAGE Foreigners 1,623 NOVE M B E R participating triathletes 2,739 INORGANIC 2% 98% 2016 ORGANIC participants 484 Nationals volunteers promoted 45% 55% excellent environmental practices 4.4 2.3 $1,962,259 pesos donated for the registration Women Men of the Marine Turtle Conservation $549,000 Program of Flora, Fauna and Culture of pesos collected at the Mexican Mexico, A.C. Red Cross Benefit Dinner. 60 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 61 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret Recognitions Xcaret and Xel-Há parks received the EarthCheck Gold Sustainable Tourism Certification for their outstanding performance in the management of natural resources for tourism use. Xcaret Park was recognized as the best The world’s largest travel website once international theme park and the best water again granted the certificate of excellence park outside of the United States, during the to all of our experiences because of the presentation of the emblematic 2016 Travvy high ratings and recommendations made Awards presented by TravAlliancemedia. by our visitors. The Mexican Center for Philanthropy (Cemefi) recognized us with Best Practices of Social Responsibility for the Program of Reproduction of We reaffirm our commitment to hygiene and We reaffirmed our classification as one of Corals in the category of “Care of quality in the elaboration of food and beverages the Best Companies to Work For in Mexico the Environment”, and for the Sacred The Ministry of Tourism once again recognized Xcaret that we offer in our restaurants for visitors and in by the Great Place to Work Institute. Mayan Journey, in the category and Xel-Há parks for their excellent environmental the coworker cafeterias of all our parks and tours. “Linkage to the Community”. practices in the tourism sector. For the seventh consecutive year Tecnológico de Monterrey, Deloitte For 15 years, the Mexican Center for Philanthropy (Cemefi) has recognized and Banamex, recognized us as one of the best companies in our us as a Socially Responsible Company for being the first to adopt the country, with the distinctive Platinum Company award, for proper standards of social responsibility in the tourism sector and in the Cancun financial, commercial and operational management. Riviera Maya destination. 62 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 63 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret Indirect jobs In 2016 we generated more than 16,000 indirect jobs of different natures, such as travel agencies, hotels, restaurants, transportation, and supply companies, among many others. This allows us to generate a positive impact in the communities close to our business units, and thus, increase their social welfare. Strengthening of the mexican economy Our business model contributes to the strengthening of the tourism industry, the local, regional and Mexican economy. 64 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 65 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret Value chain Our value chain is a fundamental part of the added value, experience and provenance of Group’s success, so our suppliers are relevant the company. Our corporate philosophy is business partners, establishing long-term and committed to the improvement of Mexico’s Alliances mutually beneficial relationships. economy. This is why our purchasing policy is intended to benefit local suppliers, then regional We guarantee equal opportunities to all suppliers, national suppliers, and ultimately, suppliers that offer products and services, foreign suppliers. In addition, with these actions with the tourist sector however, we select them according to criteria we reduce our carbon footprint. of quality, profitability, service, competitiveness, We actively collaborate with organizations linked We also participate in the Caribbean Business to tourism to boost the development of our Coordinating Council and the Confederation Supply Chain country and destination, join efforts to strengthen of Employers of the Mexican Republic, and we our presence in tourist markets, and increase the reaffirm our commitment to the development of a Providers Quintana Roo 87% Yucatan influx of visitors. We are part of the Knowledge socially responsible market economy. Peninsula 60% Yucatan & Campeche 13% Network of the World Tourism Organization and member of Skäl International. At the national level At an international level, we are affiliated members 2% we collaborate with the Ministry of Tourism and of the World Tourism Organization and its Yucatan the Council of Tourism Promotion of Mexico. And Knowledge Network, a knowledge community that Foreigners 60% Peninsula at the local level, we have a relationship with the stimulates the creation, diffusion and application 98% Mexico Rest of the 40% Association of Quintana Roo Vacation Clubs, the of knowledge in tourism. We are also part of country Cancun and Puerto Morelos Hotel Association, Skäl International, an organization that promotes the Riviera Maya Hotel Association, the Mexican friendship and global tourism. Association of Travel Agencies of Quintana Roo, the Office of Cancun Visitors and Conventions, and the Cozumel and Riviera Maya Tourism Promotion Trust. In this way we contribute to the strengthening of the tourism industry. 66 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 67 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret Supply Chain + Stores Yucatan Quintana Roo 84% Shop Suppliers 55% Peninsula Yucatan & Campeche 16% Yucatan Quintana Roo 86% Peninsula 60% Yucatan & Campeche 14% 98% Yucatan Peninsula 55% Mexico Rest of the country 45% Yucatan 60% 98% Peninsula Mexico Rest of the country 40% 2% Foreigners 2% In our park’s stores, we privilege the integration of products made Foreigners by groups of Mexican artisans with environmentally friendly materials, contributing to fair trade and the sustainable development of communities. The stores in our parks In 2016, in order to improve the environmental offer products with cause, supporting performance of our value chain, we participated the development of the programs and as a leader in the Environmental Leadership activities of Flora, Fauna and Culture of Program for Competitiveness (PLAC), promoted Mexico, A.C. by the Federal Environmental Protection Agency. We received the commitment of suppliers, with whom we carried out eco-efficiency projects that generated significant economic savings, and allowed us to continue strengthening our relationship of trust. 68 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 69 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret Ethical practices At Experiencias Xcaret we pay special attention to the compliance with current legal regulations. We are the principal promoters of appropriate, ethical, honest and transparent conduct in all areas of We participate voluntarily in national and international initiatives that commit us to follow ethical the business and with all our stakeholders. With our collaborators, we use our internal communication principles as a key to transparency in business and respecting human rights. These include the as a means to reaffirm messages that allow the appropriation of the values and ethical principles United Nations Global Compact, the ESR Distinction (Socially Responsible Company), and the that govern our business. With our visitors, we make sure to fulfill our promise of sale. With our Global Reporting Initiative, to which we transparently report our sustainability results. suppliers, business partners and other groups with whom we have a relationship, we respect the commitments, obligations and contracts arrived upon by mutual agreement. 70 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 71 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret About Principles of the this Report United Nations Global Compact This Sustainability Report concentrates the main contributions to sustainable development by our We align our strategies and operations with the principles promoted by the United Nations Global Group in the period from January 1st to December 31st, 2016. Compact in four areas: Unless stated otherwise, the figures and actions expressed in this report refer to all business units Principle 10: Act against all Principle 1: Support and that make up Experiencias Xcaret Group. forms of corruption, including respect the protection of extortion and bribery. human rights. This report was made under the criteria of the Global Reporting Initiative G4 guide, so basic contents Pages: 70 & 71 are included. In addition, this report presents our commitment to the principles of the United Nations Pages: 3, 9, 10, 11, 13, 17, Global Compact and to Sustainable Development Goals. 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32 & 33 For more information about this report or the performance of our Group regarding sustainability you may contact directly: Principle 7: Support the preventative approach to environmental challenges. Iliana Rodríguez Cavazos Pages: 37, 38, 39, 41, Director of Communication and Corporate 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, Principle 6: Social Responsibility 48, 49 & 61 Eliminate discrimination in Principle 8: Promote employment and irodriguez@experienciasxcaret.com.mx greater environmental occupation. responsibility. Pages: 35, 37, 38, 39, 42, 43, Pages: 14, 15, 16, 18, Miriam Alonso Pacheco Leonildo Tun Caamal 44, 45, 48, 49, 50, 51, 61& 67 19, 20, 24, 29, 65, 67, Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility 68 & 69 Manager Executive Principle 9: Encourage the development and dissemination malonso@experienciasxcaret.com.mx ejecutivorse@experienciasxcaret.com.mx of environmentally friendly technologies. Pages: 38, 39 & 40 72 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 73 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret SDG Pages: SDG Pages: SDG Pages: 18, 19, 28, 25 16 29 y 51. In September 2015, many countries adopted 17 governments, the private sector, and organized civil global goals to eradicate poverty, protect the planet, society, to build a better world for all. and ensure prosperity for all as part of a new agenda for sustainable development, whose goals must be At Experiencias Xcaret we have identified how met by 2030. The Sustainable Development Goals we contribute to the fulfillment of these objectives 15, 16, 17 y require the work and commitment of everyone, through our strategy and performance. 39 66 65 38, 39, 40, 30, 31, 32, 15 y 16 41, 67, 68 33 y 37 y 69 38, 39, 42, 35, 37, 38, 51 43, 45, 46, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47 48 y 49 y 48 24, 25, 26, SDG: 70 y 71 27, 28, 46, Sustainable 47 y 66 Development Goals. 74 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 75 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines EC Economy LP Labor Practices EN Environment G4-EC8 Pages: 15, 59 y 65 Pages: 17, 20, 21, G4-EN1 Pages: 41 y 61 BM G4-LA2 22 y 23 Significant indirect economic Materials by weight and volume. impacts and their scope. Coworker benefits. Business Management G4-EN2 Pages: 41 G4-EC9 Pages: 67, 68 y 69 G4-LA8 Pages: 17 Percentages of materials used Percentage of purchases Health and safety issues for that are recycled. G4-1 Pages: 2 y 3 G4-9 Pages: 6, 7, 15 y 16 G4-24 Pages: 3 y 9 coworkers. from local suppliers. Declaration of the person in Scale of the organization. Groups of interest. G4-EN10 Pages: 39 charge of the company. G4-LA9 Pages: 18 y 19 G4-10 Pages: 16 G4-27 Pages: 10 y 11 Percentage and volume of Average annual training recycled and neutralized G4-3 Pages: 1 Key topics for stakeholders Number of coworkers by hours for coworkers. water. and institutional response. Name of the organization. gender. S G4-28 Pages: 72 G4-LA10 Pages: 18 y 19 Pages: 37, 39, 42, G4-4 Pages: 6 y 7 Pages: 65, 67, G4-12 68 y 69 Skills Management and G4-EN13 43, 44, 45 y 47 Period covered by the report. Brands and products. Continuing Education Restored or protected Supply chain. Programs. G4-31 Pages: 72 Social habitats. G4-5 Pages: 6 y 7 G4-15 Pages: 62 y 63 Contact for resolving any G4-EN22 Pages: 39 Location of headquarters. doubts. G4-SO1 Pages: 24 Documents, principles or Volume of treated water. Commitments to the local G4-6 Pages: 1 initiatives. G4-34 Pages: 5 community. G4-EN23 Pages: 41 Countries in which the Pages: 1, 46, 47 Organizational structure. organization operates. Pages: 24, 25, Total weight of waste, acG4-16 y 66 G4-SO2 26, 27, 28, 30, 31, cording to type and treatPromotional associations G4-56 Pages: 70 y 71 32 y 33 ment methods. G4-8 Pages: 54 y 55 Codes of conduct or ethical Significant operations with and organizations. Markets served. codes. the community. 76 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 77 Experiencias Xcaret Experiencias Xcaret The commitment to sustainability is the responsibility of everyone
