Statement to renew our commitment to the Global Compact CONTENTS Marcy l’Étoile, July 20, 2017 As a pioneer in diagnostics for more than 50 years, bioMérieux has always adopted a socially Presentation of the Global Compact. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 responsible, humanistic approach to the Company’s development, grounded in our commitment to serve global public health. We naturally decided to join the United Nations Global Compact The ten principles of the Global Compact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 in 2003, and over the course of 2016 its principles continued to guide our initiatives. Presentation of bioMérieux . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 To address major public health challenges such as antimicrobial resistance, our action extends beyond the bioMérieux product portfolio. The Company places great importance on the role we Principles related to human rights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 can play alongside healthcare stakeholders to limit the impact of antimicrobial resistance on Policy and objective ..................................................................................................................... 11 future generations. To this end, we take part in a number of initiatives to raise awareness among 2016 actions and outcomes ...................................................................................................... 11 healthcare professionals and improve practices to encourage the responsible use of antibiotics. Preserving the efficacy of antibiotics for future generations ......................................... 11 Each year, in collaboration with the Mérieux Foundations, we also reassert our commitment to public health to facilitate access to quality diagnostics for the most disadvantaged patients by Improving maternal and infant health in Africa .............................................................. 12 strengthening local clinical biology capacities and providing training for healthcare professionals. Contributing to the fight against epidemics .................................................................... 13 Across our organization, we conduct several initiatives to implement an ambitious social policy Promoting access to diagnostics through the Foundations .......................................... 14 to promote diversity, facilitate social dialogue and contribute to the professional development and growth of each employee with the support of our corporate university, Mérieux Université. Principles related to labour. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 At the same time, we are rolling out a specific program to protect the health and safety of our Policy and objective.................................................................................................................... 17 employees and to further limit the environmental impact of our activities. 2016 actions and outcomes .................................................................................................... 17 Finally, we pursue our Ethics and Compliance Program launched a few years ago, in favor of Supporting our employees’ success ............................................................................. 17 a corporate culture that upholds the highest ethical standards. Promoting professional development .......................................................................... 18 Through these achievements, we renew our support for the Global Compact and continue to carry out actions that focus on respect for human rights, labour conditions, the environment Principles related to the environment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 and the fight against corruption, which comprise the four pillars that ensure the strength of the Policy and objective.................................................................................................................... 23 Global Compact. 2016 actions and outcomes .................................................................................................... 23 “VISION 2020”: A health, safety and environment policy for everyone, everywhere ................................................................................................ 23 Jean-Luc Belingard The product life cycle........................................................................................................ 23 Chairman Site participation and employee engagement............................................................ 24 Supply and distribution..................................................................................................... 24 Principle related to anti-corruption. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 Policy and objective.................................................................................................................... 27 2016 actions and outcomes .................................................................................................... 27 Training programs adapted to risk exposure ............................................................... 27 An updated and improved Global Code of Conduct ................................................ 27 Fighting corruption ............................................................................................................. 28 Protection of personal data and patient data.............................................................. 28 Ethics hotline is 100% operational ............................................................................... 28 2 3 Presentation of the Global Compact Launched in July 2000 by the UN Secretary-General Kofi Through the involvement of business leaders, the Global Annan, the Global Compact calls on businesses to voluntarily Compact provides a practical framework for the development, commit to implementing ten universally recognized principles. implementation and diffusion of CSR strategies. By monitoring respect for these ten principles that lay the By joining the Global Compact, bioMérieux and other foundation for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), the companies like it have responded positively to the call from Global Compact promotes a more stable and inclusive the United Nations, making a commitment to embed the global economy benefiting individuals, local communities ten principles into their strategy, to progress each year in and the markets. integrating these principles, and to communicate annually The Compact takes into account the societal, political and about their good practices in the following document. economic challenges affecting businesses worldwide. It calls on businesses that, like bioMérieux, recognize the need to collaborate with governments, civil society, workers, trade unions and the United Nations. The Global Compact in figures in 2016: 9,000 businesses in more than 160 countries. 4,000 organizations (associations, universities, trade unions, etc.). In France: 1,260 participants including 1,153 companies and 107 non-profit organizations. 4 5 The ten principles of the Global Compact Principles related to human rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally 1 proclaimed human rights. 2 Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principles related to labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective 3 recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Businesses should contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced and 4 compulsory labour. 5 Businesses should contribute to the effective abolition of child labour. Businesses should contribute to the elimination of discrimination in respect of 6 employment and occupation. Principles related to the environment 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater 8 environmental responsibility. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 9 friendly technologies. Principle related to anti-corruption Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion 10 and bribery. 6 7 Presentation of bioMérieux A world leader in the field of in vitro diagnostics for 50 bioMérieux’s responsibility as a corporate citizen is closely tied years, bioMérieux is present in more than 150 countries to the very nature of its business. Each day, across the globe, through 42 subsidiaries and a large network of distributors. the quality of its diagnostic tests makes it possible for patients to receive care under the best conditions while consumers’ bioMérieux provides diagnostic solutions (systems, reagents, health is protected by ensuring the microbiological quality of software), which determine the source of disease and food and pharmaceutical products. contamination to improve patient health and ensure consumer safety. Its products are used for diagnosing infectious diseases and providing high medical value results for cancer screening and monitoring and cardiovascular emergencies. They are also used for detecting microorganisms in agri-food, pharmaceutical and cosmetic products. Key figures: 9,800 employees at the end of 2016 Net sales of €2.103 billion in 2016, with more than 90% of international sales Present in more than 150 countries A recognised CSR policy Several extra-financial rating agencies have evaluated bioMérieux’s CSR performance and have integrated it into their SRI indices (Socially Responsible Investments). This is the case of the Forum Ethibel (Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe), which builds on the work of the rating agency Vigeo, EthiFinance (Gaia Index) and FTSE Russell (FTSE4Good Index). 8 9 Principles related to human rights PRINCIPLE 1: bioMérieux and its employees are committed to supporting and respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2: bioMérieux and its employees are committed to making sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Policy and objective GLOBAL PPS, A SURVEY OF UNPRECEDENTED SCOPE As a global public health player, bioMérieux places the In April 2016, during the European Congress of Clinical patient and, more broadly, people, at the center of its actions. Microbiology and Infectious Diseases (ECCMID), bioMérieux In accordance with Article 25 of the Universal Declaration and the University of Antwerp presented the final report of Human Rights and mindful of its social responsibility, the of the Global Point Prevalence Survey (Global PPS), which Company conducts initiatives to promote access to quality studied antibiotic use and bacterial resistance rates by diagnostics for the most disadvantaged patients. monitoring the practices of 335 hospital centers providing Our commitment focuses on four areas: fighting antimicrobial care for adults, children and neonates in 53 countries resistance, promoting widespread access to diagnostics, worldwide. All participating centers volunteered to analyze improving maternal and infant health and combatting their antibiotic prescription practices with the aim of improving epidemics. patient outcomes. 2016 actions and outcomes * Outcomes and perspectives: Data collected from over 100,000 patients revealed that: Preserving the efficacy of antibiotics for future generations ■ One out of two hospitalized patients in Asia and Africa receive antibiotics, compared to one out of three in Europe, Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) to antibiotics is a global public health threat. Forecasts are alarming: by 2050, it is estimated ■ Second-line antibiotics** are over-used (vancomycin in North America, that there will be more than 10 million AMR-related deaths meropenem in Asia and North America), annually, which represents one death every three seconds, ■ Ceftriaxone, a very broad-spectrum antibiotic, is the most frequently with an associated cost of over US$100,000 billion*. used antibiotic in the world, Diagnostic tests are able to identify the agent causing an ■ Diagnostic tests were performed in only one out of three cases to infectious disease and to detect its potential resistance support the chosen antibiotic treatment. to antibiotics. Such tests contribute to the optimal use of antibiotics, used only to treat bacterial infections. Selecting This study highlights the importance of in vitro diagnostics as well as the antibiotic best adapted to the targeted bacterium the need to expand the use of diagnostic tests to improve antibiotic helps to slow the emergence of resistant bacteria and prescribing practices in all countries. therefore to preserve the efficacy of antibiotics. As a Company This prevalence survey will be repeated in 2017, with the continued committed to addressing this major public health challenge, support of bioMérieux and the participation of even more healthcare developing these high medical value tests remains a priority centers and countries. for bioMérieux. * Estimating the Economic Costs of Antimicrobial Resistance, RAND: www.rand.org/randeurope/research/projects/antimicrobial-resistance-costs.html ** Second-line antibiotics are “reserved” antibiotics recommended by medical guidelines as an alternative treatment of an infection when standard first-line antibiotics cannot be used for various reasons (for example: allergy, side effects, suspected resistance). 10 11 A WEBSITE TO PROMOTE AWARENESS AND * Outcomes: In 2016, the first phase of the program involved validating In 2015, a partnership was signed with McMaster University Contributing to the fight against epidemics INFORMATION the new policy in four departments of the pilot center: neurosurgery, (Canada) concerning the donation of a FilmArray® system orthopedic surgery, hematology and the emergency room. and FilmArray® Gastrointestinal tests to the Botswana National SOLUTIONS VALIDATED IN AN EPIDEMIC CONTEXT In June 2016, bioMérieux introduced the Company’s Laboratory, within the scope of a partnership between website dedicated to resistance to antibiotics: bioMérieux pursued initiatives to support the diagnosis and ■ PERFORM, a project in Europe Botswana and the University of Pennsylvania (United States). www.antimicrobial-resistance.biomerieux.com surveillance of epidemic diseases. This educational site, designed for healthcare professionals The European project PERFORM (Personalized risk assessment * Outcomes and perspectives: and the general public, aims to educate people and build for improved management of febrile children across Europe) ■ In Chad in 2016, two scientific posters presented at international * Outcomes: Following the work carried out in 2015 during the epidemic awareness about bacterial resistance to antibiotics. It suggests addresses the problem of identifying a bacterial infection and congresses the results of a study launched in 2015 by bioMérieux caused by the Ebola virus, and within the framework of a collaborative solutions and highlights the medical value of diagnostics to reducing inappropriate use of antibiotics and antibiotic and ALIMA (a non-governmental organization), which examines the project with a team from the Jean Mérieux BSL-4 laboratory in Lyon, combat antimicrobial resistance. Using illustrations, it highlights resistance by developing new tests to differentiate between causes of acute, persistent infectious diarrhea in children suffering research was conducted in the field of biosafety on the FilmArray® the impact of antibiotic resistance on humans, animals, food a viral and a bacterial infection. from severe malnutrition. BioThreat-E test™, which confirmed the safety of the FilmArray® platform and the environment. for handling samples containing dangerous pathogens. This research was * Outcomes and perspectives: The PERFORM consortium brings These results, which will be published in 2017, illustrate the presented in December 2016 in Cape Town (South Africa), at the African * Outcomes and perspectives: Launch of a French version of the together 18 renowned international organizations from 10 countries. Of importance of furthering our understanding of the disease agents Society of Laboratory Medicine congress. website early 2017, for an increasingly broader awareness of resistance the 10, bioMérieux is the only partner from industry. The PERFORM responsible for diarrhea in infants, in order to better prevent it and to antibiotics. grant is one of the largest awarded by the European Commission’s treat young children suffering from severe malnutrition. Horizon 2020 health program (€18 million). Over a five-year period ■ In Botswana, a clinical study is under way thanks to the financial support CENTER OF EXCELLENCE IN BRAZIL (2016-2021), it provides funding for the development of novel of the Grand Challenges Canada Program*. The aim is to optimize the INTERACTING WITH INTERNATIONAL diagnostic tests to improve care for children presenting with high fever bioMérieux continued to roll out its R&D program to management of acute diarrhea in children by taking an innovative DECISION-MAKERS on arrival at a hospital or a health clinic. develop diagnostic solutions for tropical infectious diseases. approach – namely, by introducing a rapid diagnostic test to allow bioMérieux is recognized as a leader in the field of antibiotic for timely, targeted antimicrobial therapy. An initial study concerning * Outcomes and perspectives: In Brazil, the Company created a resistance and is invited to participate in international meetings rectal swabs for use on the FilmArray® system among children with Center of Excellence in 2016 and stepped up its partnership with the on this topic. For example in 2015, the Company was proposed severe gastroenteritis was described in a scientific poster presented University of São Paulo, where local teams carry out research projects to take part in such exchanges at the White House. at an international scientific congress in December 2016. in this field. Improving maternal and infant health in Africa Early 2017, funding was granted by the São Paulo Research Foundation * Outcomes: SYMPOSIUM AND WORKSHOP IN BURKINA FASO (FAPESP) for a research program on markers of viral severity of viruses ■ The Company was present in a meeting held at the United Nations bioMérieux has a longstanding presence in Africa. For some such as those that cause Dengue, Zika and Chikungunya infections. in September 2016, where it was represented by Mark Miller, 30 years, the Company has been developing its distribution bioMérieux also sponsors and contributes to events dealing Corporate VP, Chief Medical Officer. network for diagnostic solutions while continuing its with the care of pathologies affecting mothers and children. ■ In November 2016, bioMérieux was invited by the FDA (Food and commitment to programs that facilitate access to diagnostics DONATION OF RAPID TESTS IN BRAZIL Drug Administration) to participate in the commission dedicated for resource-limited populations, in line with the U.N. * Outcomes: In November 2016, bioMérieux sponsored and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for 2030. contributed to the International Symposium on rotavirus gastroenteritis For the second consecutive year, bioMérieux took part to microbiology, during its advisory committee on medical in Burkina Faso, organized by the Ministry of Health, in collaboration in the Xingu Mission Project, dedicated to improving the devices. In this context, the Company presented the results of a The Company places particular importance on improving with the Linköping Faculty of Medical Sciences of Sweden. health of populations living in isolated regions of Brazil. study demonstrating the benefits of the widespread use of its the health of mothers and young children by targeting four VIDAS® B•R•A•H•M•S PCT™ test to contribute to the proper use priority diseases: respiratory infections, diarrhea, sepsis In addition to the symposium, the Company organized a workshop * Outcomes: For people in the town of São José do Xingu, several of antibiotics, in order to preserve their effectiveness over the long and meningitis. To reach this objective, initiatives are designed on the detection and molecular diagnostic testing of viruses that cause thousands of hepatitis B and HIV tests were distributed free of charge. term and to improve patient management. bioMérieux obtained to improve access to diagnostics, provide education and severe gastroenteritis. During the workshop, participants were trained These rapid tests are designed for ease-of-use in medical centers, FDA approval for this usage in February 2017. train professionals on the use of in vitro diagnostic tools, on using the FilmArray® Gastrointestinal test. allowing real-time diagnosis and therefore earlier treatment of patients form public-private partnerships, and develop innovative who do not have easy access to a diagnostics laboratory. TARGETED INITIATIVES IN THE FIELD products that address the specific challenges facing African countries. ■ CARE, a multi-partner program in China CREATION OF A TRAINING PROGRAM ON TREATING The CARE (China Against drug REsistance) program was FEVER IN GUINEA launched by the Fondation Mérieux in 2013. With the support CLINICAL STUDIES WITH FILMARRAY® In the aftermath of the health crisis facing this country of bioMérieux, which oversees its implementation, CARE aims during the Ebola virus epidemic, the association Santé En FilmArray is a molecular biology platform for the syndromic ® to set up a new policy for prescribing antibiotics in order to limit Entreprise organized a workshop in May 2016 in Conakry diagnostics of infectious diseases. The tests carried out on this the emergence of new resistance mechanisms. The program is (Guinea). The Guinean Chamber of Mines (CMG) and platform allow the rapid diagnosis of sepsis, meningitis and already being used by the Paris Public Hospital System (APHP). the National Plan to Fight Malaria (PNLP) took part in this encephalitis, respiratory and gastro-intestinal infections. GastroIn addition to hygiene measures, it requires the reassessment forum where participants shared their experiences. intestinal infections, which severely affect children, are the main of any prescription of antibiotics after 48 hours based on focus of several research projects in various African countries, * Outcomes: bioMérieux led a workshop on the management of tests results provided by the microbiology laboratory, as well using the FilmArray® technology. patients with fever. A training project was developed in late 2016 on as a maximum treatment duration of seven days, except in exceptional circumstances. In 2015, the Fondation Mérieux in For the purposes of the study, bioMérieux donated FilmArray® this topic, targeting healthcare professionals working for the mining China and the University Hospital of Zhejiang Province entered Gastrointestinal tests to the NGO ALIMA, which were used by companies. A training program has been submitted to the Ministry of into an agreement. the Chad-China Friendship Hospital in N’Djamena. Health and the WHO, with implementation expected in 2017. * A program funded by the government of Canada to support innovative initiatives with a strong global public health impact. 12 13 Promoting access to diagnostics through the * Outcomes and perspectives: The Christophe et Rodolphe Mérieux Foundations Foundation wishes to encourage research in developing countries with this prize. Since it was first conferred in 2007, it has been awarded Within the framework of its sponsorship activity, bioMérieux to 10 scientists who contribute to the fight against infectious diseases supports the work of the Fondation Mérieux and the affecting their countries at the grass-roots level. Fondation Christophe et Rodolphe Mérieux. These two independent family foundations focus on the fight against infectious diseases that affect the world’s poorest countries, by building capacities, particularly in the field of diagnostics. PROTECTING THE MOST VULNERABLE INDIVIDUALS The Foundations carry out initiatives in around 30 countries. bioMérieux’s support (€1.4 million in 2016) contributed to Beyond supporting local capacity building in biology, organizing a number of projects to benefit disadvantaged the Foundations also seek to protect the most vulnerable communities. individuals, in particular mothers and children. With the Foundations’ support, several projects were carried out in 2016 IN BRAZIL * Outcomes: ■ The Fondations contributed to building a medical center in In April 2016, a fourth Charles Mérieux Center for Infectious Erbil (Iraqi Kurdistan) and to equipping the center and training Diseases was inaugurated in Rio Branco, in Brazil. It marks personnel. This Pauline-Marie Jaricot Mother and Child Center an important milestone in the fight against viral hepatitis, provides comprehensive, quality medical care for displaced persons, a major public health problem in the Amazon. The three of whom there are many in the Iraqi Kurdistan region. Numerous other Centers for Infectious Diseases are located in Mali, health problems have been identified in the camps, in particular Madagascar and Laos. diarrhea (especially in children), respiratory infections, the risk * Outcomes and perspectives: The 400 sqm facility includes a of pandemic outbreaks, and the complications of pregnancy and Rodolphe Mérieux Laboratory, the only high biosafety level laboratory childbirth. Both the Foundation’s partners in this project are other (BSL3) in the Amazon region. This center will make it possible to set up institutions from Lyon: Œuvres Pontificales Missionnaires de Lyon training programs in human resources and to develop basic and clinical and Fondation Saint-Irénée. research in this region. ■ In Haiti, the Foundations support the village of Nazareth in Leogane, The Rodolphe Mérieux Laboratory in Brazil joins a network of seven a center for orphans and children in distress from birth to age six. other Rodolphe Mérieux Laboratories on three continents (in Mali, It was founded in 2012, in the aftermath of the earthquake, thanks Cambodia, Laos, Haiti, Madagascar, Lebanon and Bangladesh). to the support of the Christophe et Rodolphe Mérieux Foundation. Currently 60 children live at the center. In 2016, the Foundations enabled the introduction of income-generating activities in IN LAOS particular by providing sheds to raise chickens and pigs. In addition, The 8th international meeting of the GABRIEL network a new home was built and work got under way to repair the damage (Global Approach to Biological Research, Infectious diseases caused by Hurricane Matthew. and Epidemics in Low-income countries) was held in July 2016 in Vientiane. The network brings together 18 public and private research centers, including the Rodolphe Mérieux Laboratories. * Outcomes: During the meeting, a symposium day open to the scientific community was organized on the topic of “bacterial resistance surveillance and public health interventions.” Among the speakers were experts working in Cambodia, Vietnam, Thailand and Laos. THE CHRISTOPHE MÉRIEUX PRIZE The 2016 Christophe Mérieux prize (€500,000) was awarded by the Institut de France, on behalf of the Fondation Christophe et Rodolphe Mérieux, to Professor Francine Ntoumi of the Faculty of Science and Engineering of Brazzaville (Congo), to encourage her work on infectious diseases in Central Africa. 14 15 Principles related to labour PRINCIPLE 3: bioMérieux and its employees are committed to upholding the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. PRINCIPLE 4: bioMérieux and its employees are committed to contributing to the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. PRINCIPLE 5: bioMérieux and its employees are committed to contributing to the effective abolition of child labour. PRINCIPLE 6: bioMérieux and its employees are committed to contributing to the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Policy and objective CAREER TRAINING TO DEVELOP EMPLOYEE SKILLS For more than 50 years, the men and women of One of the chief roles of Mérieux University is to develop bioMérieux have focused their expertise and dedication training programs and implement them to ensure that the on serving public health all over the world. bioMérieux, skills of employees of the companies within Institut Mérieux owned by its founding family, has always preserved its keep pace with the changing needs of customers. independence and nurtured its humanistic vision, allowing * Outcomes and perspectives: In 2016, two new “career path” courses it to fully embrace its corporate social responsibilities (CSR). were added to the 2017 professional training catalogue: Sales Essentials is In a world of constant change, economic performance goes designed to improve commercial performance, while training to support hand in hand with CSR performance. the transformation of the Supply Chain aims to increase customer bioMérieux endeavors to create a stable working environment satisfaction. where each employee is able to thrive. Our employees are vital to the Company’s success. Several modules have also been developed to complement existing “career path” courses, in particular a module devoted to improving the knowledge of financial mechanisms and indicators and internal audit. 2016 actions and outcomes Supporting our employees’ success Mérieux Université was launched in 2014 to support the professional development of the employees of the companies that are part of Institut Mérieux. It also ensures the transmission of a strong entrepreneurial culture and helps build bridges within the Group. The university is organized around four regional hubs based in France, China, the United States and Brazil, to support employees in a rapidly-evolving professional environment, encourage innovation, foster talent development and bolster employee engagement. In a sector marked by ongoing change, a dynamic training policy represents a strategic investment and a priority for bioMérieux. 16 17 ENHANCING THE COMPANY CULTURE * Outcomes: Some of the topics addressed in 2016 included providing * Outcomes: At bioMérieux, the Women Ready for Leadership EMPHASIS ON HEALTH AND SAFETY support to a new team manager, facilitating the division of work Diversity (WoRLD) internal network works to promote greater gender The New Leader Induction program, created in 2015. between two teams, clarifying roles and responsibilities, and helping diversity within management positions. In 2016, its members organized In 2016, we outlined “Vision 2020”, the policy underpinning Training is intended to facilitate the integration of newly reposition a team’s project within the Company’s value chain. or participated in some 10 events to raise awareness and provide our commitment to reach ambitious objectives to protect recruited managers by providing an opportunity to discover information on the topic of gender diversity. the environment as well as safety and health in the the history, values and strategy of each of the companies workplace, at all sites where the Company operates that belong to Institut Mérieux while at the same time In February 2016, the WoRLD network provided the momentum for (cf. chapter 6 for more information). instilling a shared management culture to help them make the first JUMP Forum in Lyon, a day-long European event devoted to the issue of professional equality and promoting women’s careers. The bioMérieux teams are targeting a 30% reduction in the rate a successful transition. Promoting professional development forum in Lyon was attended by 200 participants; 15% were men from of occupational accidents by 2020. The 2015 rate of 2.1 The Mérieux Managers Essentials program was renewed. INTERNAL MOBILITY should be reduced to 1.6, which is especially low for the bioMérieux and other companies. * Outcomes: industrial sector internationally bioMérieux firmly believes in the potential of its human ■ 70 managers of 18 nationalities have already attended the New * Outcomes and perspectives: capital and promotes internal mobility. Key for successful Leader Induction Program. ■ The Health, Safety and Environmental policy, initially developed future development, internal mobility is encouraged to WORK-LIFE BALANCE ■ The Mérieux Managers Essentials program represented 16,000 hours adapt to a changing work environment in the short term for production facilities, has gradually been expanded to include of manager training in 2016, an average of 10 hours of training per and to address the Company’s development needs from a commercial subsidiaries as well. Quality of life in the workplace is a major focus of bioMérieux’s manager. more long-term perspective. human resources policy. In 2015, a Work-Life Balance program ■ All Group employees benefit from health insurance coverage was introduced in France to improve the balance between (public, private, or both). * Outcomes: Nearly 50% of permanent-contract positions are filled OFFERING TRAINING PROGRAMS THAT PROMOTE through internal mobility. employees’ professional and personal lives. ■ The Company covers the cost of a seasonal influenza vaccination for OUR STRATEGY its employees on most sites. * Outcomes: The program continued in 2016 and was expanded to cover additional countries in the EMEA region. The implementation Our US subsidiary launched a road safety training program in 2016 ■ GMs & Cluster Heads program: In May 2016, the program THE IMPORTANCE OF SOCIAL DIALOGUE ■ of a teleworking policy met with remarkable success. In France, for for all employees who use their vehicle for professional purposes. for subsidiary and cluster directors was held for the first time bioMérieux has always been very attached to the quality example, 10% of employees with a permanent contract worked from ■ In February 2016, the first medical center opened at the St. Louis, ■ Syner’J program: Within the Institut Mérieux Group, 24 of social dialogue. On numerous topics, Company home in 2016. Of these, 90% were executives and 62% were women. Missouri, site in the United States. For 1,100 site employees and buyers participated in this program launched in 2016, management works in concert with union representatives. their families, the Live Well Center provides medical check-ups, which focuses on pooling a portion of purchases. Employee representatives also contribute to social dialogue. early cancer screening and medical or nutritional advice given by ■ Fit for the Future program: Identifying exceptional employees This collaborative approach is an important tradition, one professionals. The confidentiality of medical data is strictly observed has been the focus of several initiatives in recent years. Fit for that bioMérieux values greatly, and it provides genuine DISABILITY INITIATIVES and the Company does not have access to personal data. . the Future is one of our most emblematic. support in terms of labor policy. Since 2008, the Company has carried out initiatives within ■ On the American sites, the 5K Road Race and Walk aims to raise * Outcomes and perspectives: * Outcomes: awareness about sepsis. the framework of the Company agreement concerning ■ GMs & Cluster Heads program: This training seminar allowed ■ The Central Works Council met 11 times in 2016, which far exceeds employees with disabilities. The “Disability” policy finances ■ The Vitality program encourages bioMérieux employees in the to share the Company’s strategy, address the challenges of this regulatory requirements. actions to hire, integrate and train people with disabilities, United States to pay attention to their health and wellness function, build a community of common practices and gather ■ The European Council, gathering personnel representatives from to raise awareness and train employees involved in participants’ insights and feedback about selected cross-functional ■ The Company organised a series of lectures on several sites in France, Italy, Spain and Germany, met 2 times. integrating disabled workers, and support job retention by initiatives. It will be organized once a year. France, addressing the topic “Stress, anxiety, depression, burn-out... adapting workstations (around 65% of the budget). ■ Over the last five years, 70 agreements have been signed in France what exactly are we talking about?”. These lectures, led by a specialised ■ Syner’J program: The program led to the creation of a community with social partners, and 80% of these were unanimous agreements. * Outcomes: teacher-trainer doctor, are part of a reflection on prevention and the of common practices and the development of an action plan for 2017. Responsible purchasing was one of the topics it addressed. ■ In 2016, the mandatory annual negotiation agreement and the ■ In France, €257,000 were allocated to the “Disability” policy in 2016. improvement of the quality of life of employees. Identifying exceptional employees has been the focus of several renegotiated employee profit-sharing agreement were signed ■ A recruitment day devoted to people with disabilities at the initiatives in recent years. unanimously by both labor unions present in the Company. Craponne (France) site. ■ Fit for the Future program: In 2016, 22 people took part in this ■ Collaboration with sheltered-employment companies across all intensive week during which they worked on topics of pressing GENDER EQUALITY French sites. interest for the company and attended presentations by renowned The first triennial agreement concerning gender equality in ■ 3 “Handibio” days at the sites of Craponne, Verniolle, Ker Lann, outside speakers. After six months of work, the participants the workplace was signed in 2003. It is renewed every three Combourg and Ivry (France) to raise awareness about working with submitted completed projects; some included recommendations years, providing an opportunity for the social partners to move a disability. that can be implemented within bioMérieux. forward on this issue. Measures to correct pay gaps, improve ■ Targeted training for Disability correspondents (one at each site) gender balance within the organizations and increase the and some managers. RESPONDING TO THE SPECIFIC NEEDS OF OUR TEAMS percentage of women in management positions are also ■ Financing means of disability compensation and investments in taken. Professional equality is essentially evaluated on the Mérieux Université also serves bioMérieux teams by designing production tools to support the job retention of employees with basis of 3 indicators: diversity, compensation and promotion. customized training in order to strengthen collective disabilities and other employees as part of a preventive approach For the social partners, the information provided by this data efficiency and collaboration through a transfunctional (automation of certain workstations, automated lifting tables, etc.). allows corrective actions to be taken. approach. 18 19 PROMOTING THE INSERTION OF YOUNG PEOPLE ■ With associative actors Through partnerships with French associations such as ■ With schools and academic institutions Sport dans la Ville or the Institut Télémaque, the Company As a corporate citizen, bioMérieux is committed to supporting implements a policy to support young people in difficulty the integration of young people into the job market. and offer equal opportunities. The Company relies on its links with local communities * Outcomes: to form close ties with schools and universities. In the area around Lyon and Grenoble, France, bioMérieux is a ■ Sport dans la Ville: bioMérieux and Sport dans la Ville are partners partner to several universities as well as les grandes écoles since 2007. Through sport, this association aims to promote the (top-ranking institutions of French higher education), social and professional inclusion of young people coming from strengthening cooperation with the world of university underprivileged neighbourhoods. research and gaining access to a pool of talented individuals bioMérieux’s commitment takes the form of mentoring and integrating for recruitment purposes. of young people from the association in different departments of the * Outcomes: Company. ■ EMLYON Business School: In 2015, the Company established a ■ The “Apprenti’Bus”: in 2016, the partnership with Sport dans la Ville five-year partnership with this school. bioMérieux was one of the was strengthened by bioMérieux’s participation in the Apprenti’Bus first companies to join the Global Business Network, which brings program, whose purpose is to fight against inequality through together major international businesses that are partners to the actions supporting educational assistance and the professional business school. It has become the partner with expertise in the life integration of young people in disadvantaged areas. Workshops sciences within the scope of the I.D.E.A. program, a novel learning on reading, writing, communication and digital tools are offered to approach adopted by EMLYON. around a hundred children aged from 7 to 11. These are organised in a bus that travels through the 13 neighbourhoods in the Lyon area ■ Fondation Université Grenoble Alpes: bioMérieux is also a founding where Sport dans la Ville is active. member of the Fondation Université Grenoble Alpes, created in September 2014. The aim of this foundation is to support top■ Institut Télémaque: bioMérieux initiated a partnership with Institut notch research projects and promote equal opportunity. In 2016, Télémaque in 2015. The Institut’s mission is to help deserving and bioMérieux provided funding for five grants, giving excellent eager-to-study young people rise in society. For the 2015-2016 students specializing in BioHealth Computing the opportunity to school year, the Company financed the support of 16 young people pursue their studies in an international environment. selected by Institut Télémaque. ■ INSA Lyon Foundation: bioMérieux and the INSA (National Institute of Applied Sciences) Lyon Foundation have been partners since 2010. Thanks to their partnership, a team of students from INSA Lyon took part in the international Genetically Engineered Machine (iGEM) Competition in Boston in October 2016. The team presented their project for the rapid diagnosis of sexually transmitted infections and walked away with the Best Diagnostics Project award. The Company also took on nine interns from INSA in 2015 and 2016, delivered career-related lectures at the engineering school, and participated in INSA’s business forum. ■ Graduate School of Biology Biochemistry-Biotechnology (ESTBB): bioMérieux has established longstanding partnerships with ESTBB, one of the schools of the science faculty of the Catholic University of Lyon. Nearly 130 bioMérieux employees are ESTBB graduates, and every year the Company hires interns and work-study candidates from among its student body. Since 2008, a representative of bioMérieux has been a member of ESTBB’s Excellence Council, a forum for discussion and exchange with the education team to gather input from professionals. 20 21 Principles related to the environment PRINCIPLE 7: bioMérieux and its employees are committed to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 8: bioMérieux and its employees are committed to promote greater environmental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9: bioMérieux and its employees are committed to encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Policy and objective The product life cycle bioMérieux is committed to reducing the environmental The approach bioMérieux adopts is designed to reduce the impact of its activities through the responsible management environmental impact of our products. The principle of ecoof resources and energy. In 2016, we outlined “Vision design integrates the different phases of a product’s life 2020”, the policy underpinning our commitment to reach cycle: manufacturing, delivery, utilization and end of life, ambitious objectives to protect the environment as well as in compliance with applicable regulations as well as the safety and health in the workplace, at all sites where the Company’s objectives. Company operates. * Outcomes and perspectives: ■ Beginning in 2018, the environmental impact of the life cycle of new 2016 actions and outcomes products will be evaluated and by 2020, a product’s environmental performance will be established when it is launched. « VISION 2020”: A health, safety and ■ Integrating HSE challenges into product specifications concerns first environment policy for everyone, everywhere and foremost hazardous materials and product packaging. ■ Through the work accomplished on eco-design, the Company has ”Vision 2020”, the global vision of Health, Safety and adopted a far-reaching program for the remote maintenance of Environment (HSE) is built on four pillars: its instruments. It will allow technicians to intervene remotely for ■ the product life cycle, certain repairs, maintenance and system updates, the program will ■ supply and distribution, make it possible to limit travel. ■ ensuring that tools are available to all employees, ■ In 2016, the policy governing the management of biological and ■ the participation of Company sites and employee chemical substances was communicated to all bioMérieux teams engagement. affected by decisions about raw materials. The policy provides This global vision has strengthened our HSE policy. This information and raises awareness of concerns related to these policy concerns all employees, regardless of their job and substances, as well as good practices to apply. the country where they work – whether they are in an office, on the production line, in logistics, in a laboratory, or in the field. * Outcomes: An HSE Steering Committee was created in April 2016 to implement “Vision 2020” and to monitor how it is put into practice. Headed by the CEO of bioMérieux, the committee comprises 10 members, including R&D representatives. Its role is to manage the roll-out of the Health, Safety and Environment vision, policy and strategy. 22 23 Site participation and employee engagement The 18 bioindustrial sites of bioMérieux seek to obtain two types of certification: ■ ISO 14001 for the environment, ■ OHSAS 18001 for health and safety in the workplace. All new buildings integrate low-consumption objectives and respect environmental quality standards. * Outcomes and perspectives: ■ 9 bioindustrial sites and subsidiaries ISO 14001 certified by the end of 2016, ■ 6 bioindustrial sites OHSAS 18001 certified by the end of 2016, ■ A Health, Safety and Environment manager is in charge of HSE at each of the sites. These managers participate in the “Vision 2020” roll-out, attend HSE regional committee meetings to share good practices, provide feedback about concerns, and contribute to the development of bioMérieux standards. Efforts are focused on expanding the HSE policy to all entities worldwide. ■ In 2016, bioMérieux finalized the global roll-out of a dedicated IT tool for HSE. It encompasses professional risk assessment, improvement plan management, incident resolution, and environmental and safety reporting. Supply and distribution bioMérieux collaborates with its network of suppliers and its logistics partners to improve the Company’s Health, Safety and Environment performance. * Outcomes and perspectives: ■ Our HSE standards will gradually apply to our partners in order to support the implementation of a formalized HSE policy among our logistics service providers and our suppliers. ■ We continue to pursue initiatives in place since 2013 to optimize our carbon footprint. ■ In 2016, we began taking new emissions categories into account: these include direct and indirect emissions as defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, to which we have added emissions related to business travel, the home-to-work commute, and the transportation of goods between bioMérieux sites and our customers’ sites. ■ 8% reduction in water consumption in relation to 2016 sales (compared with 5% in 2015). ■ 7% decrease in total energy consumption in relation to global sales between 2014 and 2016 (compared with 6% between 2013 and 2015). 24 25 Principle related to anti-corruption PRINCIPLE 10: bioMérieux and its employees are committed to working against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Policy and objective 2016 actions and outcomes Like all international industrial firms, bioMérieux is exposed Training programs adapted to risk exposure to risks. In order to protect the Company and ensure In 2016, the Ethics and Compliance Department continued employees have access to the necessary tools to anticipate its training program to raise awareness among all and manage such risks, bioMérieux has put in place internal employees of bioMérieux about international rules and rules and procedures. in-house procedures. These training programs allow them bioMérieux operates within a framework of principles, to perform their jobs in compliance with applicable laws policies and procedures that reflect the highest ethical and regulations, and in line with the Company’s values and standards. The Company is committed to ethical conduct culture, wherever they may be. in its business activities in compliance with applicable The mandatory annual training program is composed of laws and expects its partners to respect these laws and a core curriculum for all employees as well as modules principles. specific to their function and risk exposure. The Program is intended to allow all bioMérieux employees to contribute to the Company’s growth, in compliance * Outcomes and perspectives: with business ethics, a culture of integrity throughout the ■ Within the first few months of joining the Company, all bioMérieux Company and all applicable regulations. It is designed to employees receive training about the Global Code of Conduct, the prevent unethical conduct. For this reason, staff training in Anti-Corruption manual and the policy concerning conflicts of interest. the rules of business ethics is a central part of the Program, ■ Each year, employees must validate a certificate of compliance with which contributes to the prevention of risks. It draws on the the rules of conduct and take a course to improve their awareness Global Code of Conduct, in line with annually set priorities. of corruption. In 2016, the Program’s main priorities were to: ■ The specific modules are tailored to bioMérieux’s sector of activity: for example, ethics and compliance training highlights relations ■ enhance measures to prevent corruption; with healthcare professionals; and training on the management ■ secure the distribution network; of personal data addresses the confidentiality of patient data in ■ prevent conflicts of interest with healthcare professionals; particular. ■ understand and effectively apply export regulations; ■ 2 new courses on the AdvaMed (“Advanced Medical Technology Association”) and MedTech Europe (European association of medical ■ protect patient data. equipment suppliers) codes of conduct were also distributed to approximately 2,300 employees concerned. ■ A face-to-face training program was introduced in 2015 for distributors, focusing especially on issues related to corruption. 26 27 An updated and improved Global Code of Protection of personal data and patient data Conduct PRINCIPLES RELATING TO THE PROTECTION OF A new edition of the bioMérieux Global Code of Conduct, a PERSONAL DATA reference tool within the Company, was published in 2016. It is available online, in particular on bioMérieux’s website: The protection of personal data and respect for privacy are www.biomerieux.com fundamental rights derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948. bioMérieux is committed to * Outcomes: protecting the privacy of personal data of its employees ■ In 2016, more than 8,500 employees across all subsidiaries received an and partners. Many countries have tightened regulations online training course on the new bioMérieux Global Code of Conduct. restricting the use and disclosure of personal data. These ■ Relations with healthcare professionals, bioethics and money laws require companies to take steps to ensure the laundering are some of the new items that have been introduced. confidentiality, integrity and availability of this kind of data. ■ Employees can refer to a list of questions & answers, illustrated with bioMérieux must also anticipate new regulations that will real-life examples, to help them find responses to their concerns. apply in the future. This is particularly the case in Europe, ■ The Global Code of Conduct is available in seven languages and with the new General Regulation on Data Protection, which may be translated locally into additional languages. will take effect in May 2018. * Outcomes and perspectives: Every employee accessing personal data will be trained and will adhere to the principles of this Regulation, and will only collect, use or disclose such information in compliance with bioMérieux’s internal rules and Fighting corruption national laws. bioMérieux’s Corruption Prevention Program is based on two components. The first is the Global Code of Conduct, PRINCIPLES RELATING TO THE PROTECTION OF which forms the basis of the Ethics and Compliance PATIENT DATA program. The second is the Corruption Prevention Manual. Through its involvement in the public health industry, bioMérieux The Corruption Prevention Program is designed to promote has access to personal data, better known as patient data. ethical conduct in business dealings, familiarise employees bioMérieux is committed to respecting the protection, use with the Company’s rules and anti-corruption law, give and disclosure of healthcare data in accordance with employees a forum in which to ask questions. applicable regulations in order to preserve the privacy of More information: patients. http://www.biomerieux.com/en/corruption-prevention-manual * Outcomes and perspectives: Every employee with access to patient * Outcomes: data is trained in the internal procedure for the protection of such data. ■ The Manual sets out the Company’s expectations in its relations with partners. It can be accessed on the Company’s corporate website and intranet Ethics hotline is 100% operational ■ In addition, the Company has produced a document on “Business Principles for Third Parties” and a “Third Party Approval Form” to Employees with questions related to ethics concerns may raise its partners’ awareness of the importance of complying with the contact their regional Compliance Officer in the Europe Company’s ethical conduct rules when doing business. Middle East Africa, Asia Pacific, and the Americas regions. Depending on their country and applicable local laws, they can also send a request via a website or contact a dedicated hotline. * Outcomes: Initially introduced in France in 2014, today the hotline is available in 42 of the countries where bioMérieux operates. It includes a secure and confidential alert system created to help all employees in the fight against corruption, fraud and any serious violation committed in the workplace. 28 29
