COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JUNE 2016 JUNE 2017 EPL |1 CONTENTS EPL |2 About this CEO English press document Statement of at a glance continued Contact support English Press Human Rights Labour Rights Reporting to United Nations Global Compact Enviroment Anti-corruption Overal Outlook Feedback EPL |3 Period covered by our communication on progress June 2016 to June 2017 In April 2012 English press Limited committed itself to the United Nations Global Compact. This commitment includes supporting the ten principles of the UN Global Compact as well as reporting and communicating annually to its stakeholders on progress made to implement the principles. English Press Limited (EPL) will continue supporting the United Nations Global Compact’s 10 principles. English Press Limited COP is available on our website www.englishpress.com EPL |4 Company Name : English Press Limited Sector : Manufacturing – Printing Number Of employees : 500 UN GC signatory since : 2012/4/4 Contact Person : Mrs. Shreeti Patel/ Veronica Mwanzia Address : P.O. Box 30127–00100 Nairobi, Kenya E-Mail :shreeti@englishpress.com/ qmr@englishpress.com Website : www.englishpress.com Cell : +254 722509838 : +254 735339002 EPL |5 CEO STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I am pleased to reaffirm our commitment to the UNGC and to the implementation of its Ten Principles. Preparing this Communication on Progress provided us with an opportunity to reflect on, and share our work in the areas of Human Rights, Labor Rights, Environment and Anti-Corruption. English Press has been signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (effect from April 2012) and continues to be an active participant of the UNGC. At English press, we know how important it is that we play a positive role in the economies and communities we serve and that we meet or surpass the expectations of stakeholders and shareholders. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders through our website. This communication progress report covers the period of June 2016 to June 2017 Mr. Kalpan Patel Chief Executive Officer English Press Limited EPL |6 ENGLISH PRESS AT A GLANCE English Press Limited is your one stop print company, providing customers with high quality products and services including pre-press, printing, finishing, packaging and logistics solutions. Founded 80 years ago, we have grown to one of be the largest ISO certified offset print house in the continent. Located in Nairobi, and built on a strong foundation of consistent quality and service, our values have enabled us to compete in the regional and international print market. Our vision: Think of the Best...and Make it Better. By investing heavily in both our people and our technology, English Press is able to provide a quality of service that we believe to be unmatched in the market. English Press Limited consists of a team of about 500 personnel who are committed to delivering the highest standards of service. Our work ethic is founded on collaborative partnerships with publishers, clients and suppliers to provide efficient and effective print solutions. At EPL, we firmly believe that by applying our skills, expertise and resources to different causes, we can not only make a difference in the world around us, but also catalyze other businesses to follow our lead. It is a goal that we strive for through our business strategy, our values and our every-day activities EPL |7 HUMAN RIGHTS EPL |8 Principle Businesses should support and respect 1 the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. EPL |9 ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS We care about, respect and support internationally proclaimed human rights. We work to guard against complicity in human rights abuses. We comply with applicable labour and employment laws, and draw on internationally recognized labour principles, including the principles in the UN Global Compact and aims of the International Labour Organization Respect for human rights is an integral part of our corporate culture. We are committed to conducting our business in an ethical and responsible manner that supports and respects the protection of human rights. We treat our employees with dignity, fairness and respect and we are guided by our shared core values. English Press’s Values are to be dependable and do the right thing; to be open to different ideas and cultures; and to be connected with our customers, communities, regulators and each other. Every employee at English Press is entitled to fair treatment and equal opportunities, and we are committed to respecting the human rights and dignity of all employees. We do not tolerate any form of harassment at English Press, and we respect our employees’ privacy and the confidentiality of their personal data. We are developing mechanisms for human rights awareness-raising, communication, monitoring and assurance. English Press requires its suppliers to act in accordance with good business ethics. Human rights and labor rights are part of the due diligence and certification criteria included in our selection process of raw material suppliers We have a number of internal policies and procedures that reflect our commitment to operating responsibly and ethically both at a business and an individual level. These include human rights policy, Anti-Bribery Policy, Code of conduct. These highlight the importance we place on respect for human rights across all our business relationships. We have an effective top-to-bottom governance structure providing an environment where employees are supported to work responsibly and manage risk effectively. EPL | 10 Implementation and initiatives • English quarterly newsletter by the employees to communicate and educate one another on various issue concerning health, money matters and family ties. • Conducted a risk assessment audit in our factory to mitigate any hazards in august 2016. • Health and safety audit conducted in 2016. • Implement human right s policy which is designed to protect employees from harassment or discrimination in any form, and to provide equality of opportunity. • We have ensured that all employees are fully aware of the policy and that they comply with it. • Operate a remuneration policy that is competitive and rewards good performance. • Ensured that all employees know what is expected of them and provide a framework which fairly measures performance and assists employees in developing their capabilities. • We have Provide a safe work environment for all employees and ensure they fully understand their responsibilities in regards to health and safety matters. • We aim to develop policies that will support employees in balancing their work and domestic responsibilities Measurement of outcomes • Zero cases identified of human rights abuses in the period • We have clear policies; regular training and robust processes to motivate employees to speak up if things don’t seem right and they can raise these concerns with supervisors, Human resource department and the top management. • All human resource policies and procedures are periodically reviewed to ensure that they are up to date and are in line with the Global compact principles. • Increased engagement and consultation with English press interested parties Actions to be implemented in the year 2017-2018 • Review of our human rights policy • We commit to delivering awareness training for employees regarding human rights • Risk assessment audit EPL | 11 LABOUR RIGHTS EPL | 12 Principle Businesses should Principle uphold the freedom of 3 4 association and the eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle The elimination of all forms of forced labour The eﬀective and compulsory 5 abolition of child labour: labour; Principle The elimination of discrimination in 6 respect of employment and occupation EPL | 13 ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS At English Press we maintain a working environment based on integrity, ethical conduct, equal opportunity and mutual respect. Over the years English Press has invested in developing a strong, vibrant workplace culture which includes a strong focus on candour, collaboration and providing an inclusive workplace. We oppose discrimination of any kind. We treat all employees fairly, and with dignity and respect. We do not tolerate any form of child labour, forced or compulsory labour within our business activities or those of our business partners. Where there are employee grievances, whether individual or collective, we address them promptly and collaboratively. We are committed to full operational compliance with applicable labour legislation and regulations, ILO core conventions and associated company standards and requirements. Furthermore, we maintain and support the rights of our employees to bargain collectively and to freedom of association. Our approach to managing our people and our contractors is enshrined in our Corporate Responsibility Policy, our Code of Conduct and employee handbook which forms part of the terms and conditions of employment with English press. Our employee handbook provides documented coverage of employee rights, conditions and responsibilities, including work environment expectations in relation to equal opportunity and diversity, and discrimination, health and safety at work and code of conduct. All workers have the right to form, join, and organize trade unions of their choice and to bargain collectively on their behalf with the company. English press respects this right, and effectively informs personnel that they are free to join an organization of their choosing and that their doing so will not result in any negative consequences to them, or retaliation, from the company. Furthermore, the company shall not interfere with the establishment, operation and organization of collective bargaining groups. The communication to workers shall be undertaken by the “shop steward”. The “shop steward” is a worker chosen to facilitate communication with senior management. English press shall allow workers to freely elect their own representative. EPL | 14 Implementation • The importance of equality and diversity is highlighted in English press’s Human Resource Policy and in recruitment and remuneration principles. • We guarantee all applicants equal opportunities and fair and equal treatment during the recruitment process. • All factory is operated according to OHSAS 18001: 2007 requirements • We place a high priority on employee communications and make use of a variety of channels to provide a wide range of company information, news and promote knowledge sharing and best practice exchange. • English Press believes that each and every member of its staff has an important role to play in the business; this is why we try to be as transparent as possible with our employees. • Once a month we hold a meeting with the top management and managers who then have the obligation to transmit the content of the meeting to their various teams. • Each staff member has an annual appraisal with feedback on current objectives and mutually fixed new objectives for the year to come. • Building the technical capabilities and interpersonal skills of our employees. • Improving the efficiency and productivity of our workforce through continuous improvement of processes, systems and work organization. • Career development opportunities for employees. • Wherever employees are represented by unions or through collective bargaining units, EPL maintains constructive relationships with all of our unions, who are afforded consultative and/ or negotiating powers on issues of shared interest. • Copies of the Basic Conditions of Employment Act are displayed in all work places and Formal grievance procedures are also in place through which employees can raise issues. • The EPL ensures that its employees’ rights are protected by fully complying with all the relevant legislation. EPL | 15 Measurement of outcomes • No Labor strike or any kind of unrest ever. • Number of child worker is ZERO. • Defined procedure for grievance management. • In the year June 2016 June 2017, EPL has not been subject to any statutory notice related to labour or health and safety. • No violations on freedom of associations have been reported in the reporting period. • We achieved OHSAS 18001: 2007 certification. • Support employee and worker organizations and respected collective agreements, completed the successful negotiation of the CBA contract 2016. • The shop stewards are allowed to hold meeting with the employees during work hours and attend union seminars without pay deductions. • We also request that our employee report and anomalies that they may see in the workplace to their Health & Safety Officer, these anomalies are then published in the company newsletter for full staff awareness. • We take the safety and security of our employees very seriously, we set up annual staff training in fire and safety, all of our employees have the opportunity to take part in these training sessions. In English Press 100% of staff had safety training in 2016. • English Press has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labor principles • When recruiting a new member of staff, we are scrupulous in respecting that no discrimination against sex, age, religion or any other factor is made. Actions to be implemented in the year 2017-2018 • To strengthen our employee induction program and materials to help new employees feel supported. • Review of employee handbook and updates communicate to all employees. EPL | 16 ENVIRONMENT EPL | 17 Principle Business should support a 7 precautionary approach to environment challenges. Principle Business should undertake initiative to promote greater 8 environmental responsibility. Principle Business should encourage the 9 development and discussion of environmentally friendly technology. EPL | 18 ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS At English Press we are committed to protecting the environment at the highest level. English Press environmental policy articulates our commitment to complying with legislation and regulations on the environment. English Press has and integrated management system that provides the guiding principles to our commitment to managing and mitigating our environment impacts. The management of our environmental impacts is founded on the integrated management system (ISO 14001:2015, 9001:2015 & 18001:2007). This system provides for the identification, monitoring and control of priority environmental risks identified by English Press. English press requires that the planning, design and operation of all its activities explicitly consider and target environmental risk in its many forms. We are committed to pollution prevention and compliance with all relevant local and international environmental legislation and regulations. Furthermore, we are committed to promoting environmental protection and minimizing the impact of our business activities on the environment. English Press recognizes that the delivery of its operations inevitably impact on the environment in a number of ways, for example, through the generation of waste through the production process and the use of energy for heating and lighting. Through a commitment to continuous environmental improvement, English Press’s aim is to ensure that our business operation is undertaken in such a manner as to have minimum impact on the environment. English Press strives to minimize environmental aspects by decreasing wastes, using optimum energy, using non-hazardous chemicals instead of hazardous chemicals, produce eco-friendly products that can be recycled and reused, seek continuous improvement in the design and implementation of products and processes, to eliminate or minimize probable health hazards, incident risks and minimize environmental aspects by using new technologies. English Press environmental management promotes the following principles: • Ensuring compliance with relevant environmental regulations and legislation governing the responsible manufacture and supply of English press’s products. • Carrying out of environmental risk assessments to identify actual and potential environmental impacts emanating from our operations. • Conducting environmental audits to evaluate the level of environmental compliance and the EPL | 19 effectiveness of the applied environmental management system. • Promoting the efficient use of resources such as energy, water, paper and production materials with due regard to the scarcity of natural resources and the environmental impact resulting from the utilization and application of such resources in conducting our business activities. • Monitoring and measuring the quality of air emissions and waste water discharge against benchmarked standards and legal requirements through accurate and effective systems o measuring, reporting and controls. • The engagement of external experts or consultants to seeking dependent assurance on the levels of environmental compliance and/or for value-added advice on technically complex matters pertaining to environmental management. • Responsible management of waste through the selection of effective and feasible methods of waste disposal. Implementation • We are environmentally responsible o All our actions are safe for our neighbors and the environment o We are committed to the health, safety, and security of our people and others directly impacted by our activities, and to protecting the natural environment where we operate. o We ensure sufficient risk treatment and control, especially in the areas of EHS • English Press monitors the status of environmental risks through review of material environmental management performance indicators at scheduled intervals. • The Environmental health and safety Committee assists the monitoring the adequacy of environmental management systems in English press and the extent to which these comply with relevant legislation. • The Environmental health and safety manager responsible for ensuring compliance with all relevant environmental legislation • Air quality been monitored onc per year to study trends and to monitor the environmental impact. In order to the practices set forth in the series of environment system ISO14001 • All employees in the office practice the 3R (Reduce, Reuse and Recycle) as encouraged by company management to support waste reduction. • Communication of the EHS policy through awareness session, poster and newsletter. • Periodic workplace inspections by our EHS committee. EPL | 20 • We conducted our annual noise surveys to ensure that noise emitted doesn’t exit exposure levels. • We monitor, collate and disseminate information relating to our environmental initiatives. Measurement of outcomes • English press has continued its recycling efforts of it waste • English press made every effort to conserve energy through the effective monitoring of electricity usage and other utilities at its corporate office • Certificate of ISO 14001:2015 for Environment Management System. • List of Environmental aspect-impact and control the significant impact. • Achievement of the objectives of Environment management system. • periodic internal & External Audit conducted • EPL has not experienced any reportable incidents during the past year and has not been subject to any statutory notice or persecution. • Through the effluent analysis conducted in 2016 there been considerable improvement in the quality of effluent was observed compared to 2015. • Noise level survey results indicated that the noise levels are generally within occupational exposure limits. • The environmental audit conclusion by the external independent auditor stated that the environmental performance had not deteriorated for 2016 as confirmed by the waste water analysis, noise and air quality surveys. • All our waste collectors are approved by NEMA and provide us with waste tracking documents. • All solid waste that is generated is segregated at the source into different streams : paper wastes put in paper waste cages Actions to be implemented in the year 2017-2018 • Minimize energy costs • Raise awareness to employees to reduce energy consumption . EPL | 21 ANTICORRUPTION EPL | 22 Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. EPL | 23 ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS We consider responsible behavior and business ethics as the basic layer of all our activities. We are convinced that only by acting in a responsible and ethical way we can grow and maintain the trust of our stakeholders, which is the foundation of our continuing existence. When carrying out our activities, it is evidence we respect prevailing laws and regulations, but we also impose stringent rules on ourselves in terms of ethical behavior, openness and transparency, discretion and privacy. Our policies on integrity and anti-corruption are essential for embedding integrity within our daily business. English press has a zero tolerance policy towards corruption and bribery. We have adopted this policy to communicate this message to all our employees to uphold it English Press’s Code of Conduct strictly forbids any form of bribery or corruption (irrespective of whether the recipient is a public official or an employee of a private customer). English Press fosters honesty, integrity and fairness in all aspects of its business and expects the same in its relationships with all those with whom it does business. In order to achieve this, all English Press employees must: • Comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including any regulations, codes, and guidelines which apply specifically to the business. • Not give or receive bribes, or any other inducements to obtain or retain business, nor conduct themselves in such a way as to give rise to any conflict of interest. • Seek mutually beneficial commercial relationships with third parties with whom they do business. • Ensure that they do not enter into contractual arrangements that they are unable to fulfill. • Use company assets only for the purpose o business and not to abuse their position in the company for personal gain. • Ensure that adequate systems are in place English Press’s to protect the business’ assets. English Press is committed to the fight against bribery. As a result, it is unacceptable for any employee of English Press to directly or indirectly offer, pay, solicit or accept bribes in any form Implementation • English Press is committed to conduct all of its business in an honest and ethical manner and ensure that it meets its legal obligations and averts notices and eradicates corrupt EPL | 24 practices, and collaborates to reduce opportunities for bribery and corruption. • English Press requires all employees at all times to act honestly and with integrity and to safeguard the resources for which they are responsible. • English Press does not tolerate any form of corruption and takes the most serious view of any attempt to commit corrupt practices by employees, contractors, agents and business partners. • Cases of suspected corruption are to be properly investigated and appropriate action taken, including reporting to the appropriate authorities, disciplinary action, prosecution and active pursuit of recovery. • EPL complies with all legislation related to ethics, corporate governance and anti-corruption. • As member of various trade and industry bodies, we work with peers, partners and independent organizations to create transparent and level playing fields. • Our code of conduct is made available to all employees, to foster an ethical culture based on our core values. • To make sure that corruption practices are not developed EPL encourages Employees to report any suspicious activities and we have established confidential reporting channel to the HR office. Measurement of outcomes • English Press has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery. • EPL’s financial reporting is verified by external auditors to ensure transparency and accuracy of accounting practices.Our books and accounts are subjected to statutory external audit annually. • Every year we submit our accounts to independent external auditors who check that our accounts are correctly managed and that there are no discrepancies which could be related to bribery or corruption. We did not receive any report of discrepancies in 2016. Actions to be implemented in the year 2017-2018 • Provide training course for all employees that provides a comprehensive level of knowledge on anti-corruption • Regular communications and guidance to employees. • Development of a culture of regular, open discussions between employees and management. • Review and develop anti-bribery processes and procedures. • Continue to communicate English Press Anti-Bribery policy internally and externally. EPL | 25 OVERALL OUTLOOK English press will continue to develop the initiatives it has launched and to introduce new measures in the coming reporting period. In 2017-2018 we will continue progress towards our strategic goals and we will focus our efforts to ensure progress. The challenge presented by the economic environment is transforming our business. The speed of innovation across the entire business – from our manufacturing processes to product solutions is accelerating to address these challenges, creating more value and enhancing competitiveness. Sustainability will remain a key driver of value creation in English Press. English Press will be at the forefront in ensuring the needs of customers and markets are met in a sustainable way. EPL | 26 CONTACT US Let us know what you think As a valued stakeholder and report reader, your thoughts and concerns are important to us. We are interested in knowing what you think about our Communication on Progress and our performance overall as a responsible business. If you would like to send us any feedback on these issues, please write to us at qmr@englishpress.com EPL | 27 EPL | 28
