→0〈〈ω「己ωH70刃 O包 －Nm凶己Oコ O wm Dm om 角川 『 ω刃 OωOC「 oo’ 刃 oovb＝「J Gω 0053＼ CSR REPORT 2016 ，、 D0\1/A ，開＂® MIX 'i I I 、 4『rJ Paper from 問問曲le '7ι，＇l',i川＂＇＇-,1 FSC .／’ 可・ 馴 ,;,. J ι。 ' ' '' ' ｜叩··＂＇＂咽 ＇ マ FSC® C014543 * This report uses fo側側ified仰per and eco伽dly s山直囲． ． DOWA’s CSR The DOWA group conducts business based on the corporate philosophy of “Through our deploying business on our earth, we seek to contribute to a high standard of living and the emergence of a resource-recycling society.” Contents DOWA’s CSR DOWA’s Initiatives on each CSR Field Editorial Line …………………………………… 1 Corporate Governance ……………………… 15 Message from the Management …………… 3 Safety …………………………………………… 21 About DOWA Group ………………………… 5 Environment …………………………………… 25 Overseas Business of DOWA Group ……… 7 Society ………………………………………… 33 Special Feature: CSR in Overseas Business 9 Organizations to be Reported ………… 43 DOWA’s Business and Social Issues ………11 Third Party Opinion ………………………… 44 CSR Policy and Plan …………………………13 Editorial Line (1) Areas covered in this report ■Target period (3) Basic information DOWA group is committed to conducting business based on the CSR ■Target organizations The report mainly covers activities conducted in fiscal year 2015 (April ■Publication Date activities, considering the future of our earth and society to contribute DOWA Holdings and subsidiaries (both in Japan and other countries) that 2015 – March 2016), partially including the past background and January 2017 to resolving social problems through business activities. We are also are included in our consolidated accounting are selected in these reports. previous activities to provide more accurate information. ■Date scheduled for the publication of the next report promoting a variety of CSR activities to increase transparency of our Data on some of our efforts are only associated to DOWA Holdings and ■Reference guidelines other major companies of the group. October 2017 business and gain trust from our stakeholders. The UN Global Compact (UNGC) ■Creating Department Our company has 5 operating companies having different business From FY 2016, we have added DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., ISO 26000 activities, and thus faces a wide range of CSR related issues. We have LTD. Hamamatsu-kita plant and PT.DOWA THERMOTECH INDONESIA Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012 CSR Department, DOWA Holdings, Co., Ltd. been promoting effective CSR, with primary CSR activities centered on to the target organizations. by Ministry of the Environment (Government of Japan) ■URL our operating companies and operating subsidiaries. DOWA CSR ■Target areas to report http://www.dowa.co.jp (in Japanese) Report reports the CSR philosophy and the major business activities of (2) Publishing of a web version http://www.dowa.co.jp/index_e.html (in English) the DOWA group of the year in an easy-to-understand way to all The report consists of four areas of DOWA’s CSR policies: Corporate Governance, Safety, Environment, and Society. It covers each of these This report highlights and reports CSR activities of the DOWA group, ■Contact stakeholders. At the same time, each and every employee deeply focusing on some important points, to provide an overview of those understands our CSR and also plays a role in promoting the CSR policies, current implementation status of its major issues and the CSR Department, DOWA Holdings, Co., Ltd. activities by the above-mentioned organizations. activities in an easy-to-understand way. For more details, visit our activities. website (to be posted in March 2017). 22nd Floor, Akihabara UDX Bldg, 4-14-1 Sotokanda, Chiyoda-ku, Through this report, we hope to rouse your interest in our corporate ■Target audience Tokyo 101-0021 JAPAN Check our website for detailed information about the topics with below Phone: (+81)3-6847-1104 FAX: (+81)3-6847-1277 philosophy and our initiatives for the future. This report is intended for our customers, stockholders, investors, clients, mark. If mistakes are found after publication of the CSR report, they will E-mail address: info_dowa@dowa.co.jp local communities, researchers, students, employees, rating & evaluation be reported on our website with errata notes. agencies, governmental agencies, NGO’s, NPO’s and all stakeholders of the DOWA group’s business activities. Web http://www.dowa-csr.jp/en/index.html 1 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 2 TOP MESSAGE Message from the Management We would like to express our deepest condolences to those Responding to the various social issues such as measures to who passed away due to the Kumamoto earthquake that address global warming and resource and energy issues, calls occurred in April 2016, and we would like to express our for cognizance of the influence of the DOWA Group in the sincere condolences to the affected people. supply chain of the global market and carrying out of corporate activities while complying with the global common Although we have a home appliance recycling factory in rules. In addition to complying with the rules and regulations, Kumamoto prefecture, fortunately there was no damage we shall strictly and thoroughly enforce compliance even caused by the earthquake and we were able to continue more than ever, while observing the social ethics. production, sort and ship the affected household appliances and carry out the as per the request for assistance from the Ministry of the Environment and Kumamoto Prefecture. In Towards an Organization where Diverse spite of poor ability, we were able to resolve various issues Human Resources can be Firmly through our core business. We shall continue to provide Demonstrated support so that we can recover at the earliest. The driving force for growth lies with an individual employee and it is essential to work on maximizing the Contribution towards the Realization of individual capacities. Furthermore, ours is not an organization a Sustainable Society with uniform human resources that will become the future weapon by responding to the changing speed, rater it is a As we recall, there were 2 major international agreements diversified organization and in turn we believe that such an last year. “Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)” was organization will bring about innovation and stability. To that adopted by the United Nations in September 2015. In 2009, end, it is important to establish a structure to create a we signed the “UN Global Compact” in support of the ten workplace environment where various people can recognize principles related to human rights, labor, environment and each other’s goodness, following a corporate culture that anti-corruption; in addition to our continued support, we are accepts diversity and a fair evaluation so that it can grow. We actively taking initiatives to contribute to achieving SDGs. are promoting it by placing them in the activity plan for the Also, in December 2015 the “Paris Agreement” was adopted fiscal year. at COP 21 (the 21st Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change), and it There are about 9,000 employees of the DOWA Group was decided to aim for a zero-carbon society in the second half composed of various races and ethnic groups who work in of this century. As a CO2 emission company in the metal several countries and regions including Japan and Southeast smelting process and waste disposal process, etc., the Asia. Moreover, we have many women employees working in Company has taken efforts to reduce CO2 emission by the Company today when compared to a decade ago. We tend renewing its facilities and equipment with high energy-saving to look at the differences that are easy to understand such as performance, utilizing hydroelectric power generation, waste nationality, race, age, and gender, however, individuality generation, alternate CFC treatment, etc. to reduce CO2 exists despite the same race; the abilities, work experience and emission. We shall further fulfill our responsibilities such that experience are different and thereby the values are different we can meet the expectations as a company that can contribute too. We, at DOWA group are willing to promote diversity through materials and parts to new energy fields that support without overlooking the differences that are not obvious from global warming prevention technologies. the appearance. DOWA Holdings, Co., Ltd. President and Representative Director To actively contribute to the sustainability of society, our Masao Yamada company itself must be a sustainable growth entity. As CSR This report aims to notify all stakeholders inside and policy, we will establish “Vision for 2020” as the midterm outside the company about the initiatives of the DOWA group goal for each of the four areas of safety, environment, society, while each employee shall review his activities once again and corporate governance which in other words is “S + ESG”, and aim to be a catalyst for creating new value. Please let us know as for the key measures for the issues that should be given your frank opinion so that we can create a new value for the priority, we have set a single year initiative and goal as action DOWA Group to help solve various social issues and create plan for achieving it. This started in line with the first year of new value in the international community. the 2015 medium-term plan. 3 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 4 Heat treatment business Other businesses 24.1 11.2 Environment and Metal processing recycling business business 98.3 77.4 Sales About DOWA Group Business-wise Status The business environment of the Group in fiscal 2015 saw a decline Electronic materials business 406.5 billion yen 48.3 in automobile production in Japan and Asia as a result of partial demand At DOWA group, we are developing a global recycling business comprising of 5 core businesses. for automobile related products, and was affected by the inventory In “Smelting Business”, we extract useful metals from various recycled materials in addition to natural resources. The metal that is extracted is adjustments by customers for smartphones. On the other hand, Smelting business processed in several ways by “Electronic Materials Business”, “Metal Processing Business”, “Heat Treatment Business”, made highly functional and 214.9 incorporated into final products such as automobiles and electronic devices. Furthermore, in the “Environment & Recycling Business”, we render the energy-related products continued to remain steady. waste harmless, separate metals from used products and collect them. The recovered metal is used again as a refining raw material. Business-wise business overview and the business situation of 2015 Through the development of such a recycling business, we are providing high-quality products and ser vices and are working on solving social are as follows. Net sales of each division include 67.8 billion yen issues such as environmental conservation and resource problems. eliminated by consolidation adjustment. Corporate Name DOWA Holdings, Co., Ltd. Environment and Recycling Business DOWA ECO-SYSTEM CO., LTD. Profile Incorporated March 11, 1937 Sales Operating profit ■ Waste treatment business …… Integrated services from collection and transportation to constituent ratio constituent ratio Head Office 22nd Floor, Akihabara UDX Bldg, 4-14-1 Sotokanda, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-0021 JAPAN intermediate and final processing of municipal and industrial waste ■ Soil remediation business ……… Total support from survey to remediation and monitoring of soil President and Representative Director Masao Yamada 21.2% 18.6% contamination ■ Recycling business ……………… Collection of valuable metal from used products such as scrap generated from Common Stock 36,437 million yen factories and production processes, electrical appliances and automobiles Employees Approximately 8,900 persons (As of March 31, 2016) Smelting business DOWA METALS & MINING CO., LTD. Sales Operating profit constituent ratio constituent ratio ■ Precious metals and copper business … World’s leading recycling and smelting that can collect a variety FY 2015 Financial Highlights of metals such as gold, silver, and copper ■ Rare metals business …………… Recovery of platinum group metals such as platinum from used We have been implementing measures in accordance with the basic policy of the medium-term plan that began in fiscal 2015 by expanding the overseas business further and developing the growth markets and peripheral areas thereby expanding business and continuously strengthening business 46.4% 39.3% automobile exhaust gas catalysts ■ Zinc business …………………… Recovery of platinum group metals such as platinum from used competitiveness. Consolidated sales in FY2015 decreased by 12% to 406.5 billion yen, consolidated operating profit decreased by 10% to 35 billion automobile exhaust gas catalysts yen, consolidated ordinary profit decreased by 17% to 35 billion yen, Consolidated net income attributable to parent company shareholders decreased by 18% to 21.8 billion yen. Electronic materials business DOWA ELECTRONICS MATERIALS CO., LTD. Sales Operating profit Recurring profit Sales Operating profit ■ Semiconductor business ……… Leading manufacturer of high-purity gallium indium semiconductor materials, constituent ratio constituent ratio (Hundred million Yen) (Hundred million Yen) (Hundred million Yen) compound semiconductor wafers, and high luminance and high output LED 4,065 4,439 4,642 ■ Electronic materials business … Manufactures silver powder used in new energy applications, copper powder 10.4% 23.7% 420 3,924 4,193 390 350 350 used in electronic components, zinc powder and silver oxide used in batteries etc. 350 ■ Functional materials business … Manufacturer boasting of world's dominant market share of ferrite powder used in 317 metal powder for high-capacity recording tapes, carrier powder for copiers, printers etc. 272 245 220 209 Metal processing business DOWA METALTECH CO., LTD. Sales Operating profit constituent ratio constituent ratio ■ Metal processing business …… Manufacturer of copper, brass, and copper alloys used in terminals and connectors for automobile and semiconductor, and brass bars and forgings ■ Plating business ………………… Precious metal plating processing of components such as 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (fiscal year) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (fiscal year) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (fiscal year) 16.7% 14.5% connectors and switches of automobiles ■ Circuit board business ………… Manufacturer of metal ceramic substrates used in power control equipment such as industrial machinery, high-speed rail, wind-power generation, and solar power (Hundred million Yen) Business Results 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Heat treatment business DOWA THERMOTECH CO., LTD. Sales 3,924 4,193 4,439 4,642 4,065 Sales Operating profit constituent ratio constituent ratio ■ Industrial furnace business …… Provides total service from design and erection of furnaces to Operating profit 220 245 317 390 350 maintenance, leveraging the know-how of heat treatment processing Recurring profit 209 272 350 420 350 5.2% 4.0% ■ Heat treatment processing business … Application specific surface treatment that aims at the improvement of abrasion resistance, fatigue resistance and heat Each mentioned year represents the fiscal period from April 1 to March 31 of the next year. resistance in metal gearbox and engine of automobiles, etc. 5 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 6 Overseas Business of DOWA Group 11 ❶ Overseas operations of the DOWA group began with mining development in more than 20 ❸ countries since the 1950s, and developed actively in response to environmental changes in the ❷ markets and users, based on the corporate philosophy of contributing to a rich lifestyle and 14 construction of a recycling society through our global business activities. Recently, we have been ❺❻ working to expand our business in Asian countries such as Myanmar and Indonesia that continue ❹ to have high economic growth, and presently, 35% of all the Group employees are working abroad. Since the sustainable development of the country and region where the establishment is located act as the foundation for the survival and growth of the DOWA Group, we attend to social issues Major Subsidiaries and Offices Overseas faced by each of the countries and regions and work to resolve these issues in cooperation with local communities. ❼❽❾ 19 ❼❽❾17ᕑ Myanmar’s first managed disposal site Shipping of zinc products Press factor for copper and Heat treatment plant in Mexico copper alloys set up in Taiwan Environment and Smelting business Metal processing business Heat treatment business Overseas Initiatives Recycling Business • We have strengthened the collection • We have progressed with the • We have promoted the expansion of • We have set up a final disposal site for system of the catalyst for purifying the construction of a press working plant in sales of heat treatment furnaces in the wastes in Myanmar. automobile exhaust gas used overseas. Taiwan. Mexico where we have newly expanded. • We have advanced the initiative for • We have expanded our zinc products to • We have taken initiatives for expanding • We have started with the construction of expanding base in Indonesia and the Southeast Asian market by taking business in overseas growth areas such a new base in India. advantage of the Thai zinc processing as the establishment of precious metal Thailand. plant. plating base in Mexico. As of March 31, 2016 Environment and Recycling Business Dowa Metals & Mining Co., Ltd. Heat treatment business Dowa Thermotech Co., Ltd. Dowa Eco-System Co., Ltd. Dowa Metals & Mining Co., Ltd. Vancouver Office (Canada) DOWA THT AMERICA, INC. (U.S.A.) ❶ Dowa Environmental Management Co., Ltd. (China) Cariboo Copper Corporation (Canada) Kunshan Dowa Thermo Furnace Co., Ltd. (China) ❷ Jiangxi Dowa Environmental Management Co., Ltd. (China) NIPPON PGM AMERICA, INC. (U.S.A.) DOWA Thermotech (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (Thailand) ❸ Dowa Eco-System Co., Ltd. Taiwan Office Dowa Metals & Mining Co., Ltd. Mexico Office HIGHTEMP FURNACES Ltd. (India) ❹ PT. Prasadha Pamunah Limbah Industri (PPLi) (Indonesia) MINERA TIZAPA, S.A. DE C.V. (Mexico) PT. DOWA Thermotech Indonesia (Indonesia) ❺ Technochem Environmental Complex Pte. Ltd. (TEC) Nippon PGM Europe s.r.o. (Czech Republic) PT. DOWA Thermotech Furnaces (Indonesia) (Singapore) Dowa Metals & Mining (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (Thailand) DOWA THERMOTECH MEXICO, S.A. DE C.V. (Mexico) ❻ DOWA ECO-SYSTEM SINGAPORE PTE. LTD. (Singapore) ❼ Waste Management Siam Ltd. (WMS) (Thailand) ❽ Bangpoo Environmental Complex Ltd. (BPEC) (Thailand) Metal processing business Dowa Metaltech Co., Ltd. Headquarters, Others ❾ Eastern Seaboard Environmental Complex Co., Ltd. (ESBEC) Dowa Advanced Materials Shanghai Co., Ltd. (China) DOWA INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION (U.S.A.) (Thailand) DOWA METALTECH (THAILAND) CO., LTD. (Thailand) DOWA INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION San Jose Branch (U.S.A.) GOLDEN DOWA ECO-SYSTEM MYANMAR COMPANY DOWA Precision (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (Thailand) Dowa Holdings (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (China) LIMITED (Myanmar) Dowa Metaltech Co., Ltd. Singapore Branch Dowa Holdings (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Shenzhen Branch (China) Dowa Metaltech Co., Ltd. Shenzhen Sales Office (China) DOWA HD Europe GmbH (Germany) DOWALI PRECISION CO., LTD. (Taiwan) DOWA HOLDINGS (THAILAND) CO., LTD. (Thailand) DOWA METALTECH MEXICO, S.A. DE C.V. (Mexico) 7 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 8 Special Feature I ndonesia CSR in Overseas Business As a company with its roots in communities I ndonesia and countries doing business, the DOWA SMO BTS Group is committed to building relationships in which society and companies develop DTI/DTF KLO sustainably. CTS LTS CTY EJTS PPLi Among the Asian countries, Indonesia, which has the world’s fourth largest populaDTI (PT.DOWA THERMOTECH INDONESIA) PPLi (PT. Prasadha Pamunah Limbah Industri) tion, continues to show stability and high The company entrusted with heat treatment This is the only comprehensive environment and waste disposal company in Indonesia. economic development. The DOWA Group has two businesses, namely, the Environprocessing plays a part in the development of PPLi (PT.Prasadha Pamunah Limbah Industri) is a waste disposal trucks and containers, wastes are transported safely according to their ment and Recycling Business and Heat automobile and machinery industry in Indonesia. company that has the final disposal site for hazardous waste one and varying properties and shapes. Moreover, the trucks owned by PPLi treatment business in Indonesia, that has DTI (PT.DOWA THERMOTECH INDONESIA) was founded in only in Indonesia. It was established in 1994 in Bogor County which are all equipped with GPS and this system is used to constantly check many global enterprises; therefore these June 2012 and is located in the Karawang Industrial Park which is in is about 40 km south of Jakarta and was added to the DOWA group in the position and route of each truck and manage the operation. The businesses are indispensable considering the vicinity of approximately 50 kilometers east of the capital city of 2009. PPLi does comprehensive environmental projects such as recyroute of the truck is tracked from the customer's waste collection site Indonesia’s potential for future growth. Jakarta that takes about an hour by car. This company outsources heat cling, survey and purification of contaminated soil, apart from collecto the PPLi and we are taking initiatives for the safety management treatment processing to increase the toughness and fatigue resistance tion and transportation of indusof the driver and schedule management in Indonesia where traffic is of metal for automotive parts and construction machine parts etc. trial wastes and their intermediate heavy. In March 2015, the third phase of construction work was completand final treatments. It is very important for the company management to conduct busied in which the installable space of the furnace grew to Waste disposal management is ness while gaining the understanding of the local residents, and this is three times as large the size familiar to all industries and as an considered particularly important by PPLi which carries out the when inaugurated. In the Karentity that supports the social waste disposal work. PPLi is actively working to improve the living awang Industrial Park where infrastructure of Indonesia, the conditions of the neighboring areas and support community activities DTI is located, automobile responsibility of PPLi of manages among the CSR activities. It is also dedicated to overseeing the local and related factories concenthe final disposal site for hazardcommunity with the person in charge listening to requests from each trates, therefore the root is laid ous waste is critical. representative of the local community and providing fair and imparthere for the development of The final disposal site of PPLi has a structure conforming to the tial support after discussion. Specifically, it provides assistance for heat treatment service. US-EPA (US Environmental Protection Agency) standard and it carsending teachers to local elementary schools, support medical sanitaries out regular monitoring of groundwater, surface water, leachate tion activities for local residents, and support construction of assemwater, final discharged water, etc. based on local rules and regulabling areas etc. DTF (PT.DOWA THERMOTECH FURNACES) tions. In addition to this, even after completing the filling up work, This is a background maintenance service we are obliged to manage it in the same manner for 30 years. that supports the heat treatment facility at Indonesia. DTF (PT.DOWA THERMOTECH FURNACES) was founded in the same location as DTI in May 2013. We are doing the installation and maintenance of the heat treatment facility. Many of the two-wheelers and four-wheelers that have increased the sales in Indonesia recently belong to Japanese manufacturers and it is our heat treatment business that supports the manufacturing. DOWA Thermotech has been delivering a number of heat treatment facilities to automobile and part manufacturers in Indonesia from the past, PPLi collects and transports waste from all the islands of Indonehowever, as a comprehensive heat treatment manufacturer with heat sia and plays a major role in transporting the waste safely and relitreatment processing and maintenance businesses, we are building a ably to the waste disposal companies. By gathering various types of system that can be multifaceted to customer's needs, with the cooperation of DTI and DTF. 9 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 10 DOWA’s Business and Social Issues Towards the Utilization of Sustainable Metal Resources In September 2015, the “Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)” was adopted at the United Nations “Sustainable Development Summit.” The SDGs clearly state 17 goals and 169 targets to be resolved by 2030 on a global scale. To achieve this sustainable development goal by 2030, we are ■ Optimization of value chain in resource recycling required to take action in every global sector including corporates. The DOWA Group is developing a wide range of recycling businesses for precious metals, home appliances, automobiles, used small home appliances, etc. Rather than carrying out single recycling in a fragmentary chain, we are enhancing resource efficiency by combining processes based on the characteristics of the facilities owned and the geographical situation of the sites. In cooperation with departments such as waste disposal, Social Issues related to the Effective Use of Resources transportation and research laboratories, we are taking initiatives to make effective use of resources while balancing environmental conservation and safety. In addition, we are taking initiatives to optimize the value chain with different sectors and external partners as necessary. ■ Goal and Target of SDGs and DOWA’s Initiatives ■ Promotion of International Resource Recycling “Effective utilization of resources”, which is one of the 17 goals of SDGs, is an area that is most familiar to our business as it utilizes metal In the future, as we consider sustainable use of resources throughout the world, it is also necessary to work across borders to reduce the resources and it is an important social issue. environmental impact and maximize resource efficiency. Japan is a country that has been working on the “3R” from the early days to reduce environmental impact and promote the efficient utilization of resources. DOWA group has been developing metal recycling, home appliance recycling and waste treatment business in China, Singapore, Thailand and Indonesia leveraging the recycling technology established in Japan and resources such Goal 12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns as infrastructure, knowledge, experience and personnel. We are also building a global resource recycling system that complies with environmental 12.4 By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound management of chemicals and all wastes throughout their life conservation, such as collecting recycled materials overseas through sampling factories in the US and the Czech Republic and collecting rare metals at cycle, in accordance with agreed international frameworks, and significantly reduce their release to air, water domestic smelters. and soil in order to minimize their adverse impacts on human health and the environment. 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse. Resource Recycling at Highly efficient recovery of multi elements DOWA group Metal products The naturally available ores will be depleted with continued consumption. Recycling is one solution for effective utilization of Supply of conflict mineral-free gold and tin Society Responsibility to make, Responsibility to use resources, but it also requires the technology to efficiently recover metals as well as the technology and infrastructure for safely handling Proper treatment and prevention of pollution the harmful and non-useful items generated in the process. At the same time, it also includes the technological and economic issues to Waste volume reduction Heat recovery and power generation Manufacbe solved in recycling, such as building a social system that efficiently collects recycled materials, labor and cost of processing a wide turing variety of raw materials, etc. The DOWA Group is working on the use of sustainable metal resources while facing such challenges. Market research and analysis Stable recovery Research and new technology development Final disposal site Examples of the Approach of DOWA Group Raw material analysis and Incineration plant Rare metal plant evaluation Environmental conservation measures Sales Recycling smelter Zinc smelter Promotion of recycling diversities ●Home appliance recycling Stable supply of ●Automobile recycling base metal Reducing the environmental burden from mining ●Precious metal recycling External Sales and logistics Improvement of ●Mine development with consideration to Social issues ●Recycling of used small household appliances partner actual yield Securing the natural environment concerning the effective ●Recycling of waste edible oil Synergy by Laboratory the stability of rare ●Consideration for biodiversity in exploration collaboration metals and mining utilization of resources Improvement of Utilization •Resource depletion •Distribution •Resource •Distribution of resources Securing a stable supply of recycled materials BCP efficiency Analytical Precious metal ●Collection of automobile spent catalysts through center recycling factory Improvement of collection technology •Environmental •Environmental burden associated with mining development and smelting Environment the American and European bases ●Recovery of more than 20 types of metals •Globalization consulting •Globalization of the market and surge in demand ●Address small quantities of many varieties of Home appliance Recycled raw materials manufacturing plant recycled materials •Soaring •Soaring ore price (Increase in demand, recycling factory Reuse ●Improvement of metal recovery efficiency at market conditions, exchange rate fluctuations Controlling the risk to environment Improvement of recycling rate Used overseas mines etc.) ●Proper disposal of heavy metals, CFC, etc. Expansion of recycled items Shredder dust ●Highly efficient recovery of trace elements •Reduction Reduction of waste contained in the recycled materials Reduction of waste processing plant ●Reduction of waste by promoting resource Automobile Recycled raw materials Securing of Rare Metals recycling recycling plant ●Recovery of platinum from automotive spent catalyst ●Cerium recovery from glass abrasives Energy International resource recycling Promotion of responsible mineral procurement Minimizing environmental burden associated Water Ore Overseas expansion ●Acquiring certification for conflict mineral-free with resource development energy saving, Natural ●Recycling at DOWA’s overseas bases water circulation, minimization of input ●Precious metal recycling/Home appliance recycling smelter resources ●Proper recycling at the DOWA base in Japan if it is difficult ●Raw material management based on DOWA group’s in China to recover from the technology and facilities overseas ●Precious metal recycling in Singapore conflict mineral management policy 11 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 12 CSR Policy and Plan The DOWA group started taking initiatives based on the CSR plan targeted for FY2020 from April 2015 of the first Corporate year of the mid-term management plan. governance “Vision for 2020” ■ The concept of CSR plan and goals Safety DOWA Society The “S + ESG” management based on the CSR policy has been CSR policy Setting the “Vision for 2020” as the mid-term goal in the 4 priority areas of CSR policy, namely, corporate governance, safety, environment and established at each DOWA Group company and it has contributed to society, we have set up the action plan for realizing it as a single-year initiative and goal considering it as a focus measure to be taken to achieve the solving global social issues through minimizing management risk and goal. For details about sector-wise actual results and initiatives in FY2015, please see the field report from the next page. improving corporate value. Environment Mid-term Goal Activity Plan for FY2016 Areas CSR Policy Focus Measures Indicator Goal for 2020 “Vision for 2020” Initiative Goal Briefing sessions to senior executives and representatives ● Healthy business management is promoted by ensuring sufficient Strengthening of internal control and No. of important Number of participants: 140 or functions, appropriate information disclosure and transparency in the deficiencies to be 0 Creation of internal control handbook governance more internal control system. disclosed Distribution of translated version ● We will aim to be an open and transparent company. ● Business management which does not give rise to fraud and ● We will endeavor in anti-corruption efforts including Implementation rate Corporate anti-bribery measures taking into consideration the corruption of any kind is promoted, by individual employees carrying Strengthening of compliance and risk of internal education 100% Support for internal control activities of 10 companies domestic out appropriate activities based on the “DOWA Group’s Values and management domestic and overseas companies and overseas Governance international agreements. Standards of Conduct.” and briefings ● We will take CSR into consideration in our procurement. Supplier CSR audit More than 6 companies Supplier survey Transaction ● CSR is promoted throughout the supply chain by building partnerCSR procurement promotion coverage rate amount base ships with business connections. *Excludes Preparation of CSR audit procedure Same as left 80% contractors Raising the bottom level of the companyFrequency rate 0.1 or less Strengthening of transverse initiatives Frequency rate 0.9 or less ● All employees will take part spontaneously in safety wide safety Severity rate 0.01 or less in district units Severity rate 0.02 or less activities to improve the level of health and safety in the ● The occupational safety risks of the workplace are managed and No. of times workplace, based on our basic philosophy of “Safety is Safety the top priority.” minimized appropriately, and a comfortable and safe working Strengthening of safety education in education is Total 20 times Increase in the countries targeted for environment is realized. implemented ● We are committed to preventing accidents at work and subsidiaries outside Japan providing education and education by 4 countries or more supporting health of our employees. No. of persons Total 200 visiting Japan educated persons Strengthening of recycle business: Increase from ● Responsible for the core of the international resources recycling Collection volume / Recycling volume / Collection volume of the preceding Strengthening of collection of Increase from the network in Asia and the Pacific rim area. materials for recycling materials for recycling outside Japan preceding fiscal year Increase in no. of elements etc. fiscal year Improving the utilization rate of renewable Emission amount of 15% Total greenhouse gas Promotion of renewal of energy-saving ● We will provide customers with products and services ● Effective reduction of CO2 emissions per unit has been achieved by energy CO2 emissions per reduction as equipment at large-scale disposal emission that contribute to building a resourcerecycling society. various energy saving measures and active use of renewable energy. Strengthening energy saving initiatives compared to 1% reduction from the unit sites ● We will reduce environmental burdens and risks in our FY1990 preceding fiscal year Environment business activities. Minimization of environmental accidents risk ● The management and employees together take part in ● The environmental risks of the workplace are managed properly, and and strengthening of response capabilities No. of environmental Mutual inspection of environmental environmental conservation activities. 0 5 districts or more environmental accident-generation risks are minimized. *Environmental accidents: Incidents whose impact is felt outside accident occurrences management system ● We will promote business activities considering biodiversity. the company, and reported to the competent administration Understanding of biodiversity risks of ● Biodiversity conservation activities are promoted in collaboration with suppliers Suppliers and mines 100% Formulation and execution of Plan formulation and the upstream and downstream of the supply chain. Status confirmation of biodiversity survey rate conservation action plan execution consideration in mines Employment rate of Expansion of a global human people with 2.0% Same as left resources layer disabilities Strengthening and training of Attendance rate of Same as left Promoting diversity employees hired overseas and locally education and Aggressive development of career and ● While diverse human resources mutually respect each other, promotion of 100% 2.0% employees themselves select the diverse work styles commensurate employment participation by with their respective life stages and styles, and the company and women Implementation of training for female 1 time each teams support each other. employees and managers ● We will aim to create a workplace where diversity and Thorough knowledge within the human rights of employees are respected, and each Same as left company of the various systems person can demonstrate maximum capacity with Annual paid leave satisfaction and pride. Promoting work-life balance 70% Encouragement of annual leave 60% Society acquisition rate Promotion of measures to reduce Same as left working hours Employee satisfaction Implementing training of appraisers Training of both appraisers and persons Business planning 90% and persons being appraised Appraisers and persons ● A culture of fair evaluation & treatment, and fostering is established, being appraised system Conducting system surveys being appraised and employees experience growth, results and satisfaction. And, an Strengthening in-house education of human Expanded education of the layer No. of participants in the organization in which employees compete with each other and resources Educational system targeted for in-house education training support each other is created by the employees themselves. Voluntary career development support for 70% and details 600 persons employees Development of a training system for stratified education In-house knowledge of advanced ● We will promote social contribution appropriate with ● Social contributions reflecting each local community are deployed in Information sharing by Promoting social contribution — — cases portal site community standards together with local communities. Japan and outside Japan. Supporting business entity initiatives 13 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 14 To continue to be a company that is trusted by the society, Corporate Governance the DOWA group has positioned strengthening of corporate governance as a key management issue, and is working on it based on “DOWA Group’s Values and Standards of Conduct.” Progress of Activities Governance Following is the status of activities for FY2015 and the plan for FY2016 in the field of Corporate Governance. FY2015 Results Corporate Governance Focus Measures Initiatives Goal Evaluation Main Results Strengthening of internal • Preparation of internal control handbook Same as left A Creation and distribution to group companies control and governance • Regular education within the country and abroad Domestic and overseas A Domestic: 10 times Overseas: 6 times 10 times • Strengthening internal control compliance Implementation rate of Implementation rate of briefing sessions at each site briefing sessions A Strengthening of compliance education 100% 100% and risk management Implementation of questionnaire survey on the maintenance • Strengthening of BCP effectiveness Same as left A status and hearings at each company Distribution to 107 major suppliers, collection rate of 90% • Implementation of Supplier questionnaire Main 100 companies A Promotion of CSR procurement Feedback implementation ● We will aim to be an open and transparent company. • Supplier CSR audit Implementation A Implementation in 2 companies ● We will endeavor in anti-corruption efforts including anti-bribery measures CSR Policy FY2016 Initiatives and Goals *Evaluation: A: Accomplished, B: Fair, C: Not Satisfactory taking into consideration international agreements. ● We will take CSR into consideration in our procurement. Strengthening of internal Dissemination of internal control handbook Briefing sessions to senior executives and representatives control and governance Number of participants: 140 or more / Distribution of translated version Strengthening of risk Supporting internal control activities of domestic Domestic and overseas 10 companies management and compliance and overseas companies Promotion of CSR Supplier CSR audit 6 companies or more procurement Preparation of CSR audit procedure Same as left Focus Measures Promotion of CSR Procurement As an enterprise that contributes to a CSR Procurement of DOWA Group CSR Self-check and Conﬁrmation Visit Future Initiatives sustainable society, the DOWA group is also cooperating with business connections who “Q.C.D+S(Sustainability)” In FY2015, we created a self-checklist based on the CSR ProcureGoing forward, we will continue our self-check survey and confirment Guidelines and started self-checking of partners. Distribution mation visit once a year, communicate with partners regarding as are partners and actively promoting CSR As a material manufacturer, the DOWA Group promotes CSR of its was made to 107 major partners selected according to the degree of evaluation feedback and support and promote CSR initiatives company from the standpoint of suppliers, while also requesting importance of material and purchase price and about 90% was throughout the supply chain. In addition to asking new suppliers to initiatives throughout the supply chain, business partners to undertake initiatives for CSR. Our CSR procurerecovered. Regarding the evaluation results, we sent a feedback report understand and practice “CSR Procurement Policy” we will also work towards resolving various social concerns, ment is characterized by adding “S (Sustainability)” to conventional and requested the partners to act more aggressively with items that are to improve our CSR level so that we can get our partners to understand such as environment, human rights, labor procurement which is Q (Quality), C (Cost), and D (Delivery date). “S” considered to lack initiatives. and trust our CSR. In FY2016, we will revise the questionnaire sheet means initiatives towards social responsibility such as human rights In addition, we made confirmation visits to partners who are very to improve the collection rate of the self-checklist and proceed with practices etc. consideration and environmental conservation. important to business. In FY2015, we visited two companies and the audit procedure, etc., to ensure reliable operation. The “CSR Procurement Guidelines” formulated in FY2014 explains conducted factory inspection, interviews and document confirmation about the distribution to partners through the procurement department based on the results of self-check. Consequently, we pointed out some while also visiting the procurement personnel and business companies items related to “safety and health” such as wearing protective in each region to get an explanation and understanding within the group, equipment and management of first aid products and requested and the circumstances surrounding CSR procurement and thoughts improvement. Confirmation visit is done by the audit team consisting about our policy. of the CSR department and procurement department, however, since the personnel from our factory using the target materials will also join １ Legal compliance and fair trade the team, we are aiming at strengthening the trust and relationship with partners and further penetration of CSR procurement activities into the 2 Optimum quality and reasonable pricing company. 1）Human rights and labor 3 Construction of a stable supply system 2）Safety and health 4 Sustainability Web CSR Procurement Policy 3）Environmental http://www.dowa-csr.jp/en/csr/csr_procurement.html conservation 5 Protection of information 4）Society and community contribution 6 Management system 15 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 16 Governance Corporate Governance System Internal Control Activities The DOWA group adopted the executive officer system to soundly and effectively operate organizations, fasten To strengthen corporate governance, we encourage each company in the group to share the basic policy and the decision-making and for effective management. The group also adopted the holding company system to separate system of internal control with DOWA Holdings (Holdings Company) and also entrust each company to conduct business units from the holding company as subsidiaries. their own activities which shall exploit each company’s uniqueness. This ensures effective and efficient internal We also strive to ensure sound business management, focusing on enhancement of corporate governance through control based on the holding company system. internal controls. This is done to improve quality and efficiency of management to implement open, highly transparent management, based on the DOWA Group’s Values and Standards of Conduct. Internal Audit The internal audit based on the internal audit rules prescribed by the DOWA group involves all corporate activities, such as accounting audit, legal Meeting of Shareholders audit, safety and environmental audit etc. Our CSR department and each of the related departments and group companies cooperate with each other and conduct the internal audit, and report its results to the directors, auditors and relevant departments. In FY2015, we conducted briefings at 7 domestic bases, internal audits in 14 companies and overseas internal audits in 15 companies in North Elect / dismiss Elect / dismiss Elect / dismiss America, South East Asia and China, as a part of strengthening the internal control. Web Please refer to our annual report on the basic policy regarding the internal control system and its operation status. Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board http://www.dowa.co.jp/en/ir/library/annual.html 7 Directors 4 Auditors Independent Auditors (including 2 outside Directors) (including 3 outside Auditors) Au dit Risk Management Au dit A udi t A udi t The DOWA group addresses risk management to properly control risks that may hinder the realization of our business Business execution philosophy and achievement of our business plans, and to fulfill our social responsibilities, and contribute to the Dowa Holdings Lawyer improvement of our sustainable corporate value. Among the risks that beleaguer the group, the board of directors is President Committee of the Board Advise responsible for the “Business risks” and the CSR department is responsible for the “CSR risks” in cooperation with other departments. Committee of the Operating Officers Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Initiatives DOWA Consultation Desk (outside lawyers) Strategic Planning & Public Relations Dept., Human Resources Dept., General Affairs & Legal Dept., Accounting & Finance Dept., CSR Dept., Technologies Dept., Information System Dept. Notice The DOWA group has prepared a business continuity plan (BCP) by location and business entity to respond to natural disasters, such as large-scale earthquakes, typhoons, floods caused by torrential rains etc., and is making efforts to avoid risks so that business activities can continue Management Report Instruct / supervise Report when there is an emergency. BCP was reviewed on a regular basis and in FY2015, 24 business subsidiaries reviewed the supposed targets and countermeasures of BCP. Operating Companies Group Support companies In addition, we strive to maintain and improve the initial response capability by conducting emergency drills once a year, establishing initial Operating Companies※ emergency response headquarters at an enterprise level and in business companies and each division of the business unit, confirming safety of Dowa Eco-System Co., Ltd. DOWA Technology Co., Ltd. Dowa Metals & Mining Co., Ltd. Technical support employees and reporting the damage situation between each emergency response headquarters. Dowa Electronics Materials Co., Ltd. Dowa Metaltech Co., Ltd. Support DOWA Management Service Co., Ltd. Dowa Thermotech Co., Ltd. Clerical support Survey of BCP Formulation in Supply Chain Instruct / supervise Re po r t The DOWA group mainly deals with B to B business and a disruption of the supply chain means a strong impact on the production and sales of Operating Subsidiaries ※ President of each operating company serves concurrently customers at delivery destinations, therefore, through our CSR procurement, we are checking the formulation of BCP regarding rapid business as an officer of Dowa Holdings. restoration and its continuation in the event of a disaster, for the benefit of our main partners. For the business partners who are not yet decided, we explain the importance of the initiatives and request strengthening of BCP countermeasures. As of March 2016 Types of organization Company with auditors Number of directors 7 persons (No. of directors designated in the article of incorporation: 13 persons) DOWA Hotline Desk No. of external directors included 2 persons (1 of them is designated as an independent officer) Term of office of directors designated As a general rule, the Management Executive Committee, which With an aim of encouraging the early detection of risks associated with corporate activities and making employees find the workplace environment 1 year in the article of incorporation includes the Board of Directors and executive officers, is held once a safer and more comfortable, we have established a “DOWA Hotline desk” that allows direct consultation with corporate lawyers. This is announced Chairman of Board of Directors President month to promote information sharing. Each Auditor conducts audits on conducted through intranet, poster, etc. in which the confidentiality of reporting, etc. is maintained and guaranteed that the whistleblower is not 4 persons the execution of duties by the Directors and in principle reports at the subjected to unfair treatment. To build a healthier partnership with business partners and collaborating companies, we have opened the window of the No. of auditors (No. of auditors designated in the article of incorporation: 5 persons) Board of Auditors meeting, which is held once a month, to ensure the No. of external auditors included 3 persons DOWA Hotline desk outside the company so that it can be availed by the employees of business partners and collaborating companies. At the desk, we effectiveness and efficiency of the audit. maintain the confidentiality of consultations and opinions received and respond promptly and appropriately. Web For disclosure etc. based on each principle of corporate governance code, please refer to our Report Web pertaining to Corporate Governance.(Japanese only) http://www.dowa.co.jp/en/about_dowa/governance.html 17 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 18 Governance Relationship with National and Local Governments and Industries Compliance The DOWA Group is promoting activities related to public policies such as international collaboration, participating In the DOWA Group, we have positioned “Legal Compliance” as the fundamental of corporate management and are working on measures to strengthen internal control and education based on the “DOWA Group Values and Code of Conduct.” in councils and forums at government and industrial organizations, solving social issues, establishing and reviewing In addition, each DOWA Group company aims to improve the awareness on compliance by handling the annual internal audits (legal audits). legal systems. Example of Participation Our Efforts for Human Rights and Corruption Prevention DOWA Holdings President and Representative Director, Masao Yamada The DOWA group is committed to prohibiting discrimination against nationality, race, ethnic group, religion, sex, February 2013 – present Member of the Central Environment Council, Ministry of Environment age and disability; child labor; forced labor; and tackling corruption under the ten principles of the UN Global Chairman of the Waste Recycling Subcommittee, the Environmental Safety Committee, Compact. We strive to understand the circumstances relating to human rights considerations by continuing to conduct December 2012 – present annual surveys in our subsidiaries both in Japan and other countries. Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) In FY2015, we visited four Indian operating subsidiaries to conduct field visits and interviews. They are for We are actively participating in international conferences hosted by Government agencies in Japan and other countries and are contributing to promoting efforts towards human rights, based on a policy prohibiting employment, especially child labor and we various policies from the industrial standpoint. confirmed that they are not being done. Regarding the prevention of corruption, we explained using case examples and implemented group work initiatives to prevent corruption at the Internal Control Handbook briefing session. Participation in International Organizations and Consortiums The DOWA group has been participating in the UN Global Compact (UN GC), which is a voluntary international corporate citizenship advocated by the UN, since 2009. The DOWA group is committed to respecting and implementing the GC’s ten principles in four areas of the Global Compact of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption these are geared towards sustainable development of society. Even in formulating CSR procurement policies and guidelines, we reflect the principles of global compact, such as respect for human rights and elimination of child labor. TOPICS Acquisition of Certification for Conflict Mineral-free Smelter Ten Principles of Global Compact Conflict minerals refers to gold, tantalum, tin, and tungsten produced from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its neighboring countries which are the sources of funding for armed groups and anti-government organizations in the area. In the United States, the “Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Law” (commonly known as the Dodd-Frank Act), has stipulated the US-listed companies to check whether their own products include “conflict minerals” related to fraud, such as human rights violations and report to the US Securities and Human 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Exchange Commission. Rights 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. It is not easy to track the minerals contained in the materials and parts of several products till the most upstream mine. For this reason, EICC, which is a group of companies promoting CSR in the electronic 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. industry and GeSI, which promotes sustainability in the ICT sector, conduct a program (CFS certification 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. system) that audits the smelter closest to the upstream and certifies it as “free conflict-free smelter.” In the Labor DOWA group, the Kosaka Smelting and Refinery Co., Ltd., which is a compound recycling smelter, had its 5 The effective abolition of child labor. gold certification in FY2012 and tin certification in FY2014 and we continue to update the certification every year since obtaining the CFS certification for gold in FY2013 in the ecosystem recycling that carries out 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. precious metal recycling (secondary refining). In the CFS certification program, an independent third-party 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. institution verifies the process of analyzing procurement materials of smelter/refinery, verifies the method of deciding suppliers and the Environappropriateness of definition of recycled materials, etc. through on-site audit and document verification and determines whether all the ores ment 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. and raw materials handled are collected from conflict-free mines and mineral deposits or if they are the materials derived from recycling. 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We will continue to promote CFS certification by promoting risk management, partner monitoring, in-house education, etc. so that customers can use conflict-free gold and tin without fear of human rights violation. Corruption Prevention Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Web Global Compact Network, Japan http://www.ungcjn.org 19 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 20 Occupational health and safety is one of the most important Safety themes in helping the DOWA group to promote CSR activities through business and with that thought we are developing various safety activities based on our basic philosophy, Progress of Activities Safet y “Safety is the top priority.” Following is the status of activities for FY2015 and plan for FY2016 in the field of safety. FY2015 Results Safety Focus Measures Initiatives Goal Evaluation Main Results Raising the bottom level of • Strengthening of transverse initiatives Frequency rate 1.0 or less 0.98 C the company-wide safety in district units Severity rate 0.02 or less 1.35 Strengthening of safety • Increase in the countries targeted for No. of times: 5 times 13 times education for overseas providing education and education A subsidiaries by visiting Japan No. of persons: 50 persons 136 persons *Evaluation: A: Accomplished, B: Fair, C: Not Satisfactory ● All employees will take part in safety activities with their own initiatives FY2016 Initiatives and Goals to improve the level of health and safety in the workplace, based on our Frequency rate 0.9 or less CSR Policy Raising the bottom level of Strengthening of initiatives across regional units basic philosophy of “Safety is the top priority.” the company-wide safety Severity rate 0.02 or less ● We will prevent work-related accidents and support the sound health of Strengthening of safety Increase in the target for catering education and education for overseas 4 countries or more employees. subsidiaries visiting Japan for training Focus Measures Strengthening of Safety Education for Overseas Subsidiaries Technical Training Center Visit Japan for Training Program Training in Japan and Follow-up Meetings With DOWA group’s basic philosophy of The Visit Japan for Training Program conducts safety lectures, risk comes to Japan learns but it is also a program to become a “Mission we were able to build a system that boosts driving force for 5S and can “Safety is the top priority”, all employees volexperience-based training and equipment maintenance education for a Evangelist” at overseas companies after returning home. In FY 2015, a also implement 5S patrol every month”, “The awareness of operators untarily work on activities and aim to improve week at the Safety Training Center and Technical Training Center total of 36 local staff members from Thailand, China and Indonesia about the early abnormalities has increased rather than calling maintesafety and health standards. located in Iwata, Shizuoka. came to Japan five times, and those who were recognized as passed nance forces after they failed.” Legal systems and standards relating to safety Specifically, the “DOWA Group’s Safety and Health Policy” assessreturned home as safety evangelists with a completion certificate. In addition to visiting Japan for training, we are also emphasizing on and health differ across countries and regions, es if “Safe” firstly with practical training by special lecturers for safety The special lecturers who taught in Japan visited the site and “local safety education” where domestic staff go to the site to train. In education, 5S, voluntary conservation, planning and maintenance by checked whether there was reporting of information such as the safety FY2015 we focused on educating “How to use correct tools” in Thailand. the safety consciousness also varies and theremeans of lectures on the kind of state/action, accident disaster occurdeployment, 5S activities and voluntary equipment of maintenance Due to the achievements of the activities of visiting Japan for training fore we consider the focus on strengthening rence, risk assessment, work procedure, etc. and risk-based experiencafter return from training in Japan and a follow-up meeting was held and local safety education, the number of disasters occurring overseas overseas subsidiary safety education as a focus es such as trapped experience, electric shock experience, high altitude with the top affiliated companies. We were able to check the effects has steadily declined. Going forward, we will regularly hold local safety measure. We are strengthening the support fall using dolls, etc. This is not just a program that the trainee who such as “Originally we had implemented safety patrols monthly, but conventions etc. and the DOWA group will promote safety as a whole. system for safety activity education so that overseas local staff can understand this basic philosophy helping in its penetration across the company. As an example of the initiative, we started a training program for the overseas staff visiting Japan in FY2014; in FY2015 we expanded the target countries newly and increased catering education and visiting Japan for training. DTI Follow-up Meeting “Risk Experience Training” experience being caught in machines 21 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 22 Safety Occupational Safety Initiatives Occurrence of Work-related Accidents Compared with figures for offices of comparable size in the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare accidents statistics, the frequency rate was 0.98 Based on the DOWA group’s CSR Policy that “All employees shall voluntarily work on initiatives and aim for the against 1.70 and severity rate was 1.35 against 0.08 and the severity rate shows higher value than frequency rate. improvement of safety and health standards from the standpoint of the basic policy being, “Safety is the top priori* Compared with FY2015 accidents statistics definite value when number of employees was 100–299 (average number of employees at each of our offices) ty”, we have organized safety and health committees at all business sites and are developing various safety activities based on the annual safety and health plan. Trend in Occupational Accident Frequency Rate Trend in Occupational Accident Severity Rate 3.5 Average of Offices of DOWA group 2.0 Average of Offices of DOWA group Comparable Size Comparable Size Initiatives in Japan Initiatives outside Japan 3.0 2.89 2.45 2.43 2.53 1.5 2.5 1.35 With the company-wide safety campaign project that was launched In Southeast Asia where many DOWA Group offices are located, we across the entire group since FY2013, we checked the current gap have started joint safety cross-patrol etc. between the bases in FY2013. In 2.0 1.8 1.7 between “Vision” = “The most effective safety activity approach” and are FY2015 we strove to expand our educational activities such as training for 1.0 0.89 1.5 1.21 1.31 steadily promoting initiatives based on the improvement plans aimed at safety staff from China, Thailand and Indonesia bases in Japan, for the 1.21 0.98 realizing the vision. purpose of nurturing human resources responsible for strengthening the 1.0 0.5 field strength. 0.21 0.12 0.28 0.24 0.5 0.05 0.08 ■ Safety Recognition ■ Human Resource Training Initiatives 0.06 0.03 0 0.0 At Akita Rare Metals that recycles In DOWA Thermotech Indonesia, we 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (fiscal year) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (fiscal year) Indium in the city of Akita, the accident-free are focusing on nurturing local human period has been continuing for a long time. resources through safety, quality, compliIndicator representing the frequency of accidents based on number of casualties due to industrial Frequency rate In FY2015, we adopted a risk assessment accidents per 1 million total working hours ance etc. Maintaining high quality and Indicator representing the severity of accidents based on number of labor days lost due to method to the improvement activities and cleanliness of the factory comparable to Severity rate industrial accidents per 1,000 total working hours small group activities that we had been that of the factories in Japan by promotion implementing from the past, and received of 5S activities and education using Reduction of risk by Accidents in DOWA Hightech the President’s award for safety for the original images, thoroughness of “InforEducation using manhole weight reduction and Two people died in the early hours of January 3, 2016 due to a tank explosion accident that occurred at DOWA Hightech Co., Ltd., which is a subsidiary of our achievement of both risk reduction and own video materials reduction of working time mation, reporting, phasing” and greeting Company. improvement in work efficiency simultaneWe express our deepest condolences to those who passed away and sincerely apologize for any inconveniences and concerns caused to all those concerned. activities has helped gain the trust of the users which has resulted in Going forward, we will certainly implement various safety measures and work to strengthen our safety management system. ously. In the case study initiative, we are trying to improve safety awareness improved business performance. such as replacing the accident scenario of another company with your own In addition to the corporate philosophy and action guidelines of the workplace, doing a risk assessment and checking 5W1H, etc. so that accidents and disasters can be self-captured. DOWA Group, we have established policies and behavioral standards that take into consideration Indonesian laws and cultures, and implemented Promotion of Health Management dissemination and education through in-house training, morning meeting sessions and employee communication. The DOWA group develops various measures such as health check, mental health measures, support for sports events, etc. for promotion and health management of employees and their families. Health Check The departments and business units are taking initiatives for all employees to have their regular health check done every year to raise their awareness towards health, so that they can maintain their physical and mental health. In addition to this, we are also making the most of various subsidy programs TOPICS Certified Company for Safety and Good Health such as medical checkups, gynecological examinations, influenza vaccination, etc. We have also taken various initiatives directed at improving the consultation rate of specific medical checkup intended for insured persons of age 40 or more and nonworking dependents by providing information According to the official announcement of “Companies with excellent safety and health” by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare, which was started in FY2015 with the goal of through group newsletters, etc. “Company Performance in Occupational Safety and Health”, Meltec that carries out melting Further, we also provide a subsidy system for sporting events for employees through sports and exercise so that they continue to maintain and and recycling of waste ranks 17th in the nation and received its first recognition in the Tochigi promote a healthy body. Prefecture. This certification is subject to efforts in a wide range of fields such as workers’ health maintenance promotion measures, mental health measures, safety management, etc., however, activities such as promoting the visualization of Meltec’s risk areas and conducting Mental Health Initiatives all-member safety meetings, etc. were evaluated. The DOWA Group is taking initiatives towards creating a healthy workplace for both mind and body. For health management of minds of the employees (Mental Health Management), we operate a mental health counseling system, and have provided a dedicated line where employees can receive telephonic and in-person consultations by a professional counselor (clinical psychologist). We have also introduced self-check tools since FY2013 that can be used for self-diagnosis of mental health, for achieving prevention of mental illnesses by enhancing the awareness of own stress condition. 23 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 24 The DOWA Group recognizes the impact of business activities on the environment, positions environmental and social Progress of Activities Environment initiatives through its core business, positioning the reduction Following is the status of activities for FY2015 and the plan for FY2016 in the field of environment. of the environmental impact on its business as an important issue in management and is working on a groupwide initiative. FY2015 Results Environment Environment Focus Measures Initiatives Goal Evaluation Main Results • Strengthening of the overseas Increase from the Strengthening of recycling business B 8% reduction from the previous fiscal year collection of recycled materials previous fiscal year Total greenhouse gas Countermeasures for global • Reduction at large-scale emission emission 1% reduction from the A 4% reduction from the previous fiscal year warming sites Potential investigation, etc. previous fiscal year Environment conservation • Establishment of environmental 5 office visit guidance B 4 office visit guidance activities risk assessment • Formulation and implementation Current survey of biodiversity concerns Conservation of biodiversity Planning and execution B in overseas mine development ● We will provide customers (customers, regions, etc.) with products and of conservation action plan FY2016 Initiatives and Goals *Evaluation: A: Accomplished, B: Fair, C: Not Satisfactory services that contribute to building a resource-recycling society. ● We will reduce environmental burdens and risks in our business Strengthening of recycling Strengthening of recycling materials and collection of CSR Policy Increase from the previous fiscal year business overseas cargo activities. ● The management and employees together take part in environmental Countermeasures for global warming Promotion of renewal of energy-saving equipment at large-scale disposal sites 1% reduction of total greenhouse gas emission from the previous fiscal year conservation activities. Environment conservation Mutual inspection of environmental management system 5 districts or more ● We will promote business activities considering biodiversity. activities Conservation of biodiversity Formulation and execution of the conservation action plan Planning and execution Focus Measures Conservation of biodiversity Mangrove Plantation in Thailand Circumstances Surrounding Learning Biodiversity through Children and Environmental In FY2015, the Eastern Seaboard the Mangrove Experience Education Environmental Complex Co., Ltd. (ESBEC), Mangrove is a general term for plants growing in brackish water This time’s afforestation activity was conducted to encourage local For sustainable development of society, children who will be area where subtropical seawater mixes with freshwater; plankton, children to learn the importance of the environment through personal responsible for the future should have correct knowledge about the which handles waste disposal in Thailand, crab, shrimp etc. grow abundantly and it is the habitat for various experience, so we invited local Ban Bowin School, where 173 environment and it is important to raise their awareness. At ESBEC, collaborated with local elementary schools organisms where birds and fish gather together. In addition, it became students, 7 teachers and 13 local residents participated as volunteers. we recognize that our business activities will affect the global a buffer zone to alleviate the effects of high waves and tsunamis On that day, they received orientation about mangroves from the Navy environment and local communities, so we are focusing on our efforts and residents on the Sattahip Coast located at caused by typhoons, and it was recently found that it plays an who administer the Sattahip Coast and planted 300 trees in for CSR activities targeting “environment,” “region” and “child.” the southernmost tip of Chonburi Province important role in absorbing and fixing CO2. However, the mangrove collaboration with ESBEC employees. The children also visited the In addition to conducting experience-based learning like the forests in Southeast Asia are declining rapidly and it is said that nearby Natural History Museum (Thai Island And Sea Natural History mentioned afforestation on a regular basis, we also donate and conducted mangrove planting activities. especially in Thailand that the mangrove forests of nearly half of the Museum) and learned more about the marine creatures of Sattahip. color-categorized waste bins to local elementary schools to convey the area were transformed into shrimp farming ponds in the last 20 to 30 Through this afforestation experience, we hope that children will importance of sorting and recycling of waste and we are taking active years. deepen their understanding of mangrove and biodiversity. initiatives on environmental education such as conducting a workshop to make eco bags, etc. so that they work on familiar environmental activities and this will help raise the children’s eco mind. 25 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 26 Environment Material Balance of DOWA Group The DOWA group identifies the input of resources and energy into the business activities of the DOWA group (“INPUT”) and the output of products produced and the discharged amount of substances imposing environmental burden (“OUTPUT”) in each stage of its lifecycle in a quantitative way and conduct business considering material balance. Material Balance of FY2015 The environmental impact increased compared to FY2015 with the addition of 2 companies, namely, DOWA Thermo Engineering Hamamatsu Kita Plant and PT. DOWA THERMOTECH INDONESIA in Indonesia, INPUT DOWA group OUTPUT but the overall trend has not changed significantly. For details of items, see P.31–32 Compared to previous Compared (as converted to CO2) Total Energy 17.4PJ fiscal year Business activities to previous Resource Recycling in Society and Our Resource Recycling 1% Greenhouse gas 1,669,000 t fiscal year 4% Fossil fuel 110,000 KL There are mainly 3 recycling in DOWA group. Research and Raw materials Power source 791,000 t (CO conversion) 2 First recycling is in-house generation and in-house utilization. Here, the Purchased power 1,316 GWh development procurement Fossil fuel source 302,000 t (CO conversion) waste material generated in our “Manufacturing businesses” such as 2 Thermal power generation 4.0 GWh smelting and metal processing is recycled in our “Environmental and Hydroelectric power generation 62.1 GWh Waste source 576,000 t (CO conversion) Manufacturing business 2 recycling business”, and either sold or re-used as raw materials for the Solar power generation 332 MWh company. Second recycling is carried out using scrap metal generated during Purchased steam 383 GJ Smelting business Compared to previous processing in manufacturing plants of other companies. Receiving such Product quantity 629,000 t fiscal year +9% material from customer factories that pay for our materials and parts leads Compared to previous Electronic materials to reduction in volume of new resource input such as by re-using the waste Raw materials 1,026,000 t fiscal year +5% business as raw material. Compared Materials 794,000 t Purchased power 1.5 to previous Third recycling is recycling of used final products. Through home Metal processing GWh fiscal year Auxiliary materials 160,000 t -17% appliance recycling, automobile recycling, and small appliances recycling business etc., used products widely collected from the society are passed on to the Heat treatment consignment goods 71,000 t society again as metal material. Heat treatment Compared to previous Chemical substance 2,796 t fiscal year In this way, The DOWA group strives for effective use of limited resourcbusiness +6% Packaging material 1,500 t es through three loops, starting with our company's production stage to the waste generated from society. At the same time, as a social responsibility in Compared Compared resource recycling, we aim for a sustainable resource circulation in considto previous to previous Water resource 92 million m3 fiscal year Environment and Water discharge 105 million m 3 fiscal year eration to environmental protection and energy saving, such as utilizing the +3% 1% recycling business heat generated in manufacturing processes as steam or electric power, along Sea water 78 million m3 with striving to minimize the environmental impact at every stage in Other than sea water 14 million m3 Compared recycling, such as appropriate water treatment, detoxification of the waste, Discharged waste 486,000 t to previous fiscal year secure final disposal. Compared to previous fiscal year 4% up Waste heat power 4% gro Compared A Accepted wastes 1,186,000 t to previous fiscal year generation 77 GWh Compared W 0% Recycled 744,000 t to previous DO fiscal year Wastes 1,163,000 t Waste heat utilization 705 TJ Compared 5% to previous Environmental １ Manufacturing fiscal year 3% Thermal recycling 518,000 t Department Contaminated soil 23,000 t Logistics Material recycling 226,000 t Department Recycle Destructed CFC 194,000 t ３ ２ Use and disposal Process emissions In-house disposal and recycling Manufacturing Third-party manufacturing plant End users and sales Customer End user 27 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 28 Environment Basic Environmental Policy of the DOWA group Initiatives for Biodiversity The DOWA group has pointed out that the efforts for environmental protection is an important challenge in corporate The DOWA Group has been focusing on protecting nature and contributing to local communities, mainly through management and we have established “Basic Environmental Policy,” and as a basic idea of this policy, we are promanagement of forests owned by the company and afforestation, and further, by establishing the Basic Policy on moting environment management throughout the Group. Biodiversity, the DOWA Group is promoting its initiatives towards grasping the relationship between our business and biodiversity and its impact. The DOWA group shall strive to create the resource-recycling society and shall aim to hand-over the sound global environment to the next generation through our business activities. 1 We will provide our customers (clients and local communities) with products and services, which contribute to building a We, the DOWA group, shall recognize the importance of biodiversity conservation to sustainably enjoy the blessing of resource-recycling society. Biodiversity nature, which are derived from biodiversity and our business activities are benefiting from, and shall voluntary and 2 We will minimize the environmental impact and environmental risk in our business activities. Basic Policy continuously work on conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity as a member of society. 3 We will work on environmental conservation activities across the entire company from the management level to employees together. 1. Identification of Basic Environmental Policy Website We identify and analyze what type of ecosystem services* our business activities Web business impacts on http://www.dowa-csr.jp/en/csr/csr_policy.html depend and have impact on, and make an effort to avoid and reduce the impacts. biodiversity and * Ecosystem Services: The benefits we, people, obtain from ecosystems (definition in the UN Millennium implementation of Environment Management System activities Ecosystem Assessment) The CSR department and the planning department of each business office, which perform the environment protection Our Action 2. Awareness of employees We carry out education and awareness-raising of biodiversity on our employees. Policy on activity, carry out the environment management activities of DOWA group co-operatively. DOWA Holdings conducts Biodiversity the adjustments and compilation in between each business office and also carries out the environment management Conservation 3. Corporate management We strive to create a culture of sound material cycles through sustainable resources for sound material use, energy saving and 3R, and to conserve biodiversity through such comprehensive and compliance management as an entire DOWA group. In addition, we have acquired ISO14001 for major domestic cycles business activities. production sites and international offices, and for proper implementation of the environment management, we are taking efforts for development assistance of internal auditors through the implementation of periodic internal audits & 4. Collaboration with We promote communication and information sharing on biodiversity conservation, and external audits and auditor training courses. seek sustainable use of biodiversity with various stakeholders related to our business various stakeholders activities. Development of Environment-friendly and Society-friendly Products and Services In FY2015, we conducted an investigation to check the biodiversity areas and water sources in the workplace and neighboring areas, the status of greening and conservation activities at each business site, etc. towards formuThe DOWA Group contributes to the creation of a sustainable society by providing materials and services such as lating a continuous action plan. We are also continuing activities such as planting trees on the site of the mine metal materials, semiconductors, magnetic materials, etc. that lead to the reduction of harmful substances, environ(Kosaka Town, Akita Prefecture) and promoting biodiversity considerations to our suppliers through CSR procurement. mental preservation, high efficiency of products and long life. TOPICS Expansion of the Disposal of Low Concentration PCB Waste ■ What is PCB Waste? Biodiversity Conservation in Mining Development Polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) has been used for a wide range of applications including electrical and electronic equipment such as transformers and capacitors due to its properties such as its insulation property and incombustibility, however, due to the Kanemi oil case in 1968, In the DOWA Group’s smelting business, we are promoting mine exploration and development projects aiming at a zinc ore ratio of over 50% that toxicity and environmental pollution have become social problems and manufacturing was canceled in 1972. Although the PCB Special was targeted in the mid-term plan. The DOWA Group aims to achieve sustainable development and harmony with the local community by conducting Measures Act came into effect in 2001 stipulating to promote reliable and appropriate treatment, a small amount of PCB was found in 2002 ongoing environmental monitoring from the exploration stage and taking measures to minimize the burden on the environment caused by development in the insulating oil of an electrical equipment which was not supposed to use PCB. Due to this unintentional contamination, traces of contaminated PCB waste and PCB concentration summed up to 0.5–5,000 mg/kg of waste and was termed low concentration PCB waste. The and operation. volume of waste electrical equipment contaminated with the trace amount of PCBs has been enormous and not yet fully understood, therefore there needs time to strengthen the disposal system so as to complete the process with the statutory deadline of March 2027. ■ Low Concentration PCB Disposal of DOWA Group The DOWA Group has been involved in the demonstration tests on incineration of trace amounts of PCB-contaminated waste electrical appliances etc. at multiple sites, since 2005 by the Ministry of the Environment, and has started the disposal of mainly the waste electrical equipment in Fukuoka prefecture in FY2010, Okayama prefecture and Akita prefecture in FY2011. In FY2015, we established an incinerator newly for low-concentration PCB waste in Akita Prefecture and obtained the Minister’s approval concerning the disposal of waste electrical equipment and others. We are carrying out not only disposal but also dismantling of large electric equipment on site and transportation, Low Concentration PCB Waste Ecosystem monitoring Water monitoring Tree planting activities at etc. Furthermore, by increasing the processing capacity of DOWA Group from about 30,000 tons per year to Detoxification Treatment Facility (US · Alaska Exploration (Mexico · Chihuahua State Tisapa mine about 50,000 tons per year, we are contributing to the promotion of low concentration PCB waste disposal. (Ecosystem Akita) Project) Development Project) (Mexico/ State of Mexico) 29 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 30 Environment Our Initiative to Fight against Global Warming Water Environment Conservation The DOWA group set a goal of “15% reduction of specific consumption of CO2 by 2020, compared to 1990” accordThe DOWA Group is working on water conservation and water recycling while considering regional water risks. ing to the Action Plan to Implement Low Carbon Society by Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) and the Japan ■ Utilization of water resources Mining Industry Association (published as of January 2013) as a measure to fight against global warming. Water Resources Others 0.1% About 80% of the water resources used in the DOWA group is seawaFreshwater usage Trend in Greenhouse Gas Emission Fresh water breakdown ter used as cooling water in the process of metal smelting etc. For 16% The greenhouse gas emissions in the DOWA Group as a whole in FY2015 is approximately 1,669,000 tons of CO (domestic 1,577,000 tons of CO2, freshwater, we are working on water conservation and recycling within GroundIndustrial water water overseas 92,000 tons of CO2), and the group’s greenhouse gas emission has reduced by approximately 4%. the process for effective use of water resources. In FY2015, the water resource input amounted to 92.5 million m3, which increased by 3% from 92.5 28.7% 14.4 33.5% million m3 million m3 the previous year mainly due to an increase in cooling water due to ■ Power source ■ Fossil fuel source increased production. Among that, the amount of freshwater used was River water Tap water Unit sales Unit sales 33.3% CO2 emission (1,000 t) (100 t/100 million yen) CO2 emission (1,000 t) (100 t/100 million yen) 14.4 million m3 which is almost the same level as the previous year. 4.4% Seawater 800 4.0 350 3.5 Wastewater 84% 700 300 3.0 The amount of wastewater in FY2015 was 105 million m3, which is • Reuse of incineration process coolant in a 600 3.0 almost the same with a reduction of 1% from the previous year. Examples of 250 2.5 separate process initiatives taken 500 GL* GL* in FY2015 • Change of warm water of the process for ES 200 2.0 ES recycling purposes 400 300 1.5 1.7 1.7 1.9 2.0 MM EL 150 1.5 MM EL Promotion of Resource Recycling • Utilization of treated water from wastewater for water sprouting on site MT MT 1.3 TH 100 1.0 TH The DOWA Group is contributing to the formation of a sustainable society by curbin g the consumption of natural 200 1.0 HD 0.8 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 HD 100 Unit 50 0.5 Unit resources and promoting the cyclical use of used resources. consumption consumption 0 0 *GL: Overseas bases 0 0 *GL: Overseas bases Recycling 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Raw Material (fiscal year) (fiscal year) The amount of raw materials used in FY2015 was 1,026 kt, which is In FY2015, the recycling volume was 744 kt, which is a decrease of an increase of 5% from the previous fiscal year due to increased producapproximately 5% from the previous year. Of these, 221 kt were recycled tion. in the DOWA group, and 523 kt were recycled outside the company. The DOWA Group’s CO2 emissions are characterized by large emissions of CO2 due to incineration of waste received externally. It is difficult to reduce the CO2 emission generated from the wastes received due to the control of handling volume, therefore, for effective utilization, we are promoting Received Waste thermal recycling such as power generation using waste incineration heat and utilization of steam. The amount of waste received in FY2015 was 1,186 kt, which is almost INPUT Raw material OUTPUT Process at the same level as the previous year. 1,026,000 tons Product Utilization of Natural Energy Product Waste Heat Utilization 629,000 tons Received Waste Waste Heat Power Generation Recycling In addition to the measures to counter global warming, such as energy saving and fuel conversion, we are working on the utilization of natural The product volume in FY2015 was 629 kt, which is an increase of 1,186,000 tons energy etc. with less environmental impact. about 9% compared to the previous year. This is mainly due to an increase Thermal Recycling in zinc production in the smelting business. Material Recycling 195,000 tons to Company [Hydroelectric power generation] [Power generation from waste] 323,000 tons to outside 25,000 tons to Company The DOWA Group currently owns six hydraulic power stations in Waste power generation produces steam at high temperature and Disposed Waste 200,000 tons to outside Akita Prefecture, and the amount of electricity generated in FY 2015 high pressure by the “heat” when incinerating garbage, and turns the 156,000 tons Waste The volume of disposed waste in FY2015 was 486 kt, which is a to outside was 62.1 GWh, which is about 2% less than the previous year. Hydroturbine to generate electricity. Currently, we are generating electricity decrease of approximately 4% compared to the previous year. 331,000 tons power utilizing natural energy is an important power source to cover at five plants, that is, 4 in Japan and 1 overseas and the amount of waste to Company the energy of our smelting business heat power used in FY2015 was 76.7 GWh, which is about 4% lower than the previous year. [Solar power generation] TOPICS FY2015 Environment Minister’s Award for Promotion of Recycling-based Society Solar power generation is influenced by the weather, however, Biodiesel Okayama in Okayama Prefecture has collaborated with the Okayama city in 2008 for recovering waste edible oils discharged from general households, restaurants, food manufacturing factories, etc. to produce biodiesel showing the amount of power generation in a visible manner will help * As a rule, the amount of CO2 emission is seek based on the emission factors in Law (Global fuel (BDF) of 500 kg or more. The produced BDF is mainly used as a substitute fuel for diesel oil used in garbage in improving the awareness about energy consciousness among Warming Law) concerning about the promotion of global warming measures for system power trucks in Okayama City and it is also used for vehicles such as private civic route buses in the city, forklifts in the purchase amount, fossil fuel consumption and accepted waste. With regard to CO2 emissions employees and also play a role in environmental awareness such as DOWA office, etc. In the manufacture of BDF, we adopt a system that does not generate wastewater taking the from accepting waste, as calculation conditions are set while preparation of this report, it may global warming and energy issues. Currently, solar power generation not necessarily coincide with the reported value to the government. In addition, the classification environment into consideration, besides, in addition to daily inspections, we also conduct activities such as evaluation system has been introduced in five domestic plants, and in FY2015 we of waste in Japan and overseas is different; it is difficult to set an appropriate emission factor for at an external organization four times a year to ensure thorough quality management. generated about 332 MWh, contributing to reduction in the emission of the accepted waste at overseas sites, so amount of CO2 emission of waste origin is displayed Evaluating our initiatives on environmental education such as allowing elementary children to have a tour of the factory only for the domestic sites. and production of high quality BDF, we were recognized for 3R excellence and awarded “FY2015 Environment CO2. Minister’s Award for Promotion of Recycling-based Society” in FY2015. 31 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 32 The DOWA Group aims to be a company trusted by all stakeProgress of Activities Society holders for sustainable development and is taking initiatives to enhance the relationship with the society through its CSR activiFollowing is the status of activities for FY2015 and the plan for FY2016 in the social field. ties. FY2015 Results Society Society Focus Measures Initiatives Goal Evaluation Main Results • Expansion of global human resources Same as left A Implementation of global challenge program • Growing strength of overseas and locally recruited Conducting training for overseas and locally recruited employees in Same as left A employees Japan Promoting diversity • Aggressive deployment of career 2.0% Career employment rate less than 2% B • Promotion of internal social gathering for female 2 times B Implementation for employees at the headquarters employees • Thorough internal knowledge of institutions Same as left B Publish explanatory materials of the institution in the intranet Promoting work-life balance • Encouragement of annual leave usage 60% A Acquisition rate 61% • Promotion of working hours reduction measures Same as left B Establishment of a special committee for work time management • Implementation of training of appraisers and evaluators Training for appraisers 546 persons.Training for persons being appraised 453 persons Human resource Appraisers and persons Implementation of system survey • Implementation of system survey being appraised development, evaluation Feedback to appraiser training No. of participants in the A and treatment • Expansion education of internal education target layer training 600 persons New training 2 sessions (First-line supervisor training 12 persons, 3rd year recruits training 39 persons) • Training system development of hierarchy wise education Rebuilding of the system and training implementation ● We will aim to create a workplace where diversity and human rights of • In-house dissemination of advanced cases of Information Sharing Overseas business site safety report, dissemination of CSR case information Promoting social contribution overseas business offices by external authors employees are respected, and each person can demonstrate maximum A • Support for office initiatives by Portal Site CSR initiative reporting series by new recruits (46 authors) CSR Policy capacity with satisfaction and pride. FY2016 Initiatives and Goals *Evaluation: A: Accomplished, B: Fair, C: Not Satisfactory ● We will promote social contribution appropriate with community stanExpansion of global human resources Same as left dards together with local communities. Growing strength of overseas and locally recruited employees Same as left Promoting diversity Aggressive deployment of career 2.0% Promotion of internal social gathering for female employees and managers 1 time each Thorough internal knowledge of institutions Same as left Promoting work-life balance Encouragement of annual leave usage 60% Focus Measures Promotion of working hours reduction measures Same as left Implementation of training of appraisers and evaluators Promoting Social Contribution Human resource Implementation of system survey No. of training participants as appraisers and persons development, evaluation Expansion education of internal education target layer being appraised 600 persons and treatment Training system development of hierarchy wise education In-house dissemination of advanced cases of overseas business offices Promoting social contribution Information Sharing by Portal Site Initiatives by PPLi Indonesia Support for office initiatives PT. Prasadha Pamunah Limbah Industri (PPLi) is the only company in Indonesia that has business permit for final treatment of hazardous waste conforming to internaCommunal Harmony and Symbiosis Active Dissemination and RaisConsideration to Culture and tional standards and it carries out collecFor more than 20 years, PPLi, which operates its waste disposal ing of Awareness pertaining to Religion Environment and Recycling business in Bogor County, Indonesia, conducts business with emphasis tion and transportation of wastes, intermeUnderstanding Islam is important for foreign companies doing on understanding from local residents and appropriate communication. diate treatment, final treatment, etc. PPLi has established departments for safety, environment, public business in Indonesia where the majority of the people are Muslims. PPLi was established in 1994 as the first disposal site management Many Muslims have set up Mosques (place of worship) within their relations, etc. as duty stations for CSR; besides, departments that are company for hazardous waste in Indonesia. Even today, it is the only workplaces so that they can offer their prayers towards Mecca at a exclusively in charge of negotiations with local communities are also company in Indonesia that provides comprehensive waste disposal fixed time, five times a day. PPLi rebuilt the mosque in July 2015 and being set up. The local community PR staff visits nearby villages, service from collection/transportation to final treatment. Regarding has been offering worship area for employees and visitors. interviews the local residents directly regarding their needs and wishes the processing technology and know-hows that PPLi has been cultivatand conducts various regional contribution activities after discussion. ing so far, there are many requests for consultation and education from Besides community contribution activities, we apply the voices of administrative institutions, educational institutions, local communities local residents even in the operations side, the related departments and customers and it is through these that PPLi actively participates in such as safety and environmental departments work together and we the dissemination and awareness of environmental and recycling operate with emphasis on harmony with the surrounding environment. activities for each stakeholder. Mosque in PPLi 33 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 34 Society Relations with Society Communication with Shareholders and Investors In the DOWA Group, we recognize the explanation of corporate and management information to shareholders, investors and other stakeholders as The DOWA group promotes communication with major stakeholders including our customers, shareholders, invesone of the important issues in corporate governance, and we are striving to disclose timely and appropriate information. tors, partners, local people and employees using various tools in each business entity and department. ■ IR information ■ General shareholders meeting We hold briefing sessions by the management when announcing the Every June, we hold an ordinary general Relationship with Major Stakeholders quarterly financial results. We also provide opportunities to explain meeting of shareholders at Hotel Chinzan-so management information directly to domestic and overseas investors. We in Tokyo and it is attended by more than 300 also publish our reports and annual reports in Japanese, English and shareholders. After the general meeting of Chinese as management policy and management status reporting tool of shareholders, we hold a social gathering the DOWA group and are striving to disclose appropriate and highly aiming to promote communication with All the customers using products transparent information. shareholders; we have set up a forum for All the shareholders, individual and and services offered by this dialogue with executives and a product exhibition section for each business. institutional investors of this group company ■ Dissemination of IR information through website In addition, we have set up a separate presentation room in the conference Optimization of business valuation Assurance of quality and safety of hall where the executives can explain the topics of the DOWA group. Responsibility Dividend products and services IR information is sent on our website to help the shareholders and Information disclosure, interaction Offering eco-friendly products investors understand the business situation and business strategy of the Responsibility Pursuing customer satisfaction (CS) DOWA group. In addition to financial reporting, securities reports, etc., General meeting of shareholders Appropriate management of other materials such as annual reports and shareholder correspondence are customer information Results briefing, presentation and field visit for Shareholders also posted. Going forward, we shall strive to disclose information in a Opportunity investors Customers comprehensible and timely manner. and investors Seminar, exhibition and factory visit Issuing of annual report or business report Information disclosure on Web site Various environmental public Web http://www.dowa.co.jp/en/ir/index.html Opportunity relations Information disclosure on Web site DOWA All the partners of this company Industry-University Collaboration Initiative who are collaborating with us in Employees working with group offering the products and The DOWA group is actively pursuing collaborative research in collaboration with universities and research institutions for the purpose of developthis group and their families Employees Business services (Employees and ing new products and new technologies. In FY2015, we conducted joint research with more than 10 universities and research institutes. partners Appropriate valuation and treatment families) Selection of supplier based on just Ensuring diversity of human resources and fair standards Responsibility and personnel training Responsibility Guarantee of labor’s safety and hygiene Support to CSR and environmental activities in supply chain ■ Technical exchange meetings ■ Support for education, research and human High regard for human rights We have concluded a comprehensive resource development Promoting work-life balance Local Various briefing sessions including communities CSR procurement to business agreement with the five universities, Akita Four employees of the DOWA Group serve as lecturers in Tohoku partners University, Tohoku University, Gunma Opportunity University, Akita University, and Gunma University in fields such as Quality, environment and CSR audit Administrative meeting University, Okayama University and environmental substance control studies and optical device research and DOWA Hotline Desk Social gathering for labor and management Kumamoto University to promote collabodevelopment. It is a part of human resource development at university by personnel rative research and hold result reporting conducting practical and professional lectures in line with the field. Opportunity Personnel and environmental training Group information and portal site meetings and technical exchange meetings. DOWA Hotline Desk The technical exchange meeting, which celebrates its seventh year, is a Factory visit with focus on family of employees meeting to invite researchers from the universities, who are in line with Regional society having association with this the theme, three to four times a year, to discuss technical issues and company through offices and headquarters technical research. A wide range of engineers from management staff to Eco-friendly activity and training activity young people attend from the DOWA group and it has become a useful Responsibility Contribution to regional development through aiding cultural arena to improve their knowledge through concrete discussions. and sports activities Information disclosure, interaction Factory visit with focus on various regional people Participation in regional organizations Opportunity Sponsoring, planning and aiding regional events Risk communication 35 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 36 Society Together with Our Customers and Business Partners Together with the Regional Society The DOWA group strives to build long-term relationships of trust with business partners to improve customer satisThe DOWA Group is working on regional contributions as a focus measure in the social field initiatives. In each of faction through the provision of better products and services. We are also promoting CSR efforts by supply chain, our domestic and overseas bases, we are actively developing community-based CSR activities such as factory including environmental preservation and improvement of the working environment. tours, recruiting interns, hosting sports events, communication with local community, etc. to progress and develop within the region. Supply Chain Management Community Contribution Activities The DOWA group is working to further improve CSR while strengthening partnership In FY2015, we held events such as Cherry Blossom Festival in Okayama Prefecture, Junior Cross Country Tournament in Akita Prefecture in by helping the partners understand the importance of CSR in the supply chain. Improvement of CSR Questionnaire which many local people participated. Initiatives ●Enforcing self-check ●Promotion of CSR questionnaires for main initiatives at ■ DOWA group CSR procurement guidelines partners’ partners ■ Kojima Lake Blossom Corridor Cherry Blossom Festival, Okayama prefecture ●Follow-up To enable every partner, understand the basic stance of CSR procurement, we distribute Lake Kojima in Okayama City is a freshwater lake made by Kojima Bay reclamation developed by Denzaburo PDCA Cycle CSR procurement guidelines, explain the background of CSR procurement and our Audit Report for CSR Feedback Report Fujita, the founder of the DOWA group. In FY2007, the DOWA Group launched the “Kojima Lake Blossom initiatives as necessary. This guideline was formulated in FY2014 with reference to ●Request for Procurement ●Replying to Corridor Project”, in which Kawazu cherry trees were planted in and around the coast of Lake Kojima. The local consideration of guidelines of the electronics industry that are deeply connected with the supply chain, improvement questions community has joined hands in planting trees and taking care of them with a row of 5,000 cherry blossom trees at related to CSR pertaining to the such as “JEITA Supply Chain CSR Promotion Guide Book” and “EICC Code of Conduct initiatives and questionnaire present. The Kojima Lake Blossom Corridor, Cherry Blossom Festival started in FY2010 at its time of blossom and on-site check results (Electronic Industry Code of Conduct).” results CSR Site Audit ●Field-wise is an event rooted in the area in which our employees and local residents operate as staff. Approximately 18,000 evaluation ●Factory tour people attended the cherry-blossom festival of 2015, the largest number ever and enjoyed early blooming cherry ●Interviews blossoms, stalls and stage events. ●Verification of ■ Self-check and CSR audit questionnaire response details In FY2015 we requested our 107 main suppliers to do a self-check using the CSR ■ Kosaka Household Town Afforestation Planting Ceremony, Akita Prefecture self-checklist and through the feedback report, we informed responding companies about In the DOWA group, we are working on creating forests to provide habitat for several creatures, so that forests in our expectations and requested improvement. We conducted a CSR audit of the important suppliers to ascertain the actual condition of CSR. the Kosaka area of Akita Prefecture become areas with high biodiversity. Afforestation in this hometown started in We, being a supplier also, have follow-up by the CSR department and conduct in-house briefings with the aim of understanding the requirements 2006 when we started planting with 8,000 saplings in Kosaka Smelting under the guidance of the International and responding promptly to CSR surveys from the customers. Center for Ecological Studies, as part of greening and forestry development activities within the project site. We planted 25 kinds of trees including beech and Oak which took local ecology into consideration and so far, we have planted across an area of about 6.25 ha (about 1.3 times of Tokyo Dome), with more than 157 thousand trees. In the ■ Response to conflict minerals ninth planting festival held in FY2015, the people of Kosaka Town of a total of 500 participants including employThe DOWA Group dealing with non-ferrous metals as its main product recognizes the responsibility of companies associated with conflict minerals ees, OBs, local elementary and high school students planted 5,500 trees. as one of the important CSR challenges and is taking initiatives to ensure transparency of the supply chain in procurement activities and practice responsible mineral procurement. In FY2015, we did a survey for partners and responded to customer inquiries, as per the conflict mineral management policy. Furthermore, to promote responsible mineral procurement, we have taken up a program for certifying a smelter that does not handle conflict minerals (CFS certification system); Two of our companies, namely, Kosaka Smelting (gold and tin), Eco System Recycling (gold) have acquired CFS certificaTOPICS Community Support by Thai Community Fund tion and we are striving to fulfill the procurement responsibility as a material manufacturer. ESBEC which is supported by the Thai Community Fund for treating wastes in Thailand has established a fund called “ESBEC/WMS Community Fund” to support local communities and it is doing continuous social contribution. To achieve symbiosis with the local community, this fund reserves a certain amount according to the Quality Management amount of wastes received by ESBEC and its use is determined by the “Fund committee meeting” consisting of representatives of 13 villages around the factory. In the DOWA Group, “Quality” is positioned as an important management axis for manufacturing and the major manufacturing plants have obtained international standard ISO 9001 certification for quality management system. We strive to improve the quality of products and services by continuously Fund committee meeting operating this quality management system based on PDCA. In addition, as an initiative to strengthen quality control, we collaborate with suppliers and Part of the Support Activities of FY2015 implement supplier surveys and quality audits at appropriate frequencies, from the viewpoint of quality and technology, to ensure the quality of ●Donation of library equipment and books to school (Ban Phan SadejNok School) procured products. ●Setting up of a separate sorting place for recycling in school (Ban Khao Tabak School) ●Setting up of playground facility at school (Ban Khao Hin School, Ban Bowin School) ●Setting up of toilets for people with disabilities (Ban Khao Hin Health Center) Response to Comments and Opinions ●Health check and breakfast service for the elderly (Ban Khao Hin Health Center) ●Setting up of fall prevention fence in village pond (Ban Hubbon community) We strive to supply products that are satisfactory to the customers by improving the product promptly and appropriately in response to the opinion Storage area for categorized and inquiries of the customer. products for recycling Improving the information sharing and management system, conducting evaluation by classifying and analyzing the information gathered at each business site have been leading to reform, improvement and development of products and services. 37 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 38 Society Together with Employees Personnel Training and Utilization DOWA group takes efforts to continuously conduct training at every workplace from the aspect of personnel training, aiming at “continuing to be a The DOWA group sets forth in Standards of Conduct that human resources are the basis of business activities and valued personnel team that works hard for global business” and is expanding its personnel training and activity policy through promoting the strengthemployees should be evaluated with their ability to conduct their jobs regardless of education, age and gender. We ening plan for young employees as On The Job Training (OJT), expanding practical training opportunities, promoting experience of different professional duties (planned change), planning voluntary staff assignment etc. have taken various initiatives with the following goals so that employees can exercise their full potential. Step-wise education ■ Main Achievement of FY2015 Number of Total training time ● Go back to the origin of organization function to create a competitive team. Besides step-wise training and specialized training, the DOWA group Targeted at Training details participants (hours/FY2015) (name/FY2015) * Only training time as a whole conducts extensive training in technology, environment and Management staff Top management training 58 470 safety for every office. In FY2015, we focused on efforts to establish a (continued) ● Make company a place where employees want to work, with their own initiatives. culture that cultivates human resources. Next-term management Business leader development training 16 1,440 staff (continued) Management staff Management training, subordinate training 67 1,590 (continued) ■ Plan for FY2016 Mid-level employees (continued) Leadership training 36 580 Employment Status A review of every year’s training is taken with focus on making the Up to 3rd year after Fresher’s training, OJT, follow-up training (skill improvement, self-establishment 228 15,000 joining (continued) training more strategic and more patronage-driven for training the personwithin organization) The DOWA group tries to promote proper allocation of employees, considering our business plan and employ diversified human resources who have nel who can deal with the frantically changing times and environment. In talents and capabilities necessary for our business. FY2016 we plan to introduce two new programs with the aim of strengthAs of March 31, 2016 we have total 5,878 employees in Japan, which is an increase of 192 persons compared to previous year. Of those who were ening the site capabilities of the DOWA group and enhancing individual employed in Japan, 3,748 persons (92%) are male and 312 persons (8%) are female. The number of employees outside Japan has increased in the recent thinking power. One is an educational program for the supervisor at the years due to our global business deployment. There was an increase of approximately 34% in FY2015. production site and the other is a special training program that helps with the thinking ability for problem solving. Along with the expansion of Employment status in Japan overseas business, we aim to become a strong organization capable of flexibly coping with change by developing educational programs aimed at FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY expanding and training global business staff. Classification Male Female Male Female Male Female Directors 121 0 130 0 121 1 Just and Fair Evaluation and Treatment Regular employees Managers 715 9 735 12 799 9 in Japan In DOWA group, just and fair evaluation and treatment are practiced based on the following policy according to the idea of “valuation by the ability Ordinary Employees 2,703 296 2,786 306 2,828 302 to take the work forward” which is present in the code of conduct. Initiatives are being taken with focus on circumstances that are utilized for training. Non-regular Dispatched employees 405 479 529 employees in Part-time workers, ● The appraisers and persons being appraised must have thorough understanding of structure and standards of company Japan temporary workers and 859 303 924 314 971 318 system and they must continue to put in efforts for utilizing this knowledge for appraising and training. seasonal workers Total 5,411 5,686 5,878 ● Sharing of organizational goals and improving of business execution ability has been planned while showing the ability and conduct required for improving personal ranking. Number of employees per region Female 8% Training for appraisers and persons being appraised is positioned as a group-wide initiative, and by creating ongoing educational opportunities, FY FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 we strive for fair evaluation, treatment and training. From FY 2015, we have been conducting briefing sessions for appraisers and trainings for Region persons being appraised at business establishments throughout the country, and we continue to consider training for new managers as priority. Also, Japan 5,411 5,686 5,878 in order to evaluate the status of the system operation, a system survey is conducted every year, and we are continually improving based on the tasks Asia (Other than Japan) 2,622 2,903 2,897 we have extracted. Male ■ Career Matching System Europe 10 16 22 92% 192persons North America 80 92 96 Increase A system that has been introduced with the aim of developing and supporting career of employees and fluidizing Central & South human resources, wherein the subject person conducts a PR (results achieved till now and desire to materialize these 1 3 1 America results) for his career and a change is made if both agree in the interview with the official of the interested company. The Total 8,124 8,700 8,894 Number of subject person can directly express his desire to change to the recruiting department without going through his superiors employees and his own department. 5,878persons Aspect of briefing session for the persons being appraised 39 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 40 Society Promoting Diversity Work-Life Balance Amid global expansion or expansion of business areas in the group, employees with multifaceted personality showing their ability is closely linked The DOWA group endeavors to improve the workplace for employees. Our work life balance program aims at helping all employees to exercise to the growth of the company. their abilities to the fullest extent according to their life style both at work and at home. We implemented a more flexible working system like flexible working hours and leave of absence system for raising children and caretaking of family members. ■ Expansion of Global Human Resources Pool ■ Utilization of Veteran Employees ■ Supporting Diverse Ways of Working ■ Promoting Measures to Reduce Working Hours DOWA Group is progressing from We have revised the re-employment system from FY2013 and we are Flextime system with no core timing has been introduced in DOWA In Japan offices, a labor-management agreement in relation to the recruiting stage to planning based on the setting up an environment where employees who have reached their group so as to make the working timings flexible. Besides, volunteered overtime work has been made according to the law, which has been concept of working globally without retirement age and who wish to work in the DOWA group even after holidays or recreational holiday system that can be availed of after a fixed submitted to the administrative authorities of the respective jurisdiction. depending upon nationality as a part of retirement can work with more motivation according to their role in the no. of years of continuous service, support policy that is more than legally In the Year 2014, diligent management system was reformed whereby a promoting diversity. While recruiting new reformed system. Further, a seminar is held for employees who have stipulated for paid paternal leave (up to 5 days) and restrictions on change reformation must be submitted to the manager if fixed working hours are graduates, Japanese overseas students or reached retirement age with the goal of providing information on life plan in case of moving residence due to children has also been put in place. exceeded and implemented labor management education for new managforeign students that have graduated from after retirement and in FY2015 it was attended by more than 100 employees. ers who are the principal part of working hour management. In FY 2016, foreign universities or foreign students Overseas Training Place we plan to further strengthen efforts to reduce working hours by establishAspect from abroad are recruited and recruit result ■ System Use Status ing a special committee on working time management. We shall continue is rising every year. Training is given for making them familiar with the ■ Employment for Physically Challenged working to strengthen the management of working hours from both concept and policy of this company with consideration of human rights at No. of system users is rising every year and persons taking childcare hardware and software fronts. the time of recruitment that is happening rapidly with expansion of In FY2015, we were unable to achieve the employment rate across the leave in FY2015 were 25 women and 1 man. There were 13 men and 15 employment of personnel from various countries and regions. group for the physically challenged. An easy-to-work environment cannot women who availed nursing leave. be materialized at our manufacturing sites for the physically challenged, Training is conducted prior to appointment even for employees that are therefore, rather than aiming at a uniform increase at all business sites, we As the situation of availing of the annual salaried leave, 60% employ■ Internal Questionnaire newly appointed in foreign offices and diversity reception training such as ees took this leave as against 20 average granted days. We are working understanding different culture is also conducted. Starting in FY 2015, we shall take initiatives to promote a high-quality working environment in towards improving availing ratio through promoting planned annual The CSR department conducts a questionnaire on work-life balance for are launching a global challenge program including on-site training at employment offices and further workplace experience so that we can holidays and asking for feedback on availing situation throughout the year newly joined employees every year. IN FY2015, there was an increased overseas offices for the purpose of expanding talented personnel who can work on increasing the employment in parallel with the utilization of the according to the working situation in each of the offices. interest about the flexible working time system, where 85% or more be active globally. In future too, we plan to expand our global human recruitment company that specializes in hiring physically challenged personnel wished to use flextime and 75% wished to use short-time work. resources pool. personnel. About 75% of new recruits selected work-life balance as a CSR initiative (Day) (%) with increasing importance in the next five years. We obtained the follow25 No. of average No. of average Availing ratio 75 (Persons) granted days (days) availed days (days) (%) ing reasons for the same – “influencing the improvement of occupational ■ Training of Overseas Staff (%) 21 70 2.0 20 20 safety and work quality”, “securing human resources in the era of declinNo. of recruited people with disabilities Employment rate 20 70 The DOWA group promotes training of ing birthrate”, “diversity of human resources together with the diversity of the entire group including employees 15 65 working methods, leading to increased corporate value.” We shall contin60 60 12 61 12 stationed in overseas offices. In FY2015, 57 11 ue to work on work-life balance while referring to the results of the 10 59 60 staff recruited from China, Thailand and 1.4% 1.4% 1.5 questionnaire. Indonesia came to Japan for training on 50 5 55 50 53 safety, compliance, equipment mainte1.3% nance etc., and in-house medium and 0 50 long-term training for executive candidate Global Leader Training Aspect FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 40 1.0 employees at the headquarters, major FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 business offices, and training centers. ■ Promoting of Women Activities No. of women recruited for comprehensive work is 10 to 20 percent of the entire no. of recruits which is not high. However, ratio of women employees is increasing every year with change in business and working TOPICS Submission of CSR Information by New Employees atmosphere. Evaluation for recruitment, designation, promotion, etc. is From August 2015 to March 2016, we posted relay column called “CSR awareness” by the new employees done as per merit and there is no gender discrimination. In FY2015, the in FY 2015 on the in-house CSR portal site. The newcomers introducing once in a month about what they women employees who balance both life events and work have been noticed and felt about the CSR activities in their affiliated workplace, they gain their own experience about active in various regions both domestic and overseas. Our company was a variety of initiatives such as risk assessment, energy conservation activities, regional cleaning, and technoselected for “Stocks of Nadeshiko Brand” for the first time based on these logical development related to renewable energy, etc. In addition to sharing the various initiatives that are initiatives. In FY2016, we plan to implement an educational program for being held at business offices throughout the country as a group as a whole, 46 new employees also got reforming awareness, aimed at a way of working that enables diverse the opportunity to reflect upon “What are the CSR activities of my company?” human resources to fully demonstrate their respective abilities. Nadeshiko stocks: Initiative by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and Tokyo Stock Exchange to select companies that excel in female success. 41 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 42 Organizations to be Reported Third Party Opinion Company Location Company Location DOWA CSR Report 2016 Akita Dowa Thermoengineering Co., Ltd. Tochigi ES Eco-System Hanaoka Co., Ltd. prefecture TH Mooka Plant prefecture Okayama Dowa Thermoengineering Co., Ltd. Shizuoka ES Eco-System Sanyo Co., Ltd. prefecture TH Hamamatsu Plant prefecture DOWA CSR Report 2016 About reporting contents Akita Dowa Thermoengineering Co., Ltd. Aichi This is the 5th year of being associated with third party opinion of CSR report of ES Eco-System Akita Co., Ltd. TH prefecture Toyota Plant prefecture DOWA group. It is delightful to notice the progress in the content of the report every ES Eco-System Chiba Co., Ltd. Chiba TH Dowa Thermoengineering Co., Ltd. Shiga time. In this report, it is interesting to note that, of the 17 goals given in “Sustainable prefecture Shiga Plant prefecture Development Goals (SDGs)”, goal No.12 stating, “Ensure sustainable consumption Akita Dowa Thermoengineering Co., Ltd. Aichi ES Eco-Recycle Co., Ltd. prefecture TH Chukyo Handa Plant prefecture and production patterns” as the theme of social tasks that the DOWA group contributes Iwate Aichi to the most and explanation of concrete approach examples through core businesses. ES Dowa-Tsuun Co., Ltd. prefecture TH CEMM Co., Ltd. prefecture I also notice the increased pressure given to the supply chain management all Tokyo and Japan Dowa Thermoengineering Co., Ltd. ES Eco-System Japan Co., Ltd. Gunma through the year. DOWA group is distributing CSR procurement guidelines and others TH Ohta Plant prefecture self-checklists to key customers and is requesting improvement measures from Dowa Thermoengineering Co., Ltd. Shizuoka ES Geotechnos Co., Ltd. Tokyo TH New Hamamatsu-kita Plant partners with lack of initiative. In addition, they are also conducting CSR audits of key prefecture ES E&E Solutions Inc. Tokyo Unekura Mining Co., Ltd. Seibu Office Okayama partners to grasp the actual situation so that they can confirm that they are systematiHD prefecture cally working on CSR procurement. Eco-System Recycling Co., Ltd. Saitama Okayama ES East Japan Plant prefecture HD DOWA HOLDINGS CO., LTD. Headquarters prefecture DOWA group is also focusing on promoting the diversity of human resources and Eco-System Recycling Co., Ltd. Okayama is promoting measures based on various approaches such as creating a structure from ES HD Dowa Techno Engineering Co., Ltd. Tokyo West Japan Plant prefecture the recruitment stage, educating overseas staff, and designing programs for female ES Act-B Recycling Co., Ltd. Kumamoto HD Unekura Mining Co., Ltd. Hokubu Office Akita success. One of the visible outcomes was their selection in “Nadeshiko Brand of prefecture prefecture FY2015.” Okayama ES Eco-System Okayama Co., Ltd. prefecture MM NIPPON PGM AMERICA, INC. America I can also see the ingenuity in the page with the website. The place where the Akita detailed explanation is necessary has URL, and the readers can check the contents by ES Green Fill Kosaka Co., Ltd. prefecture ES Dowa Environmental Management Co., Ltd. China the website. The content of the report has become more substantial while the number Akita E-Square Inc. of pages is reduced. ES Eco-System Kosaka Co., Ltd. prefecture MT Dowa Advanced Materials Shanghai Co., Ltd. China Akita President and Representative Director ES Auto Recycle Akita Co., Ltd. TH DOWA THT AMERICA, INC. America prefecture Towards Further Improvement ES Eco-System Recycling Co., Ltd. Northern Japan Plant Akita prefecture ES Bangpoo Environmental Complex Ltd. (BPEC) Thailand Hiro Motoki Regarding human rights, although they are taking important steps, such as Japan implementing local inspections and interviews to the Indian operating companies, Tochigi Eastern Seaboard Environmental Complex ES Meltec Co., Ltd. prefecture ES Co., Ltd. Thailand there are no human rights policies applicable to the entire DOWA group. With the Akita Technochem Environmental Complex Pte. Ltd. growing interest in human rights issues through the supply chain, systematic initiatives MM Akita Rare Metals Co., Ltd. prefecture ES (TEC) Singapore about human rights due diligence are the need of the hour. Akita Regarding serious accidents, I think that it is difficult to deal with them in a uniform MM Akita Zinc Co., Ltd. prefecture ES PT. Prasadha Pamunah Limbah Industri (PPLi) Indonesia E-Square is a consulting company Akita manner as there are individual circumstances, however I think that it would be good to MM Akita Zinc Solutions Co., Ltd. TH DOWA Thermotech (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Thailand aiming to realize a sustainable society prefecture describe the cause of the accident and future measures as neatly as possible in the page through support of corporate strategic MM Kosaka Smelting & Refining Co., Ltd. Akita OverMT DOWA METALTECH (THAILAND) CO., LTD. Thailand of the CSR report or the related website. It is necessary to demonstrate the commitprefecture CSR and environmental management. seas ment of a company that takes serious initiatives to prevent occupational accidents and Akita Since April 2001, as Supervisor of MM Nippon PGM Co., Ltd. prefecture TH Kunshan Dowa Thermo Furnace Co., Ltd. China ensure that similar accidents do not repeat. E-Square Consulting Business, he has Akita MM Akita Zinc Recycling Co., Ltd. TH HIGHTEMP FURNACES Ltd. Bangalore Plant India prefecture been lending support to various fields My Expectations to DOWA’s Initiatives in the Future Okayama HIGHTEMP FURNACES Ltd. such as strategies, communication, EL Dowa Electronics Materials Okayama Co., Ltd. prefecture TH Nelamangara Plant India In recent years, the importance of CSR reporting has been increasing worldwide. education, BOP, etc. focusing on large GRI, which is a guideline for CSR reporting, has been standardized in 2016 and its Akita EL Dowa Semiconductor Akita Co., Ltd. TH HIGHTEMP FURNACES Ltd. Gurgaon Plant India prefecture enterprises covering a wide range of positioning as a global standard is becoming clearer. In the European Union (EU), a EL Dowa IP Creation Co., Ltd. Okayama TH HIGHTEMP FURNACES Ltd. Chennai Plant India industries. He assumed office as system that obligates non-financial information disclosure of the Environmental, prefecture President and Representative Director social and governance (ESG) (non-financial information disclosure directive) shall be Okayama EL Dowa F-Tec Co., Ltd. prefecture TH HIGHTEMP FURNACES Ltd. Pune Plant India in October 2011. Besides serving as a applied from FY2017 large companies in every region. In financial aspects, major Shizuoka part-time lecturer at the Graduate long-term investment institutions will adopt ESG investment and it is the key to MT Dowa Metal Co., Ltd. prefecture ES DOWA ECO-SYSTEM SINGAPORE PTE. LTD. Singapore School of Environmental Sciences, acquire stable shareholders by disclosing appropriate ESG information required by Nagano investors. MT Technology Center prefecture MM Dowa Metals & Mining (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Thailand Tohoku University, for ten years since As indicated by GRI, it is important to select and disclose the materiality (important MT Dowa Hightech Co., Ltd. Saitama TH New PT. DOWA Thermotech Indonesia Indonesia 2005, he has conducted numerous prefecture issue) for the DOWA group from two standpoints, that is, the importance of the compaCSR-related lecture activities. MT New Nippon Brass Co., Ltd. Chiba ny’s point of view and expected value and request level from external stakeholders. prefecture This leads to blending business and CSR from the viewpoint of the management. I am Chiba MT Hoei Shoji Co., Ltd. prefecture ES DOWA Eco-System MM DOWA Metals & Mining EL DOWA Electronics Materials looking forward to pursuing CSR unique to the DOWA group that provides consistent Shizuoka MT DOWA Metaltech TH DOWA Thermotech HD DOWA Holdings services from the most upstream to the most downstream of the value chain and to MT Dowa Metanix Co., Ltd. prefecture further improve the level of CSR reporting. 43 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 DOWA CSR REPORT 2016 44
