United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP Communication of Progress 29 August 2017 Antonio Guterres Grant Thornton UK LLP Secretary-General 30 Finsbury Square London United Nations EC2P 2YU New York www.grantthornton.co.uk NY 10017 USA 29 August 2017 Dear Mr. Secretary-General, At Grant Thornton UK LLP w e've chosen to set our reputation alongside a bold purpose of shaping a vibrant economy, one w hich builds trust and integrity in markets, unlocks grow th in dynamic businesses and fosters environments w here both people and business thrive. We are confident that focusing on shaping a vibrant economy creates good grow th for people, places and business. And to achieve our purpose w e need all our people to be engaged and empow ered to be at their best so our approach is underpinned by a culture of “shared enterprise” to enable all our people to be engaged in creating the ideas, empow ered to take responsibility for innovation and to share in the rew ards. With this in mind I am pleased to confirm that Grant Thornton supports and actively promotes the adoption of The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) w ith respect to human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. In our first annual Communication on Progress (COP), w e describe our actions to integrate The Ten Principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations and how w e may look to continually improve our adoption in future years through our engagement in collaborative projects. Yours sincerely, Sacha Rom anovitch Chief Executive, Grant Thornton UK LLP Chartered Accountants Grant T hornton UK LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales: No.OC307742. Registered office: Gra nt Thornton House, Melton Street, Euston Square, London NW1 2EP. A list of members is available from our registered office. Grant Thornton UK LLP is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Grant Thornton UK LLP is a member firm of Grant Thornton International Ltd (GTIL). GTIL and the member firms are not a worldwide partnership. Services are delivered by the member firms. GTIL and its member firms are not agents of, and do not ob ligate, one another and are not liable for one another’s acts or omissions. grantthornton.co.uk Contents Human rights 4 Labour 8 Environment 12 Anti-corruption 15 Grant Thornton – w hat makes us different 19 The Social Mobility Accountancy Firm Director of Finance Awards 2015 Employ er Index 2017 of the Y ear (Larger Clients) Accounting and Audit #1 f or Social Mobility FD Excellence Awards 2016 & 2014 Prov ider of the Year Glassdoor Global f irm of the year Director of Finance Awards Best Places to Work Employees' in 2015 and 2013 2015 & 2016 Choice Ranking 2016-2017 Accounting and Audit Provider (position #12) of the Y ear Top Employ ers for Working Families Univ ersum Business Innovation & Skills (BIS) Special Awards 2017 2016 2016 Best f or Innovation World's Most Attractive Employers Social Mobility Business Compact Champion UN Global Compact and Grant Thornton 3 Human rights Grant Thornton respect and support the internationally proclaimed human rights and ensure the firm is not complicit in human rights abuses. Where possible and applicable, the firm encourages and adopts relevant ‘human rights’ principals as in line with current legalisation and law into various employment practices and values of the firm; some of which include respecting others, valuing diversity both in the workplace and in the supply chain and maintaining a workplace that is free from prejudice, harassment and bullying. Grant Thornton are advocates of the fundamental rights and freedoms that everyone in the UK is entitled to. Human rights Assessment, policy and goals Through our people and client experience, w e as a firm are dedicated in upholding human rights and to creating an inclusive w orking environment. In a fast paced, changing w orld w e are committed to making sure all firm policies continue to be fit for purpose, are inclusive and are aligned to best practice and compliant w ith regulation and law . Human Rights Our Shared Enterprise culture provides us w ith the opportunity to continually explore new ideas and firm w ide Principal 1. goals together, allow ing us to continually review and develop Businesses should support and respect the protection of the practices, processes and policies w e have in place, internationally proclaimed human rights: and ensuring the firm’s ongoing support and commitment to our people in relation to human rights. Principal 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. © 2017 Grant Thornton UK LLP. Confidential and for information only. UN Global Compact and Grant Thornton 5 Human rights Implementation The firm looks to encourage and support the UN Global Compact Human Rights Principals through various initiatives and policies. We highlight some areas of firm involvement below: Firm value im plem entation Training im plem entation Our CLEARR values: Collaboration, Leadership, Excellence, As part of training, managers are issued w ith a copy of the Agility, Respect, and Responsibility underpin our culture and Equality Act 2010 – Guidelines for Managers. Ongoing influence how w e conduct business. They are embedded training in this area includes various up skilling and refresher throughout our business and set the parameters for how w e w orkshops for our people managers. Recently some of these expect people to behave w ith their colleagues, clients and sessions have explored diversity and inclusion and our the w orld at large. We seek to treat everyone fairly and obligations in this area, particularly w hen dealing w ith day-toconsistently, creating a w orkplace and business environment day people issues such as managing sickness absence, that is open, transparent and trusted. underperformance and general grievances. Policy im plem entation Modern Slavery policy and Supplier Code of Conduct im plem entation The UK firm is committed to continually developing and implementing the various practices, processes and policies Grant Thornton is w orking tow ards establishing a zerothat fully support and abide by current UK human rights law tolerance position on violations of anti-human trafficking and and regulation. The UK firm has already implemented a anti-modern slavery law s. If w e find breaches of these law s number of w ide ranging policies across the firm encouraging w ithin our supply chain, w e w ill look to support companies in and supporting human rights across all areas of the their efforts to comply w ith the legislation. We also actively business. Such policy implementation examples include the consider how w e support or conduct business w ith follow ing: organisations involved in slavery, human trafficking, forced or child labour and have developed the firm’s Supplier Code of • Inclusion policy (including mental health and diversity Conduct to assist. policy) • Bullying and harassment policy • Capability policy • Redundancy policy • Remuneration policy To improve our understanding of our w orkforce and to identify potential barriers to success, w e track the demographics of our people to compare w ith external benchmarks and to monitor progression internally. The firm maintains records of this data solely for this purpose. The diversity details of any member of the firm w ill not be shared internally or externally w ithout their permission. We also support leading academic research to further our collective understanding of w ider diversity and inclusion trends in the w orkplace. © 2017 Grant Thornton UK LLP. Confidential and for information only. UN Global Compact and Grant Thornton 6 Human rights Measures and outputs As a result of the various human rights policies and processes the firm has in place, we note some of the following measures and outputs: Procurem ent Em ployee assistance helpline Our procurement policies integrate sustainability into the w ay To help employees better prepare for and cope w ith life w e do business throughout our supply chain, so w e create events – including the things that could potentially cause value, preserve natural resources and respect the interests anxiety and stress – Grant Thornton provides access to a of the communities w e serve and from w hom w e procure free and confidential service offering expert advice, valuable goods and services from. Through our Responsible information, specialist counselling and support. Purchasing Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct, w e expect our suppliers to keep to all law s relating to their business, as w ell as the principles of the United National Global Compact, Education the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organisation. • We are involved in Access Accountancy, a one-w eek placement to provide those from less privileged backgrounds the opportunity to develop critical skills and develop a professional netw ork. Our goal is to offer the Social m obility programme in the majority of Grant Thornton UK offices • Our CEO, Sacha Romanovitch is passionate about social in order to help w iden access. mobility and is Chair of the Patron Group for Access • Since 2013, w e have had flexible academic entry Accountancy, the profession-w ide initiative to increase requirements for all our; graduate, school diversity. leaver/apprentice, internship, placement and w ork • In 2014, Grant Thornton UK LLP w as aw arded Social experience programmes. We do not stipulate any Mobility Business Compact “Champion” status by the minimum grade requirements and use a balanced Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS), one screening scorecard to assess potential across a range of only 12 firms, for demonstrating leadership and of areas. exemplary practice in the field of social mobility. As a • All our entry level roles are advertised openly and Champion, the firm have been w orking w ith BIS to deliver formally on the careers section of the Grant Thornton approximately 30 commitments across the areas of: w ebsite. We actively partner w ith third party advertising outreach; w ork placements; recruitment; monitoring and providers w ho can provide reach across all spectrums of evaluation; and leading, championing and communicating society. We w ork w ith Milkround specifically to target best practice. students via e-marketing channels w ho go to 'new ' • We w ork w ith and are members of the Business Disability universities w hich have a much more diverse student Forum. We have support available for individuals w ith population. We w ork w ith specialist providers such as disabilities, w ith a disability defined as a physical or Pure Potential and Pathw ay CTM, to target students of mental impairment w hich has a substantial and long-term school age from less advantageous backgrounds. All new adverse effect on a person’s ability to carry out normal advertising partnerships and providers have to be able to day to day activities. demonstrate that their breadth of reach encompasses students from all backgrounds before w e embark upon any advertising w ith them. © 2017 Grant Thornton UK LLP. Confidential and for information only. UN Global Compact and Grant Thornton 7 Labour Grant Thornton is committed to upholding the UN Global Compact Principals in relation to labour as outlined on the following page. The firm is dedicated to ensuring that all labour standards are an essential and active component of our people’s daily working environment and experience and implement polices and practices that encourage the adoption of such standards. Labour Assessment, policy and goals The firm recognise that w e are responsible for the health, . safety and w elfare at w ork of all our people, w hether that be on the firm’s premises or carrying out the firm’s business elsew here. Notw ithstanding the firm’s legal responsibilities to comply w ith legislation, the firm is committed to keeping the w orkplace, our clients and suppliers, and the local Labour community safe from any adverse consequences of our w ork activity and ensuring that all efforts are made to remove or Principal 3. reduce the risks of any potential impact. Business should uphold the freedom of association and We w ant our people to be challenged and inspired, the effective recognition of the right to collective encouraged to build their skills, to question the status quo, bargaining and to seize opportunities to make a difference. As a firm w e have various processes and policies in place that support the Principal 4. UN Labour Principals as highlighted opposite. These policies The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory are frequently review ed and updated so as to reflect any labour changes in UK law and legalisation. Principal 5. The effective abolition of child labour; and Principal 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. © 2017 Grant Thornton UK LLP. Confidential and for information only. UN Global Compact and Grant Thornton 9 Labour Implementation The firm looks to encourage and support the UN Global Compact Labour Principals through various initiatives and policies. We highlight some areas of firm involvement below: Policy im plem entation Modern Slavery policy and Responsible Purchasing policy im plem entation The UK firm is committed to continually developing and implementing the various practices, processes and policies As per referenced in Human Rights, w e are w orking tow ards that fully support and abide by current UK labour law and establishing a zero-tolerance position on violations of antiregulation, supporting the eradication of discrimination in human trafficking and anti-modern slavery law s. respect of employment and occupation. Our Responsible Purchasing Policy reflects our overall A selection of policies that support the elimination of business purpose and in so doing seeks through the w orkplace discrimination are highlighted below application of a rigorous procurement process to not only purchase goods and services at best value for money but to • Inclusion policy (including mental health and diversity take into account the ethical, social, environmental, policy) economic and legal impacts of the supply chain. • Bullying and harassment policy Our policy is to procure goods/services at the best value for • Capability policy money taking into account the w ider responsibility to actively drive ethical and sustainable practices for our societies and • Redundancy policy the environment. This means making purchasing decisions • Remuneration policy w hich reflect not only the best price in total cost terms over the lifetime of a contract but also require suppliers to: • comply w ith all applicable UK and European law s and Health and Safety im plem entation regulation, and The firm w ill do everything reasonably practicable to provide • reflect the firm’s ethical, social and environmental and maintain a safe and healthy w orking environment for all standards. employees. This includes the follow ing: All suppliers w ill be required to comply w ith, or w ork tow ards • complying fully w ith all relevant health and safety compliance w ith, the requirements of our Supplier Code of legislation Conduct. The Code sets out the minimum standards of • ensuring partners and staff are made aw are of their behaviour expected of our suppliers so that they act in a w ay duties in respect of health and safety and that they are that is corporately responsible and sustainable and aims to given sufficient information, instruction, training and ensure compliance w ith applicable law s and regulations. We supervision to enable them to carry out their duties only expect our suppliers to maintain standards that w e effectively and safely ourselves adhere to. • consulting w ith staff on a timely basis on matters relating to their health and safety at w ork, as defined by current Em ployee Survey im plem entation health and safety legislation We conduct company-w ide employee surveys to get a better • ensuring safe means of access to and from all places of understanding of employee morale, satisfaction, and w ork under the firm’s control are established and engagement at Grant Thornton. The results of these surveys maintained. are used to improve the firm’s culture and performance. © 2017 Grant Thornton UK LLP. Confidential and for information only. UN Global Compact and Grant Thornton 10 Labour Measures and outputs As a result of the various labour policies and processes the firm has in place, we note some of the following measures and outputs: Health and Safety (H&S) Diversity and Inclusion • Workplace inspections – the Health and Safety Officer In July 2017, Grant Thornton w on the ‘Working Families – (HSO) is required to ensure regular review s of the Allen & Overy innovation aw ard’ for our flexible approach to w orkplace are carried out using the safety inspection family pay. This aw ard means w e are standing out in the checklist. The inspection w ill cover all areas of the market for our unique approaches to tackling the root cause w orkplace w hich are the responsibility of the firm. A problems of progressing healthy diversity and inclusion in our quarterly review w ill be undertaken in conjunction w ith people experience. our co-sourced facilities partners and recorded in the H&S document schedule. Continuing Professional Developm ent • Annual Practice Leader sign off – it is the overall responsibility of the Practice Leader to ensure Our culture is one that encourages the continued compliance w ith the firm's H&S procedures by review ing development of all our professional people both in terms of the completed annual H&S compliance confirmation/H&S their technical expertise and their up-to-date know ledge and compliance documents submitted by the local HSO. understanding of our market place. This is underpinned by our firm-w ide Continued Professional Development policy w hich is rigorously implemented and monitored. Social Mobility Grant Thornton w as ranked number one in the first ever Social Mobility Employer Index, grading 50 top UK businesses on their openness to accessing talent from all backgrounds. To improve our understanding of our w orkforce, and to identify potential barriers to success, w e track the demographics of our people to compare w ith external benchmarks and to monitor progression internally. The firm maintains records of this data solely for this purpose. The diversity details of any member of the firm w ill not be shared internally or externally w ithout their permission. We also support leading academic research to further our collective understanding of w ider diversity and inclusion trends in the w orkplace. © 2017 Grant Thornton UK LLP. Confidential and for information only. UN Global Compact and Grant Thornton 11 Environment As a purpose led firm we care about the work we do for our clients, the way we treat our people and the impact we have on our society and environment. We wholeheartedly support the UN Global Compact environment Principals and are committed to the protection of the world around us, including the prevention of pollution and the minimisation of our environmental impact through our operations and services. We continually review and change the way we work so we can make a positive difference in the world around us through: • the efficient use of resources and systems • encouraging our people to complement our corporate activity with their efforts. Environment Assessment, policy and goals At Grant Thornton w e are committed to the protection of the environment and using our purchasing pow er to manage and minimise the negative ethical, social and environmental impacts of our supply chain to make a positive contribution to ethical business practices, quality of life in society and to protection of the environment. The firm’s environmental policy focuses on the follow ing: Environment • meeting or exceeding our improvement targets • complying w ith ISO14001 and its verification Principal 7. • adhering to all compliance obligations and keeping up to Business should support a precautionary approach to date w ith new legislation environmental challenges • promoting our targets, performance and further actions to Principal 8. our people • engaging our people in managing our environment impact Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental • ensuring our policy is visible to our people, clients and responsibility; and communities. Principal 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of The firm undertakes various initiatives to promote greater environmentally friendly technologies. environmental responsibility. With this in mind our overall 2020 environment goal is to reduce CO2 emissions by 5%, w e w ill do this by: • reducing electricity consumption by 5% • reducing business travel emissions by 5% • reducing paper consumption by 5% • reducing w aste by 5% • increasing recycling by 5%. © 2017 Grant Thornton UK LLP. Confidential and for information only. UN Global Compact and Grant Thornton 13 Environment Implementation The firm looks to encourage and support the UN Global Compact Environment Principals through various initiatives and policies. We highlight some areas of firm involvement below: At Grant Thornton w e are constantly seeking w ays to improve the energy efficiency and environmental performance of our buildings and operations. Our ISO 14001 Environmental Management System informs our annual objectives, related targets and agreed actions. Over the past year w e have undertaken the follow ing activities to implement environmental policies and reduce environmental risk. Area Action Energy • Monitored electricity consumption. • Improved access to accurate supplier data. • Investigated anomalies in data. • Used profiling to identify energy savings opportunities. • Increased employee awareness through environmental campaigns (e.g. switch off). • Begun LED lighting replacement project. Travel • Taken steps to report number of journeys and distance by haulage, cabin class, billability. • Reduced long-haul business class distances flown from 44% to 40% of total long-haul, saving 106 tonnes of carbon. • Communicated environmental benefit and cost reduction of reducing travel across the group. • Increased accuracy of monitoring and reporting. Paper • Implemented follow me printing. Waste • Rolled out waste data collection to all sites and improved data quality. • Conducted national waste review. • Developed consistent waste strategy across the firm and improved communications around waste collections. • Reduced number of disposable cups used through reuse. • Improved accuracy of monitoring. • Improved employee awareness. • Improved signage on waste stations. Communication • Created new posters. • Utilised internal social media platforms. • Communicated fun and engaging blog relating to our environmental objectives and targets. Procurement • Developed Responsible Purchasing Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct. © 2017 Grant Thornton UK LLP. Confidential and for information only. UN Global Compact and Grant Thornton 14 Environment Measures and outputs As a result of the various environment policies and processes the firm has in place, we note some of the following measures and outputs: Our environmental management system across the UK is certified to ISO 14001 and is audited annually. It focuses on objectives and actions on areas that w ill have the most significant environmental impact both in the short and long term. We also comply w ith the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme and report to the Carbon Disclosure Project annually. Over the past 18 months w e have: • reduced electricity consumption by 5% • reduced travel emissions by 5% for both air and road travel • reduced paper consumption by 5% • reduced w aste by 1% • increased recycling by 5%. © 2017 Grant Thornton UK LLP. Confidential and for information only. UN Global Compact and Grant Thornton 15 Anti-corruption Grant Thornton take the risks associated with corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery extremely seriously. We have in place robust procedures and specialist personnel to assist in the detection and combating of fraudulent activity within our business and are fully committed to ensuring that should weaknesses or breakdowns be revealed, appropriate and necessary corrective action is taken promptly. The firm is fully committed to upholding the tenth, UN Global Compact Principal of Anti-corruption. Anti-corruption Assessment, policy and goals Grant Thornton UK LLP are bound by the legislation contained in the Bribery Act 2010, thereby w e have a zero tolerance policy on bribery, corruption, money laundering and fraud, avoiding even the appearance of impropriety. Our policy can broadly be described as: ‘Partners and employees should not accept from or give to Anti-Corruption clients, suppliers or third parties any benefit, rew ard or gift (including hospitality) w hich might, or might be seen to, Principal 10. prejudice our integrity and objectivity in relation to our clients. Furthermore, w e understand that failure to prevent bribery is Businesses should w ork against corruption in all its forms, an offence, therefore w e ensure w e are able to demonstrate including extortion and bribery. that w e have implemented 'adequate procedures' to prevent corrupt practices w ithin the organisation or by third parties on its behalf.’ The firm is w holeheartedly committed to w orking against corruption in all forms and implementing the necessary policies and processes to ensure compliance at both firm and individual levels. © 2017 Grant Thornton UK LLP. Confidential and for information only. UN Global Compact and Grant Thornton 17 Anti-corruption Implementation The firm looks to encourage and support the UN Global Compact Anti–corruption Principal through various policies and procedures. We highlight some areas of firm involvement below: The firm is subject to ethical and independence standards Whistleblow ing set by the Financial Reporting Council (formerly the Auditing A w histle blow ing policy is also in operation and on an Practices Board (APB)), the Institute of Chartered annual basis all our people are reminded of its existence and Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW), and the their responsibilities. Employees can report potentially International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). We corrupt practices to the head of their service line or use the recognise the impact of our individual and collective confidential w histleblow ing helpline. behaviours on our reputation so w e help our people to understand their ethical responsibilities by providing clear An annual report of the audit of key risk areas is prepared policies and procedures, efficient and intuitive systems, a and presented to the firm’s senior management, w ho take strong culture of support and consultation, regular training action as appropriate. Any changes are approved by the and aw areness programmes. board at regular meetings, how ever due to confidentiality w e are unable to disclose details of these. Policy im plem entation Leadership Our bribery and corruption policy is monitored by Internal Assurance based on the result of the Annual Regulatory The firm’s ‘Quality and Ethics Partner’, Adrian Richards, Statements and Declarations. On an annual basis, all provides guidance and support on the application of UK and partners and employees are required to confirm their international ethical standards. He is supported by the firm’s understanding and know ledge of key statutory and regulatory ethics team w hich provides advice on ethical issues and polices, and reports on gifts and hospitality given, and concerns and enables our people to obtain advice on received in line w ith the firm’s policy. An internal audit is sensitive, high-risk or complex issues on a confidential basis. carried out to ensure that the policy and supporting procedures have been operated and are effective. Training and e-learning programmes On joining the firm, all partners and employees are provided Bribery and Fraud w ith the Code of Conduct and experience our orientation Grant Thornton take the risks associated w ith bribery and programme including online training programmes on key fraud extremely seriously and is bound by the legislation policies such as anti-money laundering, confidentiality and contained in the Bribery Act 2010. The firm has a zero information security and The Bribery Act. Our ethical tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. We have in approach is embedded across all learning and place robust procedures, policies and specialist personnel to communication programmes. We have a customised eassist in the detection and combating of fraudulent activity learning programme relating to bribery and corruption w hich w ithin our business. Our anti-money laundering, bribery and is designed to heighten the aw areness of the requirements of corruption training programme for our entire team of partners the Bribery Act and w hich must be completed by all clientand employees, ensures everyone has an aw areness and facing partners and staff (grade 2 and above) and all those understanding of their legal obligations and the implications involved in procurement. Any instances of bribery and of failing to adhere not just to these legal obligations but also corruption w ithin the firm w ill be treated as gross misconduct our code of ethical conduct. leading to instant dismissal. Regular risk review s monitor the adequacy of our procedures In addition, on an annual basis everybody is required to thereby safeguarding our diverse range of stakeholders and confirm their understanding of, and compliance w ith, relevant protecting the relationships they build w ith Grant Thornton. ethical requirements and key policies as summarised in the Core Manual and the guiding principles set out in the Code of Conduct. © 2017 Grant Thornton UK LLP. Confidential and for information only. UN Global Compact and Grant Thornton 18 Anti-corruption Measures and outputs Maintaining objectivity and independence is vital to maintaining our reputation. We have a robust system of independence and conflict checks, which are designed to identify potential conflicts of interest at the earliest possible juncture and respond to them appropriately. Anti–corruption Monitoring We actively monitor our people’s compliance w ith ethical and • w e maintain a comprehensive log of instances w hich are independence requirements in the follow ing w ays: reported to the Money Laundering Regulatory Officer. • on an annual basis all of our people are required to This not only includes suspicions of bribery but of any confirm in the firm’s Annual Regulatory Statements and financial crime. The record includes any and all follow up Declarations process that they understand and have and w hether or not the matter w as onw ard reported to complied w ith the firm’s policies relating to independence, National Crime Agency. We have no plans to delete the confidentiality, market abuse, gifts and hospitality, and records after a predetermined period. It is our policy to w histleblow ing retain the record in perpetuity • quality control and quality assurance review s of • everyone w ithin the firm has a statutory obligation to assignment files across all service lines check report know ledge or suspicion of bribery and corruption. compliance w ith internal controls and specifically Know ledge or suspicion of such activity: engagement acceptance procedures and independence – should be notified to the Engagement Leader and policies Practice Leader • on an annual basis, the Global Independence System – the Engagement Leader and Practice Leader w ill accounts of 10% of partners and 5% of managers are review the information provided review ed – follow ing their review , the information w ill be • against evidence to support their recorded financial submitted to the MLRO w ho w ill decide w hat further interests action, if any, is deemed necessary • the firm’s internal audit function review s compliance w ith – Alternatively, the confidential w histleblow ing helpline key internal controls across every service line on a threeshould be contacted should there be a need to keep yearly basis and reports to the Senior Leadership Team the reporting of such information anonymous and the Partnership Oversight Board through the Risk and Audit Committee Code of Conduct • w e encourage our people to consult w ith others w hen faced w ith a difficult decision or to speak up on areas of Our Code of Conduct provides a clear set of standards for concern. How ever, if for w hatever reason they feel our business, and creates an ethical and behavioural unable to do so, w e have provided an externally hosted, framew ork for how w e apply our values to guide our people’s confidential w histleblow ing hotline. Reports of the response to the decisions they are required to make hotline’s activity are formally review ed quarterly by the each day. Risk and Audit Committee • regular risk review s monitor the adequacy of our Quality procedures thereby safeguarding our diverse range of stakeholders and protecting the relationships they build We continuously invest in processes and infrastructure that w ith Grant Thornton UK LLP drive efficiency and compliance and provide direction and support to our people. The policies and procedures w hich drive our internal quality control systems are embedded in every part of our business. © 2017 Grant Thornton UK LLP. Confidential and for information only. UN Global Compact and Grant Thornton 19 Grant Thornton – what makes us different As a firm we’ve thought long and hard about how we can make a difference to the businesses with whom we work and the wider economy. We focus on w orking w ith organisations w ith w hom w e believe w e can help make a difference both to the organisation itself and the w ider economy. Shaping a vibrant econom y – a firm at the heart of Why it is relevant grow th Choosing an adviser is about choosing people; the people We are seeking to stimulate ideas and actions that can you trust and w ith w hom you w ant to w ork. Through the create a vibrant economy – one w hich realises the shared potential of companies, cities, people and communities Vibrant Economy programme, and our Shared Enterprise across the UK. We believe that business can do w ell as w ell model, w e strongly believe that if all our people are involved as do good. That it can be an economy w hich empow ers in shaping and delivering our vision, it w ill differentiate us in people to bring out their best: one based on purposeful the market by our engagement w ith our clients. Our Shared grow th, achieved through collaboration, w hich nurtures Enterprise model is simple and can be summarised w ith this thriving cities and communities nationw ide. Where grow th is equation: not an end in itself, but a means of enabling us all to pursue our ambitions. We w ant to w ork w ith individuals and organisations across Shared Sharing Sharing Sharing the public, private and third sectors to help develop the foundations of a vibrant economy. We’ve identified three key Enterprise = ideas + responsibility + reward areas w here w e believe w e can make the most impact in shaping a vibrant economy: building trust and integrity in markets, unlocking sustainable grow th in dynamic We are an adviser w hich is ultimately thinking as broadly as organisations and creating an environment w here businesses and people can flourish. possible about our ow n role and that of our clients in society. Education and the w ider not for profit group is a core part of the w hole strategy. Key to a vibrant economy is using the productive capability of every person, to help improve their ow n circumstances and drive economic grow th. By creating this environment w e are looking to offer people, w ho might otherw ise miss out, the chance to develop new w ays of w orking and new w ays to engage. Grant Thornton UK LLP 4,500 Over 180 GRANT THORNTON INTERNATIONAL LTD £534m Services over 40,000 indiv iduals, people in 26 Partners privately held businesses and public UK offices interest entities providing assurance, tax and advisory services Turnover 81% 8/10 26 of clients scored us on locations including three client satisfaction support sites © 2017 Grant Thornton UK LLP. Confidential and for information only. UN Global Compact and Grant Thornton 20 © 2017 Grant Thornton UK LLP. All rights reserved. ‘Grant Thornton’ refers to the brand under which the Grant Thornton member firms provide assurance, tax and advisory services to their clients and/or refers to one or more member firms, as the context requires. Grant Thornton UK LLP is a member firm of Grant Thornton International Ltd (GTIL). GTIL and the member firms are not a worldwide partnership. GTIL and each member firm is a separate legal entity. Services are delivered by the member firms. GTIL does not provide services to clients. GTIL and its member firms are not agents of, and do not obligate, one another and are not liable for one another’s acts or omissions. This proposal is made by Grant Thornton UK LLP and is in all respects subject to the negotiation, agreement and signing of a specific contract/letter of engagement. The client names quoted within this proposal are disclosed on a confidential basis. All information in this proposal is released strictly for the purpose of this process and must not be disclosed to any other parties without express consent from Grant Thornton UK LLP. GRT106616 grantthornton.co.uk
