Kapa Sustainability Report 2016/2017 Nurturing our Future Table of Contents Topic Content Slide About this report Scope of the Report 4 About this Report Our Sustainability Mission Report Contents 5 Message from the Executives 6 Introduction Management Structure & Roles Core Values 7 Business Guide (Vision and Mission Statements) 8 What We Do Our Business 9 10 Material Matters 11 Our Healthy Products 12 Why Choose Kapa Products Recruitment, Work Environment, Our Employees 13 Material Matters Building an Accountable Institution 14 Customer Engagement 15 Suppliers Engagement 16 Environmental Responsibility 17 2 Table of Contents Topic Content |Slide Performance Metrics 18 Business Ethics 19 Recruitment & Training 20 Performance Highlights 21 Health & Safety Analysis 22 Performance Metrics Environmental Responsibility 23 Community Engagement 24-26 Access to Reliable and Sustainable Energy 27 Kapa Social Responsibility 28 29 Donations 30-33 Healthy living through our products, poverty eradication through Going Forward 34 creating jobs Report Availability Communication on Progress 35 Sustainability SGS 36 Development Goals 3 About this Report About the Report •Welcome to our third sustainability report for the period March 2016 to February 2017, on disclosure of our business responsibilities and activities. The report focuses on the Ten Principles of Business Ethics as prescribed by United Nations Global Compact (UNCG). The reporting format is guided by the Global Reporting Initiative considering the broader perspective of our business operations and the impact we create to the community around us Scope of the Report •The scope of the report covers the progress Kapa has made in addressing the ten principles of the UN Global Compact applicable to the particular business activities carried out in the aforementioned period. This report further considers our engagement in realising the SDG’s that concerns our business •The 2016/2017 report focus was on healthy, quality products that provide value for money and the business social responsibility to the community towards building a reputable business on the foundations of our core values of integrity, quality, responsibility, accountability and respect to a live transforming experience Our Sustainability Mission •To produce healthy and quality products that promote a healthy lifestyle and contribute towards longevity of life for a sustainable future Report Contents • This report captures the topics on: what we do, our material matters, our performance metrics, and our future as indicated in this presentation 4 Message from the Executives CHAIRMAN CEO It is with great pleasure in my capacity as the Chairman In this sustainability report, we have made stride towards of the Board, that I present to you the 2016-2017 aligning our operations with the SDGs in addition to the UNGC Sustainability Report. This report serves as the Board’s ten principles. Our performance in fulfilling these initiatives is commitment statement to the United Nations Global what is contained in this report. Compact (UNGC) ten principles and our undertaking of Key on our agenda is the promotion of good health and well being strategic action towards the realization of the of our consumers by manufacturing quality and healthy products, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). that give our consumers value for their money. We are also steadfast in the eliminating of all forms of poverty by The Board remains committed in conducting its creating employment and jobs and through ensuring that our business in an ethical manner. This creates a sustainable employees, business partners, suppliers , stakeholders and the business environment that transforms the lives of the wider community are able to sustain their livelihood, by creating people that we interact with through our products, thus a dependable source of income for them. creating equal opportunities to all for a sustainable Additionally we remain committed to the fight against corruption future. and we have made effort towards ensuring that our business is transparent and there are no loopholes of corrupt activities. We recognize our role in creating a sustainable world, and we realise that this can only be achieved if we start by inward looking in the way we conduct our businesses and therefore we remain committed to conducting our business ethically and sustainably. 5 Management Structure and Roles The Board of Directors  Ensuring the Company’s prosperity by promoting ethical culture through the set values  Committed to observing and promoting the highest standards of ethical conduct  Promote collaboration, cooperation, and partnership among the stakeholders interests The Executive  Advances corporate governance agenda  Enforcing the policies and procedures employed in the operation of the Company  Monitor and promote compliance with applicable governmental laws, rules and regulations Business Ethics  Management of Ethics structure within the organisation Finance and Accounts  Maintaining integrity in the finance and accounting processes Sales and Marketing  Provision of quality products and services to our customers aimed at meeting and exceeding customers expectations Production  Ensures safe and quality production in a conducive work environment Quality Management  Assurance of quality and safety of our products Human Resource  Sourcing and developing our staff to the expected level of competency 6 Core Values Quality •We are reliable and strive to perform at an excellent level in everything we do •Truly committed to producing and delivering products to the highest standard possible Integrity •We respect and follow the law, act with integrity and are truthful in our words and subsequent actions •Ethical, honest and direct in all of our communications Responsibility •We take responsibility and are accountable for our actions in areas of human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption as required by the Global Compact and the secretariat that prescribes the Principles of Business Ethics Accountability •We preserve our valued assets and report on our performance to our partners, stakeholders and Government bodies Respect •We demonstrate respect and appropriate loyalty towards our customers and suppliers 7 Our Vision and Mission Vision Statement Kapa is committed to being the ‘Benchmark Company’ for quality products in Africa Mission Statement Kapa operations are focused on the manufacture of quality assorted food products, detergent powder, laundry soap and personal care products. It shall lead the market in terms of quality and performance of its products and customer service. Commitment Statement Kapa focuses on healthy and quality products that give ‘value for money’. We aim at providing our customers with premium quality consumer goods at competitive prices while operating in an environmentally sensitive and socially responsible manner. All our processes and procedures are of the highest quality, designed to give results of premium quality. The mechanics and techniques behind our processes and procedures give zero allowance for error therefore producing high quality products and ensuring quality consistency. 8 Our Business 9 Material Matters Our Business Environmental Sustainability is Customers and Responsibility and Business Ethics anchored on how we Suppliers Engagement Community perform with regards to Participation Our Healthy Customer Energy Recruitment Products satisfaction efficiency Work Suppliers due Water Environment diligence consumption Electronic Our Employees Waste Building an Boiler Accountable Operations Institution Education Health Donations 10 Our Healthy Products Kapa focuses on healthy and quality products that promote the wellbeing of our consumers in line with SDG (goal 3). We aim at providing our customers with premium healthy and quality consumer products while operating in an environmentally conscious and socially responsible manner. In line with our consumer health driven policies, all our edible fats and oils are non hydrogenated, thus making them heart friendly, cholesterol free and beneficial to the health and well being of all our consumers. Our products meet the World Health Organisation requirements on improving consumption of Vitamin A fortified in our edible oils and Vitamin B1 and B2 in our yellow and white fats which boosts the human immunity. In 2003, Kapa cemented its commitment to quality by being certified the prestigious ISO 9001:2000 award for its ‘Quality Management Systems’ in the manufacture of cooking fats, edible oils, margarine, baking powder, laundry soaps and glycerine. Our products are trusted household names, not only in Kenya, but throughout East, Central, West and Southern Africa, as we export our diverse range of products to over 18 African countries serving the COMESA and SADC markets. 11 Why Choose Kapa Products? Cholesterol free Vitamin Fortified Non Hydrogenated Quality Controlled Kapa products 12 12 Business Ethics Recruitment In our quest to build ethical culture in the business, we have communicated our ethical expectation to the stakeholders through the business code of conduct booklet. In return, we have received queries and guided on ethical dilemma that employees are faced with as they work. The Ethics Officer, on a monthly basis, holds ethical talks with the employees at different levels of management on ethical issues that could affect the business. Our recruitment provides equal opportunities for all qualified applicants. Work Environment We believe in order to maintain healthy organizational culture, strong ethical codes need to be followed. Every individual has to play his own role. Apart from creating a healthy culture it also helps to avoid employee lawsuits against the employer. We hold regular sessions on ethics and how to approach ethical dilemmas among staff. We challenge management staff to hold regular discussions with employees to work through potential ethical issues that may come up and find ways to brainstorm through them as a team. If everyone is on the same page, it is more likely that the team as a whole will adopt the same types of ethical behaviours. Our Employees To affirm our commitment to ethical behaviour within the Company, we have included the ethics awareness training in our new employees orientation programme and the executive visibly demonstrates the commitment to ethics during these sessions. The company’s policy is also that it will not use, be complicit or benefit from forced labour in compliance with the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 13 Building An Accountable Institution In line with (SDG 16) we re-affirm our long standing commitment to conducting our business with integrity, fighting corruption in all forms in the organizations. We continue to promote integrity among our employees and business partners to ensure that there is no room for corrupt activities within our business, and that we are accountable for our business and transparent in our dealings. Our code of business Code of Ethics, provides a guide on how to conduct our business ethically. We also have an antibribery clause in our contracts that stipulates the company’s position in combating bribery and also provides an avenue for reporting bribery incidences in the company. We are members of the Global Compact Network Kenya anti-corruption working group. Further Kapa is playing a key role in the sub-committee for Siemens integrity initiative in the fight against corruption. The Siemens Integrity Initiative is aimed at strengthening the capacity and knowledge of network members on Anti-corruption and fostering collective action. 14 Customer Engagement Customer Satisfaction We admit that good customer service is vital, both to us and to the customer. Working hard to make certain that this gets even better, KAPA uses market research and different types of data to ensure we get a clear message about what customers do and don't like. Simply put: We strive to maintain customer satisfaction 'This time, next time & every time!' In 2016, we have introduced into the shopping basket two more product variants (Toss Combo 25gm and Prestige Margarine Vanilla flavour) while still maintaining our quality and safety of our products (ISO, QMS and food safety HACCP) as confirmed by the systems certification body SGS. Customer Satisfaction 2014 2015 2016 No. of Customer Complaints 23 25 36 No. of complaints attended to 23 25 36 Customer satisfaction rating (%) 76 77 73.16 15 Suppliers Engagement Suppliers due diligence: At Kapa, due diligence procedures are performed on customers, agents, suppliers and employees. Since majority of Kapa’s customers are regional distributors, any new customers, agents and service providers undergo a comprehensive due diligence process. The process includes background checks with the referees, obtaining copies of important documents such as PIN and VAT certificates, Certificate of Incorporation and recommendations from business associates. Suppliers are required to sign a supplier data form which captures all these details.  Quality, Timeliness, Competitiveness and Reliability, Innovation & Finance credibility. Maintaining suppliers is vital, hence along with continued improvement proposals during supplier audits, communication, standards, production demanding and loyalty in financial payment plays a pronounced role  Understand Compliance & gather Key Information, including suppliers Incorporation documents, bank details, KRA PIN ref. & reference letters (where the need arises)  Evaluate supplier performances every 2 years  Review Due-Diligence Process regularly to identify additional needs, if need be over time Fraud controls:  Fixing approved suppliers and laying down a strong code of ethics that vendors / employees acknowledge and must abide by  Supplier search in case of new vendors, and supplier re-evaluation to affirm supplier processes, operations & quality  Having stringent receiving processes, whereby supplied goods and services are adequately delivered in accordance with the requirements outlined in the listed Specifications sheet  Routine auditing of vendors to ensure that pricing is in accordance with quality and comparatively fair 16 Environmental Responsibility The environmental impact of our business must be managed to enhance value creation while maintaining compliance with regulations. With this driving force, in our business, we always endeavour not to become a burden to the community!  Energy efficiency  Scrap/obsolete items and Electronic o We have set up a committee and officers in waste charge are tasked with developing energy saving programmes and making sure the o We always seek to reduce waste and to explore same are implemented and done within the opportunities for reuse or recycling set legal requirements  All scrap and IT waste is resold for recycling to identified scrap dealers in accordance to o The team also carries out daily monitoring the laid down process of energy impacts from our business  Used dustcoats and uniforms are donated to o Through out the last year we have Mlolongo Children homes where skilled implemented about 70-80% of women tailor them for re-use as school recommendations from an energy audit uniforms carried out by a firm licenced by the Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC)  Boiler Operations o There is regular monitoring of our fuel gases  Water Consumption released into the environment while ensuring we comply with legal standards o We act within the water mandate. There is o We have achieved 85% boiler efficiency no discharge of waste water without treatment and all treatment complies with NEMA’s requirements o An analysis to ensure water use compliance is done fortnightly. o We have substantially reduced our water consumption by 50% 17 Performance Metrics Our metrics helps gauge performance on our material matters by providing quantifiable data. In this sustainability 2016 / 17 we give an account of number of unethical cases reported, trainings carried Ethics Employees out, disciplinary cases, customer complaints and feedback, the work environment and energy efficiency measures undertaken during this period. During the year we engaged the community more in charitable activities such as the pedal cart, a charity Sustainability initiative targeted to raise funds for the less fortunate with the proceeds from the event going towards the Oshwal Youth League, primarily with regards to education. Environment Customers and We also engaged in distributing reflector jackets to the motorcycle riders locally known as the “boda Community boda” riders. This created safety awareness and we also got an opportunity to promote our healthy products. 18 Business Ethics Reported cases During the reporting period a total number of 5 unethical cases were reported. The cases were on bribery, theft by an employee, disclosure of company confidential information by employees who were privy to that information and fraud by employees at the Company’s receiving bay. Gift Register In our commitment to integrity, and the unwavering spirit to fight corruption within our business, we have ensured all gifts and entertainment offers are accounted for. We recorded 21 gifts and entertainment offers in the year 2016. The declared gifts were in compliance with our gift and entertainment policy. Disciplinary cases To ensure no violation of our policies, we have created a platform where employees can raise concerns without fear of reprisal and information given remains confidential and /or anonymous , mainly for our internal stakeholders as:  Help Desk at the Ethics Office  Anonymous E-mail Address: (speakitup101@gmail.com) During the period under review, 5 cases related to ethical issues were recorded in our case log register. The cases were handled by the relevant head of department . In swift, but fair decisive way, disciplinary actions were taken against 2 assistants on fraud and 1 on theft , one senior manager had to resign on account of this fraud. 19 Recruitment and Training Recruitment Rate Training Rate Per Department No. of No. of Staff as Employees % Turn Over Level No. of Staff in Total Training Rate at Jan. 2016 who left in Rate Department Department Trained % 2016 Assistants 89 15 16.8% Boiler House/ETP 102 97 95% Baking Senior 157 157 100% 30 5 16.7% Powder/Noodle Assistants Detergent Packing 151 135 89% Managers 28 5 17.8% Detergent Plant 94 90 96% Senior 7 2 28.5% Managers Loading Bay 189 182 96% Quality Assurance 30 28 93% Overall Training Rate 7% Refinery Packing 262 232 89% Not Trained Refinery Plant 36 36 100% Soap Plant 202 185 92% Warehouse 68 55 81% Administration 145 142 98% 93% Trained Total 1436 1339 93% 20 Performance Highlights, 2016 Ethics No. New Employees Trained 20 Reported Unethical Cases 4 Internal 1 External Disciplinary cases 5 Recorded Gifts Offers 30 Internal Assessment 1 Recruitment Turn Over, 2016 Community Engagement No. of Staff as % Turn Children homes 19 staff Monthly Level at Jan. Over who left Donations Homes for the 2016 in 2016 Rate Performance 2 Highlights aged Assistants 89 15 16.8% Senior Different 30 5 16.7% Seasonal Assistants organizations in 7 Donations Managers 28 5 17.8% the country Senior 7 2 28.5% Training Rate, 2016 Managers No. of Staff in Total Training Staff Departme Trained Rate % nt Business 1291 1197 92.7% Partners Kapa Staff 145 142 97.9% Total 1436 1339 93.2% 2 1 21 Health & Safety Data Analysis – 2016 in Review Company-wide FY trend is as below: FY 2016 MONTHLY ACCIDENT ANALYSIS DEPARTMENTAL 25 20 15 10 5 0 JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC TOOL ROOM & WORKSHOP MAIN OFFICE LOADING BAY WARE HOUSE E.T.P. BAKING DET. PLANTS & PACKING LAUNDRY SOAP PLANT REFINERY PLANTS & PACKING SULPHONATION TOILET SOAP PLANT BOILER PLANT 22 Environmental Responsibility Kapa Oil Refineries is committed to be the benchmark in the industry for environmental and energy initiatives, as a key player, among its competitors & other players in the industry. Guided by the energy conservation goals; reducing energy demands, water use and control over waste and emissions, KAPA Oil Refineries has ventured into a sustainable, eco-friendly steam boiler plant. Installation of this plant is currently underway with its planned commissioning set to take place by the 1st quarter of 2017. With the steam boiler plant, efficiency in energy consumption is expected to be at an all time high with reduced fuel utilization. Waste and emissions levels are also expected to reduce drastically. The ETP and Boiler zone is improved with trees and gardening. This has given the area a revamped look. 23 Community Engagement Kapa recognises that its social responsibility to the community is integral to its business. During this reporting period, We ventured into the below mentioned activities with the core aim of reaching out to the community: Education By donating some used dustcoats & uniforms to Children's’ homes, Kapa’s efforts in reaching out to the community ensures that there is job creation for women living in these areas by providing women in these communities with opportunities in tailoring the dust clothes into uniforms Health In the year 2016, we focused on the health of the community by supporting the health clinic facility within our premises. We created awareness to the community around on visiting this facility, which is open to the public, for any immediate medical attention at reasonable charges. The clinic also offers dental treatment, once a week, again at very reasonable charges. Kapa Clinic Flyer 24 Community Engagement Kapa Refineries Ltd is one of the sponsors of Oshwal Youth League’s activities, one of which was: Pedal Kart 2016: This year, we had the opportunity to sponsor the annual Pedal Kart Grand Prix organized by the Oshwal Youth League Team Kapa raced other teams on a pedal kart (a 4 wheel bicycle) to get the most number of laps around an 800 metre track around the main stadium. The race brought people together to have fun, and was also a great chance to make a difference as A staff member taking part in the lives of those less fortunate with the proceeds from the event went towards charity initiatives the race by the Oshwal Youth League, primarily with regards to education. The Kapa Team Staff members enjoying themselves at the race 25 Community Engagement Distribution of Reflector Jackets to Boda Boda Riders We as a business, have taken it upon ourselves to adopt practices & initiatives that benefit the society around us. Alongside “The Karania Foundation” – a charitable organization founded by KAPA, set monthly donations to the children homes and home for the aged; periodic reach outs to the community are always undertaken and are geared towards meeting the business’ social responsibility goal. Kapa team all set to distribute the jackets to the Distribution of reflector jackets on the lower Eastern region, Nairobi, Boda Boda riders the Oshwal Centre sponsorship Pedal Cart, are among other key activities involved in this last year. A road user who also got a reflector jackets Boda Boda riders posing in their reflector jackets 26 Access to Reliable and Sustainable Energy  Energy efficiency has gone up substantially. We have improved the findings from our energy which is compliant with audit and regulations on energy  We are the third company to be given an ERC clearance  Waste paper disposal improved. We are re-cycling all environmental waste as much as possible by re-selling this to various vendors  We are using more bio-mass as opposed to coal. Sulphur emissions are no longer there  The boiler has energy efficient motors which have variable speed that reduces power consumption when the boiler output is low  The boiler has primary and secondary combustion air and several grates which increases the surface area for combustion and therefore there is more complete combustion which reduces the amount of fuel (wood) that is consumed per tonne of steam generated  It has both convection unit and radiation unit which increases the surface area for steam generation in a fuel efficient way  The boiler has an efficient economizer which utilizes the flue gases waste heat by heating up boiler feed water before it is pumped into the boiler which is also expected to reduce biomass consumption  The boiler has an automatic soot blowing system which is expected to improve heating efficiency and reduce boiler down time currently experienced in the old boilers during raking procedures  The online conductivity measurement of boiler water is expected to assist in optimizing boiler blowdowns which is also expected to improve fuel efficiency 27 Kapa Social Responsibility Kapa recognises that its social responsibility to the community is integral to its business. To effectively contribute to the society, through its Directors, Kapa founded a charitable organization ‘The Karania Foundation’ that operates independently from the Company. The Foundation caters for the needy in the society in these areas : a) Health b) Education and c) The well being of Children and the Aged in the society So far, the Foundation has supported the following activities: a) The home for the aged in the society located in Nairobi is fully supported by this Foundation. It caters for the old and needy individuals. b) Annual sponsorship to needy students in support of their education at varying levels of education. c) Funding for specialised medical health care to families in need of such a support. Kapa as a company also contributes to the society through: a) Monthly donations to 19 children homes with edible oils and soap products. b) Monthly donations to the Home for the Aged with edible oils and soap products. 28 Kapa Social Responsibility On 19th February 2017, M P Shah Hospital inaugurated its state-of-the art newly renovated Karania Wing which was sponsored by Mr. Mohanbhai Karania Kapa’s Chairman . Karania wing is named after Mr. Mohanbhai Karania’s father. The wing originally had 12 rooms and now has 14 rooms specially designed with unique features including dialysis enabled facilities. All medical supplies are enabled to allow for sophisticated bedside technology. During the inauguration, Mr. Mohanbhai Karania, stated that working with M P Shah Hospital had been very good, as their donations went into a worthy cause, he further stated that he and his son Mr Nitin Karania would continue working with M P Shah Hospital in several other projects. Mr. M.D. Karania & Mr. Nitin KaraniaKapa’s CEO at the Mr. Nitin Karania officially inaugurates the new ward by cutting the Inauguration ribbon 29 Donations to the Community Alongside the aforementioned, KAPA has kept its commitment to maintain and better its touch with the community through; i. Monthly donations to 19 children homes with edible oils and soap products. ii. Monthly donation to the Home for the Aged with edible oils and soap products. iii. Other one-off reaching out events. Giving a Helping Hand – through GEEP (Go Economic Empowerment Programme). Geep is a community based organization in Gatanga Sub-County, Muranga County in Central Kenya whose goal is to “Contribute towards sustainable livelihood for the Community through empowerment, talent utilization and capacity Building.” Geep Kenya receives donations of Nuni Donations of cooking fat in Maasailand Noodles from Kapa 30 Donations to Childlife Trust Kapa CEO spending time at Childlife Trust Meal being served at the home KAPA reaches out to homeless orphans or children with single parents living in the slums through Childlife Trust, Nairobi, Kenya to bring the difference. We continuously, for years now, provide the home with at least a decent meal in a day, edible oils, detergents, soap and noodles. On the 18th September, 2016 was one of those merrier and fulfilling days when Mr. Nitin Shah – KAPA CEO, Mr. Aniruddh Shah – Senior Projects Manager, together with friends and family (pictured) visited the home to spend time with the children to bring that ray of light to their lives. Kapa CEO & Senior Project Manager at the home 31 Donations to Different Regions We journeyed to Nyanza in December to share the love 35 deaf families at Harvest Mission Deaf Church through cooking fat and noodles at the Ebenerer in Mathere were presented with cooking fat and Children Center in Rongo for 100 youth noodles Donations to the deaf at Harvest Mission Donations of cooking fat and noodles in Nyanza Deaf Church -Nairobi Donations to Kibera Primary School Donations of 120 food buckets to Maasailand 32 Monthly Donations to Children Homes 2016 Monthly Donations 2016 Donations Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Soweto Slums Children Home b b b b b b b b b b b b Magodo's Childrens Home b b b b b b b b b b b b Childlife Trust b b b b b b b b b b b b Maji Mazuri Children Home b b b b b b b b b b b b Family Care b b b b b b b b b b b b Kwetu Home Of Peace b b b b b b b b b b b b Good Hope b b b b b b b b b b b b Edevalle Home b b b b b b b b b b b b Missionary Of Charity b b b b b b b b b b b b Heritage Of Hope b b b b b b b b b b b b Global Museum b b b b b b b b b b b b Little Sisters Of The Poor b b b b b b b b b b b b Better Life Community Center b b b b b b b b b b b b International Society For Krishna b b b b b b b b b b b b Thomas Barnado House b b b b b b b b b b b b Amritas Childrens Home b b b b b b b b b b b b Maria Romerro b b b b b b b b b b b b Ananda Marga Mission b b b b b b b b b b b b The Children's Village b b b b b b b b b b b b 33 Going Forward In line with our sustainability mission, to build an ethical culture in our business we aim to promote ethical business practices to external stakeholders. We intend to sensitises our external stakeholders on business integrity, community engagement and on the fight against corruption. The sustainability strategies for 2017 are set as follows:  Promoting healthy living through our products  Eradicating poverty through creating jobs and sustainable livelihoods  Enhancing community collaboration avenues through environmental conservation and health care activities 34 Availability of the Report to the Public In line with our values of integrity and accountability, this Sustainability Report will be communicated to all our key stakeholders through our common channels of communication. The channels are:  The Company’s website which is accessible to the public  Emails sent to all Kapa employees; and  The Ethics Communication mechanism 35 36
