DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 About This Report Reporting Period and Cycle This 7th sustainability report was published to transparently report on Dongbu Insurance’s financial and non-financial performance for 2016 to all stakeholders. Also, this is the second Integrated Report that reflects the Guiding Principles and Content Elements set out by the<IR> Framework of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). This report covers from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016, and several key parts of the report include some activities and performances of the year 2017. Reporting Principle The report was prepared under the G4 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the document principles of GRI Financial Service Sector Supplement and is in accordance with core requirements. Furthermore, it reflects the guidelines of <IR> Framework and covers activities and performances in line with the 10 principles of Communication on Progress as a member corporation of the UN Global Compact. The financial performances were prepared based on the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards and any modifications from the previous report were specially indicated in the report. Reporting Scope The scope of this report covers Dongbu Insurance's domestic business sites(excluding subsidiary companies) such as headquarters, nationwide divisions, claims adjustment dept. and some performances of the company’s overseas branches and ofﬁces are also included. As for non-financial data, correspond to 100% in terms of company’s sales and environmental data primarily made on the company’s 9 buildings and leasing ofﬁces. Contact name | Dongbu Insurance Co., Ltd. address | Dongbu Financial Center, 432, Teheran-ro, Gangnam, Seoul, S. Korea Contact Information | Tel. 1588-0100 Homepage | http://www.idongbu.com Contents Introduction CEO Message 02 About Dongbu Insurance 04 Corporate Vision 06 Business Model 08 Business Section Product Leadership 12 Innovation Management 14 Global Business Expansion 16 Asset Management 18 Sustainability Section Responsible Insurance 22 Our people 26 Community 32 Customers 36 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance 42 Ethics Management 46 Risk Management 50 Financial & Non-Financial Statements Financial Performance 55 Non-financial Performance 58 Appendix Stakeholder Engagement 76 Materiality Test 77 GRI G4 Index 78 Independent Auditor’s Report 80 Financial Statements 81 Operations Evaluation Report of Internal Accounting Manager 85 Third Party’s Assurance 86 Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement 88 Membership Status 89 Human Rights Policy 91 Tax Strategy 92 Dongbu Insurance History 93 Major Accolades 94 02 / 03 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 CEO Message CEO Message Dear Valued Stakeholders caring for Dongbu Insurance, I would like to extend my deepest gratitude to all of you for your unwavering support and interest in Dongbu Insurance. Despite the harsh management environment due to unfavorable domestic and international affairs and the solidification of low economic growth and low interest rates, all employees of Dongbu Insurance have paid the utmost efforts to attain sustainable growth. Under the overarching strategic direction ‘Innovation in the profit structure and expansion of a growth engine’, the company focused its capabilities into the innovation of profit structures over all business areas and amplifying a growth engine for sustainable management, and consequently, the company’s management performance achieved the highest level on record. On the other hand, in the joint cooperation with the Ministry of Environment, the company has first developed ‘Environmental Impairment Liability (EIL) Insurance’, which is the compulsory insurance for companies to compensate for environmental pollution, and received the Presidential Citation for the contribution. In addition, we’ve launched a yellow carpet project, the representative social contribution program for children’s traffic safety. Other accomplishment of the company includes its listing in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for four consecutive years for the first time in the industry. Due to the growth of civic consciousness, it is highly likely that the management environment for 2017 will be facing the highest expectations and demands for corporates’ business ethics and social responsibilities. Also to be anticipated is the drastic innovation traversing the boundaries of all industries due to the repercussion of remarkable technological innovations, namely, ‘the 4th industrial revolution’ in the context of globalization and liberalization. As for non-life insurers, it is expected that the era of challenge is a blue ocean with risks and opportunities waiting for them to grow into sustainable insurers, able to respond to more stringent soundness regulation system in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards and others and to create new growth engines in a low-growth, aging society. With unflinching determination, Dongbu Insurance will continuously strive to establish itself as an insurer June 2017 with the world-class sustainable management by fortifying its ability to respond to changing environments, Dongbu Insurance Co., Ltd. improving management efficiency to surmount the economic situation stuck in a low-growth trap by securing ‘the top business capabilities based on risk management in the industry’. President & CEO Jeongnam Kim To take preemptive measures to tackle sustainable management issues , Dongbu Insurance joined Principles for Sustainable Insurance of the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) and vowed to support and earnestly abides by the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). It is our steadfast promise that the company will not be content with the past success and establish itself as a global leading company in sustainable management with a thorough preparation for an ever-changing management environment. Thank you. 04 / 05 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 About Dongbu Insurance A Global Insurance Financial Group which Pursues a Happy Society with Customers Founded on the management philosophy to place customers’ satisfaction as its top priority and great financial soundness, Dongbu Insurance has grown into one of the leading general insurance companies in Korea. The company means to become a corporation that will ultimately uplift corporate values and foster shared growth with its stakeholders by implementing strategies and policies fully satisfying the expectations of various stakeholders based on its three initiatives: globalization, specialization, and adding high value. Company Information (As of Dec. 2016) Company Dongbu Insurance Co., Ltd. Ceo Jeongnam Kim date of establishment Mar. 1962 business Field Non-life insurer Dongbu Financial Center, 432, Teheran-ro, Gangnam-gu, Headquarters office Seoul, S. Korea New York California Hawaii Branch Representative Office Joint Venture Overseas Subsidiary direct Premiums (Unit: KRW in 100 million) equity Capital (Unit: KRW in 100 million) net Profit (Unit: KRW in 100 million) 120,924 39,639 114,879 36,827 4,702 107,142 33,630 4,003 4,127 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 About Dongbu Insurance Establish Sustainable Global Business System As with its continued efforts to expand its global business, Dongbu Insurance has accomplished impressive success in overseas markets based on its differentiated localization strategies. Using the US business network and a subsidiary in Vietnam as basepoints, the company continues its growth, attaining overseas sales of USD 186 million. It plans to establish a sustainable global business system with the Vietnam subsidiary and the stabilization of the US branch. London Beijing Qingdao Chongqing Hanoi Yangon Guam Jakarta Retained Customers (Unit: 10,000 persons) Sustainability assessment 820 DJSI World (As of Dec. 2016) (listed for four consecutive years) employees and Partners (Unit : persons) Credit Rating 27,515 S&P aA.M.Best a (including 22,974 sales partners) (stable) (Excellent) 06 / 07 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Corporate Vision Corporate Vision System The management philosophy of Dongbu Insurance is to be a “good company”. The philosophy is based on the foundation spirit that provides excellent products and services to customers, provides performance-based compensation and a pleasant working environment Global Insurance to employees and delivers the highest profit ratio to shareholders, thereby contributing to national and social development. Pursuing a Happy Global Insurance Society with Customers Financial Group oup l Gr cia This is the core philosophy This is the future direction of Dongbu Insurance that of the company where it becomes a global company Fin includes the concept of an pursuing ‘people’s happiness and turns itself from non-life l In insurance company to Globa surance and company’s sustainable growth’ insurance financial group Core Strategictasks To actualize the 2020 mid-to-long term strategies, Dongbu Insurance is pursuing 14 core strategic tasks over 7 different areas. With a view to ‘establish the highest business capability in the industry based on risk management’ in 2017, the company is implementing 13 tasks over 6 areas including establishing a value-centered growth structure, maximizing effective channel operations, obtaining differentiated customer royalty, strengthening the responsive capability against environmental/institutional transformation, securing stable secondary margins based on ALM, and improving management efficiency against low-growth solidification, etc. top 1 ‘Competition Insurance business Sharpen Improve optimize Fortify the our basic establish advance Foundation for Secure utilization of the differentiated P/F of marketu/W, claim competitive Information Qualitative edges for platform for customer profit-based driven asset adjustment, insurance asset overseas royalty products channel P/F infrastructure data analysis management business brand Story: Promy Promy is an abbreviated form of Dongbu Insurance’s promise to keep up with any promises made with customers at all costs, and refers to the integrated brand system encompassing ‘Promy Car’, the car insurance brand and ‘Promy Life’, the long-term insurance brand. The company newly introduced a character, ‘Promise Keeper, Promy’, which was modeled after the gesture of a promise in line with its image of ‘a trustworthy company that keeps its promise to customers’. ‘Promise Keeper, Promy’ is used as an integrated character for ‘Promy Car’, ‘Dongbu Promy Basketball Team’, etc. and is applied to various promotional elements and activities to ensure proactive communication with customers including SNS, game, webtoon, Kakao Talk emoticon, corporate PR video, among others. Corporate Vision Strategic Framework for Sustainable Management To attain the improved sustainable management system and global competitiveness, Dongbu Insurance carried out a project to sharpen the competitive edge for sustainable management Financial Group with an emphasis on CSR Secretariat and corporate task force team in 2015. Joined by 27 employees from 24 departments, this six-month project resulted in identifying strategic tasks for social responsibility and continues to identify and implement further measures and tasks to introduce sustainable global management. Which Pu With customers Happy Society rsu  Implementing customer-oriented  Sincerely carrying out basic es win-win management duties and fulfilling social responsiblities ociety with Cus py S Global Insurance Financial Group Expanding global social Conducting social responsibility t responsibilities in line with its activities related to o goal to be one of the Global Top 20 business characteristics m ap er aH s Core values of Sustainable management Dongbu Insurance selected four core values to set the guidelines for its sustainable management activities and decision-making. value Win-win Global opportunity management management management management Considering strategic Pushing forward Actively pushing Expanding possibilities System’ within connections with with human-oriented ahead with global of sustainable growth by business in sustainable sustainable management sustainable building system which by Strengthening management activities and management preemp-tively responds Quantitative and activities with focus on conducting them with activities related to to opportunities and risks areas where business employees and various global business in business, society and Growth value corresponds to stakeholders environment social value establish Sustainable management KPI For more systematic sustainable management with a long-term vision, Dongbu Insurance manages key KPIs developed for different sectors including environment and society. Environment Society  . Develop eco-friendly products 1 1. ‌Ethics Management 2. Reduce Green House Gas(GHG) emissions (Compliance assessment results) 3. Increase investment in eco-friendly 2. Develop pro-social products new renewable energy 3. ‌Amounts of social contribution costs (compared to net profit of current term) 08 / 09 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Business Model value Chain Product/Service development Create differentiated values with the development of products and services in demand Products Long-term insurance Car insurance General insurance Services Risk management service Auto-care service Promy health care service Emergency dispatch service Legal support service Promy car service Funeral partnership service On-site dispatch service Retirement planning Car care service Will management service consultation Six Financial Capital manufacturing Capital Intellectual Capital Profits garnered from the insurance premiums of The business of Dongbu Insurance relies on manuThere is a growing trend in transformation of insurance insurance product sales are used to cover various facturing capital computer system, data center, etc. products and services due to the changes in external finances including insurance claims, business operation The company has established a response system environments such as low birth rates, aging society and costs, operating assets, etc. Consequently, Dongbu to disasters and emergencies to be thoroughly preprolonged low economic growth and so forth. Dongbu Insurance makes strategic investments to securely pared to provide customers with stable and reliable Insurance carries out customer segmentations based manage customers’ assets and to generate higher services. on customer research and big data analyses and offers profits, while identifying investments in relation to differentiated values by developing customer-oriented social responsibility. products according to the needs of different customer groups. Business Model Product/Service delivery Product/Service Sharing Deliver best customer experience through Share customer values with specialized support systems operating various sales channels that meet to increase customers’ assets and the operation of the different customers’ needs nationwide claim-adjustment network exclusive Channels asset management PA(Prime Agent) Insurance planners who have the exclusive rights to sell Dongbu Insurance’s products only Loan Business for Domestic and Foreign Investments Branches Establish a dedicated asset management team Branches that signed an exclusive contract to have with mid-to-long term perspectives the right to sell Dongbu Insurance’s products only Freelance Channels Claim-adjustment GA(General Agency) Freelance insurance branches that can sell insurance products from any insurance companies Damage adjustment Cross Planner Exclusive life insurance planners who are entitled to Damage Claim sell both life and non-life insurance products Damage investigation (long-term, car, general) Capitals Human Capital Social/Relation Capital environmental Capital Owing to the nature of insurance business, talented Dongbu Insurance seeks to achieve a happy society The company’s 9 office buildings and 556 leased offices in individuals are the central, foremost important asset with customers and tries to ensure higher customer Korea are the major source of GHG emissions for consuming that determines a company’s competitive power satisfaction by offering products and service in needs. power and cooling/heating systems and power used by over product development to sales. In the context Also, as non-life insurers are subject to strong restrictions datacenters and others. Its efforts to manage environmental of fierce competition, Dongbu Insurance fosters by government agencies and supervisory bodies, capital revolves around the establishment of environmental unparalleled experts in the industry based on new the company actively observes and participates in guidelines, the acquisition of Environment Management training systems designed to maximize management government policies. System (ISO 14001) certification and the Green Management performance by improving individual performances. System (KSI 7001/7002) certifications, etc. 10 / 11 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Investment in the Future Sustainability Section Product Leadership 12 Innovation Management 14 Global Business Expansion 16 Asset Management 18 12 / 13 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Product Product & Service development Process To consider rapidly changing social requirements, Dongbu Insurance operates a product and service Leadership development process founded on establishing product operation strategy, planning products and gathering opinions, finalizing development plans/getting product approval, preparing sale/beginning sale, and providing after evaluation. In the case of long-term or car insurance, the Product Development Committee and Product Strategy Council systematically examine the social and environmental impact of our new products and develop products and services that can bring new value to our stakeholders, customers, and community. Establish product operation strategy for each customer, channel and product group Establishing product operation strategy Conduct regular monitoring and analyze Verify product planning’s profitability gap to validity (market needs, Providing after implement feedback evaluation Planning products competitiveness, etc.) development and gathering Process opinions Operate a company-wide Preparing Finalizing development Strength risk verification support system (products, sale/beginning plan/getting product and systems marketing, training) sale approval Strengthening Competitiveness through Exclusive Rights1) Products As the development of insurance products became more relaxed, differentiating products has become a critical component of the competitiveness of insurance company products. Accordingly, Dongbu Insurance secured its ranking as the insurance company with the most exclusive rights in the indemnity insurance industry after acquiring the Cancer Insurance which paid every stage of cancer and Health Insurance for family in 2016, followed by exclusive rights for Promy Life Total Health Insurance(NonParticipatory) in 2017(seven in total). This is external official recognition of our product development competency, and we expect that it will enable us to attract more customers. 1) A ‌ system whereby the Korean Non-Life Insurance Association grants exclusive rights to the insurer for up to one year after an independent assessment when products with new and creative functions are introduced SPECIAL ISSUE exclusive Rights acquired for ‘Health Insurance for family’ Dongbu Insurance has introduced a special arrangement to the simple policy of ‘Health Insurance for family’ that covers the recurrence of cancer, brain diseases, and heart diseases for the first time, and acquired six months of exclusive rights. The Health Insurance for family has made as its first priority the reduction of the economic burden of underinsured families and to find areas of insufficient coverage from the beginning of its product planning. With coverage for the recurrence of three diseases with up to 70% recurrence rates for poor or elderly customers, this insurance product was developed with a focus on securing a social safety net. Business Section Developing Products Optimized for Customers’ Needs Dongbu Insurance provides diverse products and service value to its customers through multi-faceted analysis of the external environment, such as demographic changes in society and market economy trends, as well as identification of the demand for customer needs. We enhance the effectiveness of our customer contact management by subdividing customers through big data analysis and research, developing customized products and services for each customer group, and diversifying communication channels. Specific examples include an integrated customer experience monitoring system, a customer valuation model, and a differentiated management process for each value chain. In addition, as the needs of customers are diversified according to the flow of the lifecycle, we are focusing on constructing a product portfolio centered on customer value by matching products in consideration of insurance coverage periods and life cycle stages, and developing products for specialized coverage. Analysis of changes in external environment and differentiated customer value considering customer needs New Technology and IT Infrastructure Competitiveness Customers Regulation and Policies • Expanding new sales channels through • Increasing entry into various new competitor • More complex/diverse customer needs • Destruction of Life/Non-Life insurance IT technology markets • Increasing need for personalized goods area and permission for intersectional • Accumulating customer information (Big • Intensifying competition within the industry and services recruitment Data) and increasing sharing and analytics for the same customer base • Increasing one-stop shopping needs for • Proliferation of all-round competition • Intensifying competition among similar customers system between financial companies financial products through an increased through deregulation for economic reability to collect customer information vitalization Product matching according to Customer life-Cycle Changes in Needs Acquiring Insurance Experiencing Insurance Purchasing the Most Insurance Increasing Retirement Needs Nursing Care Specialized Family Coverage Coverage Preparation Gold Life for Aging Population Our Family’s Lifestyle Accident Lifelong Worry-Free Accident Coverage Expenses Cancer Driver My First Insurance 20s-30s Our Family’s Health Critical Target Illness Comprehensive Children Coverage All Comprehensive-Coverage Risk Life Cycle Single Marriage & Raising Children Raising School-Age Children Retirement Preparation & Retirement 14 / 15 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Innovation Dongbu Insurance’s continued drive to achieve profitability despite the global economic downturn is driven by its innovative efforts that pursue ‘something new’ and ‘something different’. Beginning in the 1980s with our management rationalization measures, in the 1990s we pursued self-sustainable Management innovation, and in the 2000s, we were the first in the industry to establish a scientific innovation system that utilizes 6Sigma and Process Innovation (PI). Since 2010, we have been promoting innovation throughout the company through midto long-term improvement of our corporate structure, and we are pursuing high-level, continuous innovation based on our innovative slogan of “Dynamic Dongbu”. Innovation Management System Governance and Process of Innovation Management Roadmap toward Dongbu Insurance promotes company-wide innovation management to improve management Innovation Management efficiency. Through the operation of the Innovation Committee led by the CEO, we have secured the executive power of establishing company-wide innovation strategies, task management, and innovation manpower. We also have an organizational system for creating an innovative culture, such as operating a ~ 2001 dedicated organization that integrates management innovation and strategic functions. In particular, the tasks implemented through the innovation project are systematized through annual performance management, and when the target is not met, the cause of the slump is identified and measures for improvement are taken to improve the effectiveness of the improvement plan. Self-Sustainable Company-Wide Innovation System Innovation • Management Rationalization Top Down Bottom Up • Customer Satisfaction Category Core Strategic Proposal/ PI/Mega Project Work Efficiency Management Task(6Sigma) Task Distribution Company-Wide Work Innovation Business Structure Customer-Oriented, Unit Task Innovation Improvement, Elimination Scope Innovation (Biz Model) Process Innovation of Hidden Costs 2002 ~ 2009 Competitiveness Quality (Reduction of Efficiency (Increased Efficiency (Work Goal (Innovative Level-Up) Scattering) Work Speed) Improvement) Targeted Strategic Performance Operational Performance Performance Board Members/Team Employees/Partners/ PJT Owners Sector/Department Heads Section Chief Leaders/Process Owners Customers Scientific Innovation To verify the appropriateness • Implementation of 6Sigma To pursue inter-sector tasks Board Members/Team Role of of improvement plan and To create an innovative • Elimination of Inefficient Factors under leadership of Leaders to pursue at least Champion conduct a practice environment in the field Sector/Department Heads 1 annual core strategic task • Establishment of inspection Innovation System Promoting Long-term Strategies & Action Plans to Secure Future Business Competitiveness 2010~Present To increase the concentration and strengthen the execution of 2020 midto long-term strategies, Dongbu Insurance selected the top priority tasks from the 7 major areas, 14 major tasks, and 27 core strategic tasks as innovation tasks. As a result, each division has established a master plan including a roadmap for each year. After dividing them into sub-tasks, they have been pursuing these tasks from 2016 to 2018. Strategic Innovation 14 Core Strategic Tasks of the long-term strategies & Action Plans • Business Structure Innovation • Expansion of New Area Tasks Area Tasks Growth Engines ① Create innovation in long-term trust-based ⑧Enhance U/W and claim processing by U/W customer experience management strengthening damage analysis capability Customers Claim ②Enhance company-led integrated customer ⑨Enhance management of claim difficulty and risk adjustment management system level ③Strengthen market position based on product ⑩Establish ALM-based asset management model competitiveness Asset Products ④Establish a responsive product development management ⑪Secure operational capability for each asset P/F infrastructure at a global level ⑤Enhance the productivity-oriented PA ⑫Enhance the overseas business operation model management system Overseas business Channels ⑥Enhance the CM/TM/Banca operating model ⑬Enter new specialty-centered overseas businesses ⑭Create innovation of information asset infrastructure ⑦Gain superior GA to strengthen channel leadership Infrastructure to strengthen business competitiveness Business Section Designing an optimal business Process and Organization Structure for profit structure innovation Dongbu Insurance carried out innovative tasks to optimize work processes, organization, and manpower structures to secure the industry’s operational excellence in preparation for the deterioration of internal and external environment, including growth slowdown and increase in loss ratios in 2016. To achieve this, the Management Support Division chaired a profit structure innovation TFT, in which strategy innovation, management, and HR teams participated. We selected and promoted 13 company-wide tasks to derive 49 improvement proposals. As a result, the customer service counter has been unified as a headquarters and a business unit, and the workforce has been streamlined by rearranging back office services. In addition, we have redesigned the long-term and commercial claims structure to improve work efficiency and improve on-site participation rates by establishing a complete vehicle claim adjustment process. Establishing an Innovation Culture Dongbu Insurance operates a variety of systems to promote innovation management as a corporate culture. We hold a presentation contest twice a year to honor outstanding projects, and spread the innovation atmosphere through company-wide sharing, which leads to enterprise knowledge-based solutions to resolve problems quickly and establish a creative corporate culture. In addition, through the Innovation Committee, the CEO discusses company-wide innovation tasks, and all executives carry out innovative projects to achieve innovative leadership, thereby enhancing the executive power of innovation management. To improve the profit structure of the company, we implemented 3,242 ideas and registered 306 proposals through the implementation of a ‘large departmental proposal’, in which all 207 departments participated. In addition, the large proposal activities of the department have been changed and developed into activities of departmental improvement for each department since 2017. Innovation management performance Establishing the Highest-Quality Management System in the Domestic Financial Industry We were awarded the National Quality Management Prize in 2005, the National Quality Innovation Prize in 2008, and the Presidential Award in the National Quality Grand Prize (Presidential Citation) in 2015 at 2017 (challenge) Superior 'Quality the National Quality Competition, which boasts the highest authority in the domestic quality 2016 Circle' award management field. The Grand Prize, called the Malcolm Baldrige Award, is the first of its kind in the National Quality Master financial services industry as well as in the domestic service industry. Dongbu Insurance leads the 2015 quality management of the financial industry, including being selected as a representative company for National Quality Grand Prize environmental liability insurance, constructing the highest rate of speed claim adjustment in the industry, 2008 acquiring exclusive rights for mobile securities patents, and driving customs UBI. National Quality Innovation Prize 2005 Managing innovative achievements National Quality Management Prize From 2004, when we began measuring the performance of innovative projects, we have accumulated 2,361 projects (145 projects in 2016). The cumulative financial performance has reached KRW 1,636.9 Enhancing the quality management system billion (KRW 97.9 billion in 2016). In terms of innovation capability, we contribute to the development of employees’ competencies and the creation of a company-wide innovation culture by fostering 1,315 (105 in 2016) BB (Black Belt) and GB (Green Belt) holders. FOCUS Case of Innovation management Building the No.1 brand in the driver’s insurance industry to improve profit-oriented portfolio In the low-growth environment, Dongbu Insurance is securing a steady revenue base by achieving 2.09 million insured drivers and expanding M/S. Category Before Improvement Performance • Cross-Selling through linking car renewal and claim adjustment management activities Number of drivers Customer • Customer-oriented Up-Selling with high-need drivers 1.74 million → 2.09 million • ‌Expanding life-friendly coverage areas such as oriental medical treatment expenses, and accidental mixing of gasoline and diesel, mainly focusing on automobile-related guarantees Driver M/S Product • ‌Improving product structure by simplifying U/W and providing convenience of access for securing 27.6% → 28.3% comprehensive guarantee of superior customer • Face-to-face channels enhance content expertise by providing content using SmartPads Monthly average sales Channel • Non-facing channels diversify sales to direct TM·CM channels 1.23 billion → 1.77 billion 16 / 17 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Global Strengthening Global Presence to expand market Business Dongbu Insurance established Guam branch in 1984 to become a global premium insurance company, and pursues overseas advancement through localization strategies. We are concentrating on the US as Expansion an overseas base market and expanding our markets around China and Southeast Asia to create a platform for globalization. ●Operating status by major overseas regions Increase overseas reimbursement capacity Top Overseas Insurance Building the 2nd Dongbu Operating London Office in China Insurance Investing equities Ancheng Property & Casualty Insurance New York, California, Establishing Qingdao brokerage corporation Hawaii, Guam Branches Operating Beijing Office Top Southeast Asian Market Leader Acquiring Vietnam PTI Operating Jakarta/Myanmar office China Dongbu Insurance entered the Chinese market via entering joint venture with local partners by acquiring equities in consideration of high barriers in an early stage of Chinese market entry. The company entered the Chinese market gradually through the opening of its Beijing office in 2006, the acquisition of equities of insurance brokerage firm in Qingdao in 2011, and the acquisition of shares of local Chinese insurance company in 2013. In particular, we are laying the groundwork for spurring out business in the Chinese market such as securing local business capabilities such as participation in the management of a local Chinese insurance company with a right to cover entire China and joint insurance business. Southeast Asia Dongbu Insurance intends to become a market leader in emerging markets by leveraging the high market potential and opportunities in Southeast Asia. Through the acquisition of Vietnam PTI in 2015, we have established a local business base, secured a foundation for entry into the Indochina Peninsula market. Since then, we have introduced differentiated services in the local markets including Vietnam’s first advanced Korean-type bancassurance. Business Section U.S. Our American business is focused on local people with differentiated strategies from other companies. Unlike other competitors, which sell corporate insurance mainly for subsidiary companies, we are working on car insurance and housing fire insurance for locals. In addition, we are pursuing gradual growth based on profitability rather than reckless top-line growth. We are focusing on expanding profitability through differentiated strategies for each branch. Based on our business experience, we are constantly exploring new markets based on profitability. Through this, we aim to build a second Dongbu Insurance headquarters on the US mainland in the midto long-term. Guam Since its establishment in 1984, we have grown to become a dominant insurance company (M/S1) 21.2%, No. 1), thanks to rapid service based on community trust and close ties with local dealers over more than 30 years. We continue to maintain market dominance and increase profitability. 1) Excluding group injuries Hawaii We have grown rapidly as a dominant insurance company after 10 years of rapid service, business process, and differentiated products, and continue to expand profitability based on close ties with the 1-7th largest market share. We also improve customer service and market dominance by improving the IT system. California Because of our thorough localization strategy, we have secured various sales channels not only for Korean residents but also for all residents in the region. We also provide products that meet customer-oriented IT systems and customer needs. We are focusing on expanding our market dominance through continuous channel and product competitiveness and localization strategies. New York Dongbu Insurance is targeting the New York market with D&O(Directors and Officers liability) and general liability package insurance for easily accessible small business owners. In recent years, we introduced general house fire insurance for general residents and enhance access to customers in New York. Since then, we have been increasing our control over the insurance market of the eastern US. Branches in the U.S. Category Unit Guam Hawaii California New York Commencement of Year 1984 2006 2009 2011 business Number of employees Persons 6(3) 24(19) 20(15) 18(13) (local recruits) Proportion of local % 73 96 83 85 products2) Size USD in million 37.2 63.7 46.2 38.5 2) Proportion of sales to local residents except for Korean residents and companies ※ Based on the Korea Financial Supervisory Service’s data on the business performances of overseas branches in 2016 Enhancing Work Efficiency and Professionalism by Constructing local Control Towers In order to secure business competitiveness for sustainable growth in the mainland business in the US, we are building control towers in the local areas. Through this, we plan to strengthen local strategic functions, improve work efficiency, and enhance professionalism. We will also focus on securing sustainable business capabilities by fostering local experts to establish a system that will compete with local insurance companies. 18 / 19 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Asset Securing Global asset management Capabilities Management Dongbu Insurance is working to minimize the risk of differences in the maturity structure of assets and liabilities by covering traditional investment areas such as stocks and bonds, but alternative investment areas such as foreign bonds, real estate and infrastructure assets and secure stable secondary margins. Total Scale of Operating Assets Strengthening asset management expertise By separating the financial audit team in 2016, we strengthened the expertise of audit capabilities and post-management on various investment assets. In addition, we run weekly seminars on investment themes of each field with the participation of all asset management staff. Through this, we have accumulated 160 themes since 2014. In addition, we provide training at overseas leading insurance companies and asset management companies to excellent employees so that they can share and learn investment knowhow. In 2017, we plan to promote internalization of core capabilities by establishing an KRW 29.2 Trillion internal asset management education program and fostering in-house lecturers utilizing excellent human (As of Dec. 2016) resources. Earning the Highest ROI among Big Four Non-Life Insurance Companies in Korea Asset Management Performance Dongbu Insurance has secured stable solvency by reducing the share of high credit risk stocks and (Unit: %, KRW in billion) maintaining 90% or more of interest-bearing assets with stable interest and dividend income. In 2016, we achieved KRW 985.4 billion in asset management profits and a return on investment of 3.63%, 4.37 4.11 3.63 achieving the top-ranked return on investment.1) 1) No.1 MS in Big 4 non-life Insurer 985.4 978.5 893.8 building alm (asset liability management)-based asset management System Dongbu Insurance developed an asset management model fit for its scale and characteristics and set up asset management system based on Asset Liability Management (ALM)’ in response to the diversifying 2014 2015 2016 asset management and insurance industry environment by establishing the mid-long term asset Return on investment management strategies geared toward ‘the invested asset to amount to KRW 50 trillion in 2020.’ This Profit from asset management allows the company to assure sufficient solvency margins to earnestly satisfy the promise with its customers. Asset management checking framework Asset management Asset Recruitment, Making guidelines and management IT System training, strategies regulations process retention Management Management Management Management Planning Execution Support Monitoring Business Section Expanding the global network The investment MOU sealed between the No.1 insurer in North America and Dongbu Insurance, followed by the expansion of joint investment in global real estate assets and overseas corporate bonds is a clear demonstration of its willingness to buttressed its strategic alliances with leading overseas insurers and management companies so as to expand the excellent overseas investment deal sourcing channel and acquire advanced investment know-hows. In addition, we established an overseas investment office in Manhattan, New York, to lift a spatial, temporal restrain, and consequently to establish a close network with local financial institutions, acquire high-quality global investment information, and identify the latest investment trends. As the move enabled us to conduct instant and precise due diligences, it has contributed to bolstering the post-management of the investment assets and to identifying blue-chip assets and management firms. In the future, we plan to continuously expand our overseas bases further to increase access to global networks and investment assets. Socially responsible investment Dongbu Insurance considers not only its short-term profitability in asset management but also its environmental and social impacts in a more sustainable perspective. In accordance with its own internal auditing standards, companies are targeted to invest in moral, transparent, and environmentally friendly corporations. Companies that offer gambling, tobacco, and alcoholic beverages are excluded from the investment. Celebrating the World Tobacco Day on May 2017, in particular, the company has participated in an event jointly organized by the WHO and the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative(UNEP FI) as one of the issuing organizations of ‘Declaration of Socially Responsible Investors to Avoid Investment in Tabaco Industry’, which aims to raise an awareness on harmful effects of smoking as well as the implementation of social responsibilities of financial institutions. We also contribute to the development of social infrastructures by strengthening investment in new and renewable energy businesses and SOC businesses that can generate stable profitability and create environment-friendly value. In 2016, we invested in sustainable development, including setting up solarrelated funds, and lending to wind farms and coal-fired power plants. The senior fund and Dongbu Global collaboration activity Insurance’s socially responsible investment return was 4.6%, which is 1.0%p higher than the investment return of 3.6% in 2016. Status of Socially Responsible Investment 1) (Unit: KRW in 100 million, %) Category Scale of operation Revenue Rate of return New and renewable energy 1,913 93 4.8 Eco-friendly power generation 6,010 280 4.7 SOC 9,481 434 4.6 Total 17,404 806 4.6 1) as of Dec 2016 [Socially Responsible Investment Process] Investment Business Unit Investment Risk Investment Plan Screen Analysis Progress Acknowledgment Potential Risk Discovery ESG Investment Evaluation Progress Acknowledgment 21 INNOVATION FOR SUSTAINABLE GROWTH material Issue Responsible Insurance 22 Our People 26 Community 32 Customers 36 Material Issue 22 / 23 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Responsible 2016 Key Performance Insurance Number of Dream love 281 insurance subscribers (Unit: persons) Number of insurance for 122,647 ill persons subscribers (Unit: persons) ubI Number of UBI 21,818 car insurance subscribers (Unit: persons) Percentage of environmental liability insurance (Unit: %) 98 Risk/Opportunity Factors and Dongbu Insurance’s Approach Strategy The modern society encounters various social challenges such as climate change, environmental threats, aging and population decline. The market and customers demand that insurers develop products and services based on their social and environmental responsibilities and look forward to responding positively to global social and environmental issues. As a corporate citizen, Dongbu Insurance is actively developing pro-social and eco-friendly products and services that utilize the characteristics of the insurance business to more effectively fulfill our social responsibilities. We are creating social and environmental values through a wide range of products and services, including expanding insurance services for the financial underprivileged. We have also launched pro-social products to solve social problems, and developing eco-friendly products to expand environmental awareness. Major Activities Launched Launched Released Launched UBI Car Kakao Designated Car Insurance Environmental Insurance Driver for Electric Liability Insurance Vehicle Insurance Sustainability Section Pro-social Products and Services Developing Insurance for Vulnerable Social Group Support Dongbu Insurance sells Gomduri Car Insurance for vehicles owned by people with disabilities, who are socially underprivileged. Gomduri Car Insurance further compensates for specific expenses that are necessary for the disabled, such as supporting the cost of caregivers, prosthesis, and electric wheelchairs. Moreover, in collaboration with the Korea Inclusive Finance Agency, which is responsible for managing dormant insurances and the Ministry of Security and Public Administration, the company developed a ‘Dream love insurance’ for poverty children, micro –insurance policies for children from the underprivileged section of society to offer completely free insurance policies to cover their safety and health. Expanding insurance products for the Insurance Disadvantaged Dongbu Insurance has been launching a range of insurance policies for those deprived of insurance benefits due to their difficulty in taking out a policy such as disorder and age. In particular, the company developed Health Insurance for Chronic Illness targeting those who suffer from manageable chronic diseases such as diabetes and hypertension that could still maintain a healthy lifestyle with consistent management so that people in their 50s with diabetes or hypertension can be easily insured without submitting documents or getting a diagnosis at home. Targeted Category Product Name Characteristics Demographic Health insurance that can be joined by seniors Simplified Seniors, Health Insurance and ill persons through simplification of the Notification Ill Persons for family questionnaire Health Insurance Comprehensive insurance for customers with Illness Ill Persons for Chronic Illness hypertension and diabetes Lifetime Relief Accident Injury insurance that covers daily life risks such as Accidents Seniors Insurance injury/cost damage/liability Nursing care insurance to cover nursing care Family Love Nursing Nursing Care Seniors funding in the event of a condition requiring Care Insurance nursing Medical Retirement Indemnity Seniors Indemnity insurance for seniors Indemnity Insurance Fintech-based Car Insurance for Designated Driver Service Dongbu Insurance has developed a new insurance product, Kakao Designated Driver Car Insurance, for Kakao taxi drivers. The Kakao Designated Driver Insurance is a Fintech-based insurance product. It is differentiated from the existing insurance because it calculates the insurance premium based on realtime accumulated driving data. It is expected to prevent unreasonable insurance premiums due to providing clear records of driving data through the app and contribute to relieving the anxiety of customers about whether to purchase designated driver insurance. BUSINESS CASE launching smart-ubI Car Insurance for a Safe driving Culture Dongbu Insurance launched smarT-UBI (Usage Based Insurance) based on smart navigation for the first time in Korea in 2016, in consideration of the high penetration rate of smartphones in Korea. It is a differentiated InsurTech product that combines car insurance and information and communication technology (ICT). It discounts 10% of the premium when the driver has driven safely over 500km when smartphone navigation is turned on. Through this, the driver can prevent traffic accidents by safely driving, and at the same time, it can bring an economic benefit of insurance premium reduction, and it can reduce the social cost by encouraging safe and environmentally friendly driving. 24 / 25 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 eco-friendly Products and Services Developing Environmental Liability Insurance Products As the “Act on Indemnification and Remedy for Environmental Pollution Damage” was enacted in 2015, environmental liability insurance obligations have been enforced for business sites subject to statutory damages throughout the country since 2016. As a result, victims of environmental pollution accidents can receive compensation quickly, and companies can minimize business damage caused by environmental pollution. In 2016, in conjunction with the Ministry of Environment, Dongbu Insurance has developed a mandatory insurance to compensate for the environmental pollution, or “Environmental Impairment Liability (EIL) Insurance” and accomplished 98% of business sites subject to the mandatory registration to sign up by late 2016. Facilities that must be insured 1. Air Class 1 air pollutant emission facility 2. Water Class 1 water pollutant discharge facility 3. Wastes Designated waste disposal facility [Established by Presidential Decree] Petroleum storage facilities subject to the filing of management 4. Soil plan with over 1,000 ㎘ in storage capacity 5. ‌Hazardous Chemicals [Established by Presidential Decree] Facilities subject to the filing of risk management plan substances 6. Marine Same as facility subject to law Securing Profitability Improvement Plans Subscription Status of Environmental Environmental liability insurance is a national policy insurance that is subject to restrictions such as laws Liability Insurance by Region and budgets. In addition, domestic insurers have insufficient risk analysis capabilities because they have no experience in dealing with environmental pollution related to gradual and radical macro risks such as chemical gas leaks. Dongbu Insurance has introduced a national reinsurance1) in consultation with the Ministry 97.9% 98.7% of Environment and secured structural measures to improve profitability 97.2% by eliminating the possibility of acquiring business sites that are difficult to judge for risks such as oil pipelines and military facilities. In addition, 94.8% 96.8% Gangwon we intend to aggressively introduce underwriting capabilities of overseas Seoul advanced companies to maximize profitability and create new insurance Incheon 98.5% markets worth KRW 65 billion annually. Gyeonggi 97.7% 97.0% 98.6% 1) The upper limit of the insurer’s payment range due to the huge risk is set, and the excess N. amount is guaranteed by the state Chungcheong Sejong 99.2% S. N. Chungcheong 96.5% Gyeongsang 98.7% Daejeon Preventing Environmental Damage from the Workplace 99.2% 96.3% 98.6% Dongbu Insurance completed enrollment in environmental liability Daegu insurance for 13,200 business sites nationwide, which corresponds to N. Jeolla 98% of mandatory insurance coverage, by implementing the exclusive 97.2% Ulsan charge system of Environmental Impairment Liability (EIL) Insurance by S. Gyeongsang Busan fostering local EIL specialists, and carrying out the company-wide Gwangju marketing campaigns with regional agents and call center operations. It S. Jeolla allowed us to achieve the early establishment EILs for most of business sites in a short term with the enforcement of the relevant ordinance and to contribute to mitigate any concerns over environmental pollutions of 76.5% < Legend > local communities around our business sites. Furthermore, it also offered 95 100% Insured Rate the solution to the exiting problems regarding difficulties in attaining the 90 95% Insured Rate integrated management of the business sites subject to environmental Jeju Below 90% Insured Rate pollution controls including air, water quality and chemicals, etc., arising (As of Dec. 2016) from dispersed responsibilities and authorities of the control. It is expected that it could also be applied to the assessment of the environmental impact of environmental accidents by the liable facilities. Sustainability Section Major Achievement – Won the presidential citation by the government in celebrating the Environment Day As the leading insurer of Environmental Impairment Liability (EIL) Insurance, Dongbu Insurance has successfully accomplished a range of the national policy projects including the establishment of EIL policy purchasing system, media PR of EIL products and the cooperation with external organizations in a bid to ensure stable settlement of the EIL system. In particular, the company’s splendid contribution to the establishment of the social network with its EIL was recognized in the form of the presidential award from the government in the 22nd celebration of Environment Day on June 2017. Planning Future Value Creation Dongbu Insurance intends to promote activities to prevent environmental pollution at each site in the future. In 2017, we will carry out on-site surveys for approximately 1,100 insured business sites to recommend improvements to hazardous exposure facilities and introduce certification systems for systematic workplace management processes in conjunction with other certification bodies such as the Korea Standards Association. Based on this, we will promote awareness of disaster prevention at workplaces and upgrade the process, and provide benefits such as insurance premiums when acquiring certification. In addition, we will build a web-based environmental liability insurance customer system to enhance the convenience of insurance for corporate customers, and plan to improve it so that customers can design insurance directly. Releasing Car Insurance for Electric Vehicles Dongbu Insurance launched ‘Electric Vehicle Exclusive Car Insurance’, which consists of insurance and premium discounts that meet the characteristics of electric vehicles, in line with the expansion of ecofriendly vehicles, which are forecast to reach about 200,000 units by 2020. In particular, we guarantee against the risk of electric shock to electric vehicle drivers and the economic burden due to battery replacement and plan to contribute to the revitalization of eco-friendly electric vehicle market with an emphasis on needs of drivers. Other Eco-friendly Insurance Products Insurance Description The special contract for earthquake risk indemnifies for fire caused by earthquake or eruption or losses incurred by burn damage, collapse, breakage, being buried, loss prevention, and emergency evacuation. The special contract for storm and flood damage compensates in case of a typhoon, tornado, storm, tempest, flood, tsunami, inundation, and similar typhoon or torrenFire Insurance tial rain damage. This insurance product is developed to quickly restore substantial damage when property loss occurs due to storm and flood damage, such as a typhoon, flood, torrential rain, tsunami, strong Storm and Flood Damage wind, wind wave, and heavy snowfalls. Insurance This insurance product is developed to address management anxiety factors of farmers and help stabilize their income. The contract mainly covers a typhoon, hail, and localized torrential rain, and special contracts, which can be selected by farmers, involve damage from various causes, such as frost in spring and autumn and unusually cold temperatures. Crop Insurance This insurance product, which prepares riders for unexpected accidents, is developed to encourage the use of bikes by ensuring the safety of citizens, and to strengthen environment protection by helping to increase the number of bike riders. Bike Insurance Dongbu Insurance provides various products that reduce greenhouse gas emissions, such as returning part of repair cost or offering premium discounts when special offers (using remanufactured parts for car repair, participating in the Carless Day campaign, driving within Car Insurance agreed mileage, receiving car insurance email, etc.) are purchased. Material Issue 26 / 27 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Our People 2016 Key Performance No. of employees who 2,450 made self-diagnosis and self-development plans (Unit: persons) Partner training investment cost 1,578 (Unit: KRW in million) No. of partner with PK qalification certificates (Unit: persons) 2,494 Employee Satisfaction 83.3 Index (ESI) (Unit: point) Risk/Opportunity Factors and Dongbu Insurance’s Approach Strategy The financial market in 2016 was a year of structural change due to deregulation and technological innovation. The roadmap for strengthening the competitiveness of the insurance industry has largely relieved the regulations related to the insurance industry, such as the abolition of the prenotification system and the standard terms and conditions, and ensuring the autonomy of products, prices, and asset management. These changes required the ability of our employees to respond to the needs of our customers in a timely and dynamic manner. To this end, Dongbu Insurance creates a corporate culture that has the expertise to respond to the needs of customers and has the sense of ownership and enthusiasm to engage in business. Major Activities and Future Plans Continuity of New training ‘Dynamic Dongbu system to train People’ activities job experts for core value internalization Sustainability Section development of employees’ Capabilities New Training System for Employees’ Capacity Building Dongbu Insurance is nurturing the best experts in the industry through systematizing human resources development. As part of that effort, we established a new training system. This is a self-directed training system that enables learners to plan for their own lack of competency by implementing a multidimensional human capacity building program based on position, job, and competency. In this way, we compare and analyze the results of self-diagnosis with the departmental competencies that are set by the department manager. We consider self-development in one’s current job and midto long-term career development. Career Development Program (CDP) • Sets the position of the team leader in the long term and checks job requirements and required job experience. However, in order to become team leaders/department heads, field experience is a prerequisite. Career Development Confirming Job Establishing a Systematic Achieving Individual Goal Setting Qualification Requirements Job Circulation Plan Selfdevelopment Vision (Promy Campus) Self-Development Program (SDP) • At the beginning of every year, employees must establish self-development plans and practice a new training system.다 Self-diagnosing and Identifying Departmental Applying for Challenge Pursuing Self Evaluating New Comparing Training Programs and Qualification and development Training System Competency Courses Training/SD Occupational Expert Academy Dongbu Insurance has three occupational expert academies, including the Innovation Academy, Marketing Academy, and Claim Academy, to train industry-leading experts. The Innovation Academy includes a variety of courses, including change skills and leader communication. Through this, we are training innovative experts who can play a leading role in project management by providing management innovation spirit and IT capability. The Marketing Academy improves the marketing capabilities of field sales managers and helps them quickly adapt to the sales and organizational culture when they are deployed. The Claim Academy is a program for learning about the role of the Claim adjust manager and job competence for job conversion and early job adaptation. 28 / 29 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Operation of Hierarchical Training System Dongbu Insurance operates a hierarchical leadership training courses that will enable all employees to internalize core competencies. The hierarchical education system consists of an introductory course, a promoter course, and a post-promotion leadership level course and a common competency improvement course. We help employees to improve their competencies through systematic tiered education and help them grow into leaders of Dongbu Insurance. [Hierarchical/Occupational Training] [Training of Key HR] Cultivating excellent HR Hierarchical 계층별 교육체계 Training System Experts • Dongbu DNA Course • Introductory and Advancement Courses • KAIST AIC • Common Competency Improvement • Dongbu CNA course Cultivating Global HR Process • Sogang University SHAPE Core Human • Regional Expert Training • Group DLP/DVP Course • Core Leadership Course Resources • Training Overseas Staff • Professional Courses by • Overseas training/local OJT Job Category • Strengthening language Sectoral Education System • Individual Specialty Courses Key Talent proficiency by level A Training HR • Individual/Corporate/New Business System for Academy/Study • Claim adjust/Subsidiary/IT Key Talents • Customer Service/UWer Potential • Marketing Academy • Innovation Academy • Product Development Study • Actuarial Academy Talent New Training System Support for Insurance • Qualifications System (Internal Qualification) Professional Qualification • Study Group • New Training System Evaluation New Recruits Diagnosis of Employees’ Capabilities The evaluation of employees’ capabilities is conducted on three criteria; basic, task behavior and professional skill capabilities. Based on this, we are establishing long-term career development programs and self-development programs. We have also set up a variety of self-development plans including training and certification acquisition plans, book study, and study clubs to enhance job competence. Strengthening Organization Leadership Dongbu Insurance recognizes the importance of the leadership as an important factor for the sustainability of its organization, and is laying the foundations for building leadership. Leader’s basic qualities are performance-centric motivation, the steady management of change, performance-centric work and sophisticated organization management. The leadership area is divided into work, innovation, CS, and dynamic leadership. In addition, we conduct Core Leadership I-IV courses to develop the leadership qualities of our employees. Creating a Sense of Ownership, Enthusiasm, and Commitment In 2015, the company implemented the “Dongbu Innovation Process,” which led to changes in the attitudes of employees who run the company’s system in response to changes in the environment. In the process, we defined the factors that hinder the enthusiasm and commitment of the organization and made continuous improvement activities in 2016. Quarter 1 Quarter 2 Quarter 3 Quarter 4 Working Attitude Working Method Communication Method Creating a Healthy Strengthen Work Check Business Process Recognition for Negative Company Concentration Avoid Passive Improve Meeting Culture feedback and Praise Organizational Selfishness Attitude Breaking the cliché Use Vacation days Complacence Reporting Culture Sustainability Section Fostering Partner's expertise Strengthening Insurance Expertise Status of Partner Training Investment Dongbu Insurance is implementing a multi-dimensional training program to improve partners’ (Unit: KRW in 100 million) professionalism in an insurance industry. The company runs a range of curriculums covering: tailor-made consulting trainings to meet different characteristics of planners’ service years and wages; customer consulting program based on labor/taxation knowledge, etc. Furthermore, it actively supports partners to gain more specialized competencies with education & training programs such as GA education, a training 15 program for professional trainer, training courses for new channel sales/direct sales groups, among others. 13 12 In addition, through FOREVERLIST, a customer discovery/management tool, we are diversifying our business by securing new markets and establishing differentiated strategies for each customer, and providing diverse contents for sales activities such as BSP (Business Sales Plan), industry specific proposals and checklists. With these efforts, we are enhancing the competitiveness of our partners in the market environment. As a result, we achieved 2,335 (Excellent certification) and 39 (Blue Ribbon) Dongbu Insurance PAs for Excellence Certification System1) and the Blue Ribbon System2), respectively. 1) T  he Excellent Sales Planner award is based on an evaluation of overall performance including employment period, signed contract retention, retention rates, and the number of completed sales. 2014 2015 2016 2) T  he Blue Ribbon award is given to insurance planners (Prime Agents) who have received four Excellent Sales Planner Awards. Sharpen Competitive Edges with Insurance Planners Certificate System For the sake of improving specialized knowledge of sales organization, Dongbu Insurance sets up ‘PA Knowledge (PK) certificate system that utilizes smart pads. This special learning system accessible via mobile devices enables planners to learn anywhere and any times while it is designed to stimulate the spirit of challenge and persistence in learning by offering differentiated certificates over goods, coaching leadership, and marketing strategies by their varying competencies and positions such as new comer/ staff/the existing planners. In 2016, the introduction of test method based on a mobile platform resulted in tangible effects such as cost reduction and the provision of classified knowledge and information and total 2,494 PAs successfully acquired the certificates. Segmented Planner Education System To foster competent new planners, the company provides its new employees with extended duration of systematic trainings up to two years from the existing 0, the 3rd, the 5th, the 7th, the 12th months to the 15th, the 18th and the 24th months. The move clearly indicates the company’s commitment to grow and maintain a highly-skilled, more specialized sales organization. Moreover, with a focus on new planners in business units and branches, the semi-annual training coaching and branch-mentor capacity building programs are held to offer coaching on an ongoing basis to help them to effectively develop skills and expertise. Organized by Sales Branch Organized by Head Office Month 0 Basic Training Course Month 3 Month 5 Month 7 Month 12 Car Insurance Customer Consulting Success Understanding of insurance business and Course Discovery Course Course Course products, acquisition of non-life insurance • Car Products • Customer • Core Product PT • Sharing Best Basic Training Course • Car Activities Best Excellence Best • Enhancing Practices Practices Practices Consulting Capacity • Existing PA System • Car Customer Service • Point of Sale by • New Market • Establishing Strategy Product Discovery Techniques PA Vision Months 1-4 Field Training Course • Talking with Seniors Acquire main product, customer management and sales expertise Field Training Course Month 24 Month 18 Month 15 Employee Increasing General Consciousness Customer Value Insurance Course Innovation Course Course Months 5-24 Consulting Capability • Customer Excellence • SHIP Inspiration • Customer Analysis Best Practices Improvement Course • Identifying • Customer Type • Point of Sale by New customer acquisition, Individual Vision Taxonomy Product customer consultation, etc. • Talking with Your STEP UP Course Seniors 30 / 31 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 building Communication-Centric Corporate Culture Operating the Corporate Culture Association Council Leader Survey In order to create a good culture to work with, we have selected the representative opinion leaders in ▶ each division, conducted workshops twice a year, collected proposals for working culture within the company, and reflected in the system to create a work environment that is more enjoyable. Corporate Culture Association Council ▶ The contents proposed by the Corporate Culture Association Council are passed to the relevant Result Report departments to review the measures for improvement, and the reviewed contents are sent back to the ▶ proposed department/division. This forms a basis for improving working attitudes, and even working culture and company-wide cooperation. Establishing an Improvement Plan ▶ Actions for Improvement Organizational Communication In-house communication activities are the key part of the CEO’s initiative. Since 2010, we have been operating a three-dimensional communication channel to maximize business performance through seamless lateral, vertical, and organizational communication. Communication activities between the company and its employees are communication activities led by the management and aim to instantly share the company’s major management issues and changes . Employee self-awareness and accountability are given to management policy and decision-making of the company. In addition, each member of the organization is working to find solutions for problems that occur through communication activities between the organizations, so that quick decisions are made based on company-wide communication. Communication activation channel Category Program Description Open Communication This is a communication platform between the CEO and employees that has been operated with CEO monthly since 2010 Corporate Culture Selection of Opinion Leaders for each category to improve opinions on the company’s working Between Association Council culture and corporate system Company and Employees Promy TV Sharing operational direction and key issues with employees weekly Business Executive briefing on company management status and issues through in-house broadcasting performance briefing once a month E-Promy Plaza Employee sharing about major issues and pride in the company Sharing Core Values, CS Guidelines, and employee practices in each department every Dynamic Day morning Between Dongbu Employees Employee-specific site for sharing GWP activities by department, FUN events, Core Values, Employees Plaza and corporate culture improvement activities Field Learning Group Weekly staff discussions to share key issues and strategic directions for each department Study Group Self-development and special activities among employees with common interests Dynamic Association Organization for opinion leaders to improve work culture and inter-sectoral collaboration An anonymous question bulletin board to obtain the opinions of staff when deciding major Participation Platform system and policy changes Between Internal Customer Satisfaction Index Survey(ICSI Survey) to improve service satisfaction of the Survey on Employee Organizations staff and Employee Satisfaction Index Survey(ESI Survey) to improve suggestions for Satisfaction employee Each month, we will identify and share key issues that we want to share with other divisions in Dynamic Times each division, so that all employees in the company can understand the company’s strategic direction. Open Communication with CEO This is a representative communication program that reflects the CEO’s will to communicate internally. Since 2010, we have operated 57 meetings and 3,247 employees participated in 2016, so that CEO and employees can communicate freely. In addition to emotional communication with employees, we also actively communicate with family members of our employees who support them. With these efforts, we strive to be a reliable corporation for employees, customers and family. Sustainability Section Protecting Human Rights Human Rights Improvement System Human Rights Human Rights Due Diligence due diligence Process Dongbu Insurance conducts due diligence on the human rights of the company and its subsidiaries in order to preemptively respond to potential risks related to human rights. We monitor human rights SteP. 1 issues through on-site inspections of compliance-related parts such as compliance with the Code of analysis of Potential Risks and Impacts Ethics and the Human Resources and Corporate Culture Association Council. We are also launching • Find any potential risk factors in relation to channels to collect human rights issue information at all times through internal complaints. the company’s management and insurance business • Carry out analysis of impact based on Human Rights Assessment financial, non-financial and incidence frequencies. We check our compliance with human rights policy at the ‘Corporate Culture Association Council’. We ▶ are currently checking whether Dongbu Insurance complies with human rights policies, but we plan to expand the scope of inspection to subsidiaries and affiliates in the future. SteP. 2 Identify assessment Factors and Subjects • Identify human right assessment factors in consideration of internal/external Preventing Rudeness and Inhumane Treatment in the Workplace environments as well as vulnerable groups in terms of human rights Dongbu Insurance has implemented various programs to protect the human rights of its employees and • Identify the subjects of the assessment for human rights over its entire value chains to establish a culture of GWP(Great Work Place). Typically, the Annual Paid Leave Use Promotion, 369 including subsidiaries, partners, etc. Refresh Holidays, and Family Days are operated to help employees balance work and life. In addition, we ▶ provide a hot line and psychology and legal consultation corner in the personnel information system so that we can freely suggest and resolve personal grievances, and we will appoint a dedicated female SteP. 3 lawyer to contribute effectively to resolving any difficulties that women employees may have. Review of laws and Self Inspection • Conduct internal legal inspections In addition, for situations when employees or customers are treated rudely by our employees, we have • Implement a self-inspection based on various publicly disclosed materials including set up a reception counter at the company’s website so that we can immediately request a resolution, business report, media analysis, etc. and the contents can be immediately notified to the relevant compliance department. We immediately (including a fact-finding survey and others) resolve the inconvenience of employees and customers. ▶ SteP. 4 Respect for Diversity Implementation of Feedback and Improvement activities In order to respect the diversity of employees and to avoid unreasonable discrimination, Dongbu • Share the self-inspection results and the Insurance stipulates in Section 6, “Employment Opportunity”, that “ when the Company recruits and identified areas for improvement • Recommend activities for improvement in hires individuals, the Company shall not discriminate on the basis of gender, age, religion, social status, terms of the priority of findings and follow hometowns, educational background, status of marriage, pregnancy, childbirth, or histories of illness up the subsequent supports without any logical reasons” and provides fair opportunities for compensation. As of the end of 2016, Dongbu Insurance’s female labor force participation rate is 56%. Business Case Protecting Call Center employees’ Human Rights Dongbu Insurance is improving the human rights of call center counselors working with high mental labor intensity. Through the psychological counseling system, we help to relieve stress and personal problems of our employees. During school vacations, we extend the scope of our work to provide counseling for employees’ children. In consideration of the intensity of labor in the call center service, the company implements a sabbatical leave system for longterm employees of 3/5/7 years and basically supports maternity and parental leave, thereby helping employees to manage emotions and balance work and life. In addition, the company conducts annual satisfaction surveys on work environment, job satisfaction, welfare, and management leadership. Based on the surveys, we carry out improvement activities, and conduct ‘So-na-gi’ meetings, where CEOs directly listen to their ‘So-na-gi’ Communication Program opinions and difficulties once or twice a month. We actively promote the effectiveness of emotional management for counselors through active communication. Material Issue 32 / 33 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Community 2016 Key Performance Amount of Social 3,669 Contribution Investment (Unit: KRW in million) Employees Participating in Social Contribution Activities (Unit: Persons) 6,942 Participants in Youth Financial Education (34 training sessions in total) (Unit: Persons) 2,456 Planners Participating in Social Contribution Activities (Unit: Persons) 2,423 Risk/Opportunity Factors and Dongbu Insurance’s Approach Strategy To promote efficient corporate social contribution activities at the company level, Dongbu Insurance is strengthening its social contribution activities by establishing department-level Promy Corps and sales department-level Promy PA Corps from the sales department. In addition, we launched a project to establish a direction for social contribution activities in 2015, analyzed the social contribution attributes and established strategies for social contribution programs. Through this, we have reorganized our social contribution operating system, established a social contribution portfolio based on our lifecycle, and developed new programs. From 2016 onwards, we have been gradually expanding social contribution programs. In addition, we promote global social contribution activities with local corporations, centering on major overseas exporters as a result of global business expansion. Major Activities and Future Plans Practicing Conducting a Continuously S​trengthening social contribution financial exploration developing and social contribution specialized in program and launching activities of financial business fostering social representative employees and such as Financial contribution activities social contribution sales Education for to cultivate global programs organizations Youth financial talents Sustainability Section Creating Community value through Social Contribution Social Contribution Promotion System Dongbu Insurance is striving to become a global insurance financial group that pursues a happy society with customers through the achievement of sharing stakeholder value creation. In order to implement social contribution activities in a systematic manner, a Promy Volunteer Corps was established in 2006 to form 29 regional volunteer corps in Korea. From 2015 onwards, we have formed a Promy PA Corps at the sales department to operate various service programs. VISION: a Global Insurance Financial Group which pursues a Happy Society with customers Slogan: Promise to Protect Love of Family Business-based Social Contribution Sharing with Local Communities Participation of Employees and Sales Partners Carrying out social responsibility activities Expanding customized social contribution Disseminating awareness of the fulfillment of related to main business such as children, safety, activities to create value for local stakeholders social responsibilities and conducting activities and finance to promote social contribution •E  nvironmental protection campaign/’Love Your Family’ • Installing yellow carpets for children’s traffic safety Campaign • Employees’ volunteer activities through ‘Promy Volunteer • Holding global finance exploration program •S  chool-sponsored activities for the hearing impaired Corps’ • ‘One company one school’ Financial Education for Youth • Activating local social contribution activities in the Promy •Love-sharing volunteering activity centered on sales family Basketball Team’s hometown(Wonju) • Global social contribution activities business-based Social Contribution Installing Yellow Carpets for Children’s Traffic Safety To prevent children’s traffic accidents, Dongbu Insurance has installed yellow carpets that divide the area near the elementary school into yellow signs. The installation of the yellow carpet is a priority for PA Volunteer Corps, and employees are actively involved in the area. In 2016, 35 yellow carpets have been installed, and by 2017, about 200 will be installed nationwide. Business Case analyzing the effect of yellow Carpet Installation In order to confirm the effect of reducing the traffic accident of children through the installation of the yellow carpet, we asked the Korea Road Traffic Authority to conduct a survey and actual Installation of a Yellow Carpet measurements. To prove the effect of the installation of the yellow carpet, inspections of regions with and without yellow carpets were carried out. The result shows that the rate of children entering the yellow carpet area increased and drivers passing by yellow carpet tend to reduce its speed, which confirms the improvement of traffic safety. Regions without a 66.7% 33.6km/h Yellow Carpet Regions with a 91.4% 16.0km/h Yellow Carpet <Analysis of Child Behavior> <Analysis of Driving Pattern> : Percentage entering yellow zone : The speed of passing a crosswalk Using a Yellow Carpet 34 / 35 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Holding Global Finance Exploration Program The Dongbu Cultural Foundation holds ‘Dongbu Financial Essay Competition’ in order to nurture the next generation’s financial talent whereby college and graduate students compete for their creative and practical financial ideas. Winners are given a wide range of benefits such as scholarships, a free pass for the application review of Dongbu Insurance’s open recruitment, and Global Finance Tour Program. In 2016, we visited leading financial institutions in New York and Boston, and visited the prestigious universities such as Yale, Harvard, and Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). ‘One Company One School’ Financial Education for Youth Dongbu Insurance aims to be a global insurance financial group which pursues a happy society with customers. In this regard, Dongbu Insurance makes the best use of its infrastructure and resources to disseminate financial knowledge. Financial education is being provided to elementary and junior high school students to establish a healthy financial consciousness of youths. By establishing a systematic education infrastructure by matching 1:1 with schools at each branch, we improve their knowledge and understanding of finances and insurance. Sharing with local Communities ‘Love Your Family’ Campaign As family dissolution has recently emerged as a social issue, Dongbu Insurance conducts Love Your Family campaigns to form a social consensus on the importance of family. It hosts “Love Letter to My Family” event, and 2,355 people participated in the campaign that Dongbu Insurance has been promoting for three years, and 645 cards were mailed. Dongbu Insurance produces ‘Love Your Family’ Campaign animated cartoons inspired by stories from the letters to deliver a message of ‘love for family’ to the wider audience. School-sponsored Activities for the Hearing Impaired Since the sponsorship agreement with Chungju Sungsim School for the hearing-impaired was made in 2013, Dongbu Insurance has been endeavoring to raise social concerns and to improve treatments for the disabled. Through this, we are raising social interest and improving treatment for people with disabilities. In addition, a Promy professional basketball coach visits the school to provide training and conduct a friendly match with the baseball team of Dongbu Insurance. Business Case activating local Social Contribution activities in the Promy basketball team’s Hometown Established in 2005, Dongbu Promy professional basketball team has been receiving much love from fans for its high quality of game contents and outstanding sportsmanship. They auctioned special uniform they created and donated the profits to a charity. In addition, with a program called ‘With Green Angels’, basketball team cheerleaders visit a local nursery school and a secondary school and carries out a physical education class for one day. This program received a very positive response. In addition, we carry out various activities to promote love to local communities such as Basketball Camps with Children of Dongbu Insurance Employees and Local Vulnerable Youths, Support for Love Rice and Support for Basketball Clubs in Love with Local Schools (KRW 20 million per year). Sustainability Section Participation of employees and Sales Partners Employees’ Volunteer Activities through ‘Promy Volunteer Corps’ Employees of Dongbu Insurance actively participate in social contribution activities through community service. Through various volunteer programs, such as preservation of cultural properties, environmental clean-up activities, support for children’s reading, and making happy lunch boxes for alienated neighbors, employees are excited about sharing voluntarily with social contribution activities. In addition, from 2017 onwards, we will continue to deliver “Promise Boxes” to underprivileged seniors and children throughout the year, and will implement the commitment that ‘customer happiness will be happiness for the company and happiness for society’ as a whole. Making love bread with the Korean Red Cross Society Love-sharing Volunteering for the Underprivileged Dongbu Insurance PA Volunteer Corps has been promoting social contribution, including renovation of facilities, improvement of residential environments, and cultural experiences, so that children of underprivileged groups such as local children’s centers and nurseries can feel the love. Love-sharing volunteering is not a one-time event, but we continue to support it throughout the year, and Dongbu Insurance continues to provide endless true love for our children. Global Social Contribution Activities In February 2017, Dongbu Insurance launched its social contribution activities at three schools in the Lao Chai Village in Vietnam, together with employees of Vietnamese subsidiaries and students from Foreign Trade University in Hanoi. We were able to contribute to the development of the local community and receive a lot of attention from the local media by conducting programs such as classroom construction, bicycle safety education, and CPR training. CPR Training Newly Built Classroom and Mural Painting Bicycle donation and safety education Material Issue 36 / 37 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Customers 2016 Key Performance Complete Sales Ratio (Unit: %) 99.2 Long-term Insurance Customers (Unit: 10,000 persons) Highest in the Industry 627 KS-SQI Car Customer Satisfaction 1st Amount of reported MR (Moral Risk) (Unit: KRW in 100 million) 1,154 Risk/Opportunity Factors and Dongbu Insurance’s Approach Strategy As instability in the global marketplace increases and regulations in the financial industry tighten, customers as key stakeholders are an important factor for corporate sustainability. In order to maximize the value of these customers, Dongbu Insurance prioritizes customers’ needs by considering customers first. By developing products that meet the needs of diverse customers and establishing a thorough consumer protection system, we will develop into a global insurance financial group that pursues a happy society with our customers. Major Activities and Future Plans 2016 Selected as 1st place in Improving the the best company Expanding KS-SQI Car in evaluation on self-service rate number of consumer financial Customer days to handle civil protection by the through efficiency of Satisfaction complaints Financial Supervisory contact channel Service Establishing Enhancing experience Developing a marketing system management system prediction system through expansion and enhancing through of channel customer value VOC synergy 2017 Sustainability Section Fulfillment of Product Responsibilities Complete Sale Ratio Roadmap for Complete Sales (Unit: %) 99.2 99.2 98.5 Stabilization (2013-Present) Expansion (2011-2013) • Changing monitoring process Beginning (2007-2011) •D  eveloping TMR speech analysis •E  xpanding year-round inspection by system Korea Non-Life Insurance Association • Inspecting complete sales of •S  trengthening restriction criteria of • Establishing a unit for complete on-site GA channels incomplete sales 2014 2015 2016 sales •R  eflecting incomplete sales ratio of • Establishing monitoring process onsite inspection into MBO of sales • Revising restriction criteria of managers incomplete sales Establishing a System for Enhancing Product Responsibilities Dongbu Insurance is building a variety of systems to enhance the fulfillment of our product liability. In order to respond to internal and external risks such as increased production of customer guide materials and data regulations of the supervising authorities, we opened a customer information review system, which enabled us to improve the efficiency and accuracy of our review work. Also, by establishing a system for quality of call handling call through a partnership with an external professional company in July 2016, we have conducted a call quality check (50%) for the new channel. In addition, we are working to improve service quality by completing the voice analysis system to be operated in five centers. Performing a Complete Sales Monitoring Dongbu Insurance is expanding its customer-centric complete sale monitoring channels to enable e-monitoring, while conducting on-site inspections and telephone monitoring. In addition, we comply with the four basic rules such as delivery of a copy of the subscription form when buying a policy and policyholders’ signing their name in person. We systematize complete sales management by reflecting the complete sales ratio in the MBO score and CCM award criteria of on-site employees to promote complete sales. Business Case Improve Complete Sales awareness through on-site Ga Consulting In order to raise awareness of complete sales of the GA channel, which has recently been expanded, we have been conducting on-site consulting activities for GA-dedicated business units since 2016. We share various CS and consumer protection strategies with CCM (Customer Centered Management) which covers complaints, VOCs, and complete sales. Our executives, consumer policy departments, and consumer protection chiefs are directly involved in listening to complaints on the spot. 38 / 39 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Running Consumer Rights Protection Committee In January 2017, we changed the name of the existing Dispute Mediation Committee to the Consumer Rights Protection Committee with the intention of taking the lead in protecting consumer interests. In 2016, we reviewed 242 consumer disputes and complaints, and the rate of customer acceptance for deliberations was raised to 97.9%. In addition, in order to resolve disputes arising from frequent violations of the duty of notice, we conduct deliberations with medical professionals in order to resolve consumer disputes. Customer Communication Diversifying Communication Channels Dongbu Insurance continually manages customer contact management through communication as a key issue. As part of this effort, Dongbu Insurance is actively providing online communication channels such as the Dongbu Insurance Official Blog, Love for My Car blog, Love for My Child blog, Kakao Story, and Facebook. As of 2016, Dongbu Insurance’s social media visitors totaled 7.63 million, increased by 4.84 million compared with the previous year. In addition, we launched a four-step smart zone project to provide convenience through the introduction of biometric authentication intuitive UI to reflect the latest trend and to provide a more convenient e-service environment by expanding services with high customer needs. As a result of these efforts, we received the Grand Prize in the Non-Life Insurance category in the ‘9th Korea Social Media Grand Prize’ in 2016 and the web accessibility certification in the mobile web sector in the ‘Web Accessibility Quality Certification’. Business Case Identifying Improvement Ideas through Consumer evaluators Dongbu Insurance has been operating the consumer evaluator group since 2010. It has played an important role in contributing to communication between the company and customers through proactive customer involvement programs as well as proposing customer-focused service improvement activities. In 2016, proposals such as elaboration of location inquiry service, maintenance of the gas can, standardization of business cards, etc. have been proposed as topics related to emergency dispatch service. As a result, customer location tracking method has been changed from CELL method to GPS method, designed and launched new gas cans, and after depleting the existing business cards, we used the standardized business card. Customer’s proposals were immediately reflected on the site, such as suggestions for sales improvement including revision of telephone consultations manual scripts, special customer service for no-claims history clients, distribution of GA marketing materials, and development of a mobile application for GA. The Consumer Evaluator Group has 189 customers participating in the activities until the 12th period of the second half of 2016. 150 of them are the Dongbu Centuryclub, and they provide their opinions through various surveys. As of 2016, 566 out of a total of 739 suggestions for improvement were adopted. (Adoption rate 76.6%) Sustainability Section Service Identity ‘Promise for Happiness 365’ ‘Promise for Happiness 365’ is Dongbu Insurance’s commitment to customer’s happiness for 365 days a year. To achieve the goal, we are improving the quality of our services by selecting 6 promises with customers such as customer handling, buying an insurance policy, customer management, claim adjustment, emergency dispatch, and complaints handling and preparing 36 detailed guidelines. ‘Promise for Happiness 365’ emblem Customer-oriented Counseling Services Dongbu Insurance provides customer-oriented counseling services through various channels such as customer service center, ARS service, and homepage to solve customer complaints. There are three customer service centers (Seoul, Jeonju and Wonju) and two telecommuting centers for monitoring of complete sales, accident reporting and other services for 365 days a year. In addition, we are constantly striving to improve counseling satisfaction by rebuilding our consulting system such as improving ARS system. In April of 2017, we launched ‘Promy ChatBot Service’ for the first time in the industry to provide a messenger service with customers. With this service, we expect to improve the accessibility of insurance-related business consulting services. Voice of Customer (VOC) System Dongbu Insurance runs a prompt VOC system by collecting voices of customers through online and offline channels to respond to customers within an hour and complete inquiries within 24 hours. According to the internal criteria, voices of customers are divided into three levels and they are systematically managed within the VOC system from reporting to completion. In addition, problems, lessons and solutions of VOC processing are shared through ‘VOC sharing’ which is an intranet for inhouse sharing and participation leading to more attention of employees to customer complaints. In 2016, 90.5% of employees participated in ‘VOC sharing’. In addition, for the first time in the industry, the company enhanced awareness of importance of complete sales, prompt claim adjustment and customer-oriented process, by opening a VOC experience center, targeting all employees and executives including CEO, subsidiaries and incomplete sales units. In 2016, Dongbu Insurance operated 150 year-round training sessions in VOC experience. Status of voC management (Unit: %) Initial handling Passing-through Complete within 24 hours 93.4 64.8 62.3 58.1 91.5 57.0 56.7 90.8 57.4 85.6 56.3 52.2 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 40 / 41 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Insurance Fraud Prevention Insurance Fraud Establish Corporate Policy to Manage Insurance Fraud Management Process The Dongbu Insurance ‘Insurance Crime Prevention Committee’ manages insurance crime prevention rules that stipulate basic policies and restrictions on offenders of such crimes. Through the operation of 1 Prevention MR control councils governing claim adjustment and sales, we are strengthening our cooperation. In addition, from the development stage of the insurance product, the company assesses the impact of insurance fraud on new products/collateral and strengthens the advance control of insurance fraud by utilizing information on insurance fraud detection. In addition, we are working to prevent insurance fraud by developing and operating a hospital management system to detect accidents, suspicious Strengthening the System customers, suspicious hospitals, and MR fraud detection systems that provide pop-up information to • Re-establishing the structure of utilizing compensate patients. insurance fraud information • Building permanent management system of high loss claim Fostering Insurance Fraud Analysis Experts The Company’s Special Investigation Unit (SIU) is exclusively responsible for preventing and detecting insurance fraud and plays a role of the company-wide MR control tower in charge of insurance fraud 2 Investigation/Exploitation prevention, detection, follow-up management and prevention of recurrence in collaboration with other departments such as sales, U/W, claim adjustment, product development. For the first time in the industry, Dongbu Insurance has been analyzing the trend of Big Data that is related to insurance frauds and identifying patterns of such frauds by internally analysis experts. In order to advance the Facilitating Reports analysis/research capabilities, we successfully held the B/P competition in 2016, the first in the industry • Enhancing MR investigation capabilities to carry out research projects. We also operate a variety of training programs such as a class to learn • Facilitating operation of insurance photo identifying programs in a bid to enhance new MR investigation skills. crime prevention unit • Strengthening cooperation with company-wide MR control Reinforcing Insurance Premium Leakage Prevention We operate IFDS (Insurance Fraud Detection System), an insurance fraud detection system, to 3 Follow-up Management/ scientifically analyze any signs of insurance fraud and periodically monitor the leakage of insurance Prevention of Recurrence claims. In addition, we have formed the “Contract Quality Improvement TFT” with SIU, U/W and claim adjustment, and are engaged in prosecuting and preventing insurance fraud by selecting and interviewing MR suspicious PAs through preliminary data analysis. Operating Recurrence Prevention System Improving Reward System for Active Reporting • Prevention system • Follow-up analysis system As reporting of insurance fraud from various internal and external stakeholders is a cornerstone of the • Prevention system by using insurance crime investigation, Dongbu Insurance reinforced the advertisement channel and the reward detection information system to increase the inflow of the report from stakeholders. To this end, we raised the reward amount from KRW 100,000-15 million to KRW 300,000-1 billion. In addition, to combat the increase in incidence of insurance fraud for clients such as hospitals and industrial companies, we have also established a 1.5fold supplementary payment clause for sales family members. Enforcing the Special Act for the Prevention of Insurance Fraud As the ‘Special Act on the Prevention of Insurance Fraud’ has been implemented, we are actively utilizing the positive changes in the insurance fraud investigation environment, and are implementing countermeasures against work-related risk weights such as strengthening personal information security and complying with insurance payment standards. We intend to raise awareness of insurance fraud through internal and external publicity and dissemination of the law, and strengthen the MR prevention activities and make an adamant response to requests for inquiries and expanding the scope including habitual crimes, frauds associated with significant amounts of money, one related with violent crimes, attempted criminals, crimes detected prior to benefit payments. We try to prevent conflicts and unnecessary disputes by improving business processes in accordance with legal regulations. Corporate Governance Corporate Governance 42 Ethics Management 46 Risk Management 50 42 / 43 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Corporate Board of Directors (BOD) Governance The Board of Directors is the highest decision-making body in the company. It makes important managerial decisions, keeps the management in check and monitors the management of the company. In order to establish a responsible management system from the midto long-term perspective and to enhance the fairness and transparency of the board, the CEO is appointed as the chairman of the board of directors and the senior outside director represents outside directors. In addition, we are building a sound and independent governance structure through continuous improvement of corporate governance, including the formation of a sub-committee composed of outside directors. Composition of the Board of Directors Operation of the BOD As per the Articles of Incorporation, Dongbu Insurance has a board of directors consisting of at least three to ten directors. Outside directors should be at least three outside directors to form a majority. Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 Through the resolution of the general shareholders’ meeting in 2017, Outside Director Sangyoung Park No. of was re-appointed in accordance with the Act on Corporate Governance of Financial Companies by the Times 15 13 8 meeting held separation of outside directors who become Audit Committee members. In addition, Seungwoo Lee, Submitted Agendas Cases 29 26 16 outside director and Yeongmann Kim, inside director were newly elected, whereas Seongkook Kim, outside director, was reappointed. The Board of Directors consists of one regular quarterly meeting of Attendance % 100 95.4 97.41) the Board of Directors and one extraordinary Board of Directors meeting held in the event of Rate management issues. The Board of Directors resolves important management issues defined by relevant 1) Attendance Rate of All Board of Directors (Inside Director: 2/Outside Director: 3) laws and regulations, the Articles of Incorporation, and the Board of Directors. In the decision-making process, it considers issues such as social and environmental impacts and governance issues. Board of Director Profile (As of Jun. 2017) First Industry Appointment Birth Specialty Experience1) Name Title Gender Term Date (Recent Incumbency Major Background Holdings2) Year Field (Finance/ Appointment Insurance) Date) Dongbu Insurance Individual Business Division CEO Financial Dongbu Insurance Jeongnam 2009.6.12 services New Business Division 73,000 1952 Male 3 years 8 years 38 years Kim BOD (2015.3.20) (Non-life Dongbu Insurance (0.1%) Chairman Insurance) Management Support Division (Present) President of Dongbu Insurance Economy Planning Board Outside Senior Secretary to the Director President for Economic Affairs Financial Sangyoung 2013.6.14 Fair Trade Commission Senior 1954 Male 1 year 4 years administration 30 years Park (2017.3.17) (Present) Advisor of Law Outside Fair trade Firm Yulchon Director (Present) Outside director of Auditor Korea Airport Service Outside Insurance Bureau at the Financial Director Ministry of Finance Seongkook 2016.3.18 1 year business 1950 Male 1 year Financial Services Commission 33 years Kim (2017.3.17) 3 months Financial Audit Korea Securities Finance Corp. administration Committee President of IBK Credit Information Ministry of Finance and Economy Presidential Secretariat Outside Economic Policy Secretary Financial Director Vice Chairman of the Seungwoo 2017.3.17 business 1952 Male 1 year 3 months Financial Supervisory Commission 28 years Lee (2017.3.17) Financial Audit President of Deposit administration Committee Insurance Corporation (Present) Outside Director of Samsung Securities Dongbu Insurance Product Development Team Manager Financial Dongbu Insurance Yeongmann Inside 2017.3.17 services 1954 Male 3 year 3 months Management Planning 37 years 1,500 Kim Director (2017.3.17) (Non-life Team Manager Insurance) (Present) Dongbu Insurance Management Support Chief, CFO 1) Career experience in financial corporations and financial institutions 2) There is no obligation to hold shares for registered directors Corporate Governance Transparent Appointment of Directors Candidate Group Operations (Unit: persons) Dongbu Insurance utilizes the newly established Executive Recommendation Committee to appoint directors among candidates including CEO, outside directors and Audit Committee. The Executive Category Composition Recommendation Committee manages the candidate group including outside director and chief Chief Executive Officer Candidate Group 7 executive candidates, and reports on the status of the candidates’ operations at least once a year. Outside Director Candidate recommendation is made for a group of candidates who have passed the screening process 20 covering their expertise, work fairness, morality and responsibility, etc. And the recommended Candidate Group candidates are selected after resolution of the board of directors and general shareholders’ meeting. The appointment of a CEO is carried out in accordance with the succession rule of the CEO including the CEO succession procedure and the countermeasures against the emergency situation in order to prevent the managerial vacancy due to replacement or retention of the CEO. Related articles are available once a year on the website. BOD Member Appointment Process Chief Executive Executive Board of Directors General Meeting Officer Outside Disclosure Recommendation (Candidate of Shareholders Director Member (Announcement of Committee (Candidate Selection) (Appointment of the Audit Senior Results) Recommendation) of Director) Committee Separate selection of more than one Board of Directors Other Inside (Candidate member of the Directors, etc. Recommendation) Audit Committee Grounds for disqualification of Independence of BOD Dongbu Insurance Outside Directors In accordance with Article 25-2 of the Articles of Incorporation, Dongbu Insurance prohibits the appointment of outside directors, such as major shareholders, and their spouses, and Article 5, 6 of the • Directors, executive directors and employees Act on Corporate Governance of Financial Companies and Commercial Law (Article 382: Qualifications who are engaged in the regular business of the relevant company, or directors, auditors, executive of Outside Directors and Method of Appointment of Outside Directors in Article 542-8). We also directors and employees who have engaged in improved the independence of the Board of Directors by organizing all members of the Audit Committee the regular business of the relevant company within the latest two years; (three members) as outside directors at the general shareholders’ meeting in March 2017. • The principal, his/her spouse, lineal ascendants, and lineal descendants, in cases where the largest Expertise of the BOD shareholder is a natural person; • Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of Outside director candidates are recommended after fair verification process in accordance with the the corporation, in cases where the largest shareholder is a corporation; regulations of the Outside Director Candidate Recommendation Committee and relevant laws. The • The spouses, linealascendants, and linealdescendants company makes efforts to bring in experts with vast knowledge about not only the financial industry but of directors, auditors and executive directors; • The directors, auditors, executive directors and also relevant fields including economy, law, accounting and journalism. employees of a parent company or a subsidiary company of the relevant company; Diversity of the BOD • Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of a corporation which has a significant interest in the The BOD promotes the diversity of its composition by appointing directors with specialized knowledge relevant company, such as business relations with the company about relevant sectors such as non-life insurance, financial industry regulators, fair trade, personnel/labor • Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees management. In addition, director candidates are not discriminated by reason of race, disability and of another company for which directors, executive gender. directors and employees of the relevant company serve as directors and executive directors. Diversity Policy of Dongbu Insurance The diversity of the workforce in terms of age, gender and ethnicity is an asset to the company. We committed to leveraging the diverse backgrounds, experiences and perspectives of our people to provide excellent customer service to an equally diverse community. We therefore strive for diversity at all job levels and at all work-places include subsidiaries. Company’s diversity is empowered by supporting policies to recognizing the importance of diversity extends to every areas of insurance business including recruitment, talent development, skills enhancement, appointment to roles, retention of employees, mentoring and coaching programs. 44 / 45 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Activities of the BOD Ratio of Employees’ Salaries1) Ensure Fairness of Compensation for Management The compensation for the management is offered on a deferred payment basis for at least three years in CEO’s Total Salary accordance with ‘the executive compensation policy’ and the Compensation Committee is appointed to KRW 707Million the outside directors (three members) in order to ensure the objectivity and fairness of the performance evaluation for the management including the CEO/CFO. In addition, the company has stipulated return policy and discloses the details of such remuneration system once a year on its homepage. Median of Employee Salary Prevent Conflicts of Interest KRW 64Million The Board of Directors, through the Internal Trading Committee and the Audit Committee, receives preliminary deliberations on possible conflicts of interest such as internal transactions and periodic Salary Ratio reports on the results of audits. After the inspection, the Board of Directors decides whether to carry out matters that are likely to cause conflicts of interest. When accreditation requirements of the BOD and 0.92 % the relevant laws are not satisfied such as objection of the BOD, the BOD can restrict its measure of the issues. 1) Salary includes performance-based bonuses Committees within the BOD In accordance with the related laws and the Articles of Incorporation, the Board of Directors delegates the authority of the Board of Directors to the six committees under the Board of Directors. Each subcommittee deliberates and resolves matters delegated by the Board of Directors. Committees within the BOD and Their Roles Category Responsibility Composition Chairperson Requirements When appointing a chairperson who is not an Summon and conduct shareholder’s meeting, 2 Outside outside director, appoint a senior outside Board of approve financial statements , establish Jeongnam Kim Directors director. (Senior outside director: Sangyoung Park, Directors business plans and other business related (Inside Director) 3 Inside Directors outside director) matters More than half must be outside directors Conduct independent accounting and audit, 3 or more directors with 2/3 or more outside Audit 3 Outside Sangyoung Park Analyze status of sales and capital and evaluate directors and the chairperson must be an Committee Directors (Outside Director) external audit outside director Recommend candidates for Chief Executive Executive Officer, Outside Director and members of Audit 2 Outside 3 or more directors with a majority of outside Seongkook Kim Recommendation Committee and manage and review candidate Directors directors and the chairperson must be an (Outside Director) Committee group for Chief Executive Officer and Outside 1 Inside Director outside director Director Risk 2 Outside 2 or more directors with a majority of Supervision of business risk efficiency, Seungwoo Lee Management Directors outside directors and the chairperson must be implement policy and establish risk limits (Outside Director) Committee 1 Inside Director an outside director The 3 or more directors with a majority of Operate and review performance compensation 3 Outside Seongkook Kim Compensation outside directors and the chairperson must be system for the management and employees Directors (Outside Director) Committee an outside director Preliminary review of matters related to internal 2 Outside Internal Trade Sangyoung Park 3 or more directors, 2/3 or more outside transactions such as transactions with any Directors Committee (Outside Director) directors subsidiaries 1 Inside Director Resolutions on urgent or frequent management Management 2 Inside Jeongnam Kim 2 or more directors and the chairman is general issues and other supportive duties of Committee Directors (Inside Director) the CEO the Board Corporate Governance Participation of the BOD in Sustainability Management Dongbu Insurance operates the Sustainability Management Committee (Chairman: CEO), which consists of key management personnel. The sustainability management committee, which is held once a quarter, conducts decision-making on major sustainability management issues such as company-wide sustainability management strategies. The activities of the Sustainability Management Committee and major decisions are reported to the Board of Directors once a year. In 2016, we reported the results of the DJSI evaluation and the details of the Yellow Carpet, a representative social contribution program. In addition, we have a Sustainability Management Working Committee under the Sustainability Management Committee to ensure its smooth operation. The Sustainability Management Working Committee is composed of three divisions: Economy, Environment, and Society. Each division is engaged in identifying key issues such as analyzing internal and external environmental issues related to sustainability management, identifying stakeholder issues, and carrying out detailed improvement tasks. Issues and improvement tasks identified by the Sustainability Management Working Committee are reflected in corporate strategy through the resolution of the Sustainability Management Committee. Assignments of Sustainability Management Working Committee Category Description • Advancing sustainability management strategy·establishing sustainable management practice organization and operating system Overall Sustainability Management • Strengthening independence and transparency of the Board of Directors·Strengthening responsibility for sustainability management • Reinforcing transparency in operating the Code of Ethics·Strengthening consumer protection Economy • Strengthening brand value evaluation·Establishing integrated stakeholder management system • Strengthening stakeholder issue analysis and sharing system • Establishing environmental management policy, strengthening environmental KPI management·Developing environmental products and services • Establishing a carbon-neutral plan and building an environmental risk recognition system Environment • Advancing social contribution strategy·Advocating human rights and diversity, strengthening safety and health management • Strengthening external cooperation and networks·Enhancing social contribution performance management • Introducing supplier guidelines, strengthening management of business partners Society • Strengthening responsibility for the underprivileged, responding to aging issues • Asset management considering social responsibility Performance Evaluation of the BOD Dongbu Insurance has been conducting yearly evaluations on the performance of outside directors every year. In 2016, we started to evaluate the operation of the Board of Directors and subordinate committees as well as the performance of all of the registered directors. The evaluation method and main contents are disclosed once a year through the annual report on corporate governance. (Homepage disclosure URL: https://www.idongbu.com/enterprise/publicnotice/occasion/EnPubFixOccasionView.jsp?content_id=214172) 46 / 47 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Ethics Establishing the Ethics Management Foundation Management Ethics Management System As a corporate citizen, Dongbu Insurance spreads ethical awareness through its management to become a company that is trusted by society. In 2016, we established a more rigorous ethics management implementation system by revising the Code of Ethics and the Code of Ethics Practice to reflect the relevant laws and ordinances enforced by the Anti-Graft Law. Sustainable Growth World Best Quality Company recognized The best company that employees Company respected by shareholders and sales partners want to work for by customers Transparent Company Clean Organization Trusted Company ‘Fair’ management based on transparency Establishing organizational culture Implementing social responsibility based of cleanliness and trust on altruism Ethics Management Governance Dongbu Insurance Company is operating the Internal Control Committee, chaired by the CEO, to discuss matters related to internal control such as inspecting and responding to vulnerable areas of financial accidents and internal controls, and reporting on the results of the inspections at branch offices. We have appointed a Compliance Officer under the CEO to ensure the independence of compliance management. We are improving efficiency and professionalism by clearly separating roles and responsibilities among the Legal Compliance Part, Legal Risk Management Part, and Compliance Officers. Organization for Ethics Management CEO Autonomous Compliance Officer Compliance Officer [Fair Trade Compliance (Company Regulations)] General management of Compliance Part Legal Risk internal control system Compliance, whistle blowing, fair trade Management Part Compliance Program and Financial Reporting Operating internal control and anti-money Company-wide Legal Risk laundering system Management Support for Compliance Officer Compliance Program Activities Compliance Managers (Head office and worksites) Anti-money Laundering Activities Corporate Governance Internalizing Employee Ethics Recognition Participation Rate of Ethics Pledges (Unit: %) Dongbu Insurance operates a variety of ethics recognition internalization programs to spread the corporate ethics culture. Ethical education is designated as an essential course in the process for new college-educated employees and white-collar employees. All employees are required to complete 96.5 95.7 mandatory compliance education. Dongbu Insurance also operates compliance education at the 91.5 department level and reports results to the compliance department. In addition, to expand the culture of practicing ethics management to subsidiaries, we include courses on ethics management in the basic education courses of subsidiaries. In addition to employees of Dongbu Insurance, and employees of subsidiaries such as Dongbu Car Claim Adjustment, Dongbu CAS, Dongbu CSI, Dongbu CNS and Dongbu MnS, we are also spreading the ethics management philosophy of Dongbu Insurance by writing an online ethics compliance letter that matches the characteristics of each company. In addition, we operate various channels for internalizing ethical awareness such as ethics management training through VOD and internal VOD. In 2016, we identified and implemented 30 improvement tasks for employee violations based on internal control standards and others. 2014 2015 2016 Category Improvements Remarks On-site inspections for insurance business practices such as sales, Value Chain Activity Inspection 16 claim adjustment, etc. Financial Reporting Internal 9 Internal Control Over Financial Reporting (ICFR) Control Inspection Prevention of money laundering, inspection of dispatched supervisors, Compliance Inspection 4 etc. Others 1 Related to subsidiaries Total 30 Fulfilling Ethics Management Compliance Score (Unit: points) Compliance System [Sales] Fair Sales, We operate a compliance assessment system Complete Sales 97 that measures the level of ethics of each division 95.6 91.7 (HQ, Claim Adjustment, Sales) for systematic management of corporate ethics common items 87.8 such as job ethics, compliance reporting, and Work Work Ethics Ethics ethics and compliance practices . We are constantly improving and compensating. In addition, the guidelines for product sales were [Claim [HQ] reviewed by the Korean Non-Life Insurance Adjustment] Financial Reporting Association (KNIA) in advance, and in January Process Internal Monitoring 2017, an in-house advertising review system was Compliance 2014 2015 2016 2017 developed to further enhance the pre-control Goals process for exaggerated and false advertising. Voluntary Compliance with Fair Trade Regulations In 2003, Dongbu Insurance enacted the Regulations on Voluntary Compliance with Fair Trade in order to encourage transparent competition and fair transactions. In addition, we introduced the program for the voluntary compliance with fair trade to ensure that the fair-trade culture can be internalized in our employees’ work, and we are conducting related education for all employees at least once a year. In 2016, we sent out notices asking for cooperation to establish a culture of ethics for suppliers to check the status of compliance with the fair trade regulations and Code of Ethics Practice, and select eight suppliers such as goods companies, loan recruitment and industrial companies to implement on-site inspections by unfair trade practices and company characteristics. We are actively improving the requirements gathered through VOCs of our clients. In 2017, we plan to strengthen our activities through target customers and due diligence period. 48 / 49 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Internal Monitoring System Internal Control System for Financial Reporting In accordance with the Act on External Audit of Stock Companies (hereafter, “External Audit Law”), Dongbu Insurance operates an internal control system for financial reporting to systematically manage the design and operation of the internal accounting management system. By collecting feedbacks from the management, the company makes a continuous improvement in issues identified by the annual inspection. In 2016, we revised and supplemented control activities in the 93 sub-processes of the 588 control items affecting the financial statements. Status of Internal Control (Unit: cases) Category 2014 2015 2016 Control Activities 1,433 649 588 Internal Control Inspections Performed 174 101 93 Legal Risk Response System The Legal Risk Management Part, which is comprised of in-house lawyers and legal experts, provides education and information for prevention of legal risks and conducts legal advice on management litigation, uninsured litigation business, and business affairs. In addition, we established an effective legal risk management system to actively respond to legal issues throughout our business, such as issues related to revision and amendment of our articles of incorporation, guidelines, labor management, personnel affairs, etc. Legal Risk Review (Unit: cases) 2014 2015 2016 HQ Inquiries Sales Dept. Claims Dept. HQ Inquiries Sales Dept. Claims Dept. HQ Inquiries Sales Dept. Claims Dept. 778 295 102 733 230 96 837 323 73 1,175 1,059 1,233 Eliminating Unethical Conduct within the Company Dongbu Insurance operates a variety of systems to prevent unethical acts of employees and to raise awareness within the company. Through the internal whistle-blowing system, we create an atmosphere in which employees can freely report unethical practices. In the event of discipline, we disclose disciplinary cases and disciplinary grounds, and implement prevention education to prevent recurrence. As an external channel, the Financial Irregularities Report Center of Dongbu Insurance operates on our homepage so that anyone can report financial accidents and violations of internal control. Such reports are consistently followed up by the Compliance Officer. In addition, employees who received a gift or valuables which are difficult to return as their senders are unknown can report the cases to the Compliance Officers through the gift & valuable reporting system. The reported valuables were auctioned and a total of KRW 2,660,571 was donated to social welfare organizations such as the Korean Disabled People’s Association and the company’s ‘Heart Fund’ fund in 2016. As a result, there has been not a single case of violation of the relevant laws and regulations or imposition of fine or penalty in relation to anticorruption, bribes, anti-monopoly or anti-competition practices for the last four years. Corporate Governance Management of Public Disclosure Violations In accordance with the relevant laws and regulations, we have established the company’s disclosure guidelines, such as disclosure procedures, procedures, and management, so that employees can conduct their duties based on the correct code of conduct. In addition, the disclosure officers regularly check the disclosure and immediately notify the relevant departments when problems arise. Money-laundering Prevention System Dongbu Insurance designated a supervisor in charge of money laundering surveillance in the compliance team to enhance the expertise of anti-money laundering duties. In addition, over 200 compliance officers composed of practitioners in each organization monitor, on a monthly basis, suspicious transactions and report to the compliance team to eliminate money laundering. In addition, we regularly report to the Korea Financial Intelligence Unit every month through our Anti-Money Laundering (AML) system, which we built in 2009. In 2016, we will strengthen the Financial Action Task Force (FATF). To comply with the requirements for the establishment of the prevention system, we have consulted on the status of our company and are building a new RBA system. Taxation Policy Management Dongbu Insurance is transparent and strictly compliant with the tax laws and regulations of all countries in which it operates, as well as domestic and overseas operations, and fulfills the reporting and reporting obligations required by the related regulations. We established and began to operate a global tax policy targeting domestic and overseas business sites, and related information can be found on page 92 of this report. Reviewed by outside auditors at the end of every quarter, corporation tax, deferred corporate taxes, effective tax rate, etc. are disclosed in our financial statements which are available at the Data Analysis, Retrieval and Transfer System (dart.fss.or.kr). In addition, we actively respond to various tax investigations and requirements of taxation authorities to thoroughly fulfill the obligation of tax payment cooperation. Current Status of Corporate Tax Payment1) (Unit: KRW in million) Category Original Premiums Pre-tax profit Tax payment Foreign tax credit Domestic 12,092,412 620,456 150,285 1,261 Overseas 223,616 -37,482 2,239 1) KRW 1,205 /1USD(based on 2016.12.31) Donation to Political Parties and Sponsor Group Dongbu Insurance is a Korean corporation restricted to make a donation in accordance with Article 31.(1) of Political Fund Law and consequently has not made any donations to political parties or their sponsor groups during the reporting period and, in principle, it stipulates the prohibition of political participation in the Code of Ethics. Moreover, while the employees may still disclose their political views as an individual, they are advised to ensure that their personal political views are not be mistaken as representing that of the company. 50 / 51 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Risk Company-wide Risk Management Management Risk Policies and Strategies Dongbu Insurance is actively responding to the diversifying global insurance market and management regulations. To this end, we are laying the groundwork for strategic risk management, thereby creating a stable foundation for profit. We conduct rigorous monitoring and control activities in accordance with the risk management strategy limits and guidelines newly established in 2016. Each year, we have been approved by the Risk Management Committee for risk management strategies linked to midto longterm management strategies and business plans. In addition, risk capital is allocated to each risk category so that the overall risk level can be maintained at an appropriate level relative to the available capital. Risk factors are minimized by knowing in advance what the risk factors, size, and adequacy are. Detailed Strategies for Risk Management Risk appetites including company’s total risk amount and target RBC ratio Allocating each risk capital by utilizing RBC (Risk-based Capital) Limits in risk in consideration of optimal asset portfolios (Var/Exposure/Loss/Loss cut/Concentration limits) and guidelines ALM strategy for interest rate risk management (guidelines on average collection periods and guidelines on expected interest rates) Reinsurance operation strategy including limits in possession of insurance risk Risk Management Organization Dongbu Insurance operates the Risk Management Committee and the Risk Management Working Committee under the Board of Directors and operates the Risk Management and Risk Management Department in the Risk Management Working Committee separately to enhance the professionalism of the business. The Risk Management Committee, which is the overall organization for risk management, promotes overall operational supervision and operates a risk management working council as it needs to respond flexibly to the rapidly changing financial market environment. In January 2016, the Risk Management Team was reorganized into an independent organization. In August 2016, Act on Corporate Governance of Financial Companies was enacted to establish a risk-based internal regulation and to appoint a Chief Risk Officer (CRO) to strengthen risk governance. • Risk Supervision and Policy Establishment Risk Management • General Risk Management Committee Setting allowed limits in risk, efficient supervision of risk that can occur due to corporate management and establishment of policies among others • All risk management work such as risk Risk Management measurement, management, control and report Working Committee • Risk Management Committee Support Insurance Division Investment and ALM • Management of details of risk Insurance Risk Management Department Asset Risk Management Division • Management of allowed limits in risk and report of results (Insurance RM Dept.) (Asset RM Dept.) • Implementation of items resolved by committee and report of results Insurance Interest Rate Subsidiary risk Market Risk Credit Risk Operational Risk Risk Risk Corporate Governance Risk Management System Dongbu Insurance conducted an ERM (Enterprise Risk Management) project to support risk management tasks such as risk volume calculation, stress tests and the formulation of risk-based management plans. This project utilizes company RDW1). In addition, we plan to rebuild the risk management information system to preemptively respond to the new solvency system based on the market valuation of assets/liabilities to be introduced in the future. 1) RDW=Risk Data Warehouse Risk Management Process Risk Recognition Measurement and Risk Monitoring Risk Control Evaluation Risks classified into four types to Measure and evaluate credit Constant/daily/weekly/ Establish/implement emergency manage; insurance risk, interest risk, liquidity risk, operational monthly monitoring plans and hold the Risk Management rate risk, market risk, credit risk risk, and subsidiary risk Administrative Committee Analyzing Risk Factor Sensitivity We conduct asset sensitivity analysis as a means to respond to any negative impact on the capital values and profit associated with various risk factors in the market. According to the financial crisis analysis, we analyze the crisis according to risk factors such as change of interest rate, stock price, exchange rate, default rate and loss ratio. As a result of these efforts, the RBC ratio has not dropped below 100% even in emergencies. Management of Asset Soundness and Limit Set-up In order to maintain stable capital adequacy, Dongbu Insurance assesses the soundness of owner’s equity based on the RBC system stipulated by the supervising authorities in 2009. Our RBC ratio stood at 174% as of December 2016. In addition, we allocate the required capital by risk based on the RBC standard, and set the risk tolerance limit after approval by the Risk Management Committee. We regularly report this to the committee and management, and we strictly manage related matters through continuous monitoring. Types of Risk Management Category Risk Explanation Insurance Risk • Premiums and reserves risk caused by difference between expected and actual figures of premiums and reserves • Risk of loss caused by decreases in the Company’s net asset value in the event of changes in interests rates, Interest Rate Risk triggered by discordance between asset and debt maturity and interest structures Market Risk • Risk of price volatility caused by changes in interest rates, stock prices, exchange rates, etc. Financial Risk • Risks arising from counterparty’s default Credit Risk • Risks of changes in asset value due to changes in default and credit rating of borrowers • Reinsurance credit risk: Risk of reinsurance bankruptcy Subsidiary Risk • Risks arising as the risks exposed to the subsidiaries are reflected in the parent company’s financial statements Non-Financial Risk Operational Risk • Risks that arise throughout business including administration, sales, legal, and tax 52 / 53 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Potential Risks in the Insurance Industry and the Response of Dongbu Insurance Dongbu Insurance actively responds strategically to its risk model by continuously monitoring and analyzing the risks newly emerging from changes in the insurance industry environment. Emerging Risks Definition • Potential risk of data leakage associated with the collection, management and the use of the information of customers or employees. • Security risk arising from the hacking (Malware, Ransomware, DDOS attacks, ETC.) of key IT systems • Any risks associated with laws and regulation due to the reinforcement of laws Cyber Security and regulation concerning cyber security • A demographic change is in progress due to aging population with the aging baby-boomer generation and low birthrate owing to economic slow-down The demographic cliff(expected in 2018) precipitated by the increased number of elderly, decline in potential workers, low birth could lead to a consumption cliff Demographic Changes • Strengthen management risk control in response to a change in financial soundness management regulation(linked RBC system, etc.) Any financial risks of financial subsidiaries are reflected into its mother company Enforcement announced on the new solvency margin regulation system based on the market price assessment of assets/liabilities Strengthen Financial Increased capital volatility due to interest rates with expanded insurance liability Soundness Regulation duration • Increased social/environmental losses caused by climate change Added frequencies and seriousness of extreme weather More stringent regulations on climate change in accordance with the Paris Agreement Climatic Change RESPONSE TO IFRS17 The adoption of IFRS17, which is primarily designed to evaluate the market value of insurance liabilities, is scheduled for 2021. The financial impact on the insurance industry is expected to be considerable due to a full-scale change in accounting standards. In Korea, the market interest rate has fallen sharply in recent years. With the old insurance policies that guarantee high interest, it is inevitable to expand a considerable amount of capital. In addition, asset/liability management becomes more important because changes in market interest rates are immediately reflected in financial statements and the volatility of assets/liabilities/profit increases. In order to build infrastructures and expand human resources to meet the new accounting standards, Dongbu Insurance established IFRS TFT in 2015 and is preparing for IFRS17 over two years. We will establish a basic data and cash flow model verification system and prepare a plan for IFRS17 such as general accounting (IFRS17), statutory accounting (SAP), and development of a new solvency system. Corporate Governance Major Changes and Potential Risks (Risk Impact) Response effort Reporting page • The leakage of customer data of financial institutions is likely to cause serious reputation risk, which in turn makes a spillover effect over management risk such as penalties imposed by regulating authorities • Establish a new team specified in cyber data protection and appoint a In case of privacy information leakage incident of a credit card company, it was led to a business Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) suspension order for 3 months in 2014, WannaCry attack in 2017, etc. • Introduce a network separation system that separates intranet and Increased IT expenses for cyber security system, etc. external internet • The company manages data of 8.2million customers (as of the end of 2016, 51.2 million), which is • Re-organize the manpower to have 5% IT security personnel or more in about 16% of the total national population. It is expected that data management risk will show an 40, 58 the total employment upturn trend because of insufficient inspection process for occasions such as security observance in 60~61 • Advance the company-wide cyber security and data protection case of external data utilization (i.e. data submission request by external organizations such as FSC.) management system Plan to review the measures on internal procedures and data protection regarding the issues Reinforce IT system and set up a risk-control system with securing • As the only divided nation in the world, South Korea is exposed to active online attack (DDOS, etc.,) experts and employment trainings from North Korea. For the company also deals with mandatory insurances designated by law such as The company maintains no record of customer data leakage accident car insurance and EIL, there is an increasing the needs to prepare for any countermeasures against network attack such as malicious hacking and DDOS(the sales of domestic business accounts for 98.2% of the total sales) • Develop insurance products and services targeting the elderly and patients • Due to low birth and aging population, the potential customers for insurance policies • Execute social contribution activities that links its business with low are decreasing, whereas the increase in elderly beneficiaries lead to a greater loss in birthrate themes such as children’s traffic safety (Yellow Carpet) 12~13 insurance sales • Beef up its family-friendly management efforts such as in-house child-care 23, 33, • The protracted economic downturn due to a consumption cliff would result in a center, promote maternity leave 65, 67 decrease in insurance sales or investment benefits, which would lead to the industry • Support reemployment of aged retirees into its subsidiaries and introduce restructuring as observed in the Japanese insurance market in the past retirement pension system for stable golden years • Prepare an integrated risk management system in connection with its subsidiaries • More stringent regulation on financial soundness due to reinforced RBC system and Set up a required capital limits for subsidiaries others, would lead to the contraction of asset management and insurance sales • Fortify soundness management system by establishing risk control activities 18~19 information system and others • Aggravated financial soundness due to the reflection of subsidiary’s risks 50~53 • Establish the asset management system based on ALM considering • Increased uncertainty of net asset value and falling profitability of asset management liability structure with a change in interest rates arising from assets/liabilities duration mismatching Reduce the proportion of high risk structures and optimization of profit against risks • Increased difficulty in forecasting the loss rates of the existing insurance products due to more frequent and severe extreme weather conditions(torrential rains, heavy snow, • Establish a preemptive response system against climate change cold snap, fine dust, etc.) Offer products/services suitable for the environmental/social demands 24~25 • Growing demand for financial products and service concerning climate change Take action to the more stringent climate change related institutions such 71~72 • Increase in operating and administrative expenses and legal risks caused by reinforced as GHG emission regulation environmental regulations Risk Management to Overcome Financial Crisis Dongbu Insurance estimates the impact of risk factors on its financial status and identifies interactions between risk factors and countermeasures through scenario analysis. Additionally, preparations are made for possible implications on balance sheets and income statements, solvency rates, liquidity, asset/liability value, economic profit/loss, economic value of capital, shareholder value, etc. Both macroand micro-economic factors are taken into consideration in production of scenarios. Massive Crisis • Consider the risks associated with historical scenarios such as the IMF bailout during Situation Analysis financial crisis, September 11 terrorist attacks, and the 2008 financial crisis. • Set up and review virtual scenarios that simulate possible events Establishment of a • Establish countermeasures by classifying the crisis into 3 phases (caution, alarm, and Contingency Plan emergency) and manage special risks such as a drop in direct premiums and IT system paralysis. 54 / 55 Financial & DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Non-Financial Statements Financial Performance 55 Non-financial Performance 58 Financial & Non-Financial Statements Financial Performance Key It appears that a prolonged downturn of domestic consumption started to set in due to the protracted low economic growth and low interest rates against the background of increasing uncertainty of the global financial market. In addition, the local insurance market has undergone on-going structural Management transformations arising from the introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and ITdriven technological revolutions. Performances Despite such a formidable business environment, Dongbu Insurance has achieved KRW 726.1billion sales profits, a 28.2% increase from the previous year, KRW 703.7billion of net income before income tax expense, which marks a 29.0% increase and realized 533.8 billion net income, 24.0% increase from the year before. In the future, the company will continue laying a solid foundation for sustainable management with a preemptive response to market changes and continued management innovation. Based on consolidated financial statement (Unit: KRW in million) Account 2016 2015 G/R Operating revenue 17,067,164 7.0% 15,956,239 Operating expenses 16,341,083 6.2% 15,390,019 Other non-operating income 14,096 -28.0% 19,580 Other non-operating expenses 36,488 -9.4% 40,275 Operating profit 726,081 28.2% 566,220 Net income before income tax 703,689 29.0% 545,525 expense Income tax expense 169,910 47.6% 115,081 Net income 533,779 24.0% 430,443 Total comprehensive income 480,194 5.0% 457,364 Other comprehensive -53,585 299.1% 26,920 income Total Assets 44,863,440 12.1% 40,018,391 Total Liabilities 40,518,709 12.4% 36,051,446 Total Equity 4,344,731 9.5% 3,966,945 Capital stock 35,400 35,400 Embedded Value (Unit: KRW in billion) Account 2016 2015 G/R Embedded Value 6,525 6.7% 6,115 Dongbu Insurance annually estimates and announces the embedded values generated by the currently owned long-term insurance construct with an audit by an external organization. For more information, please refer to the materials posted in the homepage of Dongbu Insurance. (http://ir.idongbu.com/english/promotion/credit/EngRatEvreport.jsp) 56 / 57 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Based on separated financial statement (Unit: KRW in million) Category 2016 2015 2014 Original Premiums 12,092,412 11,487,865 10,714,208 Loss rate 84.6% 86.0% 86.8% Business Ratio 18.2% 17.7% 17.1% Pre-tax profit 620,456 538,668 494,977 Net profit 470,171 412,672 400,308 Total Assets 34,208,595 30,562,798 26,801,411 Assets under Management 29,228,480 25,981,614 22,658,555 Capital 3,963,924 3,682,651 3,363,025 Sustainable Financial Performance (based on consolidated statement) (Unit: KRW in 100 million) Financial performance Non-financial performance Sustainable management performance 1,414 -998 5,753 5,338 Net profit Environmental/ Environmental/ Integrated profit social profit social loss Sustainable financial performance refers to the reorganization of the company’s sustainable management performance in perspective of financial view and can be regarded as the performance indicators re-constructed social and environmental impacts stemming from the corporate ’s implementation of its social responsibilities from the standpoint of management. Dongbu Insurance’s non-financial performance is composed of the following: (Unit: KRW in 100 million) Cost savings for environmental/social expenses in the public sector, social contribution expenses, costs associated with insurance fraud detection, SRI Environmental/ investment amount, personnel expenses for maternity leave takers, 1,414 social profit employment training costs, labor costs for the socially disadvantaged (the disabled, etc.), paper use savings, sales incomes from environmentally/socially friendly products(original premiums), etc., Increased social costs due to insurances (insurance crime, adverse selection, Environmental/ moral hazard, etc.), mis-selling amount, GHG emission costs, legal penalty or 998 social loss fine payment, dormant insurance benefits, environmentally/socially product losses(benefit payments), etc. Financial & Non-Financial Statements Creating The financial performance that the Dongbu Insurance has acquired will serve not just to drive further business growth but also to be properly shared with various stakeholders. In so doing, the company also assumes and continues its own role as a corporate citizen. Values for Stakeholders Ex u A e cu gb gro tiv on P u er D r e T e/ D the p o es tn liven tim DBR erenc ir l f pe & r e y d o TV/ onf ab op em Pa tel ces ner ip c or le or w plo ura ervi Part nersh lting se ho c c s es rt u Su rvi re ye o a nd Sal ’ pa ons pa ny Co gge Do nfe st ng c c es whcts a nnel/ gents ical c rk m ren ions bu e a eiv s p u ch r a e o a d rc o ce /Pa Em Ins s e e w rou rod on pai / M etw ne / O rt u ma pe icip ploye ran pl age m r g ’s p nicati Car re etingsists) n part na n C atio es ce oy o e l r les ge om n ee s in uals ranc mmu inar/ r) me pecia d pe ) e sa me m Pla Plaz t a s o exc d c n u / ivi nsu A c sem artn cal o e s s E f O f D ha dle ase ra n (U mp t b nic orm p rie ati i on nge Ind I site P able) bu P medi han nit: c 58 insu lion) nit lo : K ym fin on / Dy nions gs w na & gb fo T g ( s l On ound (Don se (U 3 for 0 mi RW e (Pr ith mi u r ca n o C c aid in 1 0 3,2 in 10 t co my T EO/ Lead 0 buR r of p V) Mo er on g be ns RW ,72 02 0 m sts nt s sio it: K 3 il (D um N is n lio n) hly m (U m Co up ce A d gro suranprofits. ions/ Public e ny in cia ship/ ls an u In in thxchangedividua (Unit l contrib Stakeholders idua ongb ecific t Tota r Rela d e are dire ls or : per sons ution a Indiv l to D ain sp Investo trieval an l inv Trans ds lion) Socia as o ct/in grou 6,94 den estm ctivit 2 ) a g / f the direc ps th capit iew to ) activitienalysis, Reite) Divi in 100 m Loca il s l con tribu com t influ at e ies (Unit nt in s s lder l com tion W v n s s pply act pan en ocia ata A reho publi ivities/ Sp y’s bus ces : KR ,044 elatio web o su a Part : KR (Unit W in l con mun ent R DART(D ystem) & icipa Sha s wh with 1 vice rt spons iness c ser ity nts o o 3,66 millions) tribut vestm sure fer S f so IR (In disclo or 9 ion Individuals and groups who are present customers or potential customers of Dongbu Insurance’s financial products. Customer review group/Customer VOC/Know your customer Campaign/External Customer Satisfaction Indexes (KCSI, KS-SQI, NCSI) Dongbu Insurance’s Customer Satisfaction Index (DCSI) Claims paid (Unit: KRW in 100 million) 43,343 Customers Contributions to Policy Institutes (Unit: KRW in million) Classification Name of institution Reason for contributions Funds 1 Korea Insurance Development Institute Interest Representation 792 2 Korean Fire Protection Association Interest Representation 671 3 Korea Credit Information Services Interest Representation 454 4 Korea Insurance Research Institute Interest Representation 176 5 Chamber of Commerce and Industry Interest Representation 91 58 / 59 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Non-financial Performance Customers Customer Satisfaction Management Customer Value Strategy Dongbu Insurance endeavors to become a company that pursues a happy society together with its customers. As a part of its efforts, the company has established strategies for customer satisfaction management to develop products/services to meet customers’ needs. This takes the initiative in cultivating a sound insurance culture by carrying out stricter and more scrupulous consumer protection activities. Structure of Customer Satisfaction Management Strategy Customer Satisfaction Customer Protection General insurance company with Goal Financial company offering the best the highest customer value of Strategy consumer protection in the industry • Advancing the consumer protection system • Enhancing communication and execution • Strengthening management of potential Direction • Establishing service standards of Strategy complaints • Collecting and enhancing customer VOC • Stabilizing complete sales atmosphere • Raising awareness of consumer protection Service Diversification for Customer Satisfaction Smartpad Distribution Ratio (Unit: %) Uplift Customer Value with Mobile System The introduction of a mobile system for various operations has enabled Dongbu Insurance to enhance work efficiency and to increase its customer value. Under the slogan of ‘Anytime, Anywhere’, the 52.5 company adopted an on-site mobile insurance purchasing system to establish a mobile sales system that helps customers to obtain what they need from product information, and financial consulting to 44.3 even sealing a contract in just ‘one stop’ in 2012. Moreover, the system was upgraded to provide better 43.7 services for customers so they can pay insurance premiums and ask for emergency dispatches via a mobile application for customers in 2014. Also, Dongbu established an iPad-based mobile claim platform, called ‘e-claim system’ that was designed to support all necessary tasks of a car insurance claim process. This included accident site inspection and investigation, claim adjustment, conclusion, and customer information, etc. at the site and established a field-oriented mobile claim system to provide customers with differentiated claim services. As of December 2016, 910 devices were assigned to all employees in charge of insurance claims. 2014 2015 2016 Establish Prompt On-site Dispatch System Dongbu Insurance has set up a swift dispatch system with a GPS-based Local Based Service (LBS) system. This shortened call waiting times by developing a system-centric innovative model, which consequently contributed to soaring customer satisfaction. These efforts resulted in the acquisition of international standards or ‘ISO 9001’ certificate for car dispatch service and the patent application for unmanned automatic emergency dispatch service for the first time in the local industry. Financial & Non-Financial Statements Customer Service Management System Dongbu Insurance runs a Consumer Policy Committee attended by executives including CCO. The committee is in charge of thorough service monitoring and management and holds monthly consumer policy consultative meetings dealing with complete sales, on-site inspections and monitoring among others. The committee is engaged in key policy deliberation on consumer protection and system improvement activities and others. Customer-oriented CS Mindset Cultivation In an effort to achieve ‘Customer-oriented Customer Happiness Management’, Dongbu Insurance seeks to imbue its executives and employees with CS mindsets. To fortify the CS training system, the company carries out a range of CS related activities including strengthened on-site CS activities and CS training for executives, employees and PAs. In addition, as part of an effort to enhance customer value, the company also launched ‘Know Your Customers’ campaign in which employees of headquarters including CEO visit customers and listen to them. The company also manages monthly or quarterly CS excellence award systems, which was retitled to ‘CCM Award’ in 2015. As the evaluation process of the award looks specifically into consumer-related indexes, it puts a particular emphasis on the meaning and importance of consumer-oriented management for executives and employees. Dongbu MOT Service Index Dongbu Insurance has developed Dongbu MOT Service Index (DMSI) to measure the level of service by different MOTs and took effective action to address and improve any identified issue. In 2016, the company accomplished a genuine innovation in MOT service based on long-term trust by forming a master plan for MOT service with more systemized service management. Also, the company further enhanced the company-driven integrated customer management system by providing a group of potentially defected customers with differentiated management. The company plans to fully establish the company-wide MOT Service in 2017. Strengthened Service Satisfaction Monitoring Dongbu Insurance conducts the service satisfaction survey for each MOT to manage and improve customers’ service satisfaction. The satisfaction survey covers a total of six MOT fields including customer handling, insurance policy purchase, customer management, claim adjustment, emergency dispatch, and complaint handling. In partnership with an external survey provider, the company carefully sets up and carries out the satisfaction surveys along with online surveys via mobile applications and LMS. In addition, it operates a real-time based monitoring feedback system such as telephone surveys by a monitoring office of the customer service center. Customer Buying an Customer Claim Emergency Complaint Handling Insurance Policy management Adjustment Dispatch Handling • Monitoring call service • Call service • Monitoring complete • Customer management • Claim adjustment • Satisfaction of • VOC handling satisfaction sales satisfaction satisfaction emergency satisfaction • Face-to face handling and onsite dispatch satisfaction 60 / 61 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Customer Information Protection Internal IT Security Audit Process Information Protection Management System To ensure the effective management of company-wide internal security control, the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) makes regular reports on the company’s data securities to BOD. Also, the company is equipped with vigilant monitoring processes including a 24X365 integrated security control, Establish Security Audit Plan internal security audits, regular website check-ups by outside experts for every half-term or earlier, etc. • Establish audit plans & obtain approval from CISO and submits an annual report to BOD regarding the appropriateness of customer data to a total of 190 subcontractors including subsidiaries responsible for main duties such as damage assessment. The company’s efforts to minimize data security risks are also extended to take up an insurance policy, ‘Private Information Liability Insurance’ (insurer: Lotte Insurance) covering general liability for the 3rd in case that the company is liable to compensate for any leakage of information regarding company-wide information protection. Implement Security Audit • Notify and discuss audit schedule Information Protection Management Governance • Conduct audits Chief Information Security Officer Supervise the overarching information protection activities through the company and set up information protection plans Information Protection Committee Report the Results of Security Audit Deliberate/vote on issues related to the planning, establishment, • Report & inform the result of and operation of company-wide security audits Information Protection Team information protection duties, etc. Responsible for company-wide individual (credit) data and any duties regarding information protection Follow-up Management • Plan corrective measures and report Head of Strategic Marketing Team Head of IT Support Team Head of General Affair Team the results • Check if the measures have been implemented Manage customer information related Administer any IT defects, system In charge of documentary data, duties including collecting, using, failure or hacking, etc. facilities and building securities. transmitting, destroying such information Information Protection Committee Deliberate/vote on issues related to the planning, establishment, and operation of company-wide information protection duties Chairperson (director level) Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Committee members (10 person _ director level): Head of General Affairs Team, Head of Strategic Marketing Team, Head of Consumer Policy Team, Head of IT Support Team, Head of Long-term Business Team, Head of Individual Marketing Team, Head of Corporate Marketing Team, Head of New Business Marketing Team, Head of Claim adjustment, Planning Team, Vice-president of Loan Business. Deliberation/Vote made by information Protection Committee 3. Issues 1. Important 4. Issues of regarding issues 2. Plans for weakness analysis security of of information information outcomes and the e-financial Information Protection Certificates protection technology transactions and implementation Status across the sectors plan of corrective protection organization measures of users ISO27001: 2013 International 5. Accidents 6. Any matters standards Certiﬁcated (British related to determined by the 7. Other Standard Institution, Feb.2009~ information chief of the committee deliberation/votes Feb.2018) protection and penalties to be necessary for designated by for anyone who information relevant laws and ‌Korea ISMS Certificated(Ministry breaches relevant protection regulations of Science, ICT and Future Planning, provisions tasks Jul.2014~Jul.2017) Financial & Non-Financial Statements Fortified Data Loss Prevention (DLP) System To shield against external cyber-attacks and prevent any internal information leakages from occurring, Dongbu Insurance has successfully separated the internet network from the business network. By examining all inflows of external data and activities, the company is able to immediately block suspected hackers’ attacks and others to protect its internal system. Any internally created information (documents) requires prior approval before transmitting them to outside so that crucial corporate data is effectively protected from any possible loss. In addition, as relevant events taking place in the IT system are collected/analyzed on a real-time basis, any abnormalities such as external attacks and internal data leakage are detected and blocked in advance and the appropriateness of applied means of information protection/control followed by any necessary patch-ups is repeatedly reviewed. Therefore, the data loss prevention system continues to be solidified. These diverse efforts succeeded with no single case of customer data breach from 2013 to 2016. External Malware Business Mail Installation System Internet Negated Company Mail DMZ Impossible VDI Server Information Leakage Negated Internet PC Virtual Business PC No. of Participants in Information Raised Awareness of Information Protection Protection Training (Unit: persons) In consideration of the nature of insurance business that deals with customers’ sensitive information such as personal data, financial status, health information and accident history, etc., the company sets 5,117 5,218 4,818 up information protection guidelines for executives and employees and holds regular training sessions to raise awareness of the importance of information protection. In 2016, the company opened 14 training courses covering personal information protection, financial security governance, internal data loss prevention, etc., to be completed by 4,818 executives and employees. Participation in Industry’s Joint Initiatives Dongbu Insurance is one of the founding members of the Korea Credit Information Services, 2014 2015 2016 comprehensive credit information organization and partakes in the decision-making process of key issues regarding credit information through member conferences. Performance Indicators Unit 2014 2015 2016 Remark Onsite Inspection Suspension in sales Persons 391 659 1,113 Restrictions (Individuals) through Internal Warning Persons 739 2,858 Inspection of Suspension in sales Persons 44 705 285 Onsite Inspection Incomplete Sales (TM) Warning Persons 458 3,614 265 1) 10,000 Average e-service Cases per Month 1,235 1,677 2,112 cases Based on Korean Service Quality Service Center Customer Satisfaction Assessment Scores 94.4 95.4 96.3 Index by the Korea Management Association Customer Satisfaction DCSI 2) Scores 84.5 85.4 85.9 Assessment 1) Data in 2014, 2015 modified by change in collection method 2) Dongbu Insurance Customer Satisfaction Assessment 62 / 63 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Employees Human Resource Management HR Management System To achieve its company-wide HR vision, the “best workplace where the talented want to be”, Dongbu Insurance built a systematic HR management system and proactively encourages its employees to achieve the CEO’s management principles, pursuit of facts, mutual communication, and autonomous management. Also, founding on the concept of the talented supported by the core value, the company strives to cultivate financial talents equipped with a global competitive edge by establishing a new cultivation and meritocratic system to ensure high rewards for great performance. Vision A Global Insurance Financial Group which Pursues a Happy Society with Customers Core Value System 3 Spirits & 3 Attitudes/ CEO Management Principles/ Key Driver HR Vision The Best Workplace where the Talented Want to be Strategic Direction Globalization Specialization Adding High Value Long-term HR Strategies & Advanced Direction in which Further Development Secure Key Talents Action Plans to Guide Overseas Business of Meritocracy Performance-Contingent Cultivation System Acceptance of HR Work Environment Basic Policies Rewards Meritocratic Personnel Site-centric Personnel New Cultivation System GWP support system Management Operating Individual Assessment Recruitment, Wages, Principles SDP CDP & Promotion Assignment transfer Job Benefits HR Directions Autonomous personnel management Respecting employees’ opinions at worksites Creation, Communication, and Empathy (CCE) Program Dongbu Insurance runs a CCE program in order to foster a corporate culture, in which executives and employees are provided with diverse opportunities to expand their capacities and to explore new horizons of creative thinking and their personal investments consequently lead to greater organizational performance. The program consists of the company-initiated seminars titled, ‘Invitation to Humanities and Arts’, and other courses freely chosen by individuals. The program allows them to learn more about humanities and social sciences and experience various activities. No. of Participants of the CCE Program (Unit: persons) ▒ Writing Review 1,483 ▒ Personal volunteering activities 1,257 ▒ Promy Volunteer group 2,952 ▒ Internal/external clubs 101 ▒ Study 798 8,131 ▒ External Education & Training 60 ▒ Special Lectures 1,480 Financial & Non-Financial Statements Fair Performance Evaluation & Rewards through HR System Reform Performance Evaluation System With various systems in place, Dongbu Insurance ultimately serves to provide both increased job satisfaction and the best possible performance. To cite some examples, there are a wide range of institutions and programs including goal agreement system, monthly evaluation agreement system, selfdevelopment & career development plan, and more. Using the Balance Score Card (BSC), it is possible to offer segmented perspective of performance evaluation and to distribute and assign the overall corporate goals into group and individual-based KPIs. Moreover, the company is committed to guarantee a fair assessment of an employee’s performance with an evaluation objection system for the final performance review while making the most out of performance feedback in establishing next goals and objectives and in improving the HR management system. Ensuring a Fair Opportunity To ensure a fair opportunity for every employee, Dongbu Insurance operates an MA course, a professional sales manager training course, in order to provide female workers, Prime Agents (PAs), employees from other occupations with an opportunity to expand their capabilities and competencies to manage a branch. Employees who successfully complete the course will work as a chief of branch development or branch manager and receive support to become professional sales managers. Furthermore, since 2010 the company has introduced a separated evaluation between male and female employees to forestall any potential disadvantages for female workers in their performance assessment process and prevent discrimination based on gender. Evaluation objection system (Unit: %, cases) Establishment of the Evaluation Objection System ‘Evaluation Objection System’ refers to a system that allows executives and employees to appeal their 43.8 37.5 performance review and capability appraisals, if they do not agree with their evaluations. The appeal will then be brought before a Personnel Committee in charge of carrying out a review of filed appeals to 28.6 determine whether or not to approve. As submitted appeals will go through a fair assessment to resolve 32 disagreements, it contributes to a better understanding and satisfaction of executives and employees. In 32 2016, a total of 32 appeals were entered and 12 performance reviews were adjusted. 28 Reasonable Reward System Wages will largely be determined by basic salaries and performance-based bonuses with the wage system based on duties and positions. As the wage system adopts different proportions according to the relevant duties, it makes sure proper and reasonable rewards will be given for employees depending 14 8 12 on their performances. For the evaluation of employees, the company implements both capability and 2014 2015 2016 performance assessments to take account of both qualitative and quantitative aspects of individuals, Acceptance rates which in turn decide their annual salaries and promotions. As the company operates a performanceNo. of applications based compensation plan, it leads to a reward system based on pay for performance. In addition, the No. of acceptances company motivates its employees to continue accomplishing high performances with a range of recognition and award systems. Innovation Incentive Qualification allowance In-house BP award Talent point Promotion and PI Capability Performance Investigation & Research annual salary Dynamic Best Expenses Management Review Award Distinguished Service Award Dongbu Guinness Long-service Bonus Qualification Good Conduct Award acquirement gift CS Dept. Award Learning/ Suggestion Award Core Value Dynamic Dongbu Award Attitude Innovation Expert CS Star Selection Certificate Employee of Excellent Suggestion 64 / 65 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Activities to Protect Employees’ Rights and Interests Job Security To foster secure and stable working conditions, Dongbu Insurance is committed to creating a great place to work for its executives and employees by improving their work environments. Prior to the enactment of the Non-Regular Worker Act, the company had already converted 1,660 contract workers occupied in TM consultation duties to perform full-time staff in 2012 and continued to reduce the proportion of nonregular workers to achieve the lowest rate of 1.84% in the industry by 2016. Prevention of Sexual Harassment and Sexual Violence Dongbu Insurance is engaged in various activities to preclude in advance in-house sexual harassment and sexual violence, and to create a fair and pleasant corporate culture. The company offers cyber education sessions for all executives and employees once a year and posts the related education materials to the intranet for employees to access anytime online. As a further step forward, to raise awareness of the subjects, a department meeting is held under the topic of sexual harassment prevention. Health and Safety Implementation of a Health Maintenance Program for Employees To create a healthy work environment for everyone, Dongbu Insurance has developed and operates a variety of health maintenance policies and programs. The company provides its staff and their partners with an annual medical check-up opportunity. The company’s up-grade check-up program is tailor-made to the different needs of employees, their ages and service years: for instance, consulting desk workers receive a massage care program along with physical examination in musculoskeletal disorders. These coherent efforts are geared towards preventive measures against company-wide health risks. In addition, the company helps to lift the burden of medical fees from its employees with a collective insurance program for injury and diseases encompassing not just the workers themselves but also lineal ascendants and descendants. Also to be included are various health service programs including psychological counseling by specialists and health fund programs, etc. Organization of Industrial Safety Committee Dongbu Insurance set up the Industrial Safety Committee in 2014 so as to maintain and increase occupational safety and health for its executives and workers and to consequently improve production efficiency. In so doing, the company conducts a wide range of activities including workers’ occupational safety and health education programs and work environment inspections, investigations into the cause of major disasters and the preparation of measures to prevent the recurrence and more. The company also appoints safety and health management managers and runs the Industrial Safety Committee composed of three representatives from labor and management to arrange systematic activities for occupational safety and disaster prevention. Key Work Environment Improvement Programs Classification Main programs Classification Main programs Medical check-up for workers and their families Health Fund [Stop Smoking, Fitness Fund] Psychological Counseling for employees Invitation to Humanities and Creation, Health and their families Arts [Guest lectures] Communication, Promotion Continued illness response system Cultural events and performances and Empathy Program [Prevention/treatment/leave, etc.] Volunteer activities for (CCE) Program Group accident insurance for workers social contribution and their families Health information seminars In-house Promy basketball game, clubs Financial & Non-Financial Statements Family Friendly Management Implementation of Systems for the Protection of Mothers In an effort to encourage childbirth for employees, Dongbu Insurance adopts a wide array of systems. For instance, the company helps pregnant and postpartum female workers to increase psychological and physical wellbeing by offering 90-days’ maternity leave, while supporting them with medical costs for childbirth or abortion to mitigate their economic burdens. In 2016, the return to work rates of female workers who were on maternity leave has been 89.9%. Other organizational support for mothers includes prenatal diagnosis leave, paternity leave, child-care leave, etc. In addition, the company provides the workers with child-care services and opened the Promy Loving Child Kindergarten to foster a safe and pleasant child-care environment in the company’s Dongja building in 2014. The kindergarten is operated by the Puruni Child Care Foundation on a commission basis whose expertise and experience has been proven. As of March 2017, a total of 34 children attend the kindergarten. Telecommuting Outcomes Telecommuting System The telecommuting system adopted by Dongbu Insurance facilitates female workers to smoothly carry The rate of complete (Unit: %) supporting duties within out consultation and services at home. As of December 2016, 36 female employees including 29 10 minutes returning workers work from home. 82.3 69.6 64.8 Key Family Friendly Management Program Program Details 2014 2015 2016 Provides congratulatory bonus (KRW in 0.2 million) to promote birthrate, and KRW 1million of congratulatory bonus for the birth of a third Childbirth congratulatory system Provides all school expenses and preferential hiring to surviving children of employees who worked for Dongbu for three or more years Sponsoring program for surviving dependents Offers employees a paid half-day off on his/her spouse’s birthday Day-off for spouse birthday Presents admission gifts for workers whose children enter elementary, middle-school, high school or university. Gift for matriculating child A paid half-day leave system for prenatal checkups for healthy female workers and their babies since July, 2009 Prenatal diagnosis leave A system allowing parenting employees to apply for shortened working hours for a year Shortened working hours during parenting period Offered max.90 days for employees whose parents, partners, children or parents in law are in need of care due to an illness or accident Family support leave 66 / 67 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Welfare & Benefits Selective Welfare & Benefit System Under the vision of ‘a great corporation where the talented gather and work together’, Dongbu Insurance offers a range of welfare and benefits systems to motivate all members to take pride in the company and maintain a high level of workplace engagement in a pleasant work environment based on trust of the company. To attain this goal, the company sets up and implements core strategic values including ‘internalizing core corporate values and six shared values’, ‘Actualizing a global level GWP’, ‘Operating custom-made welfare & benefit system’, ‘establishing win-win labor management culture’ etc. From 2016 onwards, the company has actively reflected the government’s policies including the introduction of a salary peak system, retirement extension, etc., while continuing to uncover practically necessary welfare and benefit systems for workers by identifying their diverse needs via surveys, Opinions&Suggestions, various meetings, external consulting and academic research, among others. Classification Key program Classification Key program •Retirement Pension •Various leave system including annual leave •Selective welfare & benefit system Increase and sick day •In-house clubs Productivity •Maternity leave •Summer camp for Dongbu families •Holiday home support Secure •In-house kindergarten Business •Commute cost support Continuity •Company housing and living cost support •Ergonomic workplace •Flexible working hours Healthy •Improvement of working conditions •Working from home arrangements Working (illumination, noise, indoor air quality, humidity, •Paid maternity/paternity leave in excess Environment temperature) of legally required minimum •Loans for purchasing/renting houses •Long/short-term study abroad •Condolence money support •Commissioned training for talented workers •Small credit loan Improve •‌Various allowances and language training •‌School expenses and admission gift for Welfare & employee’s children Business expense support Benefits •Sponsoring program for surviving dependents Prowess •Award system •‌Medical examinations & medical expense •Fitness facilities or contributions to external support fitness programs •Health/nutrition provisions Monitoring for Better Work Environment Dongbu Insurance conducts an annual Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI) to discover and address any PerforTarget Indicators mance level Unit issues regarding work environments and to establish systematic, company-wide measures to resolve the issues. As the ESI is carried out with an emphasis on diverse groups of employees by their ranks, Industry 0.02 0.02 % sectors, departments, occupational groups (by gender) and reflects their opinions, it makes it possible to hazard rate increase the satisfaction of employees as internal customers with rigorous improvements of the system Employee welfare and based on their feedback. Also their voices form a type of guideline for the company to determine what KRW in benefit 14.3 million kinds of health promotion and cultural event programs should be implemented, resulting in a climb in expenses per person relevant indicators, which demonstrates the company’s assiduous efforts to elevate the level of employee satisfaction and welfare and benefits. Employee 83.3 85.0 points satisfaction Support for Re-employment and Secure Elderly Life Dongbu Insurance helps retirees to have a smooth transition to a secure and contented elderly life by assisting them with re-employment. Retired or resigned employees with excellent performance records will be offered an opportunity to be rehired to organizations of the relevant occupations or subsidiaries. It is increasingly proven to be an effective welfare and benefit system to allow both employees and the company to enjoy mutual benefits: it enables such employees to continue on the payroll whereas the company can take advantage of their know-how and expertise. On the other hand, the company operates two types of pension plans, the defined benefits (DB) pension plan and defined contribution (DC) pension plan for the purpose of secure management of retirement pensions. Operation of the pension fund is commissioned to multiple financial institutions, including Dongbu Life Insurance, Korea Investment & Securities, Hyundai Marine and Fire Insurance, Samsung Life Insurance, Hana Bank, Shinhan Bank, and Suhyup Bank, in a bid to minimize any associated risks. Besides, it assiduously abides by the relevant legal standards on severance pay to be provided in proportion to individuals’ service years. Financial & Non-Financial Statements Performance Indicators Unit 2014 2015 2016 Remark Executives Persons 38 38 32 Status of Employees Persons 4,954 4,684 4,509 employees Total Persons 4,992 4,722 4,541 Senior managers/ Male Persons 508 475 538 Male/Female Rate: junior managers Female Persons 6 6 7 Male 98.7%, Female 1.3% Assistant Male Persons 459 457 523 Male/Female Rate: managers Female Persons 38 44 77 Male 87.2%, Female 12.8% Status by rank Junior assistant Male Persons 788 746 674 and gender Male/Female Rate: managers/ Female Persons 1,272 1,217 1,207 Male 35.8%, Female 64.2% staff members Specialists/ Male Persons 301 307 248 Male/Female Rate: consultants Female Persons 1,582 1,432 1,235 Male 16.7%, Female 83.3% Total Persons 4,954 4,684 4,509 College graduates1) Persons 74 73 64 Recruitment Experienced workers Persons 354 163 126 status Female office workers Persons 41 58 Total Persons 471 295 190 Recruitment Total employees Persons 471 295 284 status of Female employees Persons 314 178 181 Female Workers Female high school graduates Persons 141 59 88 Locally-hired employees overseas2) Persons 41 45 50 Current employed total Conversion into regular workers Persons 20 52 38 Male % 46.6 43.2 42.4 Promotion rate Female % 46 43.2 46.1 Total training hours hours 456,835 370,246 347,728 Training Hours Training per person hours 90.9 77.9 76.6 Training Total training expenses KRW in million 5,193 5,478 4,903 expenses Per-capita training expenses KRW in million 1.03 1.15 1.08 No.of employees obtained Persons 3,121 3,280 2,604 qualification certificates Major Training Employees with insurance outcomes Persons 859 931 985 qualification certificates Insurance qualification ratio % 28.2 30.1 31.8 Based on full-time workers Employees participating in study groups Persons 2,210 1,438 1,220 Including employees at affiliates ESI satisfaction for employee education and training 3) Points 81.4 82.5 83.3 Based on full-time workers No. of employees engaged in self-diagnosis Persons 2,713 2,488 2,450 & devising self-development plan KRW in Per-capita productivity 33.8 35.9 37.8 100 million KRW in Welfare & Total welfare & benefit expenses 476 483 454 Based on full-time workers 100 million benefit expenses Per-capita welfare & KRW in million 15.1 15.2 14.3 benefit expenses No. of leave users before and Persons 131 141 108 after childbirth Status of No. of childcare leave users Persons 134 118 157 maternity leave No. of Male % 100 100 use employees Based on those who returned to who returned Female % 73.7 70.3 89.9 work in the same year from Male Persons 106 112 89 Separation Female Persons 53 39 52 Separation rates % 5.1 4.7 4.4 No of retired Persons 0 0 0 1) 2014 and 2015 data have been modified to reflect the no, of person who resided during the education & training courses. 2) 2014 data have been modified to accommodate the change in estimation criteria for recruited employees. 3) 2014 and 2015 data have been modified in accordance with altered date in note 1) . 68 / 69 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Partners Establish Cooperative Win-win Relationship with Partners Partner Organization It can be said that the sales partners who sell our products and services and claim adjustment partners dealing with claims for insurance accidents constitute our critical assets and the primary channel to deliver value to customers. Sales partners can be divided into exclusive channels such as exclusive life insurance partners called ‘Prime Agent (PA)’ and branches and freelance channels encompassing corporate branches titled ‘General Agency (GA)’ and cross planners who are entitled to sell life and nonlife insurance policies. Dongbu Insurance is extending its strategic channel from the traditional face-toface sales and Tele-Marketing (TM) channels to more complicated models such as Total Consulting (TC) and Life Design (LD) channels for further diversiﬁcation by different characteristics of channels. On the other hand, claim adjustment partners are service providers who ensure smooth claim adjustment for customers including hospitals, car repair shops, and non-life insurers, among others. Sales partners Claim adjustment partners Exclusive planners entitled to sell Dongbu Accident PA Companies which investigate any accidents Insurance’s products only investigation/ covered by car, long-term and general Exclusive claim insurance and claim adjusters channel Branches sealed an exclusive contract with adjustment Branches Dongbu Insurance and sell the company’s Organizations which offer medical services in products only Hospitals connection with insurance-covered accidents and investigate medical disputes Any non-exclusive branches and financial GA organizations able to sell insurance policies Onsite from all insurers Companies which dispatch staff members to dispatches/ Freelance car accident scenes and for emergencies such emergency channel Life insurance agents whose primary as vehicle malfunctions dispatches Cross business is life insurance sales, with planner permission to handle non-life insurance Promy Network of excellent car repair shops products Network approved by Dongbu Insurance in Korea Diversified PA Communications Dongbu Insurance has a PA Opinions&Suggestions, system in place in order to promote engaged communication with onsite PAs. In an attempt to listen to the voices in the field, any suggestions registered to the Opinions&Suggestions system, will be directly delivered to headquarters and relevant departments while the adopted proposals will be reflected in the company’s policies and institutions. In addition, there is a range of communication channels available for sales partners including Dongbu Round Table (DBRT) seminars, the cross-selling team leader course, the GA trainer course, the mentor course, the training coach course and the excellent TC seminar course, and more. Furthermore, the company holds an annual award ceremony for excellent PAs based on the results of the performance evaluations of performances, customer satisfaction and retention rates while further enhancing sales partners’ satisfaction and pride by inducting PAs whose contributions to the advancement of the company are relevant into the DBRT Hall of Fame. Broaden Partnerships with Claim Adjustment Partners With a view to providing a better service for customers who have experienced motor vehicle accidents, Dongbu Insurance selects and manages excellent claim adjustment partners. In order to maintain smooth communication with partners, it also runs various communication programs for partners and uses it as a platform to collect their opinions and others. Since 2011, the Annual Partnership Conference has been held to increase maintenance partners’ pride and loyalty. In 2016, the conference welcomed a total of 98 firms (71 excellent car repair shops, 8 car parts suppliers and 11 rent-a-cars) and presented ethical management education and BP case studies and shared win-win growth strategies. In addition, the company continues to motivate its maintenance 2016 Partnership Conference partners to attain ceaseless mutual growth by holding special training for managers for 180 partners throughout Korea to deal with a variety of issues including how to maintain growth via customer satisfaction, how to improve logistics management, directions in which to guide future networks, discussions on car repair culture development model, and more. Financial & Non-Financial Statements Reinforce Competitiveness of Partners Sales Partners’ Settlement Support Commissions refer to not just a performance-reward system for insurance soliciting activities but also an institution reflecting the company’s policies. Hence, Dongbu Insurance enables effective implementation of strategies by frequently sharing the significance and directions of commissions with sales partners via in-house broadcasting and regular education contents. Also, the company increases its long-term employee support fee and scholarship for new PAs and presents different classes of objectives for different performance groups to encourage them to keep up with sales efforts. The company’s efforts to motivate their sales partners are also apparent in various support provided for PAs with less than 5 years’ experience: for instance, the company has changed screening criteria from relative evaluations by sales performance into absolute evaluations to be given to everyone who reaches a certain target for the purpose of presenting them with long-term visions. Effective Work Supports by Channels To stimulate effective growth of its sales partners, the company reformed the branch composition into standard, TC(Total Consulting), general and specialized branches in 2015 and redefined the obligations and roles of a staff organization for more effective work support. The overhaul of the organization was followed by other measures to maximize branch productivities ranging from revamping the operation system of staff organization and graded operating expenses according to different characteristics of branches to enhanced operation efficiency of outskirt base branches, and others. In 2017, in an attempt to increase customer satisfaction, customer response duties were extended to members of all business groups. Specialized branch General branch • Discover new channels Standard branch TC branch • Nurture talented • Strengthen support • Fortify Total Consulting and sharpen channels’ PAs specialized for the aged PA’s • Foster Future competitive edge in consulting customer retention PA Leaders • Provide work support and works for a staff organization Business Case LD (Life Design) CenterSupports for Career-Interrupted Women within Sales Organization To face the challenges of ever-diversifying changing sales environment and more disparate customer needs, Dongbu Insurance operates diversified insurance sales channels. As an example, the company has beefed up and expanded its TC channels that offer more proactive consulting services through phone consultation and additional consultation services by visits throughout the country. In particular, the company has run a LD (Life Design) Center established specifically for a group of career-interrupted female workers since 2014. As a specialized sales organization, the LD center features members who are mostly female workers with a tertiary education whose ages range from 25 to 45. It provides these women whose careers have been interrupted due to marriage or childcare not only with an opportunity to develop a new career but also with support to grow into professional elite workforce with a high-level of settlement support expenses and activity support funds. In 2016, the company launched a CS (Cross-selling) Center led by relatively young and highly educated women within TC channels to foster them as a new growth engine to receive more diverse groups of customers. Taking into account the organizational characteristics in which most workers are working mothers, the company allows them to strike a balance between work and family with a work LD Center Children Invitation Event ‘LD Family Day’ environment in which employees freely manage their working hours. 70 / 71 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Stock Analysis System to Enhance Consulting Capabilities It is the fundamental basis of sales activity to accurately examine the information registered by customers before offering a consulting service. Dongbu Insurance runs an advanced stock analysis system to produce data, which could facilitate sales activities of PAs and others. When customers agree to and enter simple information via a mobile platform, they can view and recognize the insurance policy details displayed in numerical data at a glance, thereby contributing to the rise of PAs’ consulting capabilities. Improved Efficiency of Claim Adjustment Work with OCR Solution Dongbu Insurance sets out to introduce the OCR solution in order to: reduce inefficiency arising from a continued increase in the number of accidents and the growing number of claim adjusters; secure the compatibility of claim adjustment data and; achieve a wider applicability. By building the system, the company expects to be able to simplify the process of insurance claims, and at the same time, to increase the efficiency of claim adjustment by adopting cutting-edge technologies such as automatic data recognition, automatic document assortment by document types, and QR code utilization, and more and ultimately maximize customer satisfaction. Enhance the Sense of Ethics of Partners Dongbu Insurance takes excellent cooperation and customer reliability as a yardstick to select hospitals and doctors as its partners to ensure accurate and objective diagnosis to avoid any false diagnosis and overtreatment. Its medical advisory network consists of medical specialists helping to prevent unethical behaviors such as abusive uses of insurance benefits and the problems of overcharging, so it helps to make sure a claim adjustment process is accurate and unbiased for accidents covered by insurance. Furthermore, the company takes measures to prevent insurance-related crimes before they happen and to eradicate insincere sales activities through various organizations including consumer protection, SIU, etc. The efforts are also made in the course of annually imposing more stringent penalties on moral risks and incomplete sales, etc., and of elevating the level of ethical awareness of partners by requesting them to complete written oaths to honor ethical rules and laws for all sales partners prior to regular training to cultivate a sales culture that meets the expectation of customers. Performance Indicators Unit 2014 2015 2016 Remarks Sales Partners Prime agent Persons 14,079 13,694 13,462 Cross planner Persons 9,825 9,702 9,512 Private branch Agency 3,818 3,325 3,097 Corporate branch Agency 2,010 1,776 1,701 Financial institutions Agency 39 39 38 Claim adjustment Emergency dispatch network Agency 469 459 453 partners for automobile malfunctions On-side dispatch network to Agency 526 505 517 deal with car accidents Specialized maintenance Agency 416 400 390 network1) Accident investigators & Agency 11 11 17 Damage Adjusters Family Satisfaction Index (FSI) Points 70.4 70.3 71.8 The 13th month retention rate of long-term Insurance2) % 81.9 84.6 84.7 Emergency dispatch service satisfaction Points 93.6 93.7 97.1 The rate of e-contracts of long-term insurance % 19.4 23.9 33.3 Cumulative number of Number of new PK certificate holders Persons 33,530 35,199 37,693 people by years Smart pad penetration rates Smart pad penetration rate % 43.7 44.3 52.5 for sales partners Number of cases handled per partner Cases 314 360 358 KRW in Amount of reported insurance frauds 974 1,186 1,154 100 million 1) Data in 2014, 2015 modified by change in collection method 2) Data in 2014, 2015 modified by change in collection method Financial & Non-Financial Statements Environment Environmental Management System Strategies and Principles of Environmental Management Dongbu Insurance strives to make a stride to be a leading company in the field of the environmental management based on three principles of the environmental management including specialization of environmental risk management, minimization of environmental footprint, and the expansion of green finance and environmental project. The company is committed to ensure more sustainable recycling of resources by establishing and operating environmental management guidelines, thereby minimizing environmental impact of its management activities. Become the leading company in the field of the environmental management by 2020 Lower CO2 emissions by 5% by 2020 4. Minimize business impacts 1. Strengthen R&Ds on on the environment 8. Provide environmentally & environmental risks 5. Encourage business partners to socially friendly products 2. Forge international ties for joint engage in environmental 9. Operate and invest in green efforts and establish cooperative management industry assets systems 6. GHG reduction activities 10. Support client’s green 3. Provide more opportunities for 7. Expand the areas under the management stakeholder participation control of environmental index Widen the green finance Specialize environmental Minimize environmental and environmental risk management footprints businesses Environmental Management Certifications To establish a systematic environmental management system, the company is committed to obtain various certifications of environmental management system. In 2009, the company achieved the certifications of environmental management system constituted by International Standardization Organization (ISO) while introducing a green management system (KSI 7001/7002) and Weather Management System certification minimize any losses arising from natural disasters. Certification Contents Environmental To practice environmentally friendly management at society level, the company Management System implemented innovation projects to tackle climate change risk such as training ISO (ISO 14001) 14001 Environment Management System Auditors and the management of heavy rains. The company won the first green management system, ‘KSI 7001/7002’ in the non-life Green Management insurance industry in 2013 in recognition of its environmental efforts encompassing System (KSI 7001/7002) the attempts to ensure effective resource and energy use and to minimize GHG emissions and the generation of environmental pollutants. The company obtained a Weather Management System certification from the Korea Weather Management Meteorological Administration as it minimized economic damages due to meteorological System Certification disasters by utilizing weather information. Environmental Management Research and Consultations Dongbu Insurance developed insurance products to cover any liabilities associated with environmental pollutions in line with government policies on environmental management including the enforcement of the Chemical Material Management Act and the Act on Liability for Compensation for Damage Caused by Pollution and Relief from Damage, and others, while it launched consultations on the external effects of leaks of hazardous chemicals at customers’ worksites in 2016. Furthermore, the company is committed to guide its management activities through preemptive risk management with continuous R&D activities on natural disasters such as heavy rains and typhoons, which underpins the company’s effective environmental management by providing customers with consultations of natural disaster risks. 72 / 73 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Energy Use Dongbu Insurance relies on bulk electrical supply by the Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO) as its main energy source along with fossil fuels (LNG, diesel and petroleum) for heating and emergency power generators. Energy consumption was calculated in accordance with energy calorie conversion standards in the attached table of the Domestic Energy Act revised on December 30, 2011. Although the Company acknowledges the significance of using renewable energy including bio fuels, solar energy and fuel cells, it has not yet implemented the relevant generating facilities in consideration of the domestic new and renewable market environment. The company intends to make a strategic introduction of new and renewable power generating facilities in its major buildings considering market maturity and the declining price trend of power-generating facilities. Dongbu Insurance strives to ensure effective energy consumption taking into account ascending absolute energy consumption stemming from the increased areas of its office buildings so as to minimize GHG emissions per space. To this end, the company sets specific energy consumption targets by different items and measures the performance of the nine domestic corporate buildings and leased offices in the country. In calculating the amounts of GHG emissions, the company applies coefficients set forth in the IPCC GL 2006; GHG emissions from sales branches and overseas offices are excluded. Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope1) – Gas and Fuel Dongbu Insurance defines air-conditioners and heating boilers, absorption-type water coolers and heaters, emergency generators and corporate vehicles as direct GHG emission sources and endeavors to reduce direct GHG emissions by continuously placing limits on cooling and heating temperatures and more. Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emission (Scope2) – Electricity For the effective reduction of indirect GHG emissions as the byproduct of electricity utilization, the company is replacing its lighting, the major source of electric power load, with LED lamps. Also, what underpins the company’s drive to lower its indirect GHG emissions is the engaged participation of employees, as they enable the continued adoption of relevant campaigns such as turning off lights during non-business hours, and setting a limit on cooling/heating temperatures, among others. Others Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emission (Scope3) Travel distance, paper consumption Dongbu Insurance has in place an integrated control system of paper consumption and a cross-country business trip management system for employees for indirect GHG emission management in a bid to explore opportunity factors and to control associated risks in respect of indirect impact on climate change due to its business operations. Waste Management To assure on-going improvement of waste discharge, Dongbu Insurance strictly separates between recyclable and land-fill wastes and manages accordingly. Taking account of the fact that most wastes from the company’s office buildings are shredded paper and aged office supplies, the company encourages employees to avoid producing unnecessary print outs and to use and recycle reusable papers and office supplies, etc. , while introducing an electronic approval system to make a substantial advance in reducing waste from the work environment. Financial & Non-Financial Statements Disaster Response System Establish Disaster Recovery System The company’s next-generation disaster recovery system was established to beef up internal resilience against emergency situations such as disasters and secure its ability to provide customers with uninterrupted customer services. From 2016, the company has been expanding relevant businesses and branches as well as IT systems with continued repairs and maintenance of the systems. In addition, regular disaster recovery and failure response drills are conducted to prevent any problems occurring in the work system. Certification Contents Cycle • Review the feasibility of initial and emergency responses, work resumption, Mock BCP drill disaster recovery plans and identify areas for improvement (IT sector, 2016) Drill to tackle open • Detect and block mock attacks on open servers such as web and web server hacking email servers after scanning the servers to reveal their weaknesses Annual Drill to cope with • Detect, block and remove malicious codes after spreading emails with malicious codes and pseudo-malicious codes to email accounts of internal employees emails • Emergency responses to electronic infiltration such as hacking and DoS Anti-DDoS drill (denial of service) attacks • Establish a business continuity plan for emergency events such as disasters Disaster/accident • Verify the feasibility of recovery system operation/recovery process as well restoration as system transition • Check on the maintenance of emergency contact systems via surprise drills Biannual Backup outcome • Test the pertinence of backup system operation and backup recovery plan simulation • Verify the recovery time and integrity of backup data Obstacle simulation • Check out business reliability in operation after simulated failure Quarter against IT failures 74 / 75 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Performance Energy Amount of GHG Consumption Emissions Objectives for 2020: Objectives for 2020: 5% reduction in 5% reduction energy consumption in GHG emissions compared to 2015 compared to 2015 Indicators Unit 2014 2015 2016 Remarks Electric power MWh 53,134 52,637 54,264 Gas m3 1,117,856 1,172,983 1,301,531 Energy consumption Fuel m3 97,843 103,204 95,859 Tap water m3 391,638 384,771 413,761 Direct CO2 emissions tonCO2eq 2,884 3,034 3,339 (gas and fuel) Indirect CO2 emissions All business sites GHG emission tonCO2eq 22,114 21,750 22,221 (electricity) (9 corporate buildings and intensity leased ofﬁces in Korea) Other indirect CO2 emissions (travel distance, tonCO2eq 492 paper consumption) Discharge of landﬁll wastes ton 1,025 947 913 Waste management Discharge of recycling ton 1,115 1,101 983 wastes Water Water usage1) Mio.m3 391,638 384,771 413,761 Promotion of efﬁcient Domestic travel Km 3,200,193 2,927,952 2,644,389 business trips 1) The company annually carries out the 3rd party assurance, which was assumed by the Korea Productivity Center in 2016. (Unit: box, KRW) Average reduction Purchased Purchase cost Total purchase Indicators per box compared Total savings amount(Box) per box cost to other papers Reduction in Eco-friendly copy paper purchased in bulk(75g) 7,606 14,900 113,329,400 6,290 47,841,740 paper purchase cost Eco-friendly copy paper purchased in bulk(80g) 33,139 15,790 523,264,810 5,410 179,281,990 Sum 40,745 636,594,210 227,123,730 Financial & Non-Financial Statements 비재무 성과 APPENDIX Stakeholder Engagement 76 Materiality Test 77 GRI G4 Index 78 Independent Auditor’s Report 80 Financial Statements 81 Operations Evaluation Report of Internal Accounting Manager 85 Third Party’s Assurance 86 Greenhouse Gas Veriﬁcation Statement 88 Membership Status 89 Human Rights Policy 91 Tax Strategy 92 Dongbu Insurance History 93 Major Accolades 94 76 / 77 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Stakeholder Engagement Dongbu Insurance defines its core stakeholders as customers, shareholders, investors, partners and community among others. In times of major decision-making and establishing management strategies, the company proactively reflects their opinions and needs. What has been determined by the company’s decision-making system is disclosed by communication channels designed for different stakeholders. Monitoring is also conducted through direct surveys such as internal and external Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI), employee satisfaction survey, Family Satisfaction Index (FSI), online reputation survey system and indirect surveys such as sales performance of newly launched products and stock price movements. The results of monitoring help to form a basis for management’s decision making and for continued Improvement. Stakeholder Communication Process • Identify ‌ stakeholder & segmentation by groups • Collect ‌ opinions of stakeholders and Customers, employees, partners, improve monitoring Define shareholders, local communities, Stakeholders financial authorities, etc. ‌Customer satisfaction survey, employee satisfaction survey, partner satisfaction survey, stock Stakeholder prices, performance of new Communication • Elicit key requirements of stakeholders product, reputation survey, etc. ‌VOC, customer review group, Follow-up Stakeholder employee councils and surveys, monitoring Opinions&Suggestions, conferences, Communication IR, Korea Non-life Association, social • C  ommunicate vision, core values, contribution activities, etc. Process management goals and strategies with stakeholders ‌New products, customer notifications, broadcasting media, homepage, The management • R eflect their requirements to strategies financial statements, shareholders’ decision-making and make decisions accordingly meeting, etc. Communication of the decision-making BOD, management conference body, etc. outcomes 2016 Major Issues of Interests for Stakeholders Ranking Internal Stakeholders External Stakeholders 1 Compliance of environmental laws and regulations, and provisions Compliance of environmental laws and regulations, and provisions Environmental management strategies, policies, system 2 Develop eco-friendly products for environmental protection advancement Establishment and reinforcement of sustainable management 3 Increased investment in environmental protection strategy system 4 Strengthening welfare & beneﬁts system for employees Strengthen risk management considering ESG factors Forbid employee discrimination (based on gender, age, minority, 5 Revitalization of grievance process regarding labor and human rights ethnicity, etc.) Decision-Making Process of Management Dongbu Insurance makes decisions for important or urgent management issues through the BOD, committees by different sectors, management conference body and others. A swift and easy decision-making process is assisted by the electronic payment system, and the outcomes are transparently disclosed through the company’s portal system where employees can access the information at any time. Dongbu Insurance advances its operation system in line with changes in management environment and strategies. Appendix Materiality Test Materiality Assessment Process Dongbu Insurance makes the most out of the materiality assessment that fully reflects various issues in and out of the company and stakeholders’ opinion to derive core issues with possibility to influence the company’s sustainable management and this sustainable management report will allow the company to transparently report its sustainable management activities and outcomes regarding the core issues. Step 1 Organize ‌ an issue pool via ‌ Step 2 Materiality mapping and key Step 3 Validity review and report multiple analysis issue identification • External environment analysis • Relevance • Reflecting internal opinions Benchmarking of leading enterprises, Connectivity between ﬁnancial/ ‌Consultation between sustainable media research insurance industries management TF depts. Reviews of international standards Consistency with short/long-term ‌Review by the sustainable management (GRI G4, ISO 26000) visions committee Reflection of industrial issues (GRI Industrial Index, DJSI) • Impact • Reports on core issues Survey of external stakeholders Key issues of interest by stakeholders ‌Detailed reports on activities and Social issue trend performance over derived issues & with • Internal environment analysis an emphasis on performance Observance of legal rules and Review of internal management data regulations Key issues of sustainable managements • Report of potential issues Analysis of major presentations made by ‌Reports on issues specifically managed CEO by the corporate on an ongoing basis. Survey of internal stakeholders [MaterialityTest Matrix] [Material Issues] Interest of stakeholders (impact) Material Issue GRI G4 Aspect Issue Reporting Page Develop eco-friendly Product Portfolio products for environmental 24~25 protection Develop eco-friendly products for environmental protection Strengthen risk Organizational management considering 50~53 Proﬁle ESG factors Establish fair performance appraisal system Carry out education Training and Carry out education programs to strengthen the employee’s capabilities programs to strengthen the 26~28 Education employee’s capabilities Strengthen risk management considering ESG factors Develop product and service Product Portfolio 23 considering social aspect Implement strategic social contribution activities Product and Service Retain customers with Develop product and service considering social aspect 36~40 Labeling customer-satisfaction services Retain customers with customer-satisfaction services Implement strategic social Local Communities 32~35 contribution activities Organizational Entry into global market and Stabilize management performance 16~17 Proﬁle expansion of business sites Prohibit unfair trade and relevant laws Entry into global market and expansion of business sites Economic Stabilize management 12~17 Performance performances Provide correct product and service information Training and Establish fair performance 63 Proﬁt maximization by asset management Education appraisal system Economic Proﬁt maximization through 18~19 Performance asset management Prohibit any unfair transaction Anti-competitive and abide by the relevant laws 46~47 Behavior and regulations Business Relevance Product and Service Provide correct product and 36~39 Labeling service information 78 / 79 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI G4 Index G4 General & Speciﬁc Standard Disclosures Full List General standard Disclosure Aspect Indicator Description Pages Additional information Strategy and G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 03 Analysis G4-2 Provides a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 03, 52~53 G4-3 Report the name of the organization AboutThis Report G4-4 The primary brands, products, and services 12~13, 22~25 G4-5 The location of the organization’s headquarters AboutThis Report The number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has G4-6 04~05 significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics G4-7 The nature of ownership and legal form AboutThis Report, 42 G4-8 The markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) 16~17 G4-9 Scale of the organization 04~05 Organizational G4-10 Total workforce 05, 67 Profile All employees except for G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements GRI Index registered directors according to employment regulations G4-12 The organization’s supply chain 68~70 G4-13 Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain GRI Index None significant changes G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 50~53 List externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the G4-15 89~90 organization subscribes or endorses Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations G4-16 90 in which the organization G4-17 List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents AboutThis Report G4-18 The process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 76~77 Identified Material G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 77 Aspects and G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization 77 Boundaries G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization 77 G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements GRI Index Included relevant information G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries GRI Index None significant changes G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 76 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 76 Stakeholder Engagement G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 76 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to G4-27 76 those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided AboutThis Report G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) AboutThis Report G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) AboutThis Report Report Profile G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents AboutThis Report G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen AboutThis Report G4-33 Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 86~87 Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body 42~45 Ethics and G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 46~49 Integrity Speciﬁc Standard Disclosure Aspect Indicator Description Pages Additional information DMA 06 Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 55~57, 81~84 Performance EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 71~74 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 66 EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation 63 Market Presence EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation 67 Indirect Economic EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 32~35 Impact EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 32~35 Procurement EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 68~70 Practices EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 74 Materials EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 74 EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 72, 74 EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization 72, 74 Energy EN5 Energy intensity 74 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 72, 74 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 72, 74 EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1) 72, 74 EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 2) 72, 74 Emissions EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 3) 72, 74 EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 72, 74 EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 72, 74 Appendix Speciﬁc Standard Disclosure Aspect Indicator Description Pages Additional information Products and Services EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 24~25 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws Compliance EN29 GRI Index No punishment and regulations Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, Transport EN30 74 and transporting members of the workforce Overall EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 74 LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 67 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of Employment LA2 66 operation LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 67 Labor/Management LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements 30 Relations Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor LA5 64 and advise on occupational health and safety programs Occupational Health Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, and Safety LA6 64 by region and by gender LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 64 DMA 26 LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee, by gender, and by employee category 67 Training and Education Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them LA10 27~28 in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee LA11 63 category Diversity and Equal Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, LA12 67 Opportunity minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Equal remuneration for LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation 63 women and men Labor Practices LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 31 Grievance Mechanisms Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or HR1 47 that underwent human rights screening Investment Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are HR2 47 relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Non-discrimination HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken GRI Index No discrimination Freedom of Association Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be and Collective HR4 30~31 violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Bargaining Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute Child Labor HR5 89 to the effective abolition of child labor Forced or Compulsory Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to HR6 89 Labor contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Assessment HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 47~48 Human Rights Grievance HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 31 Mechanisms DMA 32 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development Local Communities SO1 32~35 programs SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 32~35 SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 47 Anti-corruption SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 48 Anti-competitive DMA 46 Behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes 48 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and Compliance SO8 GRI Index No punishment regulations Grievance Mechanisms SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 46~48 for Impacts on Society Customer Health Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety PR2 GRI Index No punishment and Safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes DMA 36 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information PR3 37~38 Product and Service and labeling, And percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements Labeling Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service PR4 GRI Index No violation incident information and labeling, by type of outcomes PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 61 Marketing PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products GRI Index No relevant product Communications Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 60~61 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use Compliance PR9 GRI Index No violation incident of products and services DMA 22 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each business line broken down FS7 23 Product Portfolio by purpose Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each business line FS8 24~25 broken down by purpose Active Ownership FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening 19 80 / 81 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Independent Auditors’ Report To the shareholders and Board of Directors of Dongbu Insurance Co., Ltd. We have audited the attached consolidated financial statements of Dongbu Insurance Co., Ltd., which comprise the consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2015 and 2016, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flow for the years then ended. Accountability of the Top Management for the Consolidated Financial Statements The top management is eligible to write these consolidated financial statements and indicate them fairly according to the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (“K-IFRS”). It is also accountable for internal control necessary to write the consolidated financial statements with no critical misstatements resulting from irregularities or errors. Accountability of Auditors Our accountability is to express our opinions on the consolidated financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in conformity with K-IFRS, which is a standard that requires us to comply with ethical requirements and to gain rational confidence of possible presence of distorted indications of criticality on the consolidated financial statements. The audit includes the implementation of a procedure to collect evidence for auditing on the amounts and disclosure of the consolidated financial statements. The procedure might vary depending on the judgments of auditors including assessment of distorted indication risks of criticality in the consolidated financial statements resulting from irregularities or errors. We consider internal control of the corporate writing of the consolidated financial statements and fair indication to design an adequate auditing procedure to assess such risks. However, this is not to indicate opinions of the effectiveness of internal control. Our audit includes not only the assessment of overall indication in the consolidated financial statements but also the adequacy of the accounting policy adopted by top management and rationality of accounting estimates devised by top management. We believe that the auditing evidence we collected is sufficient and adequate as grounds for auditing opinions. Auditors’ Opinions In our opinions, the companies’ consolidated financial statements fairly indicate financial performance and cash flows in the criticality aspect of K-IFRS during both of the reporting periods ending on December 31, 2015 and 2016, respectively as well as the current financial status for Dongbu Insurance Co., Ltd. Han-young accounting ﬁrm 111 Yeoidogongwon-ro, Youngdeungpo-gu, Seoul President Seo, Jin-Seok March 9, 2017 This report is effective as of the auditors’ report date (March 9, 2017). Certain subsequent events or circumstances that could signiﬁcantly affect the accompanying consolidated ﬁnancial statements may have occurred between the auditors’ report date and the time the auditors’ report is read. This may result in modiﬁcations of the auditors’ report. Appendix Financial Statements The 50th as of December 31, 2016 Statement of Financial Position The 49th as of December 31, 2015 The 48th as of December 31, 2014 (Unit: KRW) Account The 50th, December 31, 2016 The 49th, December 31, 2015 The 48th, December 31, 2014 Assets 1. Cash and deposits 628,960,583,532 1,333,205,572,076 1,068,935,566,776 2. Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss 694,496,955,972 913,500,220,892 674,799,703,425 3. Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 17,828,683,270,050 12,683,119,871,988 10,991,904,829,025 4. Held-to-maturity ﬁnancial assets 2,068,688,708,560 1,702,931,191,681 5. Loans and receivables 9,008,406,073,587 7,914,282,187,960 7,258,702,839,512 6. Derivative ﬁnancial assets designated as hedges 4,202,881,993 5,780,295,553 17,585,443,598 7. Investments in subsidiaries and associates 644,385,675,785 609,139,722,115 541,660,899,235 8. Property, plant and equipment 330,719,707,656 334,405,820,235 328,536,389,443 9. Investment real estate 831,144,645,722 837,257,201,348 822,465,655,201 10. Intangible assets 113,172,634,891 146,984,025,924 217,412,427,011 11. Reinsurance assets 725,485,965,261 752,773,714,192 510,961,340,478 12. Other assets 1,742,275,279,937 1,843,390,930,057 1,841,331,084,814 13. Separate account assets 1,656,661,233,286 1,120,269,587,306 824,183,783,192 Total assets 34,208,594,907,672 30,562,797,858,206 26,801,411,153,391 Liabilities 1. Insurance contract liability 26,991,955,706,759 24,460,478,362,649 21,567,426,734,087 2. Financial liabilities at fair value through proﬁt or loss 3,948,120,000 2,503,934,075 3. Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities designated as hedges 265,672,853,304 133,297,476,302 79,563,168,499 4. Retirement beneﬁts 6,743,660,702 14,988,728,443 20,305,285,092 5. Other liabilities 588,125,110,383 597,928,436,503 549,263,540,930 6. Deferred tax liabilities 288,543,314,265 290,412,172,385 264,626,398,664 7. Current tax liabilities 63,080,322,804 34,446,401,731 26,017,720,370 8. Separate account liabilities 2,040,549,833,879 1,344,647,214,919 928,679,871,206 Total liabilities 30,244,670,802,096 26,880,146,912,932 23,438,386,652,923 Equity 1. Capital stock 35,400,000,000 35,400,000,000 35,400,000,000 2. Capital surplus 37,912,781,518 37,912,781,518 37,912,781,518 3. Capital adjustments (29,655,475,800) (29,655,475,800) (29,655,475,800) 4. Accumulated other comprehensive income 517,451,766,470 608,237,132,466 609,499,970,645 5. Retained earnings 3,402,815,033,388 3,030,756,507,090 2,709,867,224,105 (Additional bad debt reserve) (40,783,351,779) (33,643,566,068) (27,893,189,718) (Additional catastrophe reserve) (702,064,321,767) (642,073,297,158) (587,798,178,558) (Planned bad debt reserve) (4,234,556,501) (7,139,785,711) (5,750,376,350) (Planned catastrophe reserve) (69,296,339,329) (59,991,024,609) (54,275,118,600) Total equity 3,963,924,105,576 3,682,650,945,274 3,363,024,500,468 Total liabilities and equity 34,208,594,907,672 30,562,797,858,206 26,801,411,153,391 82 / 83 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 The 50th period from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016. Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income The 49th period from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015. The 48th period from January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014. (Unit: KRW) Account The 50th, December 31, 2016 The 49th, December 31, 2015 The 48th, December 31, 2014 Operating revenue 14,381,346,305,591 13,690,360,509,893 12,500,523,824,577 1. Premium income 12,006,370,419,464 11,447,416,033,232 10,668,115,238,518 2. Net reinsurance income 473,967,623,792 439,251,882,144 400,030,261,540 3. Compensation income 4. Interest income 722,444,227,307 686,330,786,167 658,770,326,156 5. Investment income from ﬁnancial instruments 430,300,859,506 394,535,745,074 261,794,328,971 6. Allowance for bad debts 354,457,428 7. Gain on foreign currency transaction 259,376,564,270 254,849,768,855 125,908,012,294 8. Commission received 11,667,551,740 9,988,075,544 8,173,890,303 9. Dividend income 235,221,143,206 244,307,661,037 170,126,545,976 10. Other operating revenues 170,201,476,248 171,887,641,820 170,416,783,894 11. Separate accounts income 71,796,440,058 41,792,916,020 36,833,979,497 Operating expenses 13,750,137,000,557 13,130,192,150,051 12,007,161,510,514 1. Provision for insurance contract liability 2,552,108,927,685 2,661,439,847,362 2,763,796,752,419 2. Insurance claims expenses 4,334,255,006,834 3,934,753,175,339 3,539,593,671,993 3. Refund paid 2,884,471,415,242 2,818,302,805,945 2,581,002,877,022 4. Dividend paid 3,481,766,830 3,210,947,941 3,072,105,830 5. Claim handling expenses 297,692,371,073 260,110,997,197 240,825,906,420 6. Reinsurance expenses 694,344,523,018 722,252,871,320 625,962,401,517 7. Operating and administrative expenses 1,232,312,562,761 1,144,776,656,000 1,073,136,442,285 8. Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 914,567,278,155 835,325,688,707 754,660,999,185 9. Compensation expenses 2,451,301,079 2,171,833,626 107,691,104 10. Interest expenses 1,277,322,760 1,719,999,614 2,496,233,739 11. Investment expense from ﬁnancial instruments 543,919,810,698 517,379,185,218 274,700,641,876 12. Allowances for possible loss 16,407,163,048 14,664,038,420 13. Loss on foreign currency transaction 65,913,304,194 30,543,513,752 16,289,090,968 14. Property management expenses 69,372,418,707 59,484,918,944 51,952,016,502 15. Real estate management expenses 8,656,523,891 14,203,350,208 16,257,695,882 16. Other operating expenses 57,108,864,524 68,059,404,438 26,473,004,275 17. Separate accounts expenses 71,796,440,058 41,792,916,020 36,833,979,497 Operating proﬁt 631,209,305,034 560,168,359,842 493,362,314,063 Other non-operating income 8,484,872,398 3,298,130,022 17,072,586,796 Other non-operating expenses 19,238,107,024 24,798,441,326 15,457,677,777 Net income before income tax expense 620,456,070,408 538,668,048,538 494,977,223,082 Income tax expense 150,285,117,110 125,996,172,553 94,668,907,096 Net income 470,170,953,298 412,671,875,985 400,308,315,986 Other comprehensive income (loss) (90,785,365,996) (1,262,838,179) 324,940,470,045 1. Other comprehensive income to be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss in subsequent periods Gain (loss) on valuation of available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets (77,451,765,034) (15,322,379,267) 298,704,430,536 Gain on valuation of derivative instruments designated as 3,252,218,804 (451,434,015) 7,541,137,093 hedges Gain (Loss) on overseas operations translation credit 3,324,864,833 18,862,530,371 3,239,948,303 Other comprehensive income on separate accounts (13,700,076,608) 963,605,678 19,076,892,796 2. Other comprehensive income not to be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss in subsequent periods Re-measurement on deﬁned beneﬁt plans (6,210,607,991) (5,315,160,946) (3,621,938,683) Total comprehensive income 379,385,587,302 411,409,037,806 725,248,786,031 Basic and diluted earnings per share 7,428 6,519 6,324 Appendix The 50th period from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016. Statement of Changes in Equity The 49th period from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015. (Unit: KRW) Capital Capital Capital A Accumulated other Retained Total Account stock surplus djustments comprehensive income earnings Equity As of January 1, 2015 35,400,000,000 37,912,781,518 (29,655,475,800) 609,499,970,645 2,709,867,224,105 3,363,024,500,468 Total comprehensive income (loss) Net income 412,671,875,985 412,671,875,985 Loss on valuation of available (15,322,379,267) (15,322,379,267) for-sale ﬁnancial assets Loss on valuation of derivative instruments designated as (451,434,015) (451,434,015) hedges Exchange differences on transla18,862,530,371 18,862,530,371 tions of foreign operations Other comprehensive income 963,605,678 963,605,678 on separate accounts Re-measurement on deﬁned (5,315,160,946) (5,315,160,946) beneﬁt plans Total (1,262,838,179) 412,671,875,985 411,409,037,806 Deal with shareholder directly reﬂected to capital : Dividend (91,782,593,000) (91,782,593,000) As of December 31, 2015 35,400,000,000 37,912,781,518 (29,655,475,800) 608,237,132,466 3,030,756,507,090 3,682,650,945,274 As of January 1, 2016 35,400,000,000 37,912,781,518 (29,655,475,800) 608,237,132,466 3,030,756,507,090 3,682,650,945,274 Total comprehensive income (loss): Net income 470,170,953,298 470,170,953,298 Loss on valuation of available (77,451,765,034) (77,451,765,034) for-sale ﬁnancial assets Gain on valuation of derivative instruments designated as 3,252,218,804 3,252,218,804 hedges Exchange differences on transla3,324,864,833 3,324,864,833 tions of foreign operations Other comprehensive loss on (13,700,076,608) (13,700,076,608) separate accounts Re-measurement on deﬁned (6,210,607,991) (6,210,607,991) beneﬁt plans Total (90,785,365,996) 470,170,953,298 379,385,587,302 Deal with shareholder directly reﬂected to capital: Dividend (98,112,427,000) (98,112,427,000) As of December 31, 2016 35,400,000,000 37,912,781,518 (29,655,475,800) 517,451,766,470 3,402,815,033,388 3,963,924,105,576 84 / 85 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 The 50th period from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016. Separate Statements of Cash Flows The 49th period from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015. The 48th period from January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014. (Unit: KRW) Account The 50th, December 31, 2016 The 49th, December 31, 2015 The 48th, December 31, 2014 Cash ﬂows from operating activities 3,092,347,560,212 2,423,994,082,147 2,001,275,433,114 Net income before income tax 620,456,070,408 538,668,048,538 49 4,977,223,082 expense Adjustment of income and 2,555,204,817,660 2,624,007,393,387 2,695,409,391,728 cost Changes in operating assets (949,120,940,944) (1,597,214,202,689) (1,899,030,728,764) and liabilities Receipt of interest income 727,271,851,926 704,680,626,073 641,324,818,216 Payment of interest expense (155,798,307) (116,402,272) (529,069,046) Payment of income tax (94,535,808,020) (93,728,764,237) (99,472,963,159) Cash ﬂows from investing (3,044,836,407,188) (2,079,272,575,492) (1,830,311,734,061) activities Acquisition of available (8,481,628,987,333) (5,949,002,611,597) (5,351,847,822,649) for-sale ﬁnancial assets Proceeds from available for-sale ﬁnancial assets 5,555,349,240,307 4,481,760,605,625 4,072,172,159,178 Acquisition of held-tomaturity ﬁnancial assets (13,632,001,850) (361,782,584,377) (441,987,631,707) Collection of held-to-maturity ﬁnancial assets 13,820,077,690 172,278,260,520 Accounting of hedging (138,496,631,444) 60,512,069,757 derivatives (37,334,729,175) Acquisition of subsidiaries (66,948,519,780) (182,639,168,000) and associates Investments (42,040,308,270) Acquisition of Property, plant and equipment (13,429,848,271) (49,769,921,017) (46,050,270,981) Proceeds of Property, 1,036,776,834 1,940,454,293 plant and equipment Acquisition of investment properties (75,580,583,840) Proceeds of investment properties 27,633,522,648 Acquisition of Intangible assets (13,083,850,341) (4,898,702,981) (68,619,145,601) Proceeds of Intangible assets 77,500,000 93,500,000 1,772,283,580 Increase in guarantee deposits on leases (8,647,003,958) (14,093,287,382) (9,407,705,274) Decrease in guarantee deposits on leases 8,824,774,169 10,268,271,371 9,664,152,085 Outﬂow of cash due to restoration work (327,969,300) (222,771,600) (152,308,070) Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities (96,876,667,231) (85,640,206,852) (142,165,934,855) Net decrease in debt loan (70,000,000,000) Increase in security deposit 18,826,605,605 10,022,475,908 5,480,617,419 Decrease in security deposit (17,590,845,836) (3,880,089,760) (14,348,212,274) Dividends paid (98,112,427,000) (91,782,593,000) (63,298,340,000) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (49,365,514,207) 259,081,299,803 28,797,764,198 Net foreign exchange 10,733,810,369 4,557,665,664 2,610,350,758 difference Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 424,296,334,832 160,657,369,365 129,249,254,409 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 385,664,630,994 424,296,334,832 160,657,369,365 Appendix Operations Evaluation Report of Internal Accounting Manager To the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee of Dongbu Insurance Co., Ltd. I, as the Internal Accounting Control Officer (“IACO”) of Dongbu Insurance Co., Ltd. (the “Company”), have assessed the status of the design and operations of the Company’s internal accounting control system (“IACS”) as of December 31, 2016. The Company’s management, including IACO, is responsible for the design and operation of its IACS. I, as the IACO, have assessed whether the IACS has been effectively designed and is operating to prevent and detect any error or fraud which may cause any misstatement of the financial statements, for the purpose of establishing the reliability of financial statement preparation and presentation for external uses. I, as the IACO, applied the IACS Standards established by the IACS Operations Committee for the assessment of the design and operation of the IACS. Based on this assessment, the Company’s IACS has been effectively designed and is operating effectively as of December 31, 2016, in all material respects, in accordance with the IACS Standards issued by the IACS Operations Committee. February 20, 2017 President & CEO Jeongnam Kim Internal Accounting Officer Yeongmann Kim 86 / 87 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Third Party’s Assurance Introduction Dongbu Insurance Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as “Dongbu Insurance”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. (“DNV GL”), part of DNV GL Group, to undertake independent assurance of the Dongbu Insurance’s INTEGRATED REPORT 2017’ (the “Report”). The assurance engagement is based on the assumption that the data and information provided to DNV GL are complete, sufficient and authentic. Scope of assurance The assurance engagement of DNV GL is limited to data in 2016, with qualitative and quantitative description up to May in 2017. The assurance engagement includes: • Evaluation ‌ of the Report for the adherence to the principles for defining report contents and the principles for defining report quality set forth in GRI G4. • Evaluation ‌ of the process for determining material aspects and management approach to material issues, and process of generating, gathering, and managing qualitative and quantitative data Verification Method We performed our work based on DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustain TM1, which is based on our professional experience, and international assurance best practices including International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000). We provide a limited level of assurance over non-financial disclosure presented in the Report. The audit was carried out in May and June 2017. The site visits were made to the head office of Dongbu Insurance, Korea. The assurance engagement was conducted in the following method based on sampling. • challenged ‌ the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data management system, information flow and controls • interviewed representative of CSR team • conducted ‌ document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated reporting system as they relate to selected content and performance data • reviewed the outcomes of the materiality assessment • assessment of compliance with reporting principles (for some specific indicators, including verification of performance) Limitations The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of Dongbu Insurance’s other subsidiaries, associated companies, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report except Dongbu Insurance. DNV GL did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Financial statements of Dongbu Insurance, data announced on DART system of the Financial Supervisory Service(http://dart.fss.or.kr), and data on the websites of Dongbu Insurance subject to assurance are not included in the scope of assurance. Data assurance was conducted by checking the basis in a limited scope, including inquiry, analysis, and limited sampling method, on the data collected by Dongbu Insurance. The aggregation and calculation process for building economic performances is reviewed and tested by the verification team. Also, environmental and social data were verified using the aggregated data. The responsibility of DNV GL in performing the assurance work is to the management of Dongbu Insurance in accordance with the terms of reference. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. Conclusion On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly describe the adherence to the Principles for defining report content in GRI G4 nor is prepared ‘in accordance’ with GRI G4 Core option. In terms of reliability of performance data, there was no evidence to conclude that the data that have been sampled and verified were collected and processed inappropriately, and that the assumptions made were inappropriate. Further opinions with regards to the adherence to the following Principles are made below; 1) The VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at DNV GL’s website (www.dnvgl.com/assurance/reporting/veriﬁcation.html) Appendix Stakeholder Inclusiveness Dongbu Insurance has identified internal and external stakeholder groups including Shareholders, Customers, Employees, Business partners, local communities, and Financial authorities. Dongbu Insurance engages with selected stakeholders. The major expectations and concerns from stakeholder groups and Dongbu Insurance’s corresponding responses are described in the Report. Sustainability Context Dongbu Insurance manages Economic, Environmental, and Social sectors for sustainable business systematically on a long-term perspective. Dongbu Insurance organized a Sustainability management committee and Sustainability operation committees on Economic, Environmental, and Social sectors. The agenda derived from each sector operation committees were reviewed by the Sustainability management committee, and reflected into the business strategies. Dongbu Insurance established a long-term business strategy with a goal, ‘Securing of Risk management’. The thirteen action plans were derived for the goal and described in the report. It is recommended that the plans be managed with KPI and reported in the next report. The report includes Dongbu Insurance’s performances and plans with the six capital categories (Financial, manufactured, Intellectual, Human, Social and relationship, Natural capital) defined in the International IR Framework. Materiality Dongbu Insurance conducted materiality assessment while preparing the Report. Various issues have been derived by analyzing the topics presented by various global initiatives and standards, key stakeholder expectations, industry issues based on macro trend, sustainability reports of competitors, and media reports on Dongbu Insurance in 2016. Afterwards, evaluation for prioritizing the selected issues was conducted to select significant issues. The audit team well noted that the agenda derived from the materiality assessment was used for the business strategy and implementation tasks and targets. The audit team confirmed that the material aspects determined by the materiality assessment, the boundary of material aspects, and the response to those aspects are also reflected in the report. Completeness The report provides stakeholders with information on the results and decisions of the organization within the scope of reporting on key sustainability issues during the reporting period. The audit team has not noted that the material information is intentionally omitted that may influence the decision-making process of stakeholders during the engagement. Accuracy and Reliability The audit team verified the accuracy and reliability of the data and information in the report through sampling. The data provided in the report was gathered from each business function of Dongbu Insurance and processed by CSR team to meet the purpose. The audit team conducted interviews with the personnel, reviewed the process of gathering and processing data and information, and confirmed the supporting documents and records. The depth of verification of data is limited to the input data of each subsidiaries. The audit team did not identify any intentional errors or misleading descriptions. Disclosure of Management Approach Dongbu Insurance provides management approaches to the reported material issues derived from materiality assessment and describes the importance of the issues and the activities to manage issues. Competence and Independence DNV GL Business Assurance is part of DNV GL Group and a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and training services, helping customers to build sustainable business performance. Our environmental and social assurance specialists are present in over 100 countries. The assurance work was performed by independent team which meets DNV GL’s competence requirements. DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. The audit team has complied with DNV GL Code of Ethics during the assurance engagement. 29 June 2017 Seoul, Korea DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. Country Representative In Kyoon Ahn 88 / 89 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement Introduction Korea Productivity Center was required to verify ‘2016 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions Statements (hereinafter ‘Statement’)’, of which reporting years was defined as January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016, by Dongbu Insurance Corporation. Levels of Assurance A reasonable level of assurance was agreed. Verification Scope The verification team verified GHG emissions at workplaces of Dongbu Insurance Corporation in 2016. Verification Criteria • GHG Energy Target Management Guideline • Community-Scale GHG Emission Calculation Guideline • IPCC Guideline, WRI GHG Protocol • ISO14064-3: 2006 Standard Limitation Having investigated by sampling method, the Statement might have errors and uncertainties. Final GHG estimates may contain uncertainty for the reasons such as unspecified standard and method, although no exceptional factors has been reported. Conclusion • The ‌ verification team confirmed that the ‘Statements (2016)’ was being reported in accordance with self-inspection guideline based on GHG Energy Target Management Guideline and IPCC Guideline. • ‌Appropriate corrective action was taken by Dongbu Insurance Corporation in accordance with investigation results from the verification team. • The ‌ verification team confirms that the ‘Statements (2016)’ was being reporting ‘appropriately’ in accordance with relevant standards. Classiﬁcation Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Direct Emissions(Scope 1) 3,339 ton CO2e Indirect Emissions(Scope 2) 22,221 ton CO2e Other Indirect Emissions(Scope 3) 492 ton CO2e Total Emissions 26,052 ton CO2e 12th June 2017 Korea Productivity Center, Sustainability Management Center Director Dong-Soo, Kim Appendix Memberships Status UN Global Compact Dongbu Insurance supports and advocates UN Global Compact, which underpins the company’s observance of 10 principles over four areas including human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption and shapes the company’s commitment to fulfil its social responsibilities as a global financial corporation. Classiﬁcation Principle Activities 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed • Championing human rights protection by joining human rights. UNGC Human Rights • Internal control activities 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Human rights and ethical education for employees • Reinforcement of customer data safeguard 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition • Host Dynamic Leader Conference of the right to collective bargaining. • Hold “Open Communication with CEO” events 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. • Prohibit forced labour Labour 5. The effective abolition of child labour. • Prohibit child labour • Operation of grievance process 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. • Operation of fair evaluation system 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. • Establish CO2 Emission Reduction Target • Spearheading energy-saving campaign 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental • Participation in green sports movement Environment responsibility. • Use of recycled toners and goods 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environment • Develop eco-friendly car insurance rider (UBI rider, etc.) friendly technologies. • Develop Environmental Impairment Liability(EIL) Insurance • All employees sign pledges of ethical & legal conduct 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Anti-corruption • Operate an open auction system bribery. • Operation of whistle-blowing system UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) In full accord with the underlying philosophy of the US Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Dongbu Insurance has selected some of 17 sustainability development goals to be reflected onto the company’s sustainable management activities. The company plans to establish strategic initiatives to attain these goals and further bolster relevant activities. Dongbu Insurance’s major goals Activities Business beneﬁt KPI Social/Environmental beneﬁt KPI Financial education session for Goal 4. Ensure inclusive and equitable Growing brand value thanks to elementary schools (1 school per No. of beneﬁciary schools and quality education and promote lifelong increased positive media exposure company), expanded scholarship students (49 schools, 2,456 students) learning opportunities for all (175 times, based on media reports) program, etc. No. of Yellow Carpet installed regions Goal 11. Make cities inclusive, safe, Social contribution activities, i.e. Yellow Stabilize loss rates of car insurance & no. of beneﬁciary elementary resilient and sustainable Carpet (1.4%p↓_86.0%→84.6%) schools (74 schools) Proﬁt rate of Social Responsibility The amount of SRI such as Goal 13. Take urgent action to combat Investment in the environmentally Investment(SRI) such as environmentally environmentally friendly projects climate change and its impacts friendly industry friendly projects against the total ROI (KRW 1,740,400million) (1.0%p↑_3.6%→4.0%) Dongbu Insurance’s other goals Activities Goal 1. End poverty in all its forms everywhere • ‘Rice donation’ and ‘Happy Lunch Box’ activities for the underprivileged Goal 3. Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages • Expand products designed for the less privileged in terms of insurance policies Goal 10. Reduce inequality within and among countries • Global social contribution activities for the less fortunate regions 90 / 91 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 UNEP FI PSI On December 2016, Dongbu Insurance joined the Principles for Sustainable Insurance declared in the United Nations World Summit Rio+20 on Sustainable Development in 2012 by the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) so as to meet its social responsibilities as a corporate citizen. Classiﬁcation Principle Principle 1 We will embed in our decision-making environmental, social and governance issues relevant to our insurance business. We will work together with our clients and business partners to raise awareness of environmental, social and governance issues, Principle 2 manage risk and develop solutions. We will work together with governments, regulators and other key stakeholders to promote widespread action across society on Principle 3 environmental, social and governance issues. Principle 4 We will demonstrate accountability and transparency in regularly disclosing publicly our progress in implementing the Principles. Memberships in Associations and Organizations National Quality Award (NQA) Winners Korea Personnel Improvement Associate Korea Management Association Establish a network of companies which won Build networks to share information on the Exchange opinions on innovative managements the world-class national quality prizes that meet latest information on personnel and education and enhancing corporate competency global standards and training Korea Employers Federation Korea Non-Life Insurance Association Korea Listed Companies Association Exchange opinions on major issues including Respond to common issues in the industry and Exchange opinions and protect rights and labor-management relations from the pursue joint social contribution projects interests of the listed ﬁrms perspective of employers Korean Fire Protection Association The Korea Academy of Business Ethics Financial Security Agency Responsible for ﬁre prevention, safety check of Share and apply the examples of excellent Exchange various information protection ﬁre extinguishing facilities, and research and ethical management activities such as the prevention and counter education on ﬁre-related issues measure of ﬁnancial security failures. CFO Association (Forum) Korean Insurance Academic Society Korea Financial Information Protection Council A platform for establishing a global CFO Research the theories, laws and regulations, and business practices of insurance studies, Exchange opinions with ﬁnancial institutions community, networking, expressing CFO’s and supervisory authorities to protect opinions on corporate management and capital insurance industry and apply the research data and resources. information market, and practicing ethics management. Appendix Human Rights Policy All of Dongbu Insurance’s stakeholders including its executives, employees and customers have inalienable rights to dignity and happiness as human beings. Dongbu Insurance joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2011 and has been abiding by the 10 principles presented by the UNGC ever since. It also advocates labor standards presented by the International Labor Organization (ILO), including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted by the UN General Assembly. Scope Korea in which Dongbu Insurance is headquartered ratified 27 ILO Conventions including four core Conventions. We sincerely abide by the ratified Conventions as they are in force on equal terms with domestic laws. We comply with labor, human rights and working conditions standards not only in Korea but in all nations and regions where we do business. In addition, our human rights policy is applicable to not only our executives and employees but also all stakeholders on equal terms, including our customers, partners, local communities, etc. Stakeholder Engagement Dongbu Insurance acknowledges that its business activities have influence on its shareholders and investors, customers, employees, and local communities. Accordingly, we identify stakeholders’ interest and anticipations including human rights matters through steady communications and do our utmost to incorporate them in our business activities. Communication & Training With its Sustainability Reports, Dongbu Insurance discloses its activities related to stakeholders’ human rights and their outcomes. In addition, it is dedicated to continuously increasing awareness of human rights among its executives and employees, as well as partners’ employees. If an issue regarding human rights arises, relevant departments (HR management department and legal compliance department) conduct human rights due diligence. Principles of Human Rights • (Respect for humanity) Dongbu Insurance’s executives and employees are inherently free, dignified, and equal beings, and therefore are endowed with rights to humane treatment. • (Prohibition of discrimination) They are entitled to enjoy all of their rights and freedom without any discrimination over their race, skin color, gender, language, religion, nationality and ethnicity, disability, pregnancy and marital status, political preference, educational backgrounds and age, among others. • (Freedom of assembly and association) Employees have the right to the freedom of assembly and association without fear of retaliation and intimidation. The company sincerely negotiates with the elected representatives of workers. • (Protection of privacy and honor) Others may not interfere in employees’ privacy, family matters, housing and telecommunication, among others, and any infringement on individuals’ reputation and honor is prohibited. • (Labor and compensation) Employees are given equal opportunities for self-development under fair working conditions. The company implements fair employee evaluations and compensations in accordance with their performances. • (Working hours and environment) The company observes national and local regulations on working hours and paid vacations and continues putting forth efforts to provide safe and pleasant working environments. • (Prohibition of forced and child labor) Forced labor against employees’ free will and the employment of those that are under the minimum working age provided by the state are prohibited. • (Protection of personal information) Dongbu Insurance recognizes customers’ personal information as their valuable assets and therefore, demands a minimum amount of such information. At the same time, the company takes the best measures to safeguard customers’ personal information. • (Fair trade)Dongbu Insurance regards outsourcing firms and suppliers as its equal partners and does not take advantage of its superior position during business with partners. We are working hard for win-win growth on an equal footing with partners. • (Development of local communities) Dongbu Insurance keeps in mind its responsibilities for the development of local communities as a corporate citizen. Hence, the company makes a great contribution to society and investment after taking into account social and environmental impacts. 92 / 93 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Tax Strategy Dongbu Insurance strictly abides by tax laws of the nation, and various duties of declarations, reports and tax-related cooperation are completely carried out as required by related regulations. The company also sincerely cooperates with tax authorities in connection with tax audits and various requests by the authorities, and all tax-related matters are transparently published. Accounting related to corporate taxes are carried out in compliance with international accounting standards, and reﬂected in the ﬁnancial statement through review at the end of every quarter and accounting audit at the end of every year by external auditors. Also, corporate related matters such as corporate tax costs and deferred corporate taxes and effective tax rates are recorded in the ﬁnancial statement and its note, and published through electronic publication system (http://dart.fss.or.kr/). For establishing a transparent tax management system under the robust Tax Strategy, we have disclosed the following: 1. Principle of Tax Assignment 2. and Tax Compliance Standard. Dongbu Insurance’s businesses comply with applicable tax regimes and respect the regulations from each tax territories. Principle of Tax Assignment • Observe all applicable laws, rules, regulations and disclosure requirements • Apply diligent professional care and judgment to arrive at well-reasoned conclusions • Ensure all decisions are taken at an appropriate level and supported with documentation that evidences the facts, conclusions and risks involved • Undertake all dealings with tax authorities, government officials, ministers and other third parties in a professional, courteous and timely manner • Follow Internal Compliance and Anti-Money Laundering System Tax Compliance • The Company should submit all returns by their due dates in line with local tax law • ‌In line with the code of conduct and with due consideration of the risk scale, all material positions taken in the tax returns must be supported in terms of documentation and legal interpretation. It is strongly recommended that clear documentation of facts and circumstances be recorded at the time of any transaction • The tax function will robustly defend tax positions taken in the Company’s tax returns • The tax function will proactively pursue any tax timing benefits within the context of the tax risk strategy • The tax function should monitor changes in relevant tax laws and practices, and undertake regular training in order to assess any consequences for the Company, with the minimum aim of mitigating any adverse impact • The tax function will manage its compliance affairs to minimize the risk of any adverse public comment Tax Reporting (Reporting by Country) • ‌Dongbu Insurance publicly reports on the following contents for our major countries, and Revenue, Operating Profits, Taxes paid and Effective tax rates from different tax regimes. • Tax reporting status by country is reported separately in the Tax Reporting report. Tax Risks Dongbu Insurance identifies and evaluates the risks of taxation in the long-term. In order to manage taxation risks, the company identifies the risks as financial risks and business risks. Business risks are categorized as follows: • Legal & Political Risks • Tax related Reputational Risks • Accounting Risks • Agency Risks Appendix Dongbu Insurance History 1962 1995 2010 2016 Mar.1962 Founded Korea Public Automobile Insurance Company Jan. 2010 Completed the construction of the Jukjeon Data Center Nov. 1968 Dissolved Korea Public Automobile Insurance Company and Jan. 2010 Recertiﬁed as ‘2010 Excellent Company in Customer Complaint established Public Automobile Insurance Co. Management System (CCMS)’ by the Fair Trade Committee May. 1976 Introduced, for the ﬁrst time in Korea, unlimited coverage liability Feb. 2010 Completed construction of its Risk Based Capital (RBC) system insurance for car owner indemnity, a precursor of current car Oct. 2010 Announced a new slogan, ‘Dynamic Dongbu’ insurance May. 2011 Obtained a business license for New York, USA. May. 1983 Dongbu Group took over control of Hankuk Automobile Insurance Co., Ltd. Sep. 2011 Established an ofﬁce in Vietnam Feb. 1984 Began selling all lines of non-life insurance products except for Oct. 2011 Opened New York branch guarantee insurance Nov. 2011 Participated in the UN Global Compact Oct. 1984 Opened a branch in Guam Jan. 2012 Certiﬁed CCM (Customer-Centered Management) Oct. 1995 Renamed to Dongbu Insurance Co., Ltd. Sep. 2012 Sealed a voluntary agreement with the Department of the Environment for ‘Green Purchase’ Oct. 2012 Total asset reached KRW 20 trillion Oct. 2012 Announced new vision, “A global insurance ﬁnance group, which pursues happy society with customers” 2001 2009 Oct. 2012 Selected as ‘the Best Industry Company in Korea of Dow Jones 8/Sustainability Index’ for 4 consecutive years. The ﬁrst selection Sep. 2002 Conﬁrmed PROMY as its ﬂagship car insurance brand in the industry in the Asia-Paciﬁc Index Feb. 2004 Launched motorbike-based “PROMY SOS Speed Service”, ﬁrst Mar. 2013 Certiﬁed with Green Management System KSI 7001/7002 (the of its kind in the industry. ﬁrst in the domestic insurance industry) Jul. 2004 Started selling direct car insurance commenced as a strategic Apr. 2013 Reached KOSPI 200 alliance with Tesco Homeplus Jun. 2013 Obtained Arating by S&P Jan. 2005 Launched Best Life Accident Insurance through Hyundai Home Jul. 2013 Certiﬁed with WA (Web Approach) in relation to banning Shopping via TV discrimination of the disabled Oct, 2005 Established the Dongbu Promy Basketball Team Sep. 2013 Selected to be in the World Index by Dow Jones Sustainability Arp. 2006 Established the Hawaiian branch Indices (the ﬁrst in the Korean insurance industry) May. 2006 Introduced Promy Life, a long-term insurance brand May. 2014 Established ‘Dongbu ﬁnancial services’ Jul. 2006 Established an ofﬁce in China Apr. 2015 First tier in ‘civil complaint occurrence’ evaluation by FSS Jan. 2007 Opened Call Center in Jeonju Nov. 2015 Won the Presidential Citation at National Quality Competition for the ﬁrst time in the ﬁnancial industry Dec, 2007 Acquired a patent of BM (Business Method) in claim handling Jul.2016 Inducted into the Hall of Fame by the Korea Service Grand Jan. 2008 Received the ﬁrst ISO 9001 certiﬁcate on Promy service in the Prix 2016 local industry Sep. 2016 Included in ‘World Class’ of Dow Jones Sustainability Indices Jan, 2008 Won the certiﬁcation of ‘Excellence in Consumer Complaints for 4 consecutive years Management System, CCMS’ for H2, 2007 organized by the Fair Trade Commission Jan. 2017 Selected as a global leader group ‘Bronze Class’ for the ﬁrst time as the Korean insurer by SAM, Switzerland for 6 Aug. 2008 Incorporated Dongbu Securities as a subsidiary consecutive years Sep. 2008 The Risk Management Research Center obtained an ISO 14001 certiﬁcate, the ﬁrst for an insurance company in the world Dec. 2008 Rated A (Excellent) by A.M. Best Jan. 2009 Selected as ‘the Best Financial Company with Outstanding Consumer Protection Program’ by the FSS Feb. 2009 Won an ISO 27001 certiﬁcate Apr. 2009 Rated First Grade for Customer Complaints Handling by FSS for ﬁve consecutive years Apr. 2009 Dongbu commercial claims handling service acquired ISO 9001certiﬁcation, the ﬁrst for a Korean non-life insurance company Aug. 2009 The Risk Management Research Center acquired OHSAS 18001 certiﬁcation, a ﬁrst for the risk management area in the world insurance industry Sep. 2009 Included as a member of the 70 companies in the SRI of the Korea Stock Exchange Dec. 2009 Opened the LA branch 94 / 95 DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Major Accolades Enlisted in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices for four consecutive years for the first time as Korean non-life insurer SP Dow Jones and RobecoSaM Inducted into the Hall of Fame by the Korea Service Grand Prix 2016 Korea Standards Association (KSA) Presidential award by the government in celebration of the 22nd Environment Day in 2017 Consumer-Centric Management (CCM) certiﬁcate in 2016 Presidential Citation at National Quality Competition for the ﬁrst time in ﬁnancial industry in 2015 Grand Prize in Non-life Insurance Category at Korea Social Media Awards Grand Prize in Consumer Rights Protection Category at Asia Today Financial Awards The ﬁrst Place in Long-term Insurance Category of 2015 Korea Service Quality Index in 2015 Korea’s Best Call Center by KSQI in 2015 Number one in Customer Satisfaction in Car Insurance Prize of FSC at 4th MTN’s Financial Awards in Era of Living to 100 Years of Age Grand Prize in Non-life Insurance Category at 2015 App Award Korea 2015 Best Company in Terms of Customer Complaints by FSC in 2014 Best ARS Service Operation Organization Minister of Employment and Labor’s Equal Opportunity Employer Prize in 2014 This publication uses environment-friendly paper and printed with soy ink.
