OWENS CORNING WORLD HEADQUARTERS ONE OWENS CORNING PARKWAY TOLEDO, OHIO 43659 419.248.8000 December 1, 2017 H.E. António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 Dear Mr. Secretary General: Owens Corning is proud to be a member of the Global Compact, and I am pleased to once again confirm our commitment to the ten principles. As the attached report illustrates, Owens Corning’s commitment extends beyond simply making our products and operations sustainable. By building the broader objectives of sustainability into the way we do business, we seek to balance economic growth with social progress and environmental stewardship. This work resonates deeply with the sense of purpose that Owens Corning employees share: our people and our products make the world a better place. To help bring that purpose to life, we are engaged in a continuous effort to advance the same principles that are articulated in the Global Compact. Our sustainability strategy incorporates those principles and is driven by our company values, which guide the way we interact with our communities as well as our customers, suppliers, and colleagues. Through the lens of that strategy, Owens Corning has evaluated the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and identified several that are material to our business and on which we believe we have direct impact through our core business competencies. We also identified those where we can have influence, either directly or indirectly. For those aligned with our material issues, we are already underway with active programs and reporting. This work is included in our report. Owens Corning’s sustainability efforts have been recognized by organizations that evaluate our progress against high standards and industry benchmarks. For example, Owens Corning continues to earn “Gold Class” from RobecoSAM, the highest distinction awarded for demonstrating leadership in corporate sustainability. The company has also repeatedly been named to the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index as Industry Leader for the Building Products group. Composed of global sustainability leaders, the DJSI is an elite listing of the world's largest companies based on long-term economic, environmental, and social criteria. The company’s latest Sustainability Report, attached, provides details about our progress and current efforts in areas related to the ten principles of the Global Compact and more. An index is also attached, to highlight the relevant sections in the report. I am proud of our accomplishments and pleased to reaffirm Owens Corning’s commitment to the Global Compact and our dedication to conducting business responsibly throughout the world. Michael H. Thaman Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Owens Corning United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress Index Owens Corning 2016 Sustainability Report Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2016 Report Section Page Number Comments Diversity & Inclusion 113 Corporate Equality Index Disclosure of Risk 171 Child and Forced Labor Risks Governance and Ethics 188-189 Code of Conduct Governance and Ethics 193 Human Rights Policy Principle 2 Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 2016 Report Section Page Number Comments Diversity & Inclusion 113 Corporate Equality Index Disclosure of Risk 171 Child and Forced Labor Risks Governance and Ethics 188-189 Code of Conduct Governance and Ethics 193 Human Rights Policy Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 2016 Report Section Page Number Comments Employee Training and Development 108-109 Trade Union Agreements Principle 4 Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 2016 Report Section Page Number Comments Disclosure of Risk 171 Child and Forced Labor Risks Principle 5 Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. 2016 Report Section Page Number Comments Disclosure of Risk 171 Child and Forced Labor Risks Principle 6 Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 2016 Report Section Page Number Comments Employee Training and Development 108-109 Trade Union Agreements Governance and Ethics 188-189 Code of Conduct Governance and Ethics 191-192 Equal Employment Opportunity Page 1 of 2 November 28, 2017 United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress Index Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 2016 Report Section Page Number Comments About the Report 198 Our Precautionary Approach Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 2016 Report Section Page Number Comments Product Innovation 29 Allergy Friendly Certification Product Sustainability 35-40 Product Sustainability Strategy and Approach Environmental Responsibility 46-101 Energy, Emissions, Water, Waste, Biodiversity Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 2016 Report Section Page Number Comments Environmental Responsibility: Energy 50-51 Energy Conservation and Savings Environmental Responsibility: Energy 57 Energy Saving Products Product Innovation 26-31 Strategy, Approach, and Sustainability-Driven Innovation Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2016 Report Section Page Number Comments Governance and Ethics 178 Strategy and Approach Governance and Ethics 196 Anti-corruption United Nations Sustainable Development Goals discussed in our report in the Introduction section on pages 16 – 19. Owens Corning 2016 Sustainability Report: https://www.owenscorning.com/owenscorning.com/assets/sustainability/approach/ reporting/2016_OC_Sustainability_Report_FINAL6-14-2017.pdf Page 2 of 2 December 1, 2017
