UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATIONS ON PROGRESS REPORT January 2017 STATEMENT OF SUPPORT FROM THE DIRECTORS We are proud to reaffirm our continuing support for the Global Through our creativity we promote and engage society in the Compact Network Australia, and to be a signatory of the Ten benefits of a sustainable world. Some organisations we’ve Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. worked with in this area this year include: HIA, Red Cross, IAG, CSIRO, Veolia and Suncorp. 2016 was an exciting year for us, and we’re especially proud to have been awarded one of Australia’s most prestigious Since 2015, we have been a certified B Corp, and a member sustainability awards: The Banksia Sustainable Cities Award, for of the Shared Value Network here in Australia to promote 202020 Vision. sustainable business operations and programs. As a business, we exist to inspire businesses, brands and people Below are some of our highlights from 2016. to embrace a sustainable future. We’re part sustainability consultancy, part creative agency and we are committed to creating positive social and environmental outcomes through the work we do, and by supporting our stakeholders in doing the same. Through our consulting we help embed sustainability into the heart of organisations, making doing good, good for business. Some businesses we’ve consulted with over the last year include: ALDI, Frasers Property, Medibank, Sanitarium and Mirvac. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 In 2016 we supported a number of non-governmental Businesses should support and respect the protection of organisations in their work to advance human rights, including internationally proclaimed human rights; and Australian Red Cross, and the NDIA (National Disability Insurance Agency) with the NDIS program to help Australians with significant PRINCIPLE 2 and permanent disabilities get the support they need. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. We continue to educate new team-members on Human Rights Everyone is entitled to basic human rights. Republic of Everyone: and our support for the Ten Principles. We continue to only supports the Universal Declaration on Human Rights work with suppliers who uphold Human Rights principles, supports a number of non-governmental organisations including Human Rights clauses in our contracts. working to advance human rights is committed to maintaining and supporting the health Outcomes: and safety of all employees, contractors and visitors – No investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or other relevant events to report Republic of Everyone also supports human rights by considering the impact of our suppliers. Our office supplies (e.g. food, cleaning or hygiene products) are chosen for their impacts and consideration for human rights, such as Fair Trade, UTZ, Rainforest Alliance certified or similar. LABOUR PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the In 2016 we have also added the following benefits: effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; – weekly delivery of healthy snacks – $500 support per employee to spend on health & PRINCIPLE 4 wellbeing activities of their choice The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; – increased parental leave benefits PRINCIPLE 5 We worked with Mirvac to support them in developing their The effective abolition of child labour; and health and wellbeing strategy. PRINCIPLE 6 Outcomes: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and – Support for gender equality in the workplace, where 60% occupation. of full time employees are female – No investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or other We’re committed to keeping our team happy and ensuring relevant events to report they have a healthy working life. This includes adhering to the UN Global Compact’s Labour Principles in our employment practices, our OH&S policy, and our Health & Wellbeing policy – which includes: – flexible workplace policy – end of journey bicycle facilities and free bicycle servicing – free swimming pool pass – weekly free fresh fruit box ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE 7 Beyond our own operations, we work with many businesses to Businesses should support a precautionary approach to reduce their own environmental impacts via policies and multienvironmental challenges; stakeholder engagement programs. PRINCIPLE 8 We also support environmental non-government organisations Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental working to protect, enhance and regenerate nature and natural responsibility; and ecosystems, including MobileMuster to reduce e-waste, Greening Australia, Nature Conservation Council NSW and PRINCIPLE 9 ACF. In 2016 we also developed the Generation Yes campaign Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally for Climate Works, to unite people and organisations to work friendly technologies. towards fighting climate change. Although we’re a small and mainly office-based team with a One of our primary projects is ‘202020 Vision’ with Horticulture small environmental footprint, we’re dedicated to creating a Innovation Australia. Its mission is to increase urban green sustainable future in how we act and the work we do. We have space in Australia by 20% by 2020. This project continues to multiple initiatives to reduce, recycle and reuse, and we use grow in partners and impact (now over 400 partners). In 2016 sustainable materials across our operations. we won a prestigious Australian sustainability award: The Banksia Sustainable Cities Award. We are pleased to again be certified a carbon neutral company. We use 100% Green Power and have a Carbon Neutral Travel Outcomes: Policy. We always prioritise buying recycled and/or FSC certified – A certified carbon neutral company for the 6th year in a row paper and printouts. Our in-house printing uses FSC-certified or – 50% of our staff cycle to work recycled paper. – No investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or other relevant events to report – Banksia Sustainable Cities Award: 202020 Vision ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. As a B-Corp we’re driven by honesty and integrity. It goes without saying that we have a zero-tolerance policy to corruption, bribery and extortion. We also work with corporate clients to adhere to UN Global Compact’s anti-corruption policies via the development of company wide leadership and governance policies. Outcomes: Certified B-Corp No investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or other relevant events to report CASE STUDY One of Republic of Everyone’s primary projects, 202020 Vision, aims to COOLER CITIES increase urban green space by 20% by 2020. The project has brought together Everyone knows its cooler in the shade. But did you know shade is also over 400 organisations, including construction companies, health insurers, valuable? For instance trees drop temperatures by up to 8˚C, reducing air local and state government, as well as the UN Global Cities Program. conditioner use and carbon emissions by an estimated 12-15% per annum. Green space has proven benefits, including: BIOPHILIA People like to be in and around nature. In particular, giving people access to HEALTH & WELLBEING nature promotes their mental and emotional wellbeing and has been proven 83% of Australians see green space as a place for relaxation and taking time to have a positive effect on human behaviour. out. 73% see their garden as a sanctuary for their mental wellbeing. Contact with nature is found to have health and psychological benefits: reducing By seeking out proven solutions, scaling, replicating and socialising them, the stress, improving attention, having a positive effect on mental restoration 202020 Vision project will improve the skills and knowledge of those who are and increased longevity. looking to create more green space. This makes achieving our 20% target an easier, more efficient process that anyone and any organisation can be a part PRODUCTIVITY of. And that’s a good thing for everyone. Plants and trees enrich work environments. In fact, it was found that those working in these types of environments become 17% more productive that those in bare spaces without trees and plants. CLEAN AIR Trees literally act as our planet’s lungs. Research into urban forestry has found that large, healthy trees remove approximately 70 times more air pollution than smaller healthy trees. LOCAL COMMERCE Research found that customers prefer shopping in well-tended streets with large trees. The study also found they would pay 9-12% more for goods sold in central business districts with high quality tree canopy. More trees equals more local street commerce. WATER MANAGEMENT Trees and plants act as a natural water filtration system. In particular, green roofs can store significant amounts of water and reduce the run-off entering sewer systems and waterways. This means more water staying where it falls. JAN ‘17
