United Nations Global Compact | Cops | Edit Draft https://www.unglobalcompact.org/admin/organizations/17012... Dashboard Logout Select Language ▼ Edit COP General Information Submit your COP Communication Title Please enter a short title for your submission. 1 of 3 20-Sep-17, 12:40 PM United Nations Global Compact | Cops | Edit Draft https://www.unglobalcompact.org/admin/organizations/17012... The Communication on Progress is in the following format: Stand alone document Part of a sustainability or corporate (social) responsibility report Part of an annual (financial) report What is the time period covered by your COP? Start date End date Does your COP contain a statement by the CEO (or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing your company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles? Yes No Does your COP contain a description of actions, and when relevant policies, related to the following issue areas? Human Rights Yes No Labour Yes No Environment Yes No Anti-Corruption Yes No Does your COP include qualitative and/or quantitative measurement of outcomes illustrating the degree to which targets/performance indicators were met? Yes No How does your organization share its COP with stakeholders? a) Through the UN Global Compact website only b) COP is easily accessible to all interested parties (e.g. via its website) c) COP is actively distributed to all key stakeholders (e.g. investors, employees, consumers, local community) d) Both b) and c) Which of the following Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) do the activities described in your COP address? [Select all that apply] SDG 1: End poverty in all its forms everywhere SDG 2: End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture SDG 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages SDG 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all SDG 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls SDG 6: Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all SDG 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all SDG 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all SDG 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation SDG 10: Reduce inequality within and among countries SDG 11: Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable SDG 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns SDG 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts SDG 14: Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development SDG 15: Protect, restore and promote sustainable use 2 of 3 20-Sep-17, 12:40 PM United Nations Global Compact | Cops | Edit Draft https://www.unglobalcompact.org/admin/organizations/17012... 3 of 3 20-Sep-17, 12:40 PM
