CSR Report COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 INTRODUCTION I am pleased to confirm that DEIF A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United DEIF Group and our core values 4 Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour Rights, Safety & Environment UN Global Compact 6 and Anti-Corruption. DEIF Code of Conduct 8 DEIF wants to act as a socially responsible and In this first CSR Report, we describe our CSR organisation 10 sustainable company. We have always strived actions to integrate the Global Compact and Global Implementation 13 to do that – based on our corporate values and its principles into our business strategy, culture Ambitions, objectives and activities 14 policies – but now we endeavor to carry out a and daily operations. We are also committed CSR management 16 more structured global implementation of our to share this information with our stakeholders Human and labour rights 18 CSR activities and our Code of Conduct based using our primary channels of communication. Educational opportunities 20 on UN’s general principles related to how Safety and environment 22 companies work with social responsibility and Yours sincerely, sustainability. Case: Yangmeishan wind farm 25 Case: Green hybrid tea in Rwanda 26 Anti-corruption 27 Case: Powering aid to the third world 28 TOKE FOSS Group CEO 2 3 DEIF GROUP AND OUR CORE VALUES DEIF Core Values Established in Denmark in 1933, today DEIF is a global supplier of green, safe and reliable control solutions for decentralised power production, marine & offshore and wind turbines. Persp ec t DEIF has since its incorporation acted socially responsible and with an aim to enhance posiive tive impacts – for example through the inno“Our vision is to be the preferred it Amb ion vation of new products and services that are global supplier of green, safe and beneficial to society and enterprises themreliable energy control solutions.” selves – and to minimise and prevent negative Toke Foss environmental impacts. Acting not just in active compliance with the Re t ec spirit of the law, ethical standards, and internaThe overall goal of DEIF is to develop the comtional norms in our business dealings, DEIF’s goal is to move beyond compliance with a parpany’s value in the long term, always based on sp high ethics in relation to our employees, busiticular emphasis on environmental concerns. ness partners and society. To be the preferred global supplier of green, safe and reliable The DEIF Group has sales offices, competence energy control solutions is central to the DEIF centres and training facilities in 17 key markets Vision. in Europe, Asia and the Americas, and distribuRe spect it Amb ion rspective Pe tors in an additional 35 countries and territories. Our three values: Respect, Ambition and PerDue to the significant growth of the DEIF Group spective have been developed, defined and and the fact that DEIF operates in an increasing implemented in a process involving employees ► Respect the whole person ► Do it better than yesterday Persp ► Show a holistic understanding ek number of countries, we focus hard on ensur► Respect cultural differences ► Do it better than our rivals ► Be open to possibilities n from all parts of our global organisation. Thus, bi tio ti ► Respect agreements ► Do it better than our customers expect us to ► Seek insight into customers’ and users’ situation ing that DEIF conducts its activities responsibly, the values represent the core characteristics ► Respect individual contributions to the entirety Am v ► Show initiative and face challenges ► Focus on knowledge sharing globally. of DEIF globally and the way we work and have been working for eight decades. This is DEIF’s business approach is based on the a strong foundation for our CSR approach and presumption that culture, practice, ethics and activities. moral standard differ from one country to the next. Despite the differences, our actions and business practices always take their starting point in the DEIF values and Code of Conduct. We want to be recognised for our responsibility, honesty and high integrity in all markets and in everything we do. 4 5 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – OUR APPROACH TO THE 10 PRINCIPLES In 2014, we committed ourselves to work according to the ten principles expressed in the UN Global Compact with the same dedication as if we had officially signed the UN Global Compact. In the summer of 2016, DEIF within the natural context of organisation to ensure that The second stage involves solutions that live up to our we are committed to comA/S officially signed up for our business: Employees, all employees understand the more initiatives towards our principles for ethical business ply with within the areas of the UN Global Compact business partners and the basic principles of UN Global business partners (suppliers practices. human rights, labour rights, program. local & global community. Compact and ensure the and customers) and subsesafety and environment, and implementation of sustainquently towards the global We continuously evaluate anti-corruption. We have defined the major We implement our initiaable solutions throughout the community. our own business and the stakeholders, which should tives in two stages. In the global organisation. business of our partners on guide the direction of our first stage we have focused We expect our suppliers and the below principles, which CSR activities where we primarily on implementing In addition, we have focused their sub-suppliers to proestablish and describe the want to make a difference the initiatives within the DEIF on supplier compliance. duce and deliver sustainable ethical and legal standards 6 7 DEIF CODE OF CONDUCT To ensure a globally aligned perception of DEIF’s values and principles, these are laid out in the “DEIF Code of Conduct”, expressing our ethical business approach; »We want to be recognised for our responsibility, honesty and high integrity in all markets and in everything we do.« The DEIF Code of Conduct advancing our CSR approach covers the areas of human (ambitions and actions). The rights, labour rights, safety & document was signed by DEIF’s environment, and anti-corrupinternational management group tion; according to the ten princiduring a common CSR event ples expressed in the UN Global in Denmark. Subsequently, Compact. the Code of Conduct has been implemented in all new employDEIF Code of Conduct is the ment contracts and in local fundamental document for employee handbooks in our our CSR activities and forms subsidiaries. the basis for our guidance in 8 9 CSR organisation DEIF’s Executive Management Board has appointed a cross-functional CSR Steering Group, which is responsible for planning, coordination, execution and follow-up upon CSR activities in the DEIF Group. To monitor our progress within the agreed Further, all managers are responsible for CSR Management System Integration CSR monitoring and follow-up initiatives, the CSR Steering Group will crecontinuous follow-up and improvements on The DEIF Code of Conduct’s focus areas CSR self-assessments were conducted in ate a governance overview of the person/ CSR within their area of responsibility – among (human rights, labour rights, safety & environ2016, constituting an important part of the subfunction responsible for each action and the others based on structured discussions of CSR ment and anti-corruption) will – to the extent sequent selection of specific CSR objectives. person/function responsible for following up on experiences and dilemmas. CSR experiences, possible be managed under existing organiSuch self-assessments will be performed on a these actions. Consequently, in addition to the initiatives and improvements will be reported sational structures within the DEIF Group, regular basis. These will contribute to a continmembers of the Steering Group, a number of annually to the CSR Steering Group, whereas e.g. Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) and ued CSR progression. Further, all members of employees will be appointed and included in CSR-dilemmas are discussed on an ad hoc Human Resource Development. Correspondthe International Management will periodically the governance overview, thus ensuring that all basis. ingly, we will train our internal audit team to also sign a written commitment to the DEIF Code of KPI’s and actions are defined, monitored and conduct audits within the CSR area. Conduct. reported back to the CSR Steering Group (part of the “CSR Governance”) on a regular basis. The CSR Steering Group has created the below CSR Annual Cycle of Work as a tool to ensure that relevant CSR activities are conducted in a structured and reoccurring way. Executive Management Forum Toke Foss Group CEO Executive Boards, P&M and WPT Executive Management Forum CSR Steering Group Meeting Approval of next year’s CSR objectives? Planning CSR activities. Governance, goals and activities. Follow up on global CSR maturity. Final review – CSR report JAN. DEC. CSR Sterring Group Meeting FE V. Preparation and accumulation of material/data for external CSR reporting NO B. Executive Management Forum Legal Matters Safety & Environmental Mgmt. Approval of External Reporting. Anne Diness Chanette N. Oksborg General Counsil SVP Global Operation International Management Seminar . CSR Theme/Topics/workshops & Information OCT. MAR Reaffirming our commitment to Global Compact’s 10 principles Human & Labour Rights Marjanne Grønhøj CSR Steering Group Wind Power Technology Charlotte Stocklund SVP HR Marjanne Grønhøj Executive VP Assistant . APR. Chairman Executive Management Forum SEPT External reporting Management Review CSR. Define strategic CSR External CSR report (Communication on Progress) published issues/intentions. Update DEIF Code of Conduct if needed. Communication & Reporting System Management Frank P. Overby G. M Lars Gravholt VP Strategy & Communication VP Business Processes & Systems AU AY CSR Steering Group Meeting CSR Steering Group Meeting JUNE CSR in Subsidairies Evaluation of CSR Status Report JULY Follow up on CSR initiatives and objectives Subsidiary Manager Preparation of Management Review + local CSR responsible Executive Management Forum Status on global CSR initiatives and objectives 10 11 GLOBAL IMPLEMENTATION First year activities In 2016, (and starting in 2015), DEIF has primarily focused on the establishment of a CSR organisation and on the implementation of CSR awareness and commitment among the employees of the DEIF Group. We have experienced a high degree of involvement and commitment throughout the organisation. The initiatives include the following: • CSR principles have been communicated • Local management in all subsidiaries have to the International Management (IMS) in signed the DEIF Code of Conduct and October 2015 with a view to enable a global included it in local employee handbooks. rollout in all DEIF’s subsidiaries, based on a “train the trainer” concept. To facilitate • DEIF Code of Conduct has been communianchoring, a workshop based on CSR cated on the DEIF intranet (InSite). dilemma cases was conducted. • Information about DEIF’s Code of Conduct • All members of the International Managehas been integrated in relevant external ment have signed a written commitment to communication materials, such as websites, the DEIF Code of Conduct, and a signed profile brochures and company presenta“commitment” poster is displayed in all subtions. sidiaries. • An internal DEIF Code of Conduct leaflet • DEIF’s Code of Conduct was presented on with guidelines and Q&A’s has been develan information meeting on 20. October 2015 oped and shared with all employees globfor all employees in DEIF A/S (headquarally. The leaflet serves as a tool to get more ter). detailed information and guidance when CSR dilemmas occur. • DEIF Code of Conduct has been included as part of employment contracts for new • Self-assessments for DEIF A/S (headquaremployees in DEIF A/S, and all new ter), DEIF APAC (Singapore) and DEIF employees is being introduced to the Code China have been conducted. of Conduct and dilemma cases. • A set of CSR objectives has been devel• Communication on DEIF Code of Conduct oped with involvement of the international and workshops based on dilemma cases management (workshop). have been conducted in all subsidiaries and departments during 2016. 13 AMBITIONS, OBJECTIVES AND ACTIVITIES In late 2016 the CSR Steering Group and Executive Management Board identified a number of objectives within each of the following four CSR areas: Management, Human & Labour Rights, Safety & Environment and Anti-Corruption. These are the primary objectives we will follow-up upon during 2017. On the following pages is a brief presentation of our CSR ambitions, the activities conducted in 2016 and our plans for 2017 within the four CSR areas. 14 15 CSR Management To manage our global CSR performance and implement our Code of Conduct, we have PLANS FOR 2017 1 conducted the following activities through 2016. In 2017, we will put special focus on five essential areas: This being our first year as a member of the UN Global Compact, many activities in 2016 have centered Implementation of follow-up on the letters sent to our suppliers around building up a CSR organisation, generating CSR awareness in our global organisation and structured risk-assessment during 2016. In case of nonconformity or lack of identifying the areas on which we should focus our CSR activities in the following years. We want to implement a more structured response among our top 30 suppliers a followrisk-assessment of new business opportuniup will be conducted. As for suppliers from nonties to ensure full compliance with our Code EU countries, visits during 2017 will be schedAmbition of Conduct. By evaluating risks, opportunities uled. Selected employees from our subsidiaries We want to ensure a high degree of awareness of and commitment to our Code of Conduct and the impact of our decisions in a structured will receive training to enable them to carry and CSR objectives throughout the global DEIF organisation. Further, we want to secure and methodical way, we secure that new initiaout audits, which in time will allow us to audit a larger percentage of our suppliers globally. 4 continuous improvements within all CSR areas through a structured CSR approach. tives are always assessed and compliant with our Code of Conduct principles. In 2017 we want to conduct a GAP-analysis to identify any Governance Achievements and activities 2016 relevant situations in which we do not deploy a CSR evaluation. Subsequently, we will estabWe want to establish a clear governance • The international management has started • Information about DEIF’s Code of Conduct structure for all CSR activities by ensuring to put more focus on CSR risk-assessment, has been integrated in relevant external lish which tools should be used to conduct a structured risk management assessment from clear roles and division of responsibility in kicking off with a workshop in Denmark in communication materials, such as websites, relation to continued follow-up on CSR objec2016. profile brochures and company presentaa CSR perspective. Amongst others, we will assess whether a CSR evaluation should be tives. Amongst others, we will complete and tions. implement a governance overview linked to • Communication on DEIF Code of Conduct included in all business case evaluations. The and workshops based on dilemma cases • Self-assessments for DEIF A/S (headquarrelevant CSR risk assessments will be impleour objectives in 2017. As such, the responsibility for each objective will be given to one of 2 have been conducted in all subsidiaries and ter), DEIF APAC (Singapore) and DEIF mented in 2017. departments during 2016. China have been conducted the members of the CSR Steering Group. He or she will be responsible for identifying the • DEIF Code of Conduct has been included • Learnings from the self-assessments have Communication of our CSR activities resources and activities necessary to reach as part of employment contracts for new been implemented in our objectives for the objective. A time plan will be produced and We want to communicate our CSR activities employees in DEIF A/S, and all new 2017. the remainder of the CSR Steering Group will in a structured way, both internally and exteremployees are being introduced to the nally. By ensuring a structured internal and play the part as “sounding board” and assist in • Since 2015 CSR has been part of all supCode of Conduct and dilemma cases. reaching the respective objectives. 5 plier contracts external communication of our CSR activities, • An internal DEIF Code of Conduct leaflet we secure ongoing anchoring and CSR focus • In 2016 all active suppliers have received a within our organisation and provide external with guidelines and Q&A’s has been develContinuous assessment letter from DEIF in which we asked them to stakeholders with relevant information. In 2017, oped and shared with all employees globWe want to conduct continuous self-assessconfirm that they adhere to the 10 principles we will complete our first external CSR reportally ments to ensure progress. Through yearly ing as of April 2017. The report should be published on our websites and intranet, and shall self-assessments we want to secure follow-up comply with the guidelines of UN’s “Communion the impact of our CSR activities to enable cation on Progress”. Further, we want to set up identification of future CSR activities to be cara CSR page on our intranet (InSite) to make our ried out. The yearly self-assessments are to be goals, CSR activities, roles and responsibilities conducted based on UN’s evaluation criteria for »From 2016 all new employees selected areas. In 2017, the self-assessments visible and easily accessible to all employees in are being introduced to our will be carried out in DEIF A/S (Denmark) and 3 the DEIF Group. Code of Conduct, including selected subsidiaries. These self-assessments will help us identify any areas with particular dilemma cases, and they receive Targeted supplier management room for improvement and secure the transa leaflet on CSR guidelines parency and basis for decision necessary for We want to develop a structured approach to and Q&A’s.« evaluate our suppliers in relation to our Code ongoing identification of future focus areas and of Conduct principles. Further, we want to objectives. DEIF Code of Conduct – & How We Practice It 16 17 Human and labour rights We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and make PLANS FOR 2017 1 sure that we do not in any way contribute to the violation of human rights. In 2017, we will put special focus on the following three areas: DEIF as well as our suppliers must protect employees against physical, sexual or mental abuse of Women in leadership positions with educational institutions. As the majority of any kind. DEIF upholds freedom of association and recognises the right to collective bargaining. We We want to secure equal rights for people in our employees are employed through our Danrespect and comply with relevant labour regulation in the countries where we do business. general and therefore we commit ourselves to ish legal entity, this is where we can make the define and execute on global targets for women highest impact. Thus, for 2017, we have chosen in leadership positions. We want to make to focus on our Danish entity, and it is our aim Ambition an extra effort to employ more women at all that the percentage of trainees and apprentices DEIF is an international company and strives for diversity in the organisation. We want to provide equal management levels. The number of women in must, as a minimum, remain at 4.5% in Denopportunities for people regardless of race, gender, age, religion and political conviction. We want to leadership positions must, at all management mark regardless if the total number of employ3 ensure compliance with UN’s Guiding principles on Business and Human Rights (UNPGs). levels, increase towards 2020. ees is expected to grow in the years to come. Achievements and activities 2016 In 2016 the total share of women in leadership Business and Human Rights positions in the DEIF Group was 17.2 %, the We want to ensure compliance with UN’s Guid• We take pride in developing our people and have educated approximately 60 young share being slightly higher on executive level ing principles on Business and Human Rights 2 conduct annual development dialogues with people within administration (Finance, HR, (17.8 %). (UNPGs). To secure compliance, areas of nonall our employees. Shipping and logistics, Marketing, IT and conformity should be identified. Subsequently, electronics). The Society we want to initiate and implement improve• All major suppliers and partners have been At DEIF we find it extremely important and ments on defined areas linked to UN’s Guidasked to sign and commit to DEIF’s Code of • Guidance has been offered to 9th grade rewarding to contribute positively to the local ing principles on Business and Human Rights Conduct. pupils from various schools in Skive. We areas in which we operate. We want to be (UNPGs) in a DEIF context. guide them in career planning and opportu• 6 audits have been conducted with selected involved in and contribute to a positive developnities in cooperation with Jobcenter Skive. suppliers. 2 non-conformities have been ment of society through increased cooperation identified and corrective actions and follow• DEIF sponsored an IT Camp for young up have been planned. women at Aalborg University, Denmark and conducted a workshop during the camp • DEIF makes a big effort to take on interns highlighting the need and the possibilities during or after their studies. In 2016 DEIF for women within our industry. had 11 interns. Five of these were subsequently awarded with permanent employ• Further we have hosted events for e.g. ment contracts. The past 10 years, DEIF marine engineer students in order for them to explore the job opportunities in a company like DEIF. “Over the years, DEIF has been a lighthouse in our local business community, leading the way amongst others when it comes to offering young people educational opportunities and a good start in their working life” Peder Chr. Kirkegaard Foto: Altinget.dk Mayor of Skive 18 19 Safety and environment DEIF and our suppliers place the safety of employees before everything else, and it is our stated PLANS FOR 2017 goal to have zero work-related injuries. We expect our customers to provide a safe working In 2017, we will put special focus on the following environment that prevents accidents and do not expose our employees to health & safety risks two areas: 1 when working on the customer’s site. Green company We want to increase the level of safety and environmental protection by continuous measurements and We want to develop a strategy for which role to improvements, and we take a sustainable and ‘green’ approach in all matters of business. play in the global green transformation in 2017 and beyond and start executing on the defined DEIF develops energy-efficient products and solutions that reduce fuel consumption, cut emissions objectives and targets. Amongst others, targets and costly maintenance intervals. It is central to DEIF’s green vision that new product developments, have been identified within the area of heat specifications and designs meet and exceed a number of strict self-imposed targets. consumption, reduction of non-recyclable waste 2 and power consumption. Safe Workplace Ambition We want to have zero work-related injuries. We We want to be a safe workplace for everyone working for us or visiting us. We want to be recognised want to increase the level of safety by using for being a green company that delivers environmentally optimised solutions which at the same time the categorisation of accidents and almost meets the customers’ expectations to performance, reduced costs and availability. accidents made in 2016 as basis for securing continuous improvements. Further, we want to conduct safety training of selected administrative employees outside Denmark and impleAchievements and activities 2016 ment the new HSE structure in the remaining • We continuously conduct safety training, • A global HSE structure, including objectives 30% of DEIF’s subsidiaries. instruction and supervision for all coland reporting, was implemented in 70% of leagues and only instructed people are DEIF’s subsidiaries. The purpose was to allowed to carry out the tasks. secure local HSE (Health, Safety & Environment) involvement in all DEIF companies. • All DEIF employees working on-site are trained to make a health & safety assess• DEIF Asia Pacific received a “BisSafe Level ment of the site and it is his/her duty to 3” certification refuse any work that may compromise his/ her health & safety. • Nearby accident registered as awareness increase and improved on a global scale in • We carry out annual audits to make sure our SCP system that we comply with our policy at all times. • Internal and external environmental audits • We have worked actively to reduce the use according to ISO 14001 conducted of chemicals and harmful substances in DEIF in products, production, buildings • Recertification for ISO 14001 obtained. and cleaning activities. For chemicals that • Waste separation optimised with input from have not yet been substituted, we always external consultant ensure that the correct personal protective equipment be used by our employees. • WPT relocated from offices heated by elecWhen developing new products, we strive tricity to new offices with intelligent climate to avoid chemicals and potentially harmful control, and heating by DEIF aqua thermal substances alltogether. storage system • HSE information screen established in headquarter, Skive. 20 21 The DEIF Group’s headquarters CASE: YANGMEISHAN in Skive, Denmark, boasts an Heat usage per m2 Yangmeishan 100 MW wind park exists in 2400-2800 m. altitude in China’s Yunnan province. The wind park advanced and comprehensive 80,00 420 consists of 66 MD77 turbines, upgraded with DEIF’s advanced control system solution to increase green energy system that the power production by up to 4 %. An entire retrofit kit has been customised for the turbine type. 400 includes a carbon neutral 60,00 380 Aqua Thermal Storage KWh/m2 Employees System, a micro CHP plant 40,00 360 and a comprehensive Energy 340 Optimisation System that spots 20,00 320 and eliminates energy waste. 0,00 300 2014 2015 2016 Heat Index Employees KWh/m2 heat Electricity usage per m2 80,00 420 400 75,00 380 KWh/m2 Employees 70,00 360 340 65,00 320 60,00 300 2014 2015 2016 Electricity Index Objective Employees KWh/m2 electricity Kg . Waste amounts generated mil. 60.000 1000 55.000 5775 50.000 45.000 40.000 35.000 31868 29901 28864 30.000 500 ”We are proud to be part of upgrading these wind parks. This park 25.000 6 5 is secured to run for at least another 20 years delivering by up to 20.000 15.000 3 4% more power. With an adequate and fast power control, the 10.000 % 20504 20531 18872 accumulated green power produced will sum up to an important 5.000 0 0 and significant value, financially as well as for the environment. 2014 2015 2016 This is our as well as the owners’ target.” Other 4 Reusable household waste Christian Nielsen 1 Emplo. CEO, WPT, DEIF A/S Index % Medarb. Turnover 22 PM+WPT 23 Anti-corruption DEIF refrains from corruption, bribery, extortion and use of other methods that may create conflicts of interest related to our business. We request DEIF colleagues only to accept or give minor gifts and only to participate in meetings, events, etc. that are within the scope of normal business practices. If in doubt about issues concerning gifts and entertainment, the individual employee should consult his/her manager for clarification. Any decisions, actions or behavior compromising DEIF’s stance on anti-corruption will have consequences for the employee(s) involved. Our contracts are always prepared in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, and we take care to ensure that our contracts with suppliers, consultants and other cooperation partners include sections on anti-corruption. DEIF has a zero-tolerance policy for corruption, bribery and extortion. Ambition We will not participate in any kind of corruption. CASE: Achievements and activities 2016 • We have developed a check and balance • Commitment regarding anti-corruption has GREEN HYBRID TEA system over transactions. This information is checked and controlled by Group Finance been received from employees in new contracts and employee handbook. IN RWANDA and ultimately our CEO. • DEIF has not been involved in any legal • Dilemma cases on corruption have been discussed with all employees globally. cases, rulings or other events related to corIn rapidly developing countries like Rwanda, electricity A central element of the system is the DEIF Automatic ruption and bribery. • Guidelines regarding anti-corruption have supply from the grid is often not sufficient so companies Sustainable Controller which enables the intelligent been defined and distributed globally. often use diesel generators. Cooperating with DEIF, integration of the 50 kWp photovoltaic plant and the • Our books and accounts are subjected to OneShore has engineered a hybrid solar system for the optimal operation of the diesel generators with a 1.7 MVA statutory external audit annually. These Sorwathe Tea Factory which utilises power from the grid, capacity. Because the use of grid electricity and diesel factory diesel generators and the photovoltaic plant. can be reduced, significant cost savings are achieved for audits are used as one of the methods of Sorwathe. identifying any suspicious payments, which ‘Aiming to reduce the factory’s carbon footprint by saving could be related to bribery or corrupt behav22,000 kg of CO2 emissions annually, the PV diesel-hybrid ior. There has been no such incident reportsolution also reduces cost for diesel and grid electricity.’, ed in the period. Philipp Kunze, Managing Director of OneShore Energy, explains’. »This solution reduces CO2 emissions by PLANS FOR 2017 nearly 22,000 kilograms per year.« In 2017, we will put special focus on the following area: Philipp Kunze Managing Director OneShore Energy 1Continuous avoidance of corruption We want to secure that all employees in the global DEIF Group continuously refrain from engaging in any corrupt activities. In order to do so, we want to develop an e-learning course for relevant employees on anti-corruption and ensure that all relevant employees have accomplished the e-learning module before end of 2018. 24 25 CASE: POWERING AID TO THE THIRD WORLD Just 2.3 doctors per 1,000 people (33.3 in where clean water, electricity, medical facilities Europe). And up to 69 % of all citizens living on and personnel is limited or non-existing. Since »With the revamped power control solution $ 2 or less a day. Those are the conditions in more than 50 % of the world’s population live from DEIF, our surgeons no longer fear Sub-Saharan Africa. So, for most, healthcare is within 100 miles of the coast, we can reach not an option, simply because it is physically or more people who need care too. More impact blackouts during surgery« financially out of reach. As a result, a large profor less money. portion of the 85 % of African children expected Jens-Erik Engelbrecht to need surgical treatment before the age of Cooperating with Mercy Ships is one of the CEO & MSDK board member 15 remain untreated, leading to complications, ways DEIF offers charity help to the global Mercy Ships lifelong disability or death. community by doing what we do best. Delivering our brand promise: Power Efficiency. DEIF and Mercy Ships agree that a ship is the most efficient hospital platform in this region 26 27 DEIF A/S Frisenborgvej 33, 7800 Skive, Denmark Tel. +45 9614 9614 DEIF.com/About/Corporate-Social-Responsibility
