UPDATE 2016 I N G P L E C H G AM L PE O E N S P I E M S N G R T U S I B I L I T Y T W O RO U P N SG O N T ERIE P A LOT RES IAN R AU STR AND E IA STR V U OS A SIN TH E CA RT FOR R EPO ERIM INT Our Business Year 2016 Total Workforce* (average annual full-time equivalent; 4,233 as of 31 December 2016) Women 39.3 % Men 60.7 % * Casinos Austria AG (incl. Cuisino, CAST, CCB & CALL, CAIH), Österreichische Lotterien Ges.m.b.H., win2day (incl. Rabcat), WINWIN and tipp3 Taxes and Other Duties (in millions euro) 609.25 Casinos Austria AG and Österreichische Lotterien Ges.m.b.H. Casino Guests (in millions) 3.01 excluding Casinos Austria International Österreichische Casinos Austria AG* 215 Lotterien Ges.m.b.H.* delegates * Services sector Sports Funding (in millions euro) 80 Österreichische Lotterien Ges.m.b.H. Environmental Indicators Energy consumption in kWh 42,846,490 Water consumption in m 3 77,469 Total consumption in 2016 at RW44/46 and MC4 sites, casinos and WINWIN outlets as of 31 December 2016 Companies in 2016 – Overview 1 4 SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE IN % SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE IN % Casinos Austria AG Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H. 2 2 1 Bankhaus Schelhammer & Schattera AG 1 Casinos Austria AG 5.3 % 1 68 % 3 2 Medial Beteiligungs-GmbH 2 Lotto-Toto Holding Gesellschaft m.b.H. 38.3 % 32 % • UNIQA • CAME Holding GmbH Shareholders • Raiffeisen Gruppe • CLS Beteiligungs GmbH • Bankhaus Schelhammer & Schattera AG (Bankhaus Schelhammer & Schattera AG) (Privatstiftung Dipl.Ing. Melchart) 3 Österreichische Bundesund (BAIH Beteiligungsverwaltungs GmbH) Industriebeteiligungen GmbH (ÖBIB) • RSV Beteiligungs GmbH 33.2 % (Novomatic AG) • LTB Beteiligungs GmbH 4 Novomatic AG* (BAIH Beteiligungsverwaltungs GmbH) 17.2 % (Novomatic AG) (Austrian Gaming Holding) 5 Private Shareholders* * Changes in the reporting period: • Österreichischer Rundfunk 6% acquisition of shareholding by Novomatic AG) Shareholdings* in % CASINOS AUSTRIA AG LOTTO-TOTO HOLDING Gesellschaft m.b.H. Headquarters: Vienna Headquarters: Vienna Casinos Austria Österreichische Lotterien International Holding GmbH Gesellschaft m.b.H. Headquarters: Vienna Headquarters: Vienna 100 % 68 % 32 % 50 % Entertainment Glücksund Russisch Österreichische 50 % 59 % Unterhaltungsspiel Lotterien Holding Gesellschaft m.b.H. Gesellschaft m.b.H. Headquarters: Vienna Headquarters: Vienna (in liquidation) 56 % 100 % 100 % Österreichische win2day Glücksund Sportwetten EntwicklungsUnterhaltungsspiel Gesellschaft m.b.H. und BetriebsBetriebsges.m.b.H. Headquarters: gesellschaft m.b.H. Headquarters: Vienna Headquarters: Vienna Vienna * The Albanisch Österreichische Lotterien Holding Ges.m.b.H. was sold in the reporting period and is no longer listed. Locations in Austria 12 casinos Kleinwalsertal Linz Baden Salzburg Bregenz Seefeld Graz Velden Innsbruck Wien Kitzbühel Zell am See 15 WINWIN outlets Linz/Urfahr Vöcklabruck Headquarters Mayrhofen Wels Rennweg 44 and 46, Krems Salzburg/Stadt Wels II 1038 Vienna • more than 5,100 lottery sales outlets Kufstein Schärding Wiener Neustadt Logistics and Parallel • win2day on www.win2day.at Landeck Schwaz Zell am See Computer Center MC4, • t ipp3 at 3,200 lottery sales outlets Lienz Steyr Wr. Neustadt and on www.tipp3.at Gaming Revenues/Sales (in millions euro) Casinos Austria: Austrian Lotteries: (by casino) Gaming Revenues (by game) Gaming Revenues* (in millions euro) (in millions euro) 3.2 – Kleinwalsertal WINWIN Wien 4.4 – Zell am See (Video Lottery Terminals) Lotto “6 aus 45” 7.7 – Kitzbühel 93.1 2.3 – win2day.at 14.1 – Seefeld 499,5 Poker** 595,8 8.7 – Toto and 16.3 – Graz Torwette EuroMillionen 314,2 22.1 9.3 – Bingo Salzburg 72.2 16.5 – ToiToiToi 22.3 186,0 3.7 – Zahlenlotto Bregenz 1-90 Velden 23.4 1.536,4 Joker 23.9 24.1 win2day.at 127.2 – Rubbellos (incl. Keno) Innsbruck 23.5 – Brieflos Linz Baden 28.9 – Klassenlotterie Total 326.8 Total 3,352.0 * Sales figures for tipp3 are not reported because sports betting is not included in the Austrian Gaming Act. ** Rake only. Foreword by the Management Board Social responsibility plays a central role in corpowith great spirit and dedication, and anchoring this rate philosophy at Casinos Austria AG and Österin a sound CSR management system. reichische Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H. In their mission statements and codes of conduct, both As gaming operators, society rightly expects us to companies expressly affirm their commitment to apply particularly strict standards to all our busisustainable management and to the principle that ness activities and practices. Accordingly, these their business activities should benefit society as business activities are guided at the Casinos Ausa whole. The membership of both companies in tria and Austrian Lotteries Group by the principle the UN Global Compact underlines this commitof sustainability. This principle governs first and ment. For Casinos Austria, engagement for social foremost our core business, where player protecinitiatives, arts, culture and Austrian tourism was tion, responsible advertising and fairness in the already written into the company’s statutes as a handling of the games play a central role. But repurpose of business when it was founded back in sponsibility also defines not only the way we deal 1967, i.e. exactly 50 years ago. In this respect, the with our suppliers, guests and customers, but also Casinos Austria AG statutes constitute the starting the work environment we offer our staff. It is the point for the group’s commitment to corporate sodriving force behind our commitment to contributcial responsibility (CSR). ing to regional value creation. Nowadays, we see CSR as a development of our This report covers the 2016 business year and has group in line with the three-pillar model of corbeen compiled in the form of an interim report. porate sustainability. The economic pillar stands The Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group for sustainable growth and innovation, the enviproduces a full report on its CSR activities every ronmental pillar comprises efforts to preserve our two years, and publishes so-called interim reports natural habitat, and the social pillar documents focusing on all key CSR-related topics in the interengagement for society and the safeguarding of vening years. The next full CSR Report will be puba worthwhile and free existence for all. For the Calished in 2018 for the 2017 business year. sinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group, CSR means demonstrating responsibility beyond the Our CSR reporting activities cover all companies in regulatory obligations and provisions, doing so the group that do business in Austria. Dr. Alexander Labak Director General Casinos Austria AG, Bettina Glatz-Kremsner Österreichische Lotterien Ges.m.b.H. Director Casinos Austria AG, Prof. Dietmar Hoscher (from 1 July 2017) Österreichische Lotterien Ges.m.b.H. Director Casinos Austria AG Foreword by the Management Board We Learn from our Stakeholders In the concept of social responsibility as it is understood in the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group, regular dialog with stakeholders plays a central role. We don’t simply define our Prof. Dietmar responsibilities to society ourselves, we do so in Hoscher, meaningful dialog with our key stakeholders. In CSR Director, this dialog, we place ourselves first and foremost Casinos Austria in the role of the observer and listener and try to and Austrian determine which aspects of gaming are considLotteries Group ered problematic. How should the cooperation between our group as gaming license holders and the regulatory authorities best be organized? What issues in the fields of arts, culture and sport or in the social sector should we support – not just through sponsoring, but in the form of a CSR partnership that brings genuine benefits to society? One of the most important formats for this constant communication with society is our annual stakeholder round table. For the last three years, we have invited a group of people with special ties to gaming – academic experts in gambling addiction, representatives of the regulatory authorities, former gambling addicts, to name but a few – to sit down and talk with us. After three years, one thing is already abundantly clear: our group learns an enormous amount from regulations in Austria are strict and comprehenthese round tables. We also receive plenty of possive when it comes to the protection of minors: itive feedback and recognition both for our efforts access to our casinos and WINWIN outlets is rein the field of responsible gaming and for the restricted to persons over the age of 18, players on sponsibility we show to society in general. This is, our win2day online gaming platform have to proof course, gratifying – not just because everyone vide proof that they are over the age of 18 when likes to receive praise, but also because these rethey sign up with the site, and our lottery products actions show us that we are clearly on the right are only sold to persons over the age of 16. path with our approaches to corporate social responsibility and with the daily efforts made by our But at the same time, the current generation of staff in this regard. youth has grown up with smartphones, tablets and similar devices and with access to the internet One of the most important things we have learned anywhere and at any time. And it is not difficult to from the dialog with our stakeholders is the growfind gambling websites there – illegal, unlicensed ing importance of protecting minors. This might at sites that are nonetheless accessible. Worse still, first glance appear surprising since the gambling some experts also see a danger in the kind of in2 ternet gaming sites where no actual money is bet However, and this is one of the positive things and users play with points or symbols – cash-free we have taken from our dialog with stakeholders, Roulette and Blackjack as it were. While these are there is also pressure from the market for greater not gambling websites in the strictly legal sense, responsibility. When companies like Casinos they can still be a dangerous introduction to illeAustria AG and Österreichische Lotterien Gegal gambling for some young people. Dealing with sellschaft m.b.H. set strong examples and adhere this will be a huge task for the authorities, for the strictly and consistently to high levels of responsilegislators and for society as a whole – and it is a ble gaming, this has a role model effect. task that they must tackle together. As licensed operators, we see it as our duty to address and On that note, I can promise you that we will conactively contribute to resolving this issue. tinue to set such an example. Corporate social responsibility will continue to gain even more relIn general terms, online gambling constitutes evance in the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lottera major challenge for all countries in Europe, as ies Group in the future. This report provides you evidence shows that additional efforts will be rewith a comprehensive overview of what we have quired to effectively prevent illegal, unlicensed already undertaken in this regard – and what we sites. Take, for example, the illegal online gamhave achieved with our efforts. bling operations that are typically run from faraway offshore sites. Without effective countermeasures, these sites are attracting market shares of up to 50 % and more in most EU Member States. It goes without saying that – alongside lost tax revenues and duties – even the most stringent national responsible gaming measures and policy will be futile if half the consumers migrate to illegal, unregulated operators. Prof. Dietmar Hoscher The CSR core team Markus Eder Hermann Pamminger Susanne Hirner Head of Division CSR Officer Casinos Austria CSR Specialist Public & European Affairs / AG and Österreichische (since 2 January 2017) CSR / Compliance Lotterien Ges.m.b.H. 3 Contents C2 Our Business Year 2016 16 – 27 About our C3/C4 Companies in 2016 – Overview CSR Engagement 1 Foreword by the Management Board 16 Our Responsibility Toward 2 We Learn from our Stakeholders our Customers and Guests 3 The CSR Core Team 21 Our Responsibility Toward 6 Reporting Period and Practices our Employees 24 Our Responsibility Toward Society 7 – 15 About us 26 Our Responsibility Toward 7 Our Organizational Structure the Environment 8 Our Six Business Units 9 Our Corporate and Guiding Principles 10 Legal Foundations 28 – 36 Appendix 10 Our Key Stakeholders 28 GRI Index 11 General Conditions, Trends, 32 Indicators Challenges 36 Group Management Bodies 12 Our Responsibility Along our Value Chain 13 Focus on the Material Aspects C5/C6 Addresses and Contact Details 14 CSR in our Group C7 Imprint 4 5 Reporting Period and Practices This CSR Report has been prepared and produced Talk to us for the benefit of all stakeholders of Casinos AusDialog with our readers is important to us, since it tria AG (hereinafter referred to as “Casinos Austria”) lets us know what you like about this report, what and Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H. you feel might be missing, and where you think (hereinafter referred to as “Austrian Lotteries”). the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group could make further improvements. We look forThe report provides information on the Casinos ward to receiving your comments and feedback Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group’s engageby email to csr@casinos.at or csr@lotterien.at. ment in and management of CSR activities. It covers the 2016 business year; unless otherwise indicated, the reference date for any data included in the report is 31 December 2016. Casinos Austria International Holding GmbH, which operates casinos outside Austria, does not form part of this report. The report has been compiled according to the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) new 2016 reporting standards and meets the specifications for the “Core” option. It serves as the annual Communication on Progress (COP) required by the UN Global Compact from its member organizations. The goals stated in the COP refer both to Casinos Austria and to Austrian Lotteries – both companies have been members of the UN Global Compact since 2011. For the first time, the report also considers the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. The content of this report was prepared by the CSR Department in consultation with the CSR Director and in cooperation with all Business Units and Corporate Functions in the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group. The data, facts and figures supplied for this report by the individual companies (Business Units) and divisions (Corporate Functions) in the group were selected by their respective experts from the documentation and statistics they have diligently compiled and maintained for many years. All such data, facts and figures have also been verified for correctness and accuracy by the respective line managers. 6 Our Organizational Structure Six Business Units (BU) come together under the umbrella of the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group, each of which constitutes an independent company and focuses on a different business area. Terrestrial casinos Markt in Austria Markt Sports betting Gaming segments Markt outside Austria Markt Video lottery terminals Markt Lottery products Markt Online gaming Services that are required across the entire Operative management is handled by their regroup are bundled into so-called Corporate spective managing directors or BU heads (BusiFunctions (CF), with the individual Business ness Units) and management teams (Corporate Units drawing on the services they provide. Each Functions). BU and each CF is assigned strategically to one or more member(s) of the management board. Casinos in Austria International Business Lotteries BUSINESS UNITS Dr. Karl Stoss* Dr. Karl Stoss* Dr. Karl Stoss* Bettina Glatz-Kremsner Bettina Glatz-Kremsner Bettina Glatz-Kremsner Prof. Dietmar Hoscher Prof. Dietmar Hoscher Head of BU: Managing Directors: Head of BU: Christian Schütz Alexander Tucek Dr. Peter Ulovec Christoph Zurucker-Burda * to 30 June 2017 Betting & Sports-Related Skill Games VLT/Slot Machine Business Online Gaming Prof. Dietmar Hoscher Prof. Dietmar Hoscher Bettina Glatz-Kremsner Managing Directors: Managing Directors: Managing Directors: Philip Newald Robert Vierziger Martin Jekl Georg Weber Fritz Pühringer Emmerich Hager as of 19 May 2017 7 CORPORATE Corporate Development Internal Audit Human Resources FUNCTIONS Dr. Karl Stoss* Dr. Karl Stoss* Dr. Karl Stoss* Bettina Glatz-Kremsner Bettina Glatz-Kremsner Prof. Dietmar Hoscher Prof. Dietmar Hoscher Extended CF Management: Extended CF Management: Extended CF Management: Peter Ulovec Erhard Peinthor Erich Valenta DI Reinhard Summerer Christian Schütz Finance & Group Public & European Responsible Gaming, Controlling Legal Affairs Affairs, CSR, Compliance Advertising & Sponsoring Bettina Glatz-Kremsner Prof. Dietmar Hoscher Prof. Dietmar Hoscher Prof. Dietmar Hoscher Extended CF Management: Extended CF Management: Extended CF Management: Extended CF Management: Wolfgang Sperl Dr. Peter Erlacher Markus Eder Herbert Beck as of 19 May 2017 Information Services & Strategic Corporate Technologies Facility Management Communications Bettina Glatz-Kremsner Dr. Karl Stoss* Dr. Karl Stoss* Extended CF Management: Extended CF Management: Extended CF Management: Erich Schuster Nathan Bomze Martin Himmelbauer * to 30 June 2017 Our Six Business Units Casinos Austria Casinos Austria International payout rates. WINWIN is the VLT brand operated Twelve casinos in Austria – twelve extraordinary Casinos Austria International Holding GmbH jointly by Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries. gaming venues, each with its own local flair. In all (CAIH) and its subsidiaries together form an interof our casinos – where access is only permitted to nationally renowned gaming group. Since it was win2day – Online Gaming adults over the age of 18 – guests encounter an founded back in 1977, CAIH has realized more than Computer, tablet or smartphone – win2day is international gaming mix that extends from Rou300 different casino projects worldwide. Tradition, the premier address for online gaming. From Ace lette, Blackjack and Poker to our Mega Million innovation, integrity, social responsibility, security Poker to Zero-Sum, and from American Roulette to Jackpot slot machines, and is coupled with aband service excellence are the cornerstones of its Zahlenlotto, the win2day.at gaming platform offers solute security in the handling of the games and good reputation. The CAIH Group’s business aca comprehensive portfolio of games – from classic the integrity and respectability of Casinos Austria. tivities include operation of its own casinos, operaAustrian Lotteries lottery products and sports betThrough our Cuisino – Genuss-Events by Casinos tional management of casinos under management ting to the many different games offered in its CaAustria subsidiary, our casinos offer top-class cuicontracts and investment in casino companies. sino Games section, Poker Room, Bingo Room and sine and facilities for all manner of different events. Priority is placed in all its projects on ensuring that Games Room. Access to these games is restricted the product is an ideal fit for its respective local to residents of Austria aged 18 and over. Austrian Lotteries market. In 2016, CAIH’s portfolio comprised 33 Austrian Lotteries has been offering a wide range gaming operations in 13 countries, including five tipp3 – Sports Betting of lottery games for the adult gaming market – shipboard casinos and one video lottery operation. Since its first betting slip was played on 24 Ausale of these products is restricted to persons over gust 2001 in Vienna, tipp3 has come to epitomize the age of 16 – since 1986. The company conducts WINWIN – Video Lottery Terminals sports betting in Austria. In addition to sports all its business activities in a responsible manner, WINWIN offers a combination of café, bar and betting in more than 3,200 sales outlets across with player protection and responsible gaming modern gaming at a total of 15 venues across Austria and via the internet portal www.tipp3.at, always the top priority. Particular importance is Austria. The WINWIN outlets offer guests aged tipp3 has also been offering popular skill-based placed on the protection of minors and on protect18 and over the opportunity to try their luck on games like Schnapsen (an Austrian variation of ing customers against excessive desire to gamble. cutting-edge video lottery terminals (VLTs) in stylthe Sixty-Six card game), Backgammon, Rummy The Austrian Lotteries product range comprises ish settings, with good value bistro cuisine, welland Jolly (an Austrian variation of Rummy) via the the Lotto, EuroMillions, Toto, Torwette, Bingo, trained staff and regular live music events and atinternet since 2009. Österreichische SportwetToiToiToi, Zahlenlotto, Joker, Rubbellos, Brieflos tractive entertainment programs. VLTs differ from ten GmbH is licensed to operate sports betting and Klassenlotterie lottery games as well as the classic slot machines in their gaming mechanism. in all nine federal states in Austria. The company gaming options offered by the subsidiary compaWhile each slot machine calculates win/lose decihas also been offering system solutions for other nies WINWIN and win2day. The company’s lottery sions independently via a random generator, these betting providers and companies active in the products can be purchased at over 5,100 sales decisions are calculated for VLTs by a central ransports betting segment under the BGS – Better outlets across Austria and on the internet. dom generator based on predetermined odds and Game Solutions – brand since 2010. 8 as of 1 March 2017 Our Corporate and Guiding Principles The Casinos Austria Corporate Principles and Austrian Lotteries Guiding Principles form the basis of all business activities both in these companies as well as at tipp3, WINWIN, win2day and Casinos Austria International – whereby in the case of the latter, the legal provisions in the respective countries in which CAIH operates also apply. Casinos Austria – Corporate Principles Austrian Lotteries – Guiding Principles As a services company, everything we do centers on Austrian Lotteries is an internationally renowned gaming our guests and their individual needs and demands. company with a responsible, innovative and cooperative 1 Our behavior and the design of our products combine approach. We offer a broad portfolio of high quality prodinternational quality and service standards with the ucts for the adult gaming market. Responsible gaming decisive “value added” of typically Austrian friendliforms the basis of all our business activities. This core attiness and charm. tude to our stakeholders is actively practiced by company management and by all our employees. 2 We treat others the way we wish to be treated ourselves. Maintaining the trust and confidence of our customers Our employees, works council and management are and the licensing authority is central to all our efforts and 3 fully committed to a sustainable, socially balanced, fair and cooperative attitude that centers on our endeavors. We combine regulatory responsibility with entrepreneurial commitment, live credibly by these princiguests. ples and are an economic success with a clear and strong financial basis. 4 We are aware of and accept our responsibility to society. Our business model embraces innovation. We develop Gambling can be a problem for some people. We and use modern technology to guarantee the best postherefore accept and are committed to the regulasible level of security in our gaming products. Our pio5 tory mandate of the Austrian authorities and strive in all our casinos to promote, encourage and offer the neering role can be attributed above all to our motivated, high-performing employees, who are a cornerstone of our optimal level of responsible gaming for our guests. lasting success. We are committed to providing them with an attractive working environment that encourages open 6 We are aware of and accept our responsibility for our companies. communication and supports a work-life balance. In line with our corporate objectives, all our emWe see ourselves as a good corporate citizen and support 7 ployees are empowered and required to assume responsibility, be innovative and show commitment. institutions and projects that serve the interests of Austria and its population. In line with the license awarded to us, we endeavor to make our products available across the 8 We offer our employees a stimulating and supportive working environment. whole of Austria. We work closely and responsibly with our sales partners and strive to ensure our customers always Job descriptions, scope of authority and any associenjoy the best possible service. In doing so, we place a 9 ated responsibilities are clearly defined. This leads particularly strong emphasis on adherence to our responto informed, purposeful and motivated employees sible gaming principles. who provide our guests with optimal service. 10 We draw our strength from our clear focus on our guests and our markets. 9 Legal Foundations In Austria, the state holds a monopoly on games licenses for the casinos in Bregenz, Graz, Innsof chance – the Austrian Gaming Act (Glücks­ bruck, Linz, Salzburg and Vienna are valid until spielgesetz) is the basis upon which the Casi31 December 2027; the licenses for the casinos in nos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group offers Baden, Kitzbühel, Kleinwalsertal, Seefeld, Velden games of chance in Austria. The legislator stipuand Zell am See until 31 December 2030). lates in the Gaming Act that a license can only be awarded to an applicant if said applicant can be Section 5 of the Gaming Act also provides for expected to best exercise the license by virtue the operation of gaming machines in individual of its experience, infrastructures, development federal states. Under these provisions, the nine measures and own equity capital/resources as federal states in Austria have the right to issue well as its systems and arrangements to prevent licenses for the operation of gaming machines gambling addiction, to protect gamblers, to preprovided that certain regulatory measures are vent money laundering and criminal activity, to adhered to. The number of licenses to operate ensure the security of its operations, to assure gaming machines is restricted to a maximum of quality, to monitor its operations and to meet any three per federal state. At present, such licenses other applicable provisions in the Act. have been issued in five federal states, namely Burgenland, Carinthia, Lower Austria, Styria and Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H. Upper Austria. holds the corresponding license to operate lottery draws (license valid until 30 September Sports betting is classed in Austria as a skill 2027). Casinos Austria AG has been awarded game and is not subject to the provisions of the corresponding licenses by the Federal MinisGaming Act; legislative responsibility for sports try of Finance to operate twelve casinos (the betting lies with the individual federal states. Our Key Stakeholders We consider it to be part of our responsibility to keep in contact with our stakeholders, to clarify their demands and expectations at regular inter1 2 3 vals and to foster corresponding dialog. By involving our key stakeholder groups, we can identify their key issues, add them to the issues idenCustomers tified in our environmental and risk/opportunity Employees and Guests Regulatory analyses, and react accordingly. In the course of Authorities and the preparation of this report, we also conducted Owners an internal prioritization of our stakeholders. For this purpose, the members of our CSR FoKey Stakeholders rum were asked to rate the relevance of various stakeholders on a scale of 1 to 5 (1=particularly important, 5=not important). This prioritization was then also verified by the corresponding This will be used in the coming years to improve our stakeholder member of the Management Board. The results management and enable us to address our stakeholders in an of this prioritization are as follows: even more targeted manner. 10 General Conditions, Trends, Challenges Our group strives to be “best in class” when Risk and opportunities management it comes to CSR. To achieve this, due considThe Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group eration of the general global economic, envihas established a strategic risk and opportunironmental and social conditions is an absolute ties management (ROM) system that covers all must. The Casinos Austria and Austrian LotterBusiness Units and Corporate Functions and is ies Group therefore continually analyzes and continually expanded. The goal of our ROM efmonitors the economic trends and developforts is to identify the key risks and opportunities ments that will affect and shape our companies that affect our companies, assess their financial The table below in the future. To do so, we carry out periodic impacts on our results and link them to effecillustrates some of the key risks PESTEL* and ESTEMPLE* analyses, which also tive control measures. A quantitative risk and and opportunities take account of the results of our group-wide opportunities analysis and a qualitative survey that were identirisk and opportunities management activities. of long-term strategic influences is carried out fied for the 2016 The last ESTEMPLE analysis was carried out in twice yearly and the results are reported to the business year. 2015 (next adaption: 2017). relevant audit committee. Risks/Opportunities Control Measures Permanent risks/opportunities Economic situation Early warning system in place Change in visit behavior at Casinos Austria due to uncertainties in order to be able to react more quickly caused by economic crisis, unemployment, etc. Innovative strength Continual monitoring of the market; Trends in leisure and gaming behavior, market trends and future Innovations in casinos, new products opportunities are not recognized in time and homepage design Effects of award of licenses to competitors Raising attraction of casinos through Massive declines in revenues through license awards innovative appearance and presence to competitors Event-based risks/opportunities (by probability of occurrence) Development of alternatives and Advertising and marketing restrictions adaption of advertising and marketing measures Energy prices Ongoing monitoring of the energy market Developments on the world market are raising energy prices Stakeholder engagement Raising awareness among staff; Regular contact with experts and key opinion leaders Safeguarding the provisions of Section 56 supports strong stakeholder engagement in responsible of the Gaming Act gaming sector Source: ROM Update 2016 * PESTEL and ESTEMPLE are environmental analyses that permit the analysis of factors of influence and trends. PESTEL: Political, Economic, Socio-cultural, Technological, Environmental, Legal ESTEMPLE: Economic, Social, Technological, Environmental, Media, Political, Legal, Ethical 11 Our Responsibility Along our Value Chain A company can ultimately only be successful in the plete value chain, the processes upstream of our long term if it is built on social acceptance, in other day-to-day gaming and event operations were words, if it brings a benefit to society. also analyzed along with their downstream counterparts. This resulted in the highly-differentiated A core principle here is that the value added genvalue chain shown in the figure below. erated by an organization must benefit all stakeholders in the entire production process. The benWhen it comes to our casinos, we have to conefit for society should not only appear at the end sider, for example, the manufacturers of gaming of the chain, it should be encountered wherever machines, cards and roulette tables as well as value added is generated. the maintenance service providers or suppliers of food produce for our restaurants and bars. In Responsible business in the gaming sector necesthe lottery sector, the tobacconists as primary sitates a business model that is based on genersales partner are extremely important, as are the ating optimal – and not maximum – revenues per producers of special printed materials like lottery customer or guest. A balance must be achieved tickets or scratch-off cards and the manufacturers between bets and winnings, so that the emphasis of our lottery terminals. At headquarters, we work for our customers and guests remains on the exwith a range of service providers, such as legal experience and entertainment factors. Accordingly, perts, graphic designers, banks, etc. Cleaning serand to ensure our business activities respect the vices, waste disposal and recycling also form part principle of social responsibility along the comof the chain. Compliance Finance & Accounting Ongoing Establishment of business relationship business relationship Legal, regulated gaming experience Measures Human Customer and guest acquisition Resources Need/desire to gamble ntertainment e and projects de Corporate success xp an e g Gam nce in rie Provision of an attractive and innovative IT Services Targets t n ta c portfolio of products and services Facilities Fol l Medium and co ow up ce short-term n va Ad Legal development Expertise Long-term development Goods & Services Representation inspired by Benkenstein et al., 2007 12 Focus on the Material Aspects An in-depth materiality analysis was carried out was also mirrored with the company-internal during the preparations for our last full CSR Review. No new materiality analysis was conducted port covering the 2015 business year. This built in the 2016 reporting year – an update will be on the topics identified in the ESTEMPLE, risk carried out in 2017 and will be published in our and opportunities, and stakeholder analyses and next CSR Report. The action fields derived from our materiality analysis and their connection to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): Entertainment Innovation Market Markt Implementation of social standards Consumer protection & responsible gaming Creation of new jobs Job security and health in the workplace Workplace Markt Training and education Diversity and equal opportunities Energy efficiency Environment Markt Introduction of environmental standards Regionalism This figure again shows the SDGs that are the focus of our attention: The following chapters offer an insight into our sustainability activities. 13 CSR in our Group What does CSR mean for us? CSR Organization: For us, corporate social responsibility means conducting our business along the value chain in a responsible yet at the same time economically sucCSR Director Prof. Dietmar Hoscher cessful manner to ensure sustainable development. According to the 1987 Report of the Brundtland Commission (also known as the World Commission Define CSR strategy on Environment and Development): Initialize CSR projects Head of Department Markus Eder Approve CRS resources “Sustainable development is development that Public & European Affairs / CSR / Compliance meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet Produce CSR strategy / their own needs.” coordination with Board CSR Officer and CSR Officer This led to the development of CSR and the soHermann Pamminger Resource allocation called priority or three-pillar model. This model Planning, budget proposes that economy, environment and society Produce CSR strategy / are both linked to and dependent on each other at coordination with Board and the corporate level: there is no economy without a Head of Department society, no society without an environment. We at CSR organization / implementation the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group / preparation / documentation / planning / goals / work to integrate this idea into all our business partnerships / reporting processes. CSR Contact Employees CSR Forum Members (as of 1 March 2017: 48) = repre­sentatives of all BUs and CFs Proposals Discussion body CSR is an integral part of their Implementation Communication of CSR activities job description Feedback Information exchange Once a month CSR Working Groups Experts for the respective topic Project-oriented from the CSR Forum Development of concrete solutions Subject matter experts from the BUs and CFs Development of decision-making basis External experts 14 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Report 2016 Our goals for 2016 and 2017 Status 2016 Reorganization of CSR activities: implementation of a monthly CSR Forum; Partly implemented definition of CSR processes CSR reporting based on G4 Implemented Further development of CSR partnerships Ongoing Certification according to ONR 192500 Planned for 2017 Introduction of software for CSR data reporting Planned for 2017 External and internal CSR events Planned for 2017 Together not alone Sustainability affects each and every one of our employees –in both their working and their personal lives. With a series of events under the title “CSR Talks”, we want to raise awareness of susEuropean Lotteries tainability among our employees and thus work together to achieve our goal of being “best in Transparency International class”. Four times a year, our staff are invited to attend an informal meeting where we discuss various current topics relating to sustainability with external experts in this field. The first of these events in 2016 focused on the topic of sustainable fashion. European Casino Member of Association respACT (Austrian Lotteries We also actively strive to foster public discourse Our CSR and Casinos on the topic of CSR. A public “CSR Talk” is thus Network Austria) scheduled for 2017. Member of the Austrian Outlook Standards ON-K 251 In 2016, our group launched a new CSR excelCSR Working lency project, the goal of which is to evaluate Group** Head of our CSR management system and obtain certiCSR Working Group at ÖPAV Member fication for this according to the Austrian ONR (Austrian of the UN Public Affairs Global Compact 192500 standard. In 2017, we will implement a Association) Member of Austrian customized IT application to collect all relevant GRI Gold Chapter* (Global Reporting key performance indicators (KPIs) required for Initiative) our CSR reporting activities. *  through respACT (Austrian Lotteries and Casinos Austria) ** Deputy Chair 15 Our Responsibility Toward our Customers and Guests Our portfolio of gaming products and services is ness activities are exemplary from an ethical and broad and diverse. We offer our customers and legal perspective and thus meet the high moral guests fun and excitement, and place particular standards that apply in our group. This code of importance on their health and safety. conduct is not just a code of practice for our own group, it also mirrors the demands we place on Together with our staff, we have developed our our business partners. It is supplemented in this own Code of Conduct to ensure that all our busiregard by our strict Code of Practice for Suppliers. Fair and controlled gaming UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Report 2016 Our goals for 2016 and 2017 Status 2016 Anti-corruption Further optimization of our anti-corruption management system Ongoing Increased training for managers and introduction of periodic external audits Planned for 2017 Anti-money laundering Preparation for the national implementation of the 4th EU Anti-Money Completed Laundering Directive Further optimization of our anti-money laundering system Ongoing Introduction of periodic external audits Planned for 2017 Data protection Continual improvement of our data protection management system Ongoing and successful completion of periodic external audits Preparation for the General Data Protection Regulation Ongoing since 2016 Revision of our internal company data protection policy Planned for 2017 Compliance in our group stands for the totality ISO 9001 (Quality Management) and 27001 (Inforof measures taken to ensure adherence to exmation Security) standards is defined for all our ternal laws and regulations and to our internal existing management systems. In addition to the guidelines and provisions. As members of indusjoint process elements, this framework also covtry associations like the European Lotteries or the ers the specific elements of each individual manEuropean Casino Association, we work toward agement system. Since 2016, our regular compliestablishing a common approach to compliance ance reporting is handled via a new, audit-proof and to forming an alliance against illegal gamplatform. From 2017, this platform will also be bling. A joint process framework based on the used for our annual compliance risk analyses. 16 Combating corruption the 4th EU Anti-Money Laundering Directive into At the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group, national law in Austria. we orient ourselves in all our activities to combat corruption on the IDW PS 980 auditing standard isGoodPriv@cy certified data sued by the Institute of Public Auditors in Germany. protection management Four compliance managers certified to the Austrian Data protection and protecting the privacy of our Standards Institute’s ÖNORM standard manage customers and guests, but also of our staff, are imand enforce compliance with the legislative proviportant business principles in the Casinos Austria sions and the internal rules that are obligatory for and Austrian Lotteries Group. The group has been all our staff. An anti-corruption officer has also been certified to the GoodPriv@cy standard since Februappointed. ary 2010 and successfully obtained re-certification in May 2016. In preparation for the EU General Data Combating money laundering and Protection Regulation, we introduced a new auditthe financing of terrorism proof platform for the recording and evaluation of To prevent money laundering and organized all data protection relevant objects (DROs) at the criminal activities, we use a management system end of 2016. This platform will also be used in future certified to the ISAE 3000 International Standard for the mandatory data protection risk assessment. on Assurance Engagements to systematically enforce the “know your customer” principle – as Information security also required by the Austrian Gaming Act and the Security in the handling of our games is provided Austrian Banking Act (Bankwesengesetz). Data through strict internal guidelines, directives and recording in our central computer center meets work procedures. A group-wide security committhe highest possible security standards and tee ensures adherence and provides for continual is certified to ISO 27001. In the 2016 reporting improvement to the group’s security standards. In year, a framework was established in the group addition, representatives of the group work in the to identify politically exposed persons (PEPs) in security committees established by the European casinos, lottery games, WINWIN outlets and on Lotteries, the World Lottery Association and the the win2day gaming platform, as required from EuroMillions Community to guarantee optimal se1 January 2017 following the incorporation of curity and protection for our customers and guests. Responsible Gaming UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Report 2016 Our goals for 2016 and 2017 Status 2016 Responsible Gaming Academy conference incl. stakeholder dialog and Completed for 2016 workshops for responsible gaming officers Planned for 2017 Monitoring of adherence by sales partners to the age restriction Completed for 2016 (16 years and over) for the purchase of Austrian Lotteries products through Planned for 2017 mystery shopping checks Addiction potential analysis using the GAM-GaRD tool (Version 3.0). Completed for 2016 Planned for 2017 Group-wide implementation of the “Responsible Advertising” directive Completed Certifications: Completed for 2016 Austrian Lotteries: to European Lotteries and World Lottery Association Planned for 2017 responsible gaming standards win2day: to the GamCare Player Protection Code of Practice Continuation of the annual “Holiday Campaign” in cooperation with Completed for 2016 McGill University in Montreal, Canada and the National Council on Problem Planned for 2017 Gambling in the USA Evaluation and further development of the “MENTOR” prevention tool on win2day Completed for 2016 Expansion of MENTOR to include the “QUESTOR” self-test Planned for 2017 Casinos Austria: full certification of the responsible gaming management Planned for 2017 system to the European Casino Association’s responsible gaming standard Redesign of the group-wide basic responsible gaming training programs Planned for 2017 Austrian Lotteries: training for sales partners in line with the annual responsible Completed for 2016 gaming focus Planned for 2017 17 Responsible Gaming Responsible gaming has been an underlying Our Five-Point Responsible principle of all business activities in the compaGaming Program: nies in our group from the very outset. Markt Player protection Responsible gaming is understood as the sum of all measures taken by a gaming operator to Markt Regular, lasting training address and proactively counter the possible problematic effects of the products and services it provides. In the Casinos Austria and Austrian Markt Responsible advertising Lotteries Group, our Corporate Function “Responsible Gaming, Advertising & Sponsoring” Promotion of research and cooperation with Markt has the task of developing and implementing counseling centers and treatment facilities corresponding measures. Our response to this Quality assurance of content and challenge is our Five-Point Responsible Gaming Markt processes Program. Point 1. Player protection: • Conditions for participation and access restrictions are strictly adhered to. • Active provision of information on the risks of gambling through information folders, on the respon-sible gaming website www.spiele-mit-verantwortung.at and via the responsible gaming hotline (0800 202 304). • Player protection plays a fundamental role in the development of new games: the potential ad-diction risk is evaluated scientifically using GAM-GaRD, an internationally renowned social impact assessment tool. Version 3.0 of this tool was introduced in 2016. The results of the evaluation are then submitted to the Federal Ministry of Finance along with the required request for approval of a game. • Provision of self-monitoring and control options for players, e.g. self-exclusion orders or gambling breaks. • The MENTOR tool supports users of our online gaming platform win2day with important informa-tion and useful tips for monitoring their gambling behavior. MENTOR has also been available in a responsive design for mobile devices since 2016. A “MENTOR Reminder” campaign was likewise launched in 2016 to specifically draw the attention of users to the information tool on win2day. 1,123 712 talks with guests in acc. with talks with guests in acc. with Section 25 (3), Gaming Act Section 25 (3), Gaming Act 12 casinos 1,950 15 VLT outlets 899 self-exclusion orders self-exclusion orders (minimum duration = (minimum duration = 5,495 6 months) 1,439 6 months) restrictive measures in acc. with restrictive measures in acc. with Section 25 (3), Gaming Act Section 25 (3), Gaming Act Point 2. Regular, lasting training • Qualification  as so-called specially trained member of staff (as required under Section 25 (3) of the Austrian Gaming Act): as of 31 December 2016, our group had a total of 164 specially trained members of staff who are authorized to talk to guests about their gambling behavior. • In  2016, 557 Austrian Lotteries sales partners were given responsible gaming training with a primary focus on the restriction of sales of lottery products to persons over the age of 16. Adherence to this contractually stipulated age restriction is monitored regularly using mystery shopping tests. 18 Responsible Gaming Academy (RGA) – annual public conference 215 globe to Studio 44 in Vienna to discuss recent developments in this field. A further stakeholder delegates 45 dialog event was also organized during the RGA, from external organizations this time on the topic of “Unlicensed Gambling”. The conference at our Responsible Gaming The RGA was rounded off by workshops for our Academy is one of the Casinos Austria and AusGuest Relations & Organization managers as trian Lotteries Group’s most important responsiwell as our WINWIN outlet managers to identify ble gaming training measures. The conference new options for the practical implementation of was held for the 13th time in 2016 and once again talks with customers and guests in a responsible attracted international experts from around the gaming context. Point 3. Responsible advertising particular, do not target vulnerable groups. FurAdvertising should serve to provide appropriate thermore, all companies in the group agreed in information, yet not overly stimulate the desire 2016 to expressly commit to their particular level to gamble. For this purpose, we have impleof responsibility in a group-wide responsible admented a voluntary “Code of Conduct Responvertising directive. sible Advertising” across the Casinos Austria and 1,047 Austrian Lotteries Group. This code of conduct ensures that our advertising and marketing activadvertising materials and ities correspond to high ethical standards and, in advertising activities checked Point 4. Promotion of research and cooperation with counseling centers and treatment facilities The Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries preventive measures against problem gambling. Group commissions various institutions and reWe also practice rigorous knowledge sharing search facilities to conduct scientific studies into with relevant counseling centers and treatment different aspects of responsible gaming. The refacilities. search findings serve as the basis for effective Point 5. Quality assurance of content and processes Our responsible gaming processes and measures are regularly audited and certified by independent international institutions. • Casinos Austria: certified to European Casino Association responsible gaming standards since 2014; full certification in 2017. • Austrian Lotteries, WINWIN and win2day: certified to the World Lottery Association and European Lotteries responsible gaming standards since 2009; full re-certification every 3 years, interim certification every 1.5 years (next in 2017). • win2day: certified to GamCare responsible gaming standards since 2011 (= UK’s biggest support organization for people with gambling problems); annual audit and re-certification. • Pro-Ethik Seal of Approval from the Austrian Advertising Council confirms that our advertising activities have not breached its code of ethics. 19 We offer fun and excitement – above all through innovations and service excellence At the beginning of March 2016, we opened our new Innovation Hub at our headquarters in Vienna, an open space for new ideas, networking and creative collaboration. Since March 2016, some 80 events and workshops have been held in the Innovation Hub for around 300 participants. Our classic innovation management tools • !deas Forum (!deenforum): forum for suggestions for improvements • !deas Challenge (!deenchallenge) • Trend blog and monthly newsletter • Summer Academy 2016: 165 members of staff • Innovation Day 2016 in Studio 44: national and international experts, 330 participants Excellent service is an important part of the allstalled our own group-wide Customer & Retailer round experience in a visit to one of our casinos Service Center (CRS) and complaints manageor WINWIN outlets, where our staff await with ment system and established appropriate coma friendly and courteous welcome, professional munication channels for each of our Business service in the bars and restaurants and reliable Units. We communicate regularly with our cushandling of all games. Our sales partners are tomers and guests via various channels, such as likewise always on hand to help customers and our newsletters, player loyalty cards and, last but answer their questions. We consider it very imnot least, the win2day Facebook page where we portant to know and understand how satisfied post news, organize prize games and respond to our customers, guests and partners are with all manner of questions regarding our gaming the service we provide. Accordingly, we have inproducts and services. Retailers as key partners Austrian Lotteries products can be purchased rent issues are discussed in person in the course at around 5,160 sales outlets across the whole of regular visits by the regional sales representof Austria. Our lotteries sales partners are the atives. Monthly letters supply useful information, first point of contact for lottery customers; they while important and/or short-term news is also serve as intermediaries for information and communicated via the online terminals installed measures and supply feedback on customer in the outlets. These terminals are also used to demands directly from the marketplace. Ausfind out what the sales partners think about spetrian Lotteries has developed a comprehensive cific topics. Lotterien Aktuell, the regular newspackage of services to safeguard and further letter for lotteries sales outlets, rounds off the raise the quality of the service offered by its information service. sales partners. A nationwide team of 35 regional sales representatives care for the sales outlets, The tourism regions and their various establishsupported by an internal sales team and the onments are also important partners for the group, line services at headquarters. and above all for Casinos Austria. Through cooperation activities and information sharing, The sales partners are provided with targeted Casinos Austria works intensively with other support from Austrian Lotteries in order to enenterprises in the respective regions to provide sure that the quality of their sales and customer the best possible combination of services and service remains consistently high. Relevant curoptions for guests. 20 Our Responsibility Toward our Employees 60.7% Responsibility toward its employees is an integral part of any company’s social responsibility. We do our utmost to be an attractive employer: a healthy and motivating working environment, variety and a good work-life-balance all contribute to achieving this. *Annual average full-time equivalent for Casinos Austria AG (incl. Cuisino, Together, the companies in our group employ CAST, CCB & CALL, CAIH), a total of 4,233* people, 39.3 % of whom are Österreichische Lotterien Ges.m.b.H., win2day (incl. women. 39.3% Rabcat), WINWIN and tipp3. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Report 2016 Our goals for 2016 and 2017 Status 2016 Evaluation of psychological stress in the workplace Completed Inclusion of CSR duties in job descriptions of CSR contacts in all Business Units and Completed Corporate Functions Anchoring of a culture of innovation in the group and fostering of intrapreneurship Ongoing Promotion and maintaining of health Ongoing Promotion and extension of intercultural competence Ongoing Development of (junior) managers and promotion of talent Ongoing Implementation of a new learning platform Planned for 2017 Revision of the diversity strategy Planned for 2017 We don’t leave health to chance The health of our employees is very important to Workplace Accidents* us. We ensure that they enjoy ergonomically de2015 2016 signed workplaces, evaluate psychological stress Casinos Austria 1 4 at work and continually offer healthcare support Austrian Lotteries 8 3 and advice from occupational health professionTotal 9 7 als. We strive to ensure that workplace accidents Sick Days** and the number of sick days are kept to an absolute minimum. We also offer numerous internal 2015 2016 and external sports activities outside working Casinos Austria 3.29 3.00 hours. In our “Get Moving – Keep Moving” camAustrian Lotteries 3.74 3.47 paign, we again organized preparatory training * including near-accidents; ** % of total calendar days excl. Casinos Austria International, win2day, WINWIN and tipp3. for running and walking groups in 2016. The 2016 business year also marked the introduction of the mandatory EMES program required under the EU’s 2013/35 electromagnetic fields directive. The program covers the evaluation of all workplaces with regard to protection against the risks arising from electromagnetic fields up to 300 GHz. 21 A motivating work environment is the name of the game Opportunities for personal development are very important for job satisfaction. The Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group therefore offers its staff excellent career prospects and a range of training and development options. Fairness, variety and equal opportunities characterize daily work in our group. Our internal diversity matrix, which will be reworked in 2017, shows our priorities in this area: gender, generations, people with special needs. Our “Harassment and Bullying in the Workplace” policy establishes clear rules that go beyond the legal requirements and ensure Gender Composition of Management that harassment and bullying are not tolerated in Austrian Lotteries in % the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group. Female Male Management Board 50.00 50.00 Heads of Division, Senior 23.08 76.92 Gender Composition of Management Department Managers Casinos Austria in % Department Managers, 38.96 61.04 Group Leaders Female Male Management Board 33.33 66.67 Heads of Division, Senior Employees with Special Needs 8.33 91.67 Department Managers Department Managers, Casinos Austria 28 23.33 76.67 Group Leaders Austrian Lotteries 6 Casino Directors, 1st and Total 34 9.16 90.84 2nd Tier Managers excl. Casinos Austria International, win2day, WINWIN and tipp3. Training Days We make sure that our employees are highly Casinos Austria 3,067 trained and qualified. The Casinos & Lotteries Austrian Lotteries 1,230 Academy (C&L Academy), our internal training Total 4,297 and further education platform, is the central excl. Casinos Austria International, win2day, WINWIN and tipp3. pillar for professional and personal development in our group. To optimize this, a working group is currently focusing on the implementation of a learning platform, which will be introduced Training Days 35% across the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries by Gender 65% Group in spring 2017. 22 The focus of our training activities in the reporting year lay on innovation, networking and intercultural communication. The following workshops and events were held in 2016: • Innovation and Design Thinking – training of design thinking facilitators who can be deployed in the development of customer-centric products and services. • Awesomeness Challenge – our employees were invited to develop business ideas that would provide an awesome customer experience; of the 69 projects submitted, one was selected for development. • Intercultural Communication – e-Learning modules for Arabic, Russian and Chinese were developed in 2016. The training focus in our operations in 2017 lies on intercultural communication. • Modular Leadership Development Seminar for Heads of Department – the focus in 2016 lay on customer orientation, promoting innovation, personnel management, dealing with conflicts and behavior in “sandwich positions”. • C&L Mentoring – this program was launched in 2015 to support new members of staff. The results of the practical exercises that form part of the program were presented in the reporting year, and one of these – a virtual reality show in Casino Baden, has already been implemented. • Customer Experience/Customer Focus – this will be a focus of training measures in 2017. • Casinos Austria Junior Croupier Training Program – a total of 54 new junior croupiers graduated from this training program in the casinos in Baden, Bregenz, Salzburg and Vienna in 2016. Work-life balance How do our staff see us? Our group places great importance on ensuring To find out whether our HR measures are bearing our employees enjoy a good work-life balance. fruit, we conducted a group-wide staff survey at Austrian Lotteries has held the Austrian Federal the end of summer 2016 on the topics of innoMinistry of Families and Youth’s full berufundvation and digital transformation, new ways of familie (“workandfamily”) certificate since 2014. working and leadership culture. 73 % of managMeasures in this regard include flexible working ers and 29 % of staff in the group participated in hours models, support with maternity/paternity this survey. The results are now being discussed or care leave and reintegration into work, a famin detail in the individual divisions to allow the ily business breakfast for staff on maternity/care development of appropriate measures. leave and the provision of in-house childcare by so-called Flying Nannies on workdays when schools are closed. In 2016, we introduced a part-time standby work option. Under this voluntary system, staff who meet certain criteria have the opportunity to reduce their working hours and thus increase their leisure hours based on a personal lifetime work model. Our efforts were also rewarded in 2016: • 1st place in the “Trends and Innovations” category at the HR Inside Summit 2016 Awards for the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group for our “Glück(lich) durch Innovation” (“Happiness through Innovation”) initiative. • 2nd place in the “Employer Branding Award – Best Employer Brand” in the category “Internal Branding – Global Player” for the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group. • 1st place in the “Best Recruiters Award” in the services sector for Austrian Lotteries, 2nd place for Casinos Austria. 23 Our Responsibility Toward Society Observing the law is, of course, essential for any company, but it is not enough in itself. A company also has to have a “license to operate”, i.e. its business activities have to be accepted by society. Our group has always applied any applicable laws in the way they were intended by the legislator. This is very important to us and forms a central pillar of our corporate philosophy. Companies which attract such a high level of public attention as those in the Casinos Austria and Austria Lotteries Group are under even more pressure to convince all stakeholders that they are conducting their business in a manner that is good for the whole country. We contribute to the national economy Our group employs a total of 2,486 people in twelve casinos deliver important impetus to the Austria. Through our close ties to supplier comdevelopment of Austria’s tourist regions. The panies in the country and consumer effects, each WINWIN outlets are likewise attractive and imyear further jobs are created and existing jobs portant additions to the local and/or regional leiare secured. With the value we create in Austria, sure and tourism amenities in their host locations. the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group With each outlet, WINWIN also creates qualified makes a significant contribution to the developjobs and offers a responsible, legal alternative ment of the country’s economy. both to the undesirable and rapidly growing number of illegal gambling venues in all federal A study by the Economica Institute for Economic states in Austria and to the gambling venues loResearch analyzed this value creation in detail for cated directly at the nation’s borders. the 2016 business year for Casinos Austria. The results showed that in 2016 our direct contribution to value added amounted to 405.6 million euros. When the effects that are triggered along 1€ earned the upstream value chain and through so-called income effects are taken into account, this gross + 79 cents value added amounts to 725 million euros. additional value added in other sectors in Austria* For every euro earned in the Casinos Austria * Source: 2016 Study by the Group, a further 79 cents in value added is trigEconomica Institute for Economic Research gered in Austria. Gaming revenues and bets placed (incl. ancillary Multifaceted event provider revenues) for the group as a whole (excluding Casinos Austria is the largest event organizer in Casinos Austria International) amounted to 3.76 Austria. Our twelve casinos and dedicated Conbillion euros in 2016. The Casinos Austria and gress Casino Baden (CCB) and Studio 44 event Austrian Lotteries Group has long been one of locations are charming venues for every occasion. 1,922 Austria’s biggest taxpayers. In 2016, our license events fees, gaming tax, sales tax, casino tax, salaryOur casinos once again offered their guests a direlated taxes and social security contributions, verse program of events in 2016. A total of 1,922 884 corporation tax and other tax payments totaled events, including 884 gaming tournaments with tournaments with some 609.3 million euros – that’s how much the activsome 38,000 contestants, were organized and ities of our group contributed to tax revenues in held in these casinos throughout the year. These 38,000 contestants Austria in 2016. included a wide variety of arts and cultural events, comedy shows, concerts, presentations, clubbing Casinos Austria is recognized as a leading Ausevents and balls as well as slot machine, Blackjack trian company. As local tourism partners, the and Poker tournaments. 24 232 Austrian Lotteries dedicates itself here first and “Casino on Tour” foremost to social and humanitarian projects, events raised while Casinos Austria focuses above all on sup77,963 euros porting arts and culture. This allows us to spread for charity our efforts and resources for maximum, longterm effect. Our goal is to establish sustainable Our “Casino on Tour” mobile charity casinos were partnerships that are based on trust and follow in play at 232 events, including balls, company an overriding goal, namely to preserve what is events and national and international trade fairs. important to us and to reach and benefit as many A total of 77,963 euros was raised at these charity people as possible. That is just one of the reasons events for a variety of charitable causes. why we are such a valued sponsoring partner. Our CSR partnerships also serve to demonstrate Further investments were made in the infrathe great importance we attach to being a good structure at the Studio 44 event venue in Vienna corporate citizen. This is illustrated by examples throughout the 2016 business year. The wall palike the Casinos Austria Music Line, the Casinos nels in the two seminar rooms were replaced, Austria Rising Star Award (in cooperation with the and high-performance beamers installed to imUniversity for Music and Performing Arts – mdw prove the professional quality of presentations. – in Vienna), the Casinos Austria Alpha Prize for Studio 44 Literature (in cooperation with Vienna Municipal our green location At the end of the year, the Studio 44 Ballroom Libraries), or the ImPulsTanz Festival, where we was equipped with a new illuminated stage with sponsor the DanceAbility Workshops and the 97 events, Plexiglas stage elements and state-of-the-art Prix Jardin d’Europe for the best choreography. 5 green events, LED technology. The new stage is more flexible 18,000 in size and more energy efficient through the use Absolute respect for the principle of social resguests of LED technology. ponsibility is the most important selection criterion for any project we choose to support. This Studio 44 is an impressive example of the fact includes the pursuit of long-term socio-political that sustainability can also work in the event goals, a high level of public benefit and the intesector. The Casinos Austria and Austrian Lottegration of the project into our overall sponsoring ries Group’s premium event location was awarpolicy. But we also categorically refuse to supded the Austrian “Eco-Label” in 2016 and recogport certain projects. In line with our sponsoring nized as a “Green Location”. The official presenguidelines, we do not support the following: tation of the certificate by the Austrian Federal • activities that bear a risk of infringing human Minister of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment rights, and Water Management Andrä Rupprechter • events outside Austria, and the European Commissioner for Environ• motor, extreme or fun sports, ment, Maritime Affairs and Fisheries Karmenu • initiatives with a direct link to young people Vella took place at the Green Events Austria or children. Gala on 2 June 2016, which was fittingly held in Studio 44. Through the provisions for the funding of sports set out in the Austrian Gaming Act, Austrian LotA good corporate citizen teries is the most important financer of sports in We consider it our duty to show commitment to Austria. Each year, Austrian Lotteries contributes society and social matters well beyond our legal a total of 80 million euros to the country’s sports mandate. After all, we not only have a responfederations and associations. Since the company sibility to our guests, players, customers, staff was founded, a total of around 1.4 billion euros and shareholders, we also have a responsibility has been contributed under this title to Austrian to society in general. We demonstrate this comsports. mitment through, for instance, our CSR partnerships, our many sponsoring projects and our supMany important and valuable projects have been port for Austrian sport. In doing so, we view our realized through the support of the Casinos Ausmotto “Good for Austria” as a unifying theme for tria and Austrian Lotteries Group. Corresponding all sponsoring partnerships in the Casinos Austlists of these projects can be found on our webria and Austrian Lotteries Group. sites (casinos.at, lotterien.at). 25 Our Responsibility Toward the Environment The Paris Climate Agreement that came into efOur efforts to do so focus on the following areas: fect from November 2016 has refocused global • sustainable procurement attention on environmental and climate protec• energy tion. Achieving the objective of keeping the global • water temperature rise in this century below 2°C above • waste pre-industrial levels will require the participation of all nations and enterprises. As service providers, To extend our efforts to climate and environmenthe companies in the Casinos Austria and Austrian tal protection, we have also been partnering naLotteries Group do not have the same effect on the ture protection and environmental organizations environment as manufacturing companies. Nonefor many years. theless, our business activities and complex supply chain do impact and affect many sectors of the We are, however, well aware that our activities in the environment. As leading Austrian enterprises, our environmental sector are still at an early stage and casinos cater to many thousands of guests each that there is much more we can do in this regard. year. Austrian Lotteries operates an extensive sales Accordingly, we have set ourselves the goal for the network. This provides us with many opportunities coming years of working even more intensely toto reduce the group’s ecological footprint. ward environmental and climate protection. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Report 2016 Our goals for 2016 and 2017 Status 2016 Replacement of cooling machines at RW44 site Completed Complete refurbishment and renovation of Casino Salzburg Completed Replacement of the cooling agents in Casino Seefeld and Casino Velden Completed Replacement of lighting at all sites with more energy-efficient LED Implemented & technology planned for 2017 Unification of environmental indicators for WINWIN outlets Planned for 2017 Switch to glass fiber air filters in casinos Implemented & planned for 2017 Replacement of lighting controls in casinos Implemented & planned for 2017 Replacement of circulating pumps at MC4 site in Wiener Neustadt Planned for 2017 Sustainable procurement and sales paper according to the Austrian ecolabel guide­ In our efforts to protect the environment, we buy lines. We also take care to ensure that the mailing locally whenever possible. This shortens delivery of our marketing materials leaves as small a footdistances and contributes to the regional econprint on the environment as possible and thereomy. Our casinos and casino restaurants have exfore work with the Austrian mail service (Östercellent partner and supplier networks in their rereichische Post), who offer a CO2 neutral delivery spective regions. To ensure that our suppliers also service. conduct business in an environmentally-friendly manner, we have implemented a Code of Conduct We also endeavor to bundle sales routes wherfor Suppliers, which must be adhered to in all busiever possible both to reduce travel distances and ness dealings with the companies in our group. to save costs. Our warehouse facilities were likewise optimized in the reporting year, with extenAt Austrian Lotteries, sustainable procurement sive adaptations made at our MC4 site. This site also means ensuring that all printed materials – will serve from 2017 as the main warehouse for the lottery tickets, betting slips, etc. – are printed on group and the second warehouse in Pfaffstätten FSC (Forestry Stewardship Commission) certified will be closed. 26 Energy management Our goal in the field of energy management is to As part of our continued efforts to optimize our enkeep energy consumption as low as possible. The ergy consumption, two old cooling machines at our energy managers at Casinos Austria and Austrian headquarters and the cooling agents in the casinos Lotteries are responsible for our energy efficiency in Seefeld and Velden were replaced in 2016. The measures and for collecting data on our energy lighting in the corridors of the Rennweg 44 (RW44) consumption levels. The Casinos Austria and Ausbuilding, in numerous offices, in the packaging and trian Lotteries Group is obliged under the proviloading areas at the MC4 warehouse and in some sions of the Austrian Federal Energy Efficiency Act of the casinos was upgraded to LED lighting. During (Bundes-Energieeffizienzgesetz/EEffG) to report the renovation of Klessheim Palace (which is home on our performance in the energy sector. We have to Casino Salzburg), new cooling agents and energy been purchasing 100 percent of the electricity for efficient compressors were installed, the old gas our headquarters in Vienna (Rennweg) and for our boilers were replaced with condensing boiler techMC4 warehouse from renewable sources since nology and new chimneys, and the windows were 2008. The share of renewable energy used in our renovated. These measures reduced the group’s casinos and WINWIN outlets is likewise on the rise. electricity consumption by 209,493 kWh. Total energy consumption for the group (including Total Energy Consumption in kWh casinos and WINWIN outlets) rose slightly in the reporting year. The reasons for this were the ex2014 7,305,830* pansions in the casino sector, the takeover of the 2015 39,060,734 Cuisino Restaurants and the new requirement that 2016 42,846,490 all slot machines be connected to the Austrian Fed*Reporting of energy consumption at casino eral Computer Center and may not be switched off and WINWIN sites was only begun in 2015. outside opening hours. Water – a valuable commodity We can count ourselves lucky in Austria that we live in a country with abundant water. To safeWater Consumption in m3 guard this situation for future generations, measures are required to keep water consumption low 2015 81,466 and to prevent contamination. In the 2016 report2016 77,469* ing year, our group reduced its water consump*At the time of publication, no data was available on water consumption at the WINWIN sites in 2016. tion through a careful approach to water use. Waste management We can all make a contribution to reducing Waste analyses are conducted every five years waste. The Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotterfor the Rennweg 44 (RW44) and Rennweg 46 ies Group has, for instance, appointed a waste (RW46) sites. This gives us the opportunity to demanagement officer to deal with waste managetermine the precise amounts of office waste mament in our group. A basic principle applies here terials, uncover any errors in our waste disposal in all our business processes: avoid waste whersystem and introduce any necessary measures. ever possible. The latest waste analyses showed that the waste disposal system in our offices is excellent, but Total Weight of Waste in t that we could still reduce the amount of waste 2014 2015 2016 paper and data protection paper produced. Hazardous waste 2.72 21.64 * 5.26 Non-hazardous waste 779.14 789.78 1.045.85 In the reporting year, the group generated a total of 1,051.11 tons of waste. Since the waste generTotal 781.86 811.43 1.051.11 ated at the WINWIN sites was reported for the * The large increase in volume in 2015 is the result of the disposal of oil separators. Waste volumes for the WINWIN first time in this year, the comparability of the resites have only been reported since 2016. ported figures is limited. 27 GRI Index GRI 102: General Disclosures (2016) GRI Index Brief Description of Disclosure Chapter and Page Number (if applicable) in the 2016 CSR Interim Report Organizational Profile GRI 102-1 Name of the organization Our Organizational Structure, Page 7 GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products & services Our Organizational Structure, Page 7 GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters Locations in Austria, C4 GRI 102-4 Location of operations Locations in Austria, C4 Casinos Austria International locations do not form part of the disclosures and are thus also not listed. GRI 102-5 Ownership & legal form Companies in 2016 – Overview, C3 GRI 102-6 Markets served Locations in Austria, C4 GRI 102-7 Scale of organization Our Organizational Structure, Page 7 Non-disclosures: Incomplete – total capitalization missing. The group is not publicly listed and is thus not obliged to disclose this information. Total capitalization is reported in our Annual Reports. GRI 102-8 Employees and other workers by employment Our Business Year 2016, C2 status, gender and region Our Responsibility Toward Our Employees, Page 21 Indicators, Page 32 GRI 102-9 Supply chain Our Responsibility Along our Value Chain, Page 12 GRI 102-10 Significant changes Change in ownership structure in the reporting period: Novomatic AG acquired 17 % of Casinos Austria AG. The Albanisch Österreichische Lotterien Holding Gesellschaft m.b.H. was sold in the reporting period. Other changes in the reporting period: opening of Casino Zell am See and closure of the WINWIN outlet in Bruck/Leitha. GRI 102-11 Precautionary principle Foreword by the Management Board , Page 1 GRI 102-12 External initiatives CSR in our Group, Page 14 GRI 102-13 Membership of associations CSR in our Group, Page 14 Our Responsibility Toward our Customers and Guests, Page 16 Strategy GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Forewords, Pages 1-2 GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities General Conditions, Trends, Challenges, Page 11 Ethics and Integrity GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of Our Corporate and Guiding Principles, Page 9 behavior GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about Our Responsibility Toward our Customers and Guests, Page 16 ethics Non-disclosures: Incomplete. The group reports according to GRI Standards (2016) Core. Accordingly, the disclosures for indicator 102-17 should only be regarded as additional information. Governance GRI 102-18 Governance structure Our Organizational Structure, Page 7 GRI 102-19 Delegating authority Our Organizational Structure, Page 7 GRI 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, CSR in our Group, Page 14 environmental, and social topics 28 Governance GRI 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, Our Organizational Structure, Page 7 environmental, and social topics CSR in our Group, Page 14 GRI 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body Group Management Bodies, Page 36 and its committees Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Our Key Stakeholders, Page 10 Non-disclosures: The graphic only shows our most important stakeholders. The complete list is currently being updated. GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements The employees in our group are covered by various different collective bargaining agreements depending on their occupational group – 98 % of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Our Key Stakeholders, Page 10 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Our Key Stakeholders, Page 10 Non-disclosures: Incomplete. Is currently being updated. GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Our Key Stakeholders, Page 10 Non-disclosures: Incomplete. Is currently being updated. Reporting Practice GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial Companies in 2016 – Overview, C3 statements GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Reporting Period and Practices, Page 6 GRI 102-47 List of material topics Focus on the Material Aspects, Page 13 GRI 102-48 Restatements of information Change from GRI G4 to GRI Standards (2016). In the environmental sector, more data is reported from our casino and VLT outlets. GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting Focus on the Material Aspects, Page 13 Change from GRI G4 to GRI Standards (2016). GRI 102-50 Reporting period Reporting Period and Practices, Page 6 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report Reporting Period and Practices, Page 6 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle Reporting Period and Practices, Page 6 GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions CSR in our Group, Page 14 Imprint, C7 GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the Reporting Period and Practices, Page 6 GRI Standards GRI 102-55 GRI Content Index GRI Index, Page 28 GRI 102-56 External assurance The report was not audited externally. Economy GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 GRI 103-1 to 3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundOur Responsibility Toward Society, Page 24 aries, management approach and evaluation GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and Our Business Year 2016, C2 distributed Our Responsibility Toward Society, Page 24 GRI 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and Our Responsibility Toward our Customers and Guests, Page 16 opportunities due to climate change 29 Specific Disclosures (2016) GRI Index Brief Description of Disclosure Chapter and Page Number (if applicable) in the 2016 CSR Interim Report Economy GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 GRI 103-1 to 3 Explanation of the material topic and its Our Responsibility Toward our Customers and Guests, Page 16 boundaries, management approach and Our Responsibility Toward Society, Page 24 evaluation GRI 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Our Responsibility Toward our Customers and Guests, Page 16 Our Responsibility Toward Society, Page 24 GRI 205: Anti-corruption GRI 103-1 to 3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundOur Responsibility Toward our Customers and Guests, Page 16 aries, management approach and evaluation GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to Our Responsibility Toward our Customers and Guests, Page 16 corruption Our Compliance Department is also responsible for the topic of combating corruption. The individual Business Units conduct regular risk analyses, the parameters for which are set by the Compliance Department. This results in a variety of different risks. GRI 205-2 Communication and training about Our Responsibility Toward our Customers and Guests, Page 16 anti-corruption policies and procedures Our anti-corruption rules and guidelines apply to all members of staff in our group, including the members of the board, and are published on our intranet. Our Code of Conduct for Suppliers also includes provisions to combat corruption. All our suppliers are required to accept and adhere to this code. Every new member of staff in our group is required to complete an online training module and an anti-corruption test. Our managers receive further and specific anti-corruption training as required. GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions No incidents of corruption were reported in the reporting year. taken Ecology GRI 301: Materials 2016 GRI 103-1 to 3 Explanation of the material topic and its Our Responsibility Toward the Environment, Page 26 boundaries, management approach and evaluation GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Indicators, Page 34 GRI 302: Energy 2016 GRI 103-1 to 3 Explanation of the material topic and its Our Responsibility Toward the Environment, Page 26 boundaries, management approach and evaluation GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Our Responsibility Toward the Environment, Page 26 Indicators, Page 35 GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Our Responsibility Toward the Environment, Page 26 Indicators, Page 35 GRI 303: Water 2016 GRI 103-1 to 3 Explanation of the material topic and its Our Responsibility Toward the Environment, Page 26 boundaries, management approach and evaluation GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Our Responsibility Toward the Environment, Page 26 Indicators, Page 34 30 Ecology GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 GRI 103-1 to 3 Explanation of the material topic and its Our Responsibility Toward the Environment, Page 26 boundaries, management approach and evaluation GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Our Responsibility Toward the Environment, Page 26 Indicators, Page 35 Social GRI 401: Employment 2016 GRI 103-1 to 3 Explanation of the material topic and its Our Responsibility Toward our Employees, Page 21 boundaries, management approach and evaluation GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that All of the employee benefits provided by the group are accorare not provided to temporary or part-time ded to all employees, regardless of whether they are full-time employees or part-time or whether they are employed under permanent or temporary contracts: remuneration in line with collective bargaining agreements, social security and old-age pension contribution, legal entitlement to maternity/paternity leave, meal allowance, corporate health management and many more. GRI 403: Occupational Health & Safety 2016 GRI 103-1 to 3 Explanation of the material topic and its Our Responsibility Toward our Employees, Page 21 boundaries, management approach and evaluation GRI 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint manageThe majority of the employees in our group are represented by ment-worker health & safety committees works councils. The exceptions here are Österreichische Sportwetten Gesellschaft m.b.H. (tipp3) and Casinos Austria International Holding GmbH. GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupatioOur Responsibility Toward our Employees, Page 21 nal diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and Indicators, Page 32 number of work-related fatalities GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 GRI 103-1 to 3 Explanation of the material topic and its Our Responsibility Toward our Employees, Page 21 boundaries, management approach and evaluation GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per Our Responsibility Toward our Employees, Page 21 employee Indicators, Page 33 GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and Our Responsibility Toward our Employees, Page 21 transition assistance programs GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular Every employee in our group has an annual performance and performance and career development reviews career development review with their line manager during which their targets and career development plan are established. Target achievement is likewise assessed. GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 GRI 103-1 to 3 Explanation of the material topic and its Our Responsibility Toward our Employees, Page 21 boundaries, management approach and evaluation GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Indicators, Page 33 Group Management Bodies, Page 36 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 GRI 103-1 to 3 Explanation of the material topic and its Our Responsibility Toward our Customers and Guests, Page 16 boundaries, management approach and evaluation GRI 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety imOur Responsibility Toward our Customers and Guests, Page 16 pacts of product and service categories 31 Indicators Social Data does not include the Casinos Austria International Business Unit. Data for the win2day (excl. Rabcat), WINWIN and tipp3 Business Units are only included for indicator 102-8. Data provision should be complete for the next reporting cycle. GRI 102-8 Employee Information Total Workforce by Gender* (in %) 2014 2015 2016 male 65.9% 65.0% 64.7% female 34.1% 35.0% 35.3% Total Workforce by Business Unit* (in absolute numbers) 2014 2015 2016 Casinos Austria ** 1,669 1,699 1,808*** Austrian Lotteries 532 497 485 win2day, WINWIN and tipp3 198 194 192 Total 2,399 2,391 2,486 * Average annual full-time equivalent. ** Casinos Austria incl. CAGAST, CAST, CCB and CALL. *** Rise due to the takeover of the DO&CO employees by Cuisino in the reporting period. GRI 401-1 Employee Fluctuation by Gender and Business Unit Employee Fluctuation* (in %) 2014 2015 2016 male female male female male female Casinos Austria 4.7% 5.3% 5.8% 18.3% 7.2% 18.8% Austrian Lotteries 5.1% 3.1% 9.1% 10.9% 5.6% 6.7% * Total number of departures in the reporting period/Average annual full-time equivalent. Average Length of Service (in years) 2014 2015 2016 male female male female male female Casinos Austria 19.8 8.6 19.8 8.2 19.6 7.9 Austrian Lotteries 11.4 11.6 12.1 12.6 12.6 13.5 GRI 403-2 Types and Rates of Injury Workplace Accidents (in absolute numbers)* 2014 2015 2016 Casinos Austria 4 1 4 Austrian Lotteries 5 8 3 Total 9 9 7 * All workplace accidents (incl. near-accidents) reported to the Austrian Workers Compensation Board (AUVA). Sick Days (as % of total calendar days (366) in 2016) 2014 2015 2016 Casinos Austria 2.9 3.3 3.0 Austrian Lotteries 3.2 3.7 3.5 32 GRI 404-1 Average Days of Training and Education Per Year Training Days by Gender and Business Unit (in absolute numbers) 2014 2015 2016 male female total male female total male female total Casinos Austria 1,247 518 1,765 1,394 1,153 2,547 2,088 979 3,067 Austrian Lotteries 1,153 839 1,992 923 515 1,438 719 511 1,230 Total 2,400 1,357 3,757 2,317 1,668 3,985 2,807 1,490 4,297 Seminar days were not analyzed by employee category in the reporting year. Investment in Training and Education (in euros) 2014 2015 2016 Casinos Austria € 407,751 * € 248,000 € 379,465 Austrian Lotteries € 878,353 € 656,000 € 502,011 Total € 1,286,104 € 904,000 € 881,476 * In 2014, extensive analyses and planning of measures were conducted in the BUs and CFs, whereby structures and costs were queried. This led to savings in investments in training and education. GRI 405-1 Gender Composition of Management Bodies and Workforce Casinos Austria (in %) 2014 2015 2016 male female male female male female Management Board 66.67% 33.33% 66.67% 33.33% 66.67% 33.3% Division Managers, Senior Department 90.91% 9.09% 91.67% 8.33% 91.67% 8.33% Managers Department Managers, Group Leaders 78.13% 21.88% 75.86% 24.14% 76.67% 23.33% Casino Directors, 1 and 2 Tier Managers st nd 91.13% 8.87% 90.23% 9.77% 90.84% 9.16% Austrian Lotteries (in %) 2014 2015 2016 male female male female male female Management Board 66.67% 33.33% 50.00% 50.00% 50.00% 50.00% Division Managers, Senior Department 75.00% 25.00% 76.92% 23.08% 76.92% 23.08% Managers Department Managers, Group Leaders 64.56% 35.44% 64.10% 35.90% 61.04% 38.96% * Friedrich Stickler retired from the Management Board in June 2015. Employees with Special Needs (in absolute numbers) 2014 2015 2016 Casinos Austria 31 32 28 Austrian Lotteries 5 6 6 Total 36 38 34 33 Indicators Ecology GRI 301-1 Materials Used by Weight or Volume The information currently provided with regard to materials used is restricted to purchasing volumes for the Austrian Lotteries Group. For the next report, we have set ourselves the goal of also including data for our casino venues. Annual Purchasing Volumes for Lottery Products (in millions of units) 2014 2015 2016 Rubbellos scratch-off tickets 51.7 24.28 65.58* Brieflos break-open tickets 11 16.9 17.6 Lottery play slips 45.25 78.99 ** 30.6 Thermal receipt rolls 0.22 0.32 0.39 * Rise due to the introduction of five additional series (3x “Fette Jahre”, 1x “Schatztruhe”, 1x “Cash”). ** Higher purchasing volumes in 2015 due to reprinting of all lottery play slips with the Joker product. Austrian Lotteries Packaging Volumes (in kg) 2014 2015 2016 Cardboard 4,075.67 20,550.00 3) 24,953.00 Paperboard for use in transport 650.31 430.00 3,218.004) Packaging film for lottery ticket packages 73.89 152.00 501.00 Packaging film for transport & plastic band 186.25 1) 1,607.00 1,914.00 Iron strips 43.91 0.00 62.00 Wood 2) 6,572.00 3,663.00 7,262.00 Total 11,602.03 26,402.00 37,910.00 The rise in packaging volumes is due to changes to licensing requirements. From 2017, all packaging materials must themselves be licensed. 1) Figure only includes plastic bands. 2) Wood includes single-use palettes and wooden cover boards. 3) Rise compared to 2014 due to changes to packaging regulations. 4) Rise due to licensing requirement for paperboard as packaging material. GRI 303-1 Total Water Withdrawal (in m3) Casinos MC4 + RW44/46 WINWIN Total Change 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 15/16 Water consumption 67,420.00 68,365.00 9,961.85 8,698.79 4,083.91 * 81,466.00 77,469.00 -5%* The group purchases water for each site from the water supply company in the respective region. The water purchased is of drinking water quality, conforms to the strict legal requirements and is obtained from ground and spring water sources. * At the time of print, data regarding water consumption at the WINWIN outlets for 2016 was not yet available. 34 GRI 302-1 Energy Consumption Within the Organization GRI 302-4 Reduction of Energy Consumption Total Energy Consumption (in kWh) Casinos MC4 + RW44/46 WINWIN Total 2016 32,850,878.95 7,012,850.00 2,982,761.60 42,846,490.55 2015 31,302,827.00 7,028,490.00 729,416.80 39,060,733.80 2014 -* 7,305,830.00 -* 7,305,830.00 Change 15/16 9,70% Share of renewable energies 2016 72,70% Total Electrical Energy Consumption (in kWh) Casinos MC4 + RW44/46 WINWIN Total 2016 22,118,000.00 4,595,860.00 2,827,841.00 29,541,701.00 2015 20,933,874.00 4,823,760.00 233,155.36 25,990,789.36 2014 -* 5,287,130.00 -* 5,287,130.00 Change 15/16 13.70% Share of renewable energies 2016 90.56% Total Thermal Energy Consumption (in kWh) Casinos MC4 + RW44/46 WINWIN Total 2016 10,732,878.95 2,416,990.00 154,920.60 13,304,789.55 2015 10,368,953.00 2,204,730.00 496,261.45 13,069,944.45 2014 -* 2,018,700.00 -* 2,018,700.00 Change 15/16 1.80% Share of renewable energies 2016 45.09% * No data was collected for WINWIN for 2014. The data was collected by the respective Energy Managers based on the invoices received from the energy suppliers. Casino Zell am See did not open until the reporting year: at the time of print, thermal energy consumption data for this venue were not yet complete. The group purchases energy from various suppliers. 90 % of electrical energy consumed stems from renewable energy sources (corresponding certificates are available) – only some of the WINWIN outlets do not yet use renewable electrical energy. The main source of thermal energy is the district heating supply, which stems partly from renewable sources, followed by natural gas and oil. GRI 306-2 Total Weight of Waste by Type and Disposal Method Total Weight of Waste (in t) 2014 2015 2016 Casinos Hazardous waste 0.77 0.75 0.81 Non-hazardous waste 459.14 488.14 527.20 MC4 + RW44/46 Hazardous waste 1.95 20.89* 4.45 Non-hazardous waste 320.00 301.64 340.52 WINWIN Non-hazardous waste -** -** 178.12 Unternehmensgruppe Hazardous waste 2.72 21.64 5.26 Non-hazardous waste 779.14 789.78 1,045.85 Total 781.86 811.43 1,051.11*** Since no specific details are available from the waste disposal firms, the following assumption has been made with regard to the disposal of residual waste: 6 % is recycled, 67 % is incinerated and 27 % is subjected to biotechnical treatment (“Other”). Since no precise information is available, all hazardous waste has been assigned to the disposal type “Other”. * Highest volume in 2015 due to the disposal of oil separators. ** The collection of data on waste volumes at the WINWIN outlets began in 2016. *** The rise in the total volume of waste is due in particular to the inclusion of corresponding data for the WINWIN outlets from 2016. 35 Group Management Bodies CASINOS AUSTRIA AUSTRIAN LOTTERIES SUPERVISORY BOARD SUPERVISORY BOARD Presidium Presidium • Dr. Walter Rothensteiner, Director General • Dr. Walter Rothensteiner, Director General President (Chairman) President • Gerhard Starsich, Director General • Gerhard Starsich, Director General Vice President (1st Deputy Chair) 1st Vice President • Prof. Elisabeth Stadler, Director General (to 23 June 2017) • Dr. Erich Hampel Vice President (2nd Deputy Chair) 2nd Vice President • Dr. Leonhard Romig, Attorney-at-Law Vice President (3rd Deputy Chair) Members • Dr. Maria Theresia Bablik (to 20 March 2017) Members • Prof. Dr. Gerhard Baumgartner (to 30 June 2017) • Dr. Maria Theresia Bablik (to 20 March 2017) • Stepán Dlouhý (from 29 March 2017) • Dr. Andreas Bierwirth, Chairman • Wolfgang Horak (from 29 March 2017) • Hannes Bogner, Director (retired) • Helene Kanta, Director • Pavel Horák (from 23 June 2017) • Alfred Ludwig, Director General • Wolfgang Horak • Gerald Neuber, Director • Helene Kanta, Director • Josef Pröll, Director General (from 29 March 2017) • Gerald Neuber, Director • Thomas Schmid, Secretary General (from 1 July 2017) • Harald Neumann, Director General (from 20 March 2017) • Dr. Christian Widhalm, Director (from 29 March 2017) • Thomas Polzer • Dr. Leo Windtner, Director General (retired) • Josef Pröll, Director General (from 29 March 2017) • Dr. Alexander Wrabetz, Director General Central Works Council (CWC) Delegates • Manfred Schönbauer, CWC Chairman Works Council Delegates • Christian Holz • Bettina Lahoda • Maria Laister • Franz Baumgartner • Peter Löb • Norbert Eigl • Alexander Nachbaur • Tassilo Kager • Alois Suppan • Gertrude Kopp • Erika Pilz State Commissioners • Alfred Lejsek State Commissioners • Alfred Katterl • Dr. Martin Atzmüller • Johannes Pasquali (State Commissioner) • Christoph Schlager (Deputy State Commissioner) CASINOS AUSTRIA MANAGEMENT BOARD AUSTRIAN LOTTERIES • Dr. Alexander Labak, Director General (from 1 July 2017) MANAGEMENT BOARD • Dr. Karl Stoss, Director General (to 30 June 2017) • Bettina Glatz-Kremsner, Director • Dr. Alexander Labak, Director General (from 1 July 2017) • Prof. Dietmar Hoscher, Director • Dr. Karl Stoss, Director General (to 30 June 2017) • Bettina Glatz-Kremsner, Director as of 1 July 2017 36 Addresses and Contact Details HEADQUARTERS RESPONSIBLE GAMING Casino Seefeld WINWIN Mayrhofen Bahnhofstraße 124 im Alpenhotel Kramerwirt 6100 Seefeld Am Marienbrunnen 346 Casinos Austria AG Responsible Gaming Hotline Tel.: +43 5212 23 40 6290 Mayrhofen (free in Austria): E-Mail: seefeld@casinos.at Tel.: +43 5285 62026 Österreichische Lotterien 0800 202 304 www.seefeld.casinos.at Fax: 05285 62026-2090 Gesellschaft m.b.H. E-Mail: mayrhofen@winwin.at Responsible Gaming Website: win2day Entwicklungsund www.spiele-mit-verantwortung.at Casino Velden Am Corso 17 WINWIN Salzburg (City) Betriebsgesellschaft m.b.H. 9220 Velden Bayerhamerstraße 12a Tel.: +43 4274 20 64 5020 Salzburg Glücksund Unterhaltungsspiel E-Mail: velden@casinos.at Tel.: +43 662 876940 Betriebsges.m.b.H. CASINOS www.velden.casinos.at Fax: 0662 876940-3190 E-Mail: salzburg@winwin.at Österreichische Sportwetten Casino Wien Gesellschaft m.b.H. Casino Baden Kärntner Straße 41 WINWIN Schärding Kaiser-Franz-Ring 1 1010 Vienna Unterer Stadtplatz 3 Casinos Austria International 2500 Baden Palais Esterházy 4780 Schärding Holding GmbH Tel.: +43 2252 444 96 Tel.: +43 1 512 48 36 Tel.: +43 7712 29729 E-Mail: baden@casinos.at E-Mail: wien@casinos.at Fax: 07712 29729-2290 www.baden.casinos.at www.wien.casinos.at E-Mail: schaerding@winwin.at Rennweg 44 1038 Vienna Casino Bregenz Casino Zell am See WINWIN Schwaz www.casinos.at Platz der Wiener Symphoniker 3 Esplanade 4-6 Franz-Josef-Straße 5 www.lotterien.at 6900 Bregenz 5700 Zell am See 6130 Schwaz www.win2day.at Tel.: +43 5574 45 127 Tel.: +43 6542 47447 Tel.: +43 5242 64932 www.tipp3.at E-Mail: bregenz@casinos.at E-Mail: zellamsee@casinos.at E-Mail: schwaz@winwin.at www.winwin.at www.bregenz.casinos.at www.zellamsee.casinos.at www.casinosaustriainternational.com WINWIN Steyr Casino Graz Grünmarkt 17 Landhausgasse 10 4400 Steyr 8010 Graz Tel.: +43 7252 41842 Tel.: +43 316 83 25 78 WINWIN OUTLETS Fax: 07252 41842-2790 CUSTOMER SERVICE E-Mail: graz@casinos.at E-Mail: steyr@winwin.at CENTERS www.graz.casinos.at WINWIN Krems Dinstlstraße 3 WINWIN Vöcklabruck Casinos Austria Casino Innsbruck 3500 Krems Stadtplatz 21 Salurner Straße 15 Tel.: +43 2732 74289 4840 Vöcklabruck Service Center 6020 Innsbruck Fax: 02732 74289-2690 Tel.: +43 7672 27056 Tel.: +43 1 53440 50 Tel.: +43 512 58 70 40 E-Mail: krems@winwin.at Fax: 07672 27056-2990 Operating hours: Mon-Fri 08:00-20:00 E-Mail: innsbruck@casinos.at E-Mail: voecklabruck@winwin.at Sat, Public Holidays 15:00-20:00 www.innsbruck.casinos.at E-Mail: info@casinos.at WINWIN Kufstein Feldgasse 12 WINWIN Wels Casino Kitzbühel 6330 Kufstein Kaiser-Josef-Platz 8 Austrian Lotteries Hinterstadt 24 Tel.: +43 5372 61777 4600 Wels Service Center 6370 Kitzbühel Fax: 05372 61777-3090 Tel.: +43 7242 211195 Tel.: 0810/100 200 Tel.: +43 5356 62300 E-Mail: kufstein@winwin.at Fax: 07242 211195-2890 (max. 0.10 euro/min.) E-Mail: kitzbuehel@casinos.at E-Mail: wels@winwin.at Operating hours: Mon-Fri 07:00-23:00 www.kitzbuehel.casinos.at WINWIN Landeck Sat, Sun, Public Holidays: 08:00-22:00 Malserstraße 25 WINWIN Wels II E-Mail: help@lotterien.at Casino Kleinwalsertal 6500 Landeck Stadtplatz 67 Walserstraße 31 Tel.: +43 05442 63543 4600 Wels 6991 Riezlern Fax: 05442 63543-2490 Tel.: +43 7242 206515 win2day Service Center Tel.: +43 5517 50 23 E-Mail: landeck@winwin.at E-Mail: wels@winwin.at Tel.: 0810/100 200 100 E-Mail: (max. 0.10 euro/min.) kleinwalsertal@casinos.at WINWIN Lienz WINWIN Wiener Neustadt Operating hours: Mon-Fri 07:00-23:00 www.kleinwalsertal.casinos.at Bozenerplatz Fischauergasse 1-3 Sat, Sun, Public Holidays: 08:00-22:00 E-Mail: help@win2day.at (opposite the railway station) 2700 Wiener Neustadt Casino Linz 9900 Lienz Tel.: +43 664 814 3707 Rainerstraße 2-4 Tel.: +43 4852 67861 E-Mail: wienerneustadt@winwin.at tipp3 Service Center 4020 Linz Fax: 04852 67861-2190 Tel.: 0810 / 100 200 333 Tel.: +43 732 65 44 87 E-Mail: lienz@winwin.at WINWIN Zell am See (max. 0.10 euro/min.) E-Mail: linz@casinos.at Operating hours: Mon-Fri 07:00-23:00 Seegasse 5 www.linz.casinos.at WINWIN Linz/Urfahr (in the pedestrian zone) Sat, Sun, Public Holidays: 08:00-22:00 E-Mail: kontakt@tipp3.at Hauptstraße 63 5700 Zell am See Casino Salzburg 4040 Linz/Urfahr Tel.: +43 6542 47369 Schloss Klessheim Tel.: +43 664 814 36 87 Fax: 06542 47369-2310 Glücksund Unterhaltungsspiel 5071 Wals-Siezenheim E-Mail: linz@winwin.at E-Mail: zellamsee@winwin.at Betriebsges.m.b.H. (WINWIN) Tel.: +43 662 85 44 55 Tel.: +43 1 799 0358 E-Mail: salzburg@casinos.at E-Mail: info@winwin.at www.salzburg.casinos.at COUNSELLING Vienna Carinthia Tyrol CENTERS AND TREATMENT Ambulante Behandlungs­ Spielsuchtberatung Landes­ sucht.hilfe BIN – BeratungFACILITIES einrichtung Spielsuchthilfe hauptstadt Klagenfurt a. W. Information-Nachsorge Siebenbrunnengasse 21/DG St. Veiter Straße 195 Anichstraße 34/2. Stock The Casinos Austria and Austrian 1050 Vienna 9020 Klagenfurt 6020 Innsbruck Lotteries Group has been working for Tel.: +43 1 544 13 57 Tel.: +43 463 537 57 82 Tel.: +43 512 5800 40 many years with a range of institutions E-Mail: therapie@spielsuchthilfe.at E-Mail:  E-Mail: office@bin-suchthilfe.tirol which carry out research into gambling www.spielsuchthilfe.at spielsuchtberatung@klagenfurt.at www.bin-suchthilfe.tirol addiction as well as with counselling centers and treatment facilities which Anton Proksch Institut Spielsuchtambulanz Therapiegruppe Contra provide counselling and treatment to Gräfin-Zichy-Straße 6 de La Tour – Villach Gambling people with gambling problems and 1230 Vienna Nikolaigasse 39 c/o sucht.hilfe BIN their relatives. Tel.: +43 1 880 10-0 9500 Villach Anichstraße 13/3. Stock E-Mail: info@api.or.at Tel.: +43 4242 24 368 6020 Innsbruck www.api.or.at E-Mail: spielsuchtambulanz.villach@ Tel.: +43 50 504 839 93 und diakonie-delatour.at +43 512 57 30 54 SHG Anonyme Spieler – E-Mail: W. Gizicki Krankenhaus de La Tour christoph.hannemann@­tirol-kliniken.at Rudolf-Zeller-Gasse 69/8/10 De-La-Tour-Straße 28 1230 Vienna 9521 Treffen Therapieund GesundTel.: +43 660 123 66 74 Tel.: +43 4248 25570 heitszentrum Mutters E-Mail: shg@anonyme-spieler.at E-Mail: krankenhaus-delatour@ Nockhofweg 23 www.anonyme-spieler.at diakonie-delatour.at 6162 Mutters Tel.: +43 50 504 839 93 E-Mail: christoph.hannemann@­tirol-kliniken.at Lower Austria Salzburg Anton Proksch Institut – Universitätsklinik für Psy­chSuchtberatung Baden iatrie und Psychotherapie – Vorarlberg Helenenstraße 40/41 Bereich Abhängigkeits­ 2500 Baden Stiftung Maria Ebene Tel.: +43 1 880 10 1370 erkrankungen – SpielsuchtMaria Ebene 17 E-Mail: baden@api.or.at ambulanz 6820 Frastanz Weitere Beratungsstellen: Ignaz-Harrer-Straße 79 Tel.: +43 5522 727 46 0 www.api.or.at 5020 Salzburg E-Mail: stiftung@mariaebene.at Tel.: +43 5 7255 34 991 www.mariaebene.at E-Mail: suchtambulanzen@salk.at www.salk.at/647.html Beratungsstelle Clean Upper Austria Feldkirch Schießstätte 12/8 Schuldnerhilfe 6800 Feldkirch Styria Tel.: +43 5522 380 72 Oberösterreich Stockhofstraße 9 E-Mail: clean.feldkirch@mariaebene.at 4020 Linz Fachstelle für Glücksspielwww.mariaebene.at Tel.: +43 732 77 77 34 sucht Steiermark E-Mail: linz@schuldner-hilfe.at c/o b.a.s. Graz www.spielsuchtberatung.at [betrifft abhängigkeit und sucht] Steirische Gesellschaft für Suchtfragen Dreihackengasse 1 Ambulanz für Spielsucht 8020 Graz der pro mente OÖ Tel.: +43 664 964 36 92 Neuromed Campus des E-Mail: office@fachstelleKepler Universitätsklinikums gluecksspielsucht.at Wagner-Jauregg-Weg 15 4020 Linz Weitere Beratungsstellen: Tel.: +43 5 76 80 87 39571 www.fachstelle-gluecksspielsucht.at E-Mail: spielsucht.nmc@ und www.suchtfragen.at kepleruniklinikum.at www.promenteooe.at/spielsucht Drogenberatung des Landes Steiermark Magistrat der Stadt Wels Suchttherapieverein Sozialpsychische BeratungsSteiermark dienste – Spielsuchttherapie Friedrichgasse 7 Quergasse 1 8010 Graz 4600 Wels Tel.: +43 316 326044 Tel.: +43 7242 29 585 E-Mail: drogenberatung@stmk.gv.at E-Mail: www.drogenberatung.steiermark.at spielsuchtberatung.spb@wels.gv.at www.wels.gv.at Imprint CASINOS AUSTRIA AG Rennweg 44 1038 Vienna Tel.: +43 1 53440-0 www.casinos.at ÖSTERREICHISCHE LOTTERIEN GESELLSCHAFT M.B.H. Rennweg 44 1038 Vienna Tel.: +43 1 79070-0 www.lotterien.at CSR Officer Hermann Pamminger Rennweg 44 1038 Vienna Tel.: +43 1 53440-22527 csr@casinos.at csr@lotterien.at Editors Susanne Hirner Martina Landsmann Hermann Pamminger Photo Copyrights Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries photo archive, David Lawson/WWF (Foto Luchs) Achim Bienik and Stephan Hugar
