be twe e n and Do you think that design, technology, performance and convenience are everything that makes a car? Have you ever considered that cars can be so much more than a mere means of transportation? What do cars need to do so that the beautiful night sky can be enjoyed by our future generations? Be it between cars and people, cars and the environment, or cars and the future, Kia Motors is striving to realize new values that can be enjoyed through automobiles. We believe that our hard work, will result in cars that provide greater values to the world’s consumers. This is why Kia Motors will never stop taking on fresh new challenges. Contents Business Highlights · A One-Year Challenge to Create a Better World 02 Material Issue 02 Kia Global Networks · Kia Motors’ Global Status 06 Customers · Progress in Quality and Service 46 CEO Message · A Promise for a Better World 08 Environment · Green Promise for the Next Generation 50 Employees · Solutions for Mutual Prosperity 58 A Better Way to Go Partner Companies · Creating Sustainable Partnership 62 Trend & Strategy · Kia Motors’ Response to Change 12 Governance · A System for Rational Decision-making 16 Community Materiality Test · Communication Channels and Materiality Test 18 Local Communities · 66 58 UN Sustainable Development Goals & Kia Motors Between Car and … DRIVE WiSE Human · 20 Appendix Gwangju Plant 2016 CES (Consumer Electronics Show) Car Manufacturing Underpinned by Sustainability Management 75 Sportage Production Site a Philosophy That Changes Human Life Kia Motors Slovakia 91 Nature · 24 About This Report 95 Kia Motors’ Advanced Technologies Are Waging Independent Assurance Statement 96 66 a Battle to Protect the Environment GRI Index 98 Challenge · 28 Developing Automobiles That Understand Humans DRIVE WiSE, Kia’s Intelligent Safety Technology Brand Next Value 24 Economic Value · Creation and Distribution of Economic Value Technology Value · Connected and Self-driving Cars 34 38 Niro Green Light Project (GLP) 42 Kia Motors’ Self-driving Technology Reader’s Guide Any terminology or additional information associated with certain terms or facts presented in the main body of the text is separately provided on the same page and marked with the icons shown below. The PDF version, with links to relevant websites that contain more details, is available on Kia Motors’ official website. Click the title in the Table of Contents to go to that particular section or click the footnote to go to the relevant PDF page or website link. Niro 32.56km/ℓ Go to the page in this report with the relevant content or detailed information. Guinness World Records for Average Fuel Efficiency Go to the website containing information relevant to the details of the report. (U.S. cross-continental travel) A One-Year Challenge to Make a Better World DRIVE WiSE 2016 CES Business Highlights Sales Approx. 3.02 million vehicles In the year 2016, Kia Motors sold 3,018,093 cars* in the global market, selling over 3 million cars for the third consecutive year. Despite the favorable sales trend in Korea and key advanced markets, Kia Motors sold 1,550,808 cars produced at domestic plants, for a decrease of 10.1% compared to the previous year, as a result of economic stagnation in the emerging market (Russia etc.). However, Kia sold 1,467,285 cars produced in overseas plants, for an increase by 10.7% from the previous year, as a result of improved productivity at its China plant and the commencement of operations at its Mexico plant. In 2017, Kia Motors plans to increase its sales to 3.17 million cars, a 5% increase compared to the previous year, by selling 1,545,000 cars from domestic plants and 1,625,000 cars from overseas plants. This will be made possible through releasing new models, expanding production in China and Mexico, and improving export conditions following economic recovery in emerging markets. * Sales : Based on plant sales Quality Confidence 83 points, 1 st In the 2016 Initial Quality Study (IQS) conducted by J.D. Power, a U.S. market surveyor, Kia Motors scored 83 points, ranking first among 33 brands. Kia Motors is the first Korean auto company to be ranked at the top of the list, as well as the first mainstream brand to be ranked first in the IQS in the last 27 years. In the assessment by vehicle class, Soul and the Sportage (previous generation model) received the “Segment Winner” award in the compact multi-purpose and compact SUV category, respectively. In addition, the Rio (Pride), Cerato/Forte (K3) and Sorento placed in the top three in their respective categories. Brand Value USD 6.3 billion Kia Motors rose five places from the previous year to 69th according to the Best Global Brands 2016 study announced by the global brand consulting company Interbrand, with estimated brand value of USD 6.3 billion (approx. KRW 6.9 trillion). This represents an increase of 600% from Kia’s brand value of USD 900 million recorded in 2006 when the company declared its “design-led management” initiative. 02 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Business Highlights 03 GLP School Malawi Global Production 4 th In 2016, Kia Motors began production at its new production plant in Pesqueria, Nuevo Leon located in northeastern Mexico. The Mexico plant is Kia Motors’ fourth overseas plant following those in China, Europe and the U.S. It is recording the highest productivity of all Kia’s automobile plants through directly supplying large modular components* to the plant and applying an improved one kit system* using conveyors. * Direct Supply of Large Modular Components : A system for directly supplying large-size modular components (seven of them), such as seats and bumpers, from the plants of partner companies to the vehicle assembly plant. * One Kit System : A system of creating a kit that contains components required for production of one vehicle and supplying it to the assembly line. Design Leadership The Optima (K5) won the “Best of the Best” award while the Sportage was selected as a “Winner” at the 2016 Red Dot Design Award in the Product Design category. In the 2016 International Forum Design Award, the Optima (K5) and Sportage also were awarded in the Product Design category. In addition, Stinger, a premium high-performance sedan, won the Eyes On Design award for Production Car Design Excellence at the 2017 Detroit Motor Show in recognition of its competitive design. Global Citizenship Approx. 5,000 persons The GLP School, a secondary education facility established for the purpose of improving the educational environment of communities in Africa, produced its first 100 graduates in 2017. Around 5,000 students are currently receiving education at Kia’s GLP schools, which are operated in four regions including Tanzania and Malawi. In 2017, Kia Motors plans to build a GLP Automobile Maintenance Center in two African regions and provide vehicle maintenance education to develop these centers into local hubs for job creation. 04 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Business Highlights 05 Kia Motors' Global Status 16 Kia Global Networks 24 27 14 Kia Motors is striving to realize sustainability by fulfilling its re28 26 sponsibilities as a corporate citizen and placing top priority on 22 the environment in all areas of its management activities while 31 maintaining a balanced viewpoint in its relationships with various 21 12 stakeholders. 10 11 33 Founded in 1944, Kia Motors, Korea’s representative automaker, has 15 8 9 built a network of 19 sales offices and 4,882 dealers and cemented 4 13 3 itself as a truly global enterprise, selling more than three million cars each year. Through continuous R&D and investment, Kia Motors has 6 7 35 established a comprehensive line-up of all vehicle types and classes including passenger cars, RVs and commercial vehicles. In addition, it was ranked by Interbrand as the 69th Best Global Brand in 2016 5 34 based on the production facilities and R&D and design centers it has established in the key markets of the U.S., China and Europe. 17 18 2 25 1 20 32 30 Global Sales Global Production Global R&D Korea Korea Korea 23 1 9 Sohari, Hwaseong, Gwangju, consignment basis 22 regional headquarters, 340 regional sales offices 1.82 million vehicles 3 bases Overseas Overseas Overseas China, Slovakia, USA, Mexico USA, Europe, Japan, China, India 19 sales offices, 4 regional headquarters 1.96 million vehicles 11 bases * Including design centers Business Domain Global Network Passenger Cars Picanto(Morning), Ray, cee’d, Rio(Pride), K2, Forte/Cerato(K3), Sales & Service Production R&D Forte/Cerato Koup(K3 Koup), K4, Optima(K5), Cadenza(K7), Korea Sales 22 regional headquarters, 340 regional sales offices, 384 dealerships, Korea Sohari plant (350,000 units), Hwaseong plant (600,000 units), Korea Hyundai Motor Group Technology Research Institute (Hwaseong, Gyeonggi-do), Quoris/K900(K9) 11 shipping offices Gwangju plant (620,000 units), Consignment production (250,000 units) Eco-Technology Research Institute (Yongin, Gyeonggi-do), Uiwang Technology RVs Venga, Soul, Carens/Rondo, KX3, Sportage/KX5, Sorento, Service 18 regional service centers, 240 comprehensive service providers, Overseas China plant (890,000 units), Slovakia plant (330,000 units), Research Institute (Uiwang, Gyeonggi-do) Mohave, Grand Carnival/Sedona (Carnival) 556 partial service provider USA (Georgia) plant (340,000 units), Mexico plant (400,000 units) Overseas Technology and Design Centers Hybrid Vehicles Optima(K5) Hybrid, Cadenza(K7) Hybrid, Niro Overseas Sales 19 sales offices, 164 distributors, 4,882 dealers (sales & service) 20. Kia Motors Manufacturing Georgia (2,697 employees) | Technology Research Centers 25. USA (Detroit, Chino, Irvine, CPG) | Plug-in Hybrid Vehicles Optima(K5) Plug-in Hybrid Sales Offices 1. Kia Motors America | 2. Kia Canada Inc. | 3. Kia Motors Deutschland | 21. Kia Motors Slovakia (Zilina, 3,607 employees) | 26. Europe (Russelsheim, Nurburgring, Germany) | 27. Japan (Yokohama) | Electric Vehicles Ray EV, Soul EV 4. Kia Motors U.K. | 5. Kia Motors Iberia | 6. Kia Motors France | 22. China plant (Yancheng, 6,706 employees) | 28. China (Yantai) | 29. India (Hyderabad) Commercial Vehicles K-Series Trucks (Bongo III), Grandbird Commercial Bus 7. Kia Motors Italy | 8. Kia Motors Austria | 9. Kia Motors Hungary | 23. Mexico plant (Pesqueria, 2,269 employees) | Design Centers 30. USA (Irvine) | 31. Europe (Frankfurt, Germany) CKD (Complete Knock Down) Automobile components (including engines, etc.) 10. Kia Motors Czech | 11. Kia Motors Slovakia | 12. Kia Motors Polska | 24. Corporate headquarters in Korea (3 plants, 3 R&D centers, 18 regional 13. Kia Motors Belgium | 14. Kia Motors Sweden | 15. Kia Motors Netherlands | service centers, 340 dealerships, 33,946 employees) Regional Headquarters 16. Kia Motors Russia | 17. Kia Motors Australia | 18. Kia Motors New Zealand | 32. Central & South America (Miami, USA) | 33. Eastern Europe & CIS (Kiev, Ukraine) | 19. Kia Motors Mexico * As of December 31, 2016 34. Middle East & Africa (Dubai, U.A.E.) | 35. Asia (Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia) * No. of Vehicles Produced : Based on annual production volume * Research Centers : Adjusted according to R&D sector classification criteria 06 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Kia Global Networks 07 A Promise for a Better World CEO Message Kia Motor’s Achievements in 2016 in today’s employment market. It is a great pleasure to be able to introduce Kia Motors’ sustainability Moreover, through the “Green Light Project (GLP),” global CSR management through “MOVE,” Kia Motors’ sustainability magazine, to campaign, Kia Motors supports the independence of local communities all stakeholders who have given us their continuous support. by leading the entire process from project planning to operation, Despite difficult domestic and international market conditions in moving beyond simple funding. For the first project, which was the era of the “new normal” during which global economic growth launched five years ago, Kia Motors has completed the building of an remains subdued, Kia Motors has recorded meaningful management independent operation system, and is planning to transfer the business achievements in 2016 thanks to the support and cooperation of our model to Africa this year. This will be the first ever case of a CSR stakeholders. activity that establishes a sustainable system in an underdeveloped Externally, Kia Motors recorded over KRW 50 trillion in sales for the country which improves the quality of life of local residents based on first time in its history, while maintaining a system that has sold and the provision of mobility support. produced over three million cars for three years in a row thanks in part Meanwhile, between 2016 and 2030, Kia Motors will support the to the successful operation of its Mexico plant, the company’s fourth UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which are promoted for overseas production base. Internally, Kia Motors won global recognition the purpose of realizing a sustainable society, and will contribute to for its product competitiveness by ranking top among all brands in the accomplishing these goals by fulfilling its social responsibilities. To that 2016 Initial Quality Study (IQS) by J.D. Power, following its top ranking end, Kia Motors has established initiatives for CSR projects and set among mainstream brands in 2015. promotional goals for each project. In the long-term, Kia Motors will spread these goals across its entire management system. Outcomes of Sustainability Management Based on these outcomes, Kia Motors produced meaningful Paradigm Shift and Response sustainability management results in 2016. From an economic At the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting (Davos Forum) held viewpoint, Kia Motors formed the Transparent Management Committee in January, the “fourth industrial revolution” was discussed as an in order to build a shareholder-friendly management environment important issue, and automobiles were forecast to play a pivotal role that meets global standards while simultaneously strengthening in the highly anticipated hyper-connected society of the future. With activities that protect the rights and interests of its shareholders. The a firm emphasis on customer safety and eco-friendliness, Kia Motors Transparent Management Committee, in its capacity as an independent will focus its competencies on the development of “autonomous organization tasked with protecting the rights and interests of driving” and “connected car” technologies, and strive to develop fully With a new paradigm, shareholders, not only reflects and introduces shareholders’ rights and autonomous driving vehicles by 2030. In addition, the company will interests to the Board of Directors in relation to important management actively respond to the forthcoming massive paradigm shift and lead items that affect shareholder value and the shareholder return policy, the changes by building a younger and more dynamic organizational Kia Motors will create a better world such as dividends, but also plays a major role in promoting closer culture based on its declaration of “Kia Spirit” in 2016. communication between the Board of Directors and shareholders by attending meetings with domestic investors and NDRs (non-deal Kia Motors, as a global corporate citizen, will remain fully committed roadshows) targeting overseas investors. to making the world a better place economically, socially and From an environmental perspective, Kia Motors is deploying its midenvironmentally beyond the mere pursuit of corporate growth. We ask to long-term road map to improve fuel efficiency by 25% by 2020 for your continued support and encouragement in the coming years. (compared to 2014) by replacing 70% of the existing engine line-up, Thank you. and also to advance into a leadership position in the environmentfriendly vehicle market by continuously releasing alternative powertrain vehicles. Last year, Kia Motors opened a new chapter in the low emissions SUV market by releasing the eco-friendly Niro hybrid, while Hyoung-Keun (Hank) Lee this year it is planning to unveil a plug-in hybrid version of the Niro. Vice Chairman & CEO From a social perspective, Kia Motors introduced a “daytime two-shift March 2017 (eight hours + eight hours) work system” in January 2017 in order to secure employees’ health rights and to prepare a stable production system by reducing nighttime work based on constructive labormanagement relations. In addition, it is continuously appointing the staff of its internal partners to full-time positions in order to contribute to the creation of more high-quality jobs, which is one of the key issues 08 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 CEO Message 09 In view of the paradigm shift in society that will be triggered by the fourth industrial revolution, Kia Motors is re-designing itself (Re: Design Kia) according to its “Strategy 2020.” Kia Motors will transform and advance the organization by adhering to its newly declared “Kia Spirit.” STRATEGY 2020 Re:Design Kia Redefine The Domain Refine Kia Identity Reinforce Kia Capability Solidifying Our Market Position Developing a Competitive Edge Reinforcing Operational Capabilities for Sustainable Growth in Customer Value Enhancement to Bolster Our Fundamentals · Raising public recognition in strategic markets · Bringing our product identity to life · Optimizing global production and supply · Entering the next phase in China · Providing an upscale customer experience chain management (SCM) · Securing a competitive edge in tomorrow’s · Pushing forward with a global brand strategy · Heightening quality control in response to volume-driven market · Increasing new business opportunities changing market/customer demands · Exploring growth opportunities in potential · Fortifying product development competitiveness markets for compact and mid-sized cars · Upgrading sales and service operations Reorganize Kia Management System Establishing a new management system to become a leading global company Establishing a corporate culture and Strengthening Further developing Constructing an intelligence-based CSR framework that meet our “glocalization” efforts Kia’s HRD and HRM programs business management platform the world’s highest standards Trend & Strategy · Kia Motors’ Response to Change Governance · A System for Rational Decision-making Materiality Test · Communication Channels and Materiality Test 10 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Kia Motors’ Response to Change Trend & Strategy Trend Overview While the global economic crisis drags on and the world enters a new practical matter rather than a vague concept. In addition, the advent era characterized by long-term sluggish growth, countries across the of AlphaGo, which took the world by surprise, foretold the rise of AI world are strengthening their environmental regulations including the (artificial intelligence) and ICT (information and communications techcontrol of gas emissions. In particular, the implementation of the Paris nologies) in all industrial sectors. As if to prove this prediction, KPMG, Agreement to restrict the Earth’s average temperature increase to 1.5℃ a global accounting advisory group, announced “connectivity” and to 2℃ higher than the temperature in the period before industrialization “digitalization” as important keywords that would lead the automoby the end of this century has compelled many companies to come up bile industry by 2020 following a survey targeting around 200 global with a new economic model and growth engine, namely, the “low-carautomobile industry executives. Having now entered the automobile Global Trend Industry Trend bon economy.” industry, ICT companies equipped with autonomous driving and smart Korea, which is the world’s ninth largest producer of greenhouse gas connectivity technologies, are heralding the fourth industrial revolution · Long-term sluggish growth · Connectivity & Digitalization · Low oil prices and exchange rate · Strengthening of safety regulations emissions, must face the disapproving gaze of the international comin the automobile industry. As a result, fierce competition to dominate fluctuations across the world munity when it comes to its greenhouse gas reduction efforts. Having the automobile operating system (OS) and the technological standard, · New climate economic paradigm · Strengthening of new established an upwardly-adjusted goal in a bid to reduce its greenthe core of the fourth industrial revolution, is under way. To that end, · Aggravation of inequalities protectionism between social classes in global · Decline of consumer confidence house gas emissions by 37% of the BAU by 2030, Korea is actively the ICT and automobile industries are actively engaged in heterogecities due to increased household responding to climate change by initiating the establishment of the neous M&As and are predicted to make a new breakthrough in the debts and employment instability Global Green Growth Institute (GGGI) and hosting the Green Climate near future. Fund (GCF) to support the response to climate change in developing The growth rate of the global automobile market is expected to hovcountries. Meanwhile, the UN has agreed on the Sustainable Develer around 1.9% in 2017 due to a possible delay in export recovery opment Goals (SDGs), following the Millennium Development Goals resulting from stagnation of the domestic economy and international (MDGs) adopted in 2015, and set out 17 detailed goals and 169 subdemand as well as the spread of protectionism. However, automobile goals to be fulfilled by 2030. exports are expected to increase in 2017 due to the gradual economic recovery of emerging countries and a market rebound in the U.S., while the production increase rate is also expected to rise naturally based on the automobile industry’s innate characteristic of being highly le Par t dependent on exports to the U.S. market. In addition, the economy is Kia Motors’ CSR Strategies for ne op rs Pe h recovering in emerging resource-exporting countries as a result of an Problem-solving ip increase in the prices of oil and raw materials and, as consumer confidence is improving in India and Russia, positive forecasts have been made in relation to automobile exports. However, stagnant growth in EU nations and China is expected to impede overall global growth. Moreover, as certain economic risks, including the increased base SDGs interest rate in the U.S. and the Brexit issue in the U.K., persist, a full2030 on recovery in global demand is likely to be delayed. Domestic sales Sustainable Development are predicted to decrease as a result of a fall in demand and domestic y Goals erit economic stagnation with the expiration of the government’s domesPea Prosp ce tic market activation support policy. With various factors of economic Social Environmental Trust-Based uncertainty including termination of the consumption tax reduction, a rise in household debts and employment insecurity as a result of Outreach Management Management increased industrial restructuring consumer confidence will continue Contribute to social development Spearhead global efforts to address Practice transparent and ethical to decline. Nevertheless, the low-interest rate policy and the impact of as a corporate citizen environmental challenges business management new car releases could lead to a fresh increase in demand. Planet Reinforce Environmental Phase in CSR Strategies in Line with Perform CSR That Meets Capabilities, and Mitigate Climate Shared CSR Values Global Standards Sustainable development, quality education and alleviation of inequality between countries have been added to the existing agenda of the SDG 1.9 % · Upgrade domestic social outreach projects and frameworks Change · Build a green production system and practices · Establish and promote a trust-based management framework for the eradication of poverty, the protection of the right to education, Growth Rate Forecast for the Global Automobile Market in 2017 · Promote global social outreach activities · Conserve energy and reduce · Build collaborative ties with worksite and gender equality. Accordingly, CSR has also been specified as a Hyundai Motor Group Global Business Intelligence Center (GBIC) · Internalize CSR within the organization greenhouse gas emissions stakeholders · Secure green technologies · Enhance stakeholder communication · Build a resource-circulation framework 12 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 CSR Road Map Declaration of Enactment of the Social Strengthening of CSR Launch of Kia’s Signature Promotion of Stabilization of Global Advancement of Commitment to CSR Responsibility Charter Implementation Scheme CSR Projects Global CSR Social Outreach Programs the Global CSR System · Establishment of the CSR · Establishment of CSR tasks · Establishment of CSR · Global · Full implementation of global · Social outreach diagnosis · Proposal of new direction for Committee (trust-based management, assessment system : Green Light Project (GLP) projects and system establishment at CSR projects environmental management, · Establishment of global social · Domestic (Overseas subsidiary domestic and international · Establishment of CSR base social outreach) outreach value scheme : Green Trip involvement) plants for the future by reinforcing · Dissemination of shared communication social outreach values across · Integration of global social the world outreach system and project advancement · Strengthening of CSR communication Step 2008 2009 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2020 CSR Management Framework CSR Progress & Plans by Domain Environmental Management transmission. In 2017, Kia Motors aims to further strengthen its status In 2008, Kia Motors declared its commitment to CSR management Social Outreach Kia Motors announced its decision to pursue global environmental as an eco-friendly brand by releasing the Niro plug-in hybrid model. and formed the CSR Committee, a company-wide organization, with In 2011, Kia Motors established the global social outreach value management in 2003 and set out to establish itself as a global ecothe CEO as its chairperson. The CSR Committee is composed of the scheme and set out its main CSR values as promoting the general right friendly leader. As part of this effort, Kia Motors conducted third-party Trust-based Management CEO and executives of trust-based management, environmental manof mobility and taking up the challenge to improve the quality of life. assurance for the greenhouse gas emissions of its plants and service Kia Motors is striving to improve its long-term competitiveness agement and social outreach organizations. The CSR Management The following year gave birth to Kia’s signature social outreach projects centers in 2006, for the first time in Korea, and began continuously by implementing management practices based on sound ethical Team, as the organization in charge, functions as the committee’s secthat aim to bring these new values to life. The first is the “Green Light managing its greenhouse gas footprint. Starting with its plants in standards and building ever greater trust with its stakeholders. It retary. Through the efforts of the committee, Kia Motors decided on its Project (GLP),” a global initiative, and the second is a domestic effort Slovakia and China (plants 1 and 2) in 2007, Kia expanded the scope has formed the Transparent Management Committee within the CSR direction and established a global social outreach value scheme. called the “Green Trip.” of its third-party assurance to all of its domestic and overseas plants, Board of Directors in order to supervise the implementation of trustIn 2016, Kia Motors discussed and approved the implementation of For the GLP, Kia Motors is opening at least one additional base each including the U.S. (Georgia) plant in 2010, China plant 3 in 2014, based management, and has also established, and is encouraging the CSR scheme at overseas branches and launched the Global Social year. During the first five-year phase of the project, a system of selfand the Mexico plant in 2016. Based on this initiative, Kia Motors compliance with, the ethics charter and other related regulations that Outreach Working-level Committee in order to extend the remit of its sustainability has been established and will be extended to local areas. has been striving to meet its goal of reducing its per-unit greenhouse employees are required to observe at the company’s worksites. In social outreach working-level committee to the global stage. As for the Green Trip, Kia Motors has supported 25,917 people to gas emissions by 30% by 2020 compared with 2008. In 2014, Kia 2002, Kia Motors introduced the Compliance Program (CP) in a drive From 2008 to 2012, Kia Motors secured a CSR management frametravel 1,592,032 km, which is equivalent to circling the earth 40 times, Motors established an exclusive organization, including the Safety to ensure trust-based management, and introduced the compliance work to share the same CSR goals at its worksites around the world. as of the end of 2016. In 2015 and 2016, Kia Motors established its & Environment Planning Office, under the direct management of the management system as a higher-level concept of the CP in 2012 in Up until 2016, it had been establishing the CSR scheme at its domessocial outreach project scheme by creating a social outreach system CEO, and declared its commitment to pursuing safe environmental order to integrate all corporate compliance activities. In 2016, Kia tic and overseas worksites in order to spread CSR and stabilize the for each of its domestic and overseas worksites and by developing, management. In addition, it announced a fuel economy road map Motors announced the CEO’s strong will to practice compliance in the scheme. From 2017 to 2020, Kia Motors will promote the advanceand thereby promoting, its signature projects at the local worksite level. to improve the company’s average fuel economy by 25% by 2020 company to all employees six times and expanded related trainings. ment of the global CSR system in line with its Strategy 2020. This year, Kia Motors will set up a management scheme by (compared with 2014), together with midto long-term eco-friendly In addition, it distributed 39 compliance guidelines covering nine legal strengthening its global CSR operation and management system. strategies (including Hyundai Motor Company) for releasing 28 ecoareas to its worksites, including a compliance handbook. By completing a strategic framework consisting of “value scheme friendly vehicle models and ranking second in the eco-friendly vehicle This year, Kia Motors plans to expand its compliance supporting business scheme management scheme,” Kia Motors will promote the market by 2020. Accordingly, in 2016, Kia unveiled the Niro, a organization for compliance management by designating companyintegration of its global social outreach scheme and the advancement dedicated eco-friendly vehicle model, and released the Optima (K5) wide compliance support employees and to launch compliance selfof its activities. plug-in hybrid model and the second-generation K7 hybrid model. In audit system. Through these efforts, Kia Motors will establish itself addition, Kia Motors completed the development and application of as a respected global company thereby ensuring the legitimacy of its * CSR: Corporate Social Reponsibility the Kappa 1.4 T-GDi engine and a front wheel-drive 8-speed automatic internal decision-making and management activities. 14 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Trend & Strategy 15 A System for Rational Decision-making Board of Directors as of December 31, 2016 Name Position Background Transparent and Ethical Governance Standing Directors Hyoung-Keun Lee CEO, Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chairman of the Board Nominations Committee (currently) Vice Chairman & CEO, Kia Motors (formerly) CEO, Kia Motors Han-Woo CEO (currently) CEO, Kia Motors Park (formerly) Vice President, Kia Motors Chun-Soo Standing Director (currently) Vice President, Kia Motors Kia Motors has established a framework designed to reflect attendance rate of non-standing directors was 97.8%. At Kia Motors, Han (formerly) Executive Director, Kia Motors the interests of its internal and external stakeholders through the CEO chairs the BOD in order to ensure that decisions are made Special Eui-Sun Member of the Board Nominations Committee (currently) Vice Chairman, Hyundai Motor a range of initiatives, which the management board then takes swiftly. This is crucial for an automobile manufacturer because of Non-standing Chung (formerly) CEO, Kia Motors Director into account when making decisions. To that end, Kia Motors the short product cycle and the need for large-scale investments in guarantees independence in the operation of the Board of a rapidly changing business environment. In order to safeguard the Non-standing Sang-Gu Member of the Audit Committee, Member of the (currently) Professor Emeritus of Business, Gachon University Directors Nam Board Nomination Committee, Chairman of the (formerly) Private Sector Chairperson of the Public Fund Oversight Directors, and has set up a number of committees under the BOD’s independence, the company has established protocol measures Transparent anagement Committee Committee BOD’s control, including the Audit Committee, which represents to provide agenda items and other related information to all of the Hyun-Kook Chairman of the Audit Committee, Member of (currently) Chairman, Gaduk Tax Consulting Associates external stakeholders and monitors corporate management; directors in advance so that non-standing directors can voice their Hong the Transparent Management Committee Committee (formerly) Auditor, National Tax Services the Board Nominations Committee, which has the authority opinions based on a full understanding of the issues at hand after a Kwi-Nam Member of the Board Nominations Committee, (currently) Counsel, LKN Legal Research Institute to nominate candidates for non-standing directors; and the thorough review. Lee Member of the Transparent Management Committee (formerly) 61st Minister of Justice of the Republic of Korea Transparent Management Committee, which monitors the Remunerations are made to standing and non-standing board Won-Joon Member of the Board Nominations Committee, (currently) Counsel, Kim & Chang transparency of inter-affiliate transactions and protects directors mainly in the form of annual base salaries within a set wage Kim Member of the Transparent Management Committee (formerly) Director of Competition Policy Bureau, shareholders’ rights and interests. ceiling according to their position, and are authorized at the GSM. The Fair Trade Commission remuneration cap for 2016 was set at KRW 10 billion, and only KRW Doo-Hee Member of the Audit Committee, Member of (currently) Professor of Business, Korea University Lee the Transparent Management Committee Committee (formerly) President, Korea Advertising Society Board of Directors 3.2 billion was actually paid out to the directors. Kia Motors’ top decision-making body is the Board of Directors. Its members are appointed at the annual general shareholders’ meeting Committees (GSM) and speak on behalf of shareholders’ and other stakeholders’ Audit Committee Kia Motors’ Transparent Management Committee was formed for the In August 2016, the member responsible for protecting shareholders’ interests. They also oversee and vote on key business issues in Kia Motors’ Audit Committee is composed of three non-standing purpose of deliberation and voting on the protection of shareholders’ rights and interests explained the company’s governance policy to consideration of the company’s long-term growth road map. As of the directors, and is chaired by a non-standing director to ensure that it is rights and interests, as well as for the promotion of transparent overseas investors and listened to their opinions at a meeting in end of 2016, the BOD was composed of three standing directors, one operated in a transparent and independent fashion. Its main function internal transactions and ethical management. In view of its inherent Singapore. In October of that year, Kia Motors invited external experts special non-standing director, and five non-standing directors. is to make sure that the company’s accounting and business practices characteristics and roles, its composition is limited to non-standing and held a governance seminar as part of its efforts to improve the The BOD holds regular meetings to vote on key issues after are conducted in a fair manner and in compliance with all related laws directors. Currently, all of Kia Motors’ non-standing directors (5) are expertise of the committee members. considering the feedback collected from shareholders and employees and regulations. To that end, the committee is entitled to look over members of the Transparent Management Committee. Based on a at the GSM and through investor relations activities. The feedback is sales-related reports from the BOD and to examine the company’s resolution of the committee, one of the committee members was Major Shareholders as of December 31, 2016 then passed on to management for reflection in the crafting of policies. overall financial standing. appointed to assume responsibility for the protection of shareholders’ In addition, the Q&A section of the IR website is instrumental in Kia Motors runs an internal system that allows committee members rights and interests. 33.88% communicating with shareholders and employees. easy access to pertinent information on the company’s business The committee votes on matters relating to transactions between Hyundai Motor Ad hoc meetings are convened whenever issues for deliberation arise. operations. In 2016, the Audit Committee convened seven meetings people with a special relationship and the protection of shareholders’ The Audit Committee, Board Nominations Committee and Transparent to deliberate and vote on the dismissal and appointment of external rights and interests, as prescribed in the Commercial Act, the Monopoly 1.31% 13.47% Management Committee support the operation of the BOD with auditors and to receive briefings on the 2015 settlement of accounts Regulation and Fair Trade Act, and the Financial Investment Services Employee Other their expertise and efficiency in selecting agenda items according to and the status of the IACS. A total of 10 agenda items were presented and Capital Markets Act, and deliberates on the implementation of the Stock Ownership (financial their relevance. In 2016, the BOD convened nine meetings to receive to the Audit Committee, for which the attendance rate of the members compliance program, the operation of key policies relating to ethical Association institutions, etc.) (ESOA) briefings on the internal accounting control system (IACS) and the was 95.2%. management and social outreach schemes, and the establishment and status of Kia’s autonomous compliance with fair trading regulations, revision of the company’s code of ethics. Kia Motors’ management 15.63% 35.71% to approve business and investment plans for the coming year, and Board Nominations Committee actively reflects its non-standing directors’ opinions on social outreach Individual Investors International (excluding ESOA) Investors to deliberate and vote on various agenda items including convocation The Board Nominations Committee consists of five members and ethical management improvements in its future plans. In 2016, of the 72nd GSM (for 2015) and approval of the items submitted. A including one standing, one non-executive and three non-standing the committee convened five meetings and voted on and resolved 22 Unit: Share total of 36 agenda items were presented to the BOD, for which the directors as per the stipulation that “the majority of this committee items including the approval of internal trading and the details of social shall be composed of non-standing directors.” It holds the authority outreach activities and donations. 137,318,251 144,767,089 Board of Directors and Committees to recommend non-standing director candidates for selection at the general shareholders’ meeting. In 2016, the committee recommended Board of Directors a non-standing director candidate to the 72nd GSM (2015) through 63,353,194 54,622,533 a fair and thorough examination of candidates based on their * IR Consulting Center : competencies and expertise. https://pr.kia.com/en/company/ir/ir-library/question-and-answer.do 5,302,280 Transparent Management Committee Hyundai Employee Stock Individual International Other Transparent Board Nominations * Additional Information on BOD and Investment : Motor Ownership Investors Investors (financial Audit Committee Management In March 2016, Kia Motors reorganized the existing Ethics Committee Committee Business Report(Kia Motors PR Website Company IR) Association (excluding institutions, Committee into the Transparent Management Committee in order to strengthen http://pr.kia.com/en/company/ir/general-information/company-information.do (ESOA) ESOA) etc.) 16 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Governance 17 Communication Channels and Materiality Test Interactive Communication and Materiality Test Kia Motors’ stakeholders are diversifying as society becomes the existing channels, and further activate communication with Materiality Test increasingly diverse and differentiated. During the company’s stakeholders by strengthening the links between each channel. In order to identify key issues, a comprehensive materiality test was conducted in consideration of all corporate policies and their direct/indirect implementation of its social responsibilities, the opinions of economic effects, laws and regulations, stakeholder surveys, performance and issues of peer groups, and media coverage. Notably, three other facvarious stakeholders are used to carry out its agenda. Most Stakeholder Communication Channels tors played a more prominent role in this year’s Kia Sustainability Report than in the past, namely, international standards, the sustainability reports importantly, it is the company’s role to find a balance between published by Fortune 500 automakers, and media analysis. The GRI G4 Guidelines particularly encourage reporting companies to cover key issues Stakeholder Communication Channels the varying interests of different stakeholders. Kia Motors Group that scored higher than the threshold levels preset by the reporting companies themselves. Following this advice, nine key issues were finalized from collects the diverse opinions of its stakeholders through among 30 relevant issues derived. Customers Motor shows and new model launch events, test drives, detailed communication channels established according to the sports sponsorships, customer service, customer characteristics of each stakeholder, and thus is striving to equally satisfaction surveys, clubs, corporate websites, Other Sustainability Management Issues distribute the benefits of its CSR management to all sectors of online communication channels (Kia BUZZ/ social Economic Issues media/ K-Bean/ mobile apps), viral videos, K-Lounge, society. reports(annual reports/sustainability reports/ community EC04 Employee competency building HIGH EC05 Employees’ health and safety relations white papers) Product and service quality EC07 Improvement of employees’ quality of life EC Establishment of Interactive Channel for Stakeholders Shareholders & General shareholders’ meeting, investment road shows, 02 improvement (Welfare, GWP) Kia Motors has established a range of online and offline channels Investors corporate websites, SNS, reports Environmental Issues through which it aims to improve communication and exchange Employees Labor-Management Council, Employment Stability EC Customer satisfaction EN01 Climate change response (energy and GHG) 01 management EN03 Establishment and operation of opinions with its stakeholders. In 2016, it started a network project Committee, Next-Generation Committee, company integrated environmental management called “Kia-net” in order to resolve issues in each local community magazine, CSR newsletter, online communication EN04 Expansion of investment into environmental channels (intranet/ knowledge community/ Kia In), Expansion of green technology EN protection and conservation by fostering regular exchange and cooperation with stakeholders in Employee Counseling Center, reports SO Dissemination of ethical and development and application 02 02 compliance management EN05 Efforts to create an eco-friendly the community. Based on the opinions collected through the project, organizational culture Partner Dealer programs (seminars/dealer contests/dealer the company has promoted various social outreach projects that EN06 Resource saving and protection Level of Social Interest Companies invitational events), seminars and training programs, EN07 Participation in environmental improvement are customized for the local communities concerned. In addition, win-win web portal, Value Advanced Automotive Trade EC Sound labor-management projects and initiatives Zone (VAATZ), procurement headquarters’ suggestion 06 relations Kia Motors developed a new app for activating communication with Reinforcement of R&D EC EN08 Minimization of environmental pollutant box, reports 10 discharge its employees after reflecting the results of a questionnaire survey EN09 Minimization of environmental impacts in conducted to evaluate the sentiment of its plant employees (April 2014 Local Social outreach activities and campaigns, corporate areas around worksites Communities websites, exchanges with local communities (regular March 2015), and launched and distributed it to all its employees in EC Supply network management EN10 Biodiversity management and protection of meetings/public access to Kia plants), corporate 09 (mutual growth with partners) endangered species January 2017. As such, Kia Motors will continuously introduce new information channels (website/ SNS/ reports) Social Issues channels of communication as and when necessary, supplement SO01 Respect for labor and human rights EC Risk control 08 SO03 Prevention of unfair trading (anti-corruption) On/Offline Channels SO04 Advancement of information management (protection and disclosure) Soundness of governance EC SO05 Fair distribution of economic values Online Offline 03 SO06 Strategic social outreach activities SO07 Activation of communication with local communities CSR Website Corporate Culture K-bean Campaign K-Nanum Together Kia-net SO08 Global CSR activity promotion PR Website SO09 Strengthening of competitiveness of local communities Interactive Active Information Participation by Participation by Formation of a Local LOW Business Impact HIGH SO10 Expansion of social development investment Communication Media Sharing External Stakeholders Internal Employees Community Network Decision of Key Issues and Core Reporting Items No. Key Issues Core Issues Page No. Key Issues Core Issues Page EC01 Customer satisfaction management Customers 46, 47, 78 Supply network management Partner EC09 62~65 (Mutual growth with partners) Companies Product and service quality EC02 Products 46~49 improvement 24~32, 36~44, · Opened in 2013 · Opened in 2014 · Resolves social issues · An internal donation · Efforts to form a local EC10 Reinforcement of R&D Products · Provides information on · Shares information on with external program launched in community network Corporate Book in Book social outreach activities CSR stakeholders through EC03 Soundness of governance 16~17 2015 started in earnest in 2016 Governance and collects feedback Naver Happy Bean · Encourages employees · Resolves local Expansion of green technology 24~27, EN02 Products from stakeholders to participate community issues with Sound labor-management development and application Book in Book EC06 Employees 58~61 in the program regional stakeholders relationship Dissemination of ethical and SO02 Employees 82, 83 EC08 Risk control Economy 12~15 compliance management 18 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Materiality Test 19 Fair Opportunity Respect Diversity Self-realization between car and human To some drivers, a car defines their lifestyle. For others, it is a partner in a journey towards achieveing their dreams. So a car is so much more than a mere means of transportation. Which is why Kia Motors reflects its vision in its cars. For those who drive Kia cars and others who are connected via cars Kia Motors will be their partner in their journey towards a better life. Numerous dreams are created between humans and cars. We are all working towards a better future as we try to realize our dreams. Cars matter because they tell our stories. Car Manufacturing Underpinned by a Philosophy That Changes Human Life 2016 was an extremely important year for Kia Motors in terms of sustainability management. As the UN’s Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) expired, to be followed by the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the role of Mutual Growth “sustainability,” hitherto regarded as To promote mutual growthwith its partner a somewhat ambiguous development companies, Kia Motors has set out three concept, was clarified and presented as operating strategies for reinforcing partners’ a visible and attainable framework. SDGs global competitiveness, laying the foundaare composed of five axes, namely, peotion for sustainable growth, and setting up a ple, prosperity, planet, peace, and partframework for mutual growth, and is providnership. Devised to achieve sustainable ing active support to its partner companies. development by maintaining a sound balance between these five elements, SDGs · Quality Schooling: 4,329 trainees enrolled are goals that all people in the world in 10 courses (as of 2016) must strive to achieve. · Technical Schooling: 1,319 trainees With the further detailing of its responsienrolled in 8 courses (as of 2016) bilities, Kia Motors retraced its footsteps · Cost of Quality & Technical Schooling: to assess whether it has kept its promise KRW 25 billion (2013 2017) to provide everyone with an opportunity · No. of Partner Companies Participating to enjoy the benefits of mobility and to in Industrial Innovation Campaign: Support for Africa Childcare Support Scheme exercise the right to make important 150 (Aug. 2015 Jul. 2016) Through the Green Light Project, Kia Motors Kia Motors provides a range of childcare decisions in their lives. Kia Motors estab· No. of Partner Companies for Joint supports education and village self-sufficiensupports to help female employees focus on lished the basic principles of “fair opporEntry to Overseas Plants: 700 cy to eradicate poverty in Africa. their work. tunity,” “respect diversity” and “self-re(as of 2016, including secondary partners) alization” in order to realize these shared · Supported Regions: 9 local · Maternity Leave values, and has been making efforts to Employment Creation communities in 6 countries (cumulative) · No. of Employees on Childcare Leave: develop a batter path. Now, Kia Motors’ Kia Motors is following the principle of “glo· K-Nanum Together Fund: 18 male and 68 female employees philosophy of social equality, a better calization” (management centering on local Approx. KRW 63 million (based on Green (as of 2016) quality of life and social integration is human resources) in order to contribute to Light Project regular donations in 2016) · Flexible Work-hours System changing people’s lives. local economies and execute management · Directly Managed Childcare Centers and according to local conditions. Mobility Worksite-linked Daycare Facilities Kia Motors operates the Green Trip program · No. of Domestic and Overseas to provide the disabled with a variety of travel Employee Training Scheme Employees: 51,357 (as of 2016) benefits to ensure their mobility. Kia Motors offers a range of programs to · Percentage of Overseas Employees help employees achieve self-realization and Among Total Employees: 33.9% or · No. of Participants: 25,917 people to share its philosophy with overseas em17,411 persons (as of 2016) (Jun. 2012 Dec. 2016) ployees. · Percentage of Local Human Resources · Total Travel Distance: 1,592,032km, at Overseas Plants: 98.0% (as of 2016) equivalent to circling the earth 40 times · Work Exchange Program · Percentage of Managerial and · Local Expert Program Higher-level Employees at Overseas · Employee Training Expenses: Plants: 79.8% (as of 2016) KRW 18.5 billion (as of 2016) 22 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Between Car and Human 23 Efficiency Green Intelligent between car and nature The roads are packed with cars emiting exhaust gas that is breathed in by humans. Cars exist for humans and must not threaten the space that people inhabit. To this end, Kia Motors painstakingly ponders what technology must do for people and the environment. Each person has different criteria for selecting a car. Nonetheless, Kia Motors hopes that people will choose our cars because they care about their children and the environment. Engines 70 percent of the current 10-engine lineup to be Kia Motors’ Green Cars upgraded with new turbo technologies Transmissions New transmissions under development for Kia Motors unveiled the “Niro,” compact higher efficiency and multi-speed capability eco-friendly sport utility vehicle (SUV) in Lightweight An average of 5 percent reduction in car body weight 2016. With CO2 emissions of only around Efficiency 90g/km, Niro proved its eco-friendliness by Scope Applicable to the entire lineup, setting a new Guinness World Record when launching new eco-friendly models No. of Models 14 models it was driven across the USA this year. Cov2020 Types HEVs (5 models), PHEVs (4 models), EVs (4 models), ering a distance of 5,979km (3,715.4miles) Green Car Road Map FCEVs (1 model) from LA to New York, Niro achieved an averGreen Safety · Convenience Higher safety with mass-produced age fuel economy of 32.56km/ℓ (76.6mpg). models and the expanded application of ADAS technologies This was a whopping 56.3% higher than Niro Connected Cars Advanced information communication EX’s certified combined fuel economy in the technologies (ICT) and automotive semiconductors to be developed U.S., of 20.83km/ℓ. Intelligent Autonomous Driving Realization of urban autonomous driving Kia Motors will also embark on extensive (UAD) by 2020 and fully autonomous driving by 2030 mass-production of FCEVs following the development of a next-generation hydrogen fuel cell stack with improved durability and Kia Motors’ Advanced Rising global temperatures are no longer just a concern for Green Car Road Map of driving more than 320 km per charge in efficiency. the future. Instead, they are a reality that we must preKia Motors is pursuing improvements to fuel 2018. The Optima (K5) PHEV, which was unveiled pare for and respond to without delay. Kia Motors never economy and releasing new models in order To that end, Kia (along with Hyundai Motor) at the 2016 Busan Motor Show, is equipped Technologies Are Waging ceases striving to find out what it can do for the environment. As part of this effort, it announced its Green Car to establish itself as an eco-friendly leader. Upon announcing the Green Car Road Map has invested KRW 24.5 trillion in infrastructure and KRW 27.1 trillion in R&D since 2015 with a 9.8kWh high-capacity battery and a 50kW motor. It is capable of being driven in a Battle to Protect Road Map and R&D investment plan in 2014 and has been in 2014, Kia Motors set up the goal of exunder its 2018 R&D Investment Plan. Of the both electric and hybrid modes. Equipped implementing them for the last three years. panding its eco-friendly line-up to 11 models. total amount, KRW 11.3 trillion was invested with a 2.0 GDI engine, it delivers powerful CO₂ emissions, the main culprit behind global warming, is However, the plan was partially adjusted and in green cars and KRW 2 trillion in smart performance with a maximum output of 156 the Environment a major issue that must be resolved by the automobile industry. Kia Motors is endeavoring to achieve the goal three electric vehicle models were added to the company’s future plans. Accordingly, cars, including autonomous driving and connected car technology development. horsepower (ps) and maximum torque of 19.3kgf.m. When the battery is fully charged, of not just reducing CO₂ emissions, but of achieving zero Kia Motors plans to release 14 eco-friendly it can drive up to 44km using only the elecCO₂ emissions. This is why Kia Motors is focusing its commodels, including five hybrid electric vehicles tric motor. petencies on finding a new and renewable energy source (HEVs), four plug-in hybrid electric vehicles other than petroleum instead of simply increasing fuel economy. To establish a sustainable relationship between (PHEVs), four electric vehicles (EVs) and one fuel cell electric vehicle (FCEV), by 2020. In 32.56 km/ℓ cars and nature, Kia Motors is keeping the promises it has addition, Kia Motors will further consolidate Niro Guinness World Record for made by developing practicable and feasible technologies. its leadership position in the green car market Average Fuel Economy by releasing an SUV electric vehicle capable Driving 5,979km from LA to New York Kia Motor's Response to International Environmental Laws Type Target Vehicles Base Year Applicable Laws Subjects Europe All Passenger Vehicle Models After Sep. 2015 Euro 6 55% reduction of NOx emissions in diesel models compared to Euro 5 Newly Certified Models After Sep. 2017 Mandatory execution of real driving emission (RDE) test on NOx and PN North Newly Certified Models After 2015 Tier 3 Additional reduction of hydrocarbon and NOx by America LEV III 80% compared to Tier 2, Level I Additional reduction of particulate matter (PM) by 70% Korea Diesel Models After Sep. 2015 Euro 6 Same as in Europe (All Passenger Vehicle Models) Newly Certified Diesel Models After Sep. 2017 Mandatory execution of real driving emission (RDE) test on NOx and PN Gasoline/ LPG Models After 2016 LEV III Same as in the U.S. (Optional for Newly Certified Models) 26 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Between Car and Nature 27 Hassle-free Delightful Driving DRIVE WiSE between car and challenge Performance, fuel efficiency, and eco-friendliness determine the technological competence of automobiles. Through constant evolution, automobiles have made the lives of people freer. Automobiles of the future will no longer be just a mass of cold metal and an integration of technologies. They will sense people’s emotions and read people’s minds. The driving experience evolves as automobiles become smarter. Kia Motors strives to create new driving pleasure by studying various environments where cars and people interact. DRIVE WiSE is an intelligent safety techDRIVE WiSE Road Map Developing Automobiles That nology brand encompassing Kia Motors’ high-tech autonomous driving technolLaunched in 2016, the DRIVE WiSE brand will commercialize partial autonomous driving technology by 2020 so that drivers are completely free from the risk of accidents as well as the burden ogies. Under the concept of hassle-free and stress of driving. To this end, Kia Motors will invest USD 2 billion into the development of Understand Humans and delightful driving, Kia Motors strives to ensure “pleasant driving” by improving related technologies by 2018 and plans to achieve commercialization of fully automated driving technology by 2030. DRIVE WiSE, drivers’ safety and convenience through the application of autonomous driving 2025 2030 FULLY technologies. Kia’s Intelligent Safety Technology Brand In addition to the integration of ADAS (advanced driver assistance system) 2020 HIGHLY AUTOMATED AUTOMATED · Quality Life for functions, all autonomous driving vehicles 2016 PARTIALLY all the customers of Kia Motors, which will offer superior AUTOMATED IMPROVED recognition and control performance, will ADAS · Accident Free improve the lives of customers through · Stress Free convergence with telematics, navigation · Safety and IT. · Convenience Experiencing the Vision of DRIVE WiSE Soul EV Advanced Autonomous At the CES 2016, Kia Motors unveiled an the DRIVE WiSE brand. At the “Autonomous Driving Technology extensive array of ADAS-based new techDriving Virtual Reality Experience Zone” nologies, which are the core of autonomous located inside the Kia Motors’ CES booth, driving technology and thereby informed the visitors enjoyed a range of new autonomous world know that it has taken a huge leap todriving technologies by driving “Project Soul.” wards its goal of fully autonomous driving by The Soul EV autonomous driving model Highway Urban Preceding 2030. is mounted with a GPS unit and precision Autonomous Autonomous Vehicle Following Driving (HAD) Driving (UAD) (PVF) The technologies introduced at the event map, which calculate the vehicle’s accurate ranged from those currently applied to location. In addition, sensors attached to the mass-production models, such as Lane front, back and sides of the vehicle monitor Departure Warning System (LDWS), Land the surrounding area, such as the presence Keeping Assist System (LKAS) and Autonof other vehicles and pedestrians, and reflect omous Emergency Braking (AEB), to those the information while driving. Based on the Traffic Jam Assist Emergency Stop Autonomous developed for application to mass-production information collected, the Soul EV auton(TJA) System (ESS) Valet Parking models to be released in the future, such as omous driving model assesses the driving Highway Autonomous Driving (HAD), Traffic conditions and selects a stable route considJam Assist (TJA) and autonomous parking. ering the traffic flow. In particular, the vehicle Kia Motors’ autonomous driving technolocontrol technology ensures smooth and gies, as such, were materialized through “the accurate vehicle control assistance for safer Soul EV autonomous driving” model as the autonomous driving. SelfRoute Creation/ Obstacle Localization Tracking Recognition first platform for showcasing the vision of Between Car and Challenge 31 The Future of Automobile Culture NOVO’s IT Convergence At CES 2016, Kia Motors exhibited the In addition, at the UVO 3.0 kiosk, Kia Motors NOVO, a concept car that reflects the auintroduced its latest smartphone connectivity tomobile culture we will encounter in the technology. UVO eService boasts functions near future based on a range of advanced to find a parking space as well as emergency technologies. With a number of autonocall connection and vehicle diagnosis using a mous driving functions and IT convergence smartphone. Other various smartphone functechnologies applied, the midsize sportback tions utilizing Google Android Auto and Apple NOVO with advanced autonomous driving, CarPlay include map search and music playconnectivity and smart IT functions, demonback through a link between the automobile strated the changes to be brought about by application and multimedia system. Kia Mothe DRIVE WiSE brand in the days ahead. tors demonstrated that the innovative value of automobiles in the future as suggested by the DRIVE WiSE brand is not something in * UVO : http://uvo.kia.com the distant future. Partially In-vehicle Wearable Devices Smart Home Service Automated Driving Payment & Security Concept Car NOVO Economic Value · Creation and Distribution of Economic Value Technology Value · Connected and Self-driving Car 32 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Creation and Distribution of Economic Value Economic Value Sales (based on K-IFRS) Sales Volume (based on plant sales orders) Unit: KRW trillion Unit: 10,000 vehicles 302 52.7 +140% +166% 19.8 126 2015 305 2014 304 2015 49.5 2013 283 2014 47.1 2012 272 2013 47.6 2011 254 2012 47.2 2010 213 2011 43.2 2009 153 2010 35.8 2008 140 2009 29.4 2007 136 2008 22.2 2007 20.3 2006 2016 2006 2016 In 2016, Kia Motors recorded KRW 52.7129 trillion in sales and KRW 2.4615 trillion in operating profit. In the domestic market, sales grew by 1.4% In 2016, Kia Motors sold 3,018,093 cars globally for a decrease of 1.1% from the previous year. In 2017, Kia Motors plans to sell 3.17 million cars, thanks to the all-new Cadenza (K7) and the Niro as well as improved sales of RV models, despite the setbacks in production caused by strikes and up 5.0% compared to the previous year, including 1,545,000 cars from its domestic plants and 1,625,000 vehicles from its overseas plants, by the expiration of the individual consumption tax reduction benefit in the third quarter. In the U.S. market, sales of the Rio (Pride), Forte/Cerato (K3) releasing a range of new models and expanding production at its China and Mexico plants, and by improving the export conditions on the back of and Sportage increased. However, overall sales fell by 6.7%. In Europe, Kia Motors recorded a 9.5% growth in sales, which was led by the Sportage, expected economic recovery in the emerging markets (based on plant sales orders, including production from overseas plants). together with recovery of sales of the Rio (Pride) and Optima (K5). In China, the company posted growth of 1.9% thanks to strong sales of the K2 as well as SUV models including the KX3 and KX5. 34 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Economic Value 35 Creation and Distribution of Economic Value 29.74% · KRW 2,596.2 billion Kia Motors 83.3 % KRW 16.7 % 54.63 % KRW KRW 43,446 billion 52,174.8 billion KRW 8,728.8 billion KRW 4,768.9 billion 8,728.8 billion Partner Companies Economic Value Value Added Generated Employees Value Added Generated Generated 8.65% · KRW 754.8 billion Government 0.33% · KRW 28.7 billion Local Communities 6.65% · KRW 580.2 billion Economic Value Generated Shareholders & Creditors Sales + Other Income (Other Costs + Depreciation) In 2016, Kia Motors sold 3.02 million cars in the global market, Operating Profit Unit: KRW 100 million also forecast to be higher than in 2016. However, with fresh political R&D and Facility Investments Unit: KRW 100 million stably maintaining its three-million unit sales and production risks resulting from the spread of protectionism, it is difficult to forecast Facility investment R&D cost system for three years in a row. In addition, the company’s sales 25,725 24,615 with any certainty how the global economy and the automobile market 23,543 exceeded KRW 50 trillion for the first time ever, recording sales will perform in 2017. revenue and operating profit of KRW 52.7 trillion and KRW 2.4615 In times like this, the ability to respond swiftly and flexibly to market trillion, respectively. The company’s industry-leading product changes is of paramount importance. In 2016, Kia Motors completed 54,004 competitiveness was recognized by its top place ranking in the construction of its Mexico plant and commenced mass production 15,235 JD Power IQS, which was the first time in 27 years that a mainwith an annual production volume of 400,000 cars. The company will 38,853 stream brand won top honors. In addition, Kia Motors entered 2014 2015 2016 be able to secure a foundation for a well-timed response to changing 34,116 12,700 the top 70 on Interbrand’s “Best Global Brands” study for the market demands on each continent once it has achieved an equitable Net Income Unit: KRW 100 million 16,464 first time with a rank of 69th place thanks to estimated brand balance between its domestic and overseas production. Kia Motors is 38,769 value of USD 6.3 billion, a rise of 11% from the previous year. striving to achieve continued sustainable growth by winning the hearts 26,153 29,936 26,306 27,546 of consumers in overseas markets, primarily by expanding its contri17,652 Performance Results and Goals butions to local economies based on employment creation and joint Kia Motors’ sales volume decreased for the first time since 2000 as a market entry with its parts suppliers, as well as by developing new cars 2014 2015 2016 result of a decline in demand caused by intensified competition in the that reflect the tastes and preferences of local consumers, reducing automobile industry and economic stagnation. In Asia/Middle East and logistics costs, and mitigating exchange rate risks. * R&D cost recalculated on the basis of the business report (R&D cost added) Russia, the company’s sales dropped by approximately 24% and 9%, 2014 2015 2016 Annual Production by Region Unit: vehicles respectively. Meanwhile, in the U.S. market, sales fell short of expectaR&D Investment Road Map tions and decreased by 7%. On the other hand, sales volume in WestKia Motors has been implementing its 2018 R&D Investment Road 1,820,000 ern Europe and Central and South America rose by 10% and 19%, Map since 2015, and will invest KRW 24.5 trillion in infrastructure and Korea Plants respectively, resulting in an overall global decrease of 1%. Global Economy and Automobile Market KRW 27.1 trillion in R&D (Kia Motors and Hyundai Motor combined) Sohari, Hwaseong, In 2016, Kia Motors released a number of eco-friendly vehicles in close The growth rate of the global economy in 2017 is forecast to be similar during the four-year period covered by the plan. Of the total amount, Gwangju, OEM succession. It opened a new chapter in the eco-friendly SUV market to or slightly higher than that of last year, which experienced growth of KRW 11.3 trillion will be used to develop eco-friendly cars while KRW by releasing the Niro, the company’s first dedicated eco-friendly model, approximately 3%. However, the growth rate of automobile sales is ex2 trillion will be invested in the smart car sector, including the devel340,000 and successively released the Optima (K5) plug-in hybrid and all-new pected to be lower than the GDP growth rate as competition is intensiopment of autonomous driving and connected car technologies. Kia 890,000 Gergia Plants K7 hybrid models. In addition, it is steadily implementing its plan to fying in the industry. In China, economic stagnation is forecast to conMotors will also increase its R&D personnel to handle the development China Plants (U.S.) advance as a leader of the eco-friendly vehicle market by expanding its tinue following a growth rate of around 6% the previous year. The U.S. of eco-friendly and smart car technology while restructuring the related green vehicle lineup to fourteen models by 2020. As part of this effort, is expected to achieve growth of approximately 2%, which is higher organizations. Based on these investments, Kia Motors will respond to 330,000 400,000 Kia Motors plans to release the Niro plug-in hybrid model in 2017. than the year before. The growth rates of Brazil, Russia and India are changes in the automobile industry ahead of its main competitors. Solvakia Plants Mexico Plants 36 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Economic Value 37 le r M g A od ng n u le or tio pe rin ns ec Wi ee Se ct De n St in io Ra ne f ct oo te er La nr De ft l Li ro Su at nt w Se do Co dy Bo in e W at im al er Cl er ft en Li ul e G k od a n er ru r M m T ile Ca Tr a ew r Vi nc e ea r ta R D oo s sis ar A Re k'g tio n ar a r P e tec Re D ot or Sp nit l i nd e Mo B sur re s e P T i r larm ft A t i The An or t Do Fron Lock r in g Stee il iz e r Im m o b on it or in g B oo st er M Bra kin g Sys tem The automobile industry is shifting from a mechanical one to an AV N a v i g a t i o n electronic and IT-centered one as a result of changing customers’ needs, technological advances, and strengthened regulations. As automobiles have changed from being merely convenient means of transportation to a daily necessity and a business space on the go, H e a t in g Syst em the direction of technological evolution is being shifted to focus more R a d io Modu on human emotions. In particular, while the focus was placed on le Sus pen individual technology functions in the past, integration of technolosion gies from various fields is accelerating as a result of the convergence l between electronic devices and IT to improve fuel economy as well Co i tt ery as driver convenience and safety. Connected car technology, which Ba g Plu is a subject of common interest in the ICT and automobile industries, rk pa En S dio gin has become an established keyword for the future of personal moRa e C r Di o e st nt bility. In addition, as autonomous driving technologies are started to rt an ro S ta Pa ce l p rk Mo become commercialized, the era of “Car to Life” where automobiles m La Au in g ni to are at the center of our everyday lives has drawn nearer. ad to M r He Fr Li on ito on gh r Sm t ti Ca ng ar m t er Cr a ui se Co nt Va ro Po lv e l w er Co nt M ro od l ul e Connected Car Connected Car Operating System ccOS Automakers are increasingly introducing their “future connected” car strategies in a bid to lead a new paradigm shift in the automobile industry. Combined with IT, the automobile is evolving into a high-performance computer on the road as well as a “moving living space” where information is continuously provided to the driver, whose intentions are put into action by the car. By connecting automobiles with our homes, offices, and cities, these new technologies will allow us to make individually customized choices concerning the automobile operating system. Vehicle Link Framework Vehicle network, control 75 % Connected Car Ratio in 2020 2020 Introduction of HyperBI Intelligence, among global automobile connected Intelligent Vehicles Infotainment Navigation, multimedia, production of 92 million cars New cars equipped with ccOS ccOS Composition Framework driver-customized UX (Connected Car Operating System) Vehicle Link Framework Infotainment Framework Connectivity Framework Connectivity External link-based data processing Framework Connected Car Operating System, ccOS ccOS Technology and Service Scalability A software platform for the stable establishment of a connecBased on ccOS, Kia Motors plans to expand its connected car techtivity environment and the swift processing of big data nologies and services, including its smartphone and linked services, intelligent remote-control services, full autonomous driving, Smart Kia Motors joined the race for leadership of the future automobile Traffic and Mobility Hub. market by commencing the development of an automobile operatIn particular, as automobiles are transforming into network-linked ing system (OS), a core connected car platform technology. Named high-performance computers, the introduction of security technolo“ccOS (Connected Car Operating System),” Kia Motors’ connected gies to prevent the risk of hacking is becoming increasingly importcar operating system is an advanced software platform designed to ant. As ccOS can be utilized as a standardized software platform ofstably establish an automobile connectivity environment and swiftly fering improved interoperability between vehicle types, it will not only process a massive amount of data. Using open sources such as ensure a stable connected car service but also reduce the developLinux-based GENIVI, a software platform optimized for connected ment period and costs. Kia Motors is concurrently developing the car service has been developed. Through a number of simulations, four core ccOS technologies, namely, high-performance computing, including those aimed at securing interoperability between different seamless computing, intelligent computing, and secure computing. vehicle types, Kia Motors will release its own ccOS-mounted “hyper-connected intelligent” cars around 2020. * GENIVI: Open source software platform offering comprehensive in-vehicle infotainment functions including navigation, telephone, Internet, music play and location information 41 Self-driving Driving Assistance System ADAS (Advanced Driver Assistance System) is an advanced technology designed to ensure delightful driving and prevent Car accidents on the road · Autonomous Emergency Braking (AEB): Emergency braking when a collision with a vehicle or a pedestrian is anticipated in order to minimize damage · Forward Collision Warning (FCW): A warning is issued when the risk of forward collision is detected Driving Autonomous driving, previously only possible in movies, was a hot issue at CES 2016. · Blind Spot Detection (BSD): A warning is issued when another Assistance This state-of-the-art technology, which presents drivers with the ultimate freedom and safety, car is in or is approaching a rear blind spot will soon be available for all to enjoy on the road. · Lane Departure Warning System (LDWS): A warning is issued when the car departs from a lane without engaging the turn signal At CES 2016, Kia Motors presented its present status and future vision of · Lake Keeping Assist System (LKAS): As an advanced system autonomous driving technology by unveiling three cars, the Soul EV autonomous driving vehicle, that recognizes the forward lane through a camera mounted on the the Sportage autonomous driving vehicle, and the NOVO, a midsize sportback concept car, windshield and assists the driver in staying in the lane by controlling the steering wheel along with a range of other exhibits. Advancing steadily towards the goal of “fully autonomous driving” by 2030, · Advanced Smart Cruise Control (ASCC): Detects the distance Kia Motors will present drivers with a hassle-free, from the car in front using a radar sensor and maintains a safe delightful driving experience throug its state-of-the-art autonomous driving technology. distance without separate control · Highway Driving Assist (HDA): Provides integrated lane keeping and clearance control during long-distance driving on a highway or during a traffic jam · Traffic Jam Assist (TJA): Computes lane and nearby vehicle information in a congested section of the road or during a traffic jam and maintains a safe distance from the car in front · Smart High Beam Assist (SHBA): Recognizes light sources emanating from other vehicles and the surrounding areas and automatically turns the high-beam on or off in order to enhance driving convenience at nighttime · Dynamic Bending Light (DBL): Turns on a separate light in the direction of the steering wheel in speed limit zones in order to secure AEB night visibility for safer cornering Autonomous Emergency Braking Emergency braking when a collision HBA with a vehicle or a pedestrian is anticipated in order to minimize damage Smart High Beam Assist 43 Parking Assistance Parking Assistance System ADAS designed for safe and quick parking that reduces the burden of parking · Advanced SPAS: This system assists parking by searching for a parking space where parallel or perpendicular parking is possible and automatically controls the steering wheel. The driver can conveniently park the car by shifting gears and engaging/ disengaging the brake pedal · Around View Monitor (AVM): Four cameras mounted on the outside of the car give a 360 degree view of the area around the vehicle to ensure convenient parking and driving in a confined RESPONSIBLE space · Rear Cross Traffic Alert (RCTA): When a parked car is reversing out of a parking space, this system detects vehicles approaching PRODUCTS from the rear sides of the car and issues an alert FOR V2X Vehicle to Everything THE NEXT GENERATION AND Technology to exchange or share information with other vehicles or infrastructure while driving based on the wireless communication network NATURE Autonomous Driving License Kia Motors is striving to find ways to contribute to society with new and innovative technologies in order to fulfill its role as a responsible corporate citizen. In in Nevada, U.S accordance with the 2020 Green Car Road Map which sets out its responsibilities Kia Motors obtained a license from the State of Nevada in the U.S. to for protecting the global environment, Kia Motors (along with Hyundai Motor) will test autonomous driving on highways Compared to other states, Nevada invest KRW 27 trillion by 2018 with the goal of increasing vehicle fuel economy by has a stricter set of license issuance requirements including a technical 25% by 2020 (compared with 2014). To achieve this goal, Kia Motors’ technological presentation and an on-the-road test. innovations are aimed at improving all aspects of a car with the focus on the three The Soul EV autonomous driving vehicle, for which the license was keywords of ‘efficiency’, ‘green’, and ‘intelligent’. issued, is equipped with intelligent high-safety autonomous driving techKia Motors is committed to realizing every possibility in order to create sustainable nologies ranging from zonal autonomous driving, and autonomous drivvehicles for the future. ing in traffic jams to emergency autonomous driving on the shoulder and narrow road drive assist. In Korea, Kia Motors is also accelerating the commercialization of autonomous driving technologies. Having entered into an MOU with Hwaseong City for V2X system verification, a core Customers · Progress in Quality and Service technology for autonomous driving vehicle development, Kia Motors can Environment · Green Promise for the Next Generation now test autonomous driving systems on actual roads. Soul EV Employees · Solutions for Mutual Prosperity Autonomous Partner Companies · Creating Sustainable Partnership 44 Driving in Nevada Parking Assistance Parking Assistance System ADAS designed for safe and quick parking that reduces the Engine Transmission burden of parking Downsizing & Right-sizing · Advanced SPAS: This system assists parking by searching for a Multi-Step, CVT, DCT parking space where parallel or perpendicular parking is possible and automatically controls the steering wheel. The driver can conveniently park the car by shifting gears and engaging/ disengaging the brake pedal · Around View Monitor (AVM): Four cameras mounted on the outside of the car give a 360 degree view of the area around the vehicle to ensure convenient parking and driving in a confined space · Rear Cross Traffic Alert (RCTA): When a parked car is reversing out of a parking space, this system detects vehicles approaching from the rear sides of the car and issues an alert V2X Vehicle to Everything Technology to exchange or share information with other vehicles or infrastructure while driving based on the wireless communication network Engine downsizing refers to decreasing the engine displacement. This reduces the weight of the enThe transmission changes the power generated by the engine into rotational force according to the gine, which takes up a large part of the overall weight of the vehicle. It also improves fuel economy by vehicle’s speed and delivers it to the wheels. This not only changes the gear step but also allows the decreasing the number of cylinders and lowering the friction and rotational constraint. However, even engine to operate more freely according to the driver’s will under diverse driving conditions. Therefore, if displacement is lowered, vehicle performance should not be compromised. Therefore, output is supincreasing the number of gears in the transmission improves fuel economy, acceleration performance Autonomous Driving Licenseplemented using a turbo charger, which supercharges with exhaust gas, and a GDI (gasoline direct and ride quality. However, as multi-stepping complicates the transmission structure and makes it heaviinjection) system that directly injects high-pressure fuel into the combustion chamber for increased effier, weight reduction must be implemented concurrently with the increase of steps. in Nevada, U.S ciency. These two technologies are integrated into what is known as the turbo GDI engine. Kia Motors Following the independent development of a front wheel drive 6-speed automatic transmission in 2008, Kia Motors obtained a license from the Statehas of completed Nevada in athe fullU.S. turbotoengine line-up that can be applied to a range of vehicles from economy cars Kia Motors has developed a rear wheel drive 8-speed transmission and a 6-speed DCT (double clutch test autonomous driving on highways Compared to flagship to othersedans. In 2016, the company introduced the Kappa 1.4 T-GDI engine. The excellence of states, Nevada transmission) in 2011, a continuously variable transmission in 2012 and a 7-speed DCT in 2014. In has a stricter set of license issuance requirements this engine was recognized including a technical by its inclusion in the 2017 Wards 10 Best Engines by Wards Auto. 2016, Kia Motors introduced a new front wheel drive 8-speed automatic transmission for the first time presentation and an on-the-road test. Engine right-sizing maximizes the fuel economy of a vehicle through development of a high-efficiency among automakers (OEMs). The Soul EV autonomous driving vehicle, for engine to maximize which the license thermal efficiency and then selecting a displacement suitable to each vehicle thewas issued, is equipped with intelligent high-safetymodel. The keydriving autonomous of thistechtechnology is to optimize combustion in the engine cylinder. Features of Kia Motors Transmission nologies ranging from zonal autonomous driving, and autonomous driv8-speed Automatic Transmission Double Clutch Transmission ing in traffic jams to emergency autonomous driving Emission on Gas Reduction the shoulder andTechnologies Applied to Direct Injection and Turbo Charged Engines narrow road drive assist. In Korea, Kia Motors is also accelerating the · Gear Ratio Range: Expanded by 34% from · Features with the economic efficiency of a manual · Diesel Oxidation Catalyst Removes 90% or more of carbon commercialization of autonomous driving technologies. Having entered · Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) monoxide (CO), hydrocarbon (HC) and existing 6-speed transmission transmission and convenience of an into an MOU with Hwaseong City for V2X system verification, a core particulate matter(PM) Customers · Progress · Low-step Area: Acceleration and performance in Quality automatic and Service transmission improved Fuel economy improved by 5 – 7% from the same Environment · ·Green technology for autonomous driving vehicle development, Kia Motors can Promise for the Next Generation · High-step Area: Fuel economy and driving step automatic transmission now test autonomous driving systems on actual· roads. Lean NOx trap (LNT) Reduces NOx by 56% Soul EV performance improved Employees · Solutions for Mutual Prosperity Autonomous · Weight: Reduced by 3.5kg from existingPartner 6-speed Companies · Creating Sustainable Partnership 44 · Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) Driving transmission Satisfies the EURO-6 emission standards · LNT in Nevada (effectuated in September 2014) · Selective Catalyst Reduction (SCR) Parking Assistance Parking Assistance System ADAS designed for safe and quick parking that reduces the Body HEV burden of parking Lightweight · Advanced SPAS: This system assists parking by searching for a Hybrid Electric Vehicle parking space where parallel or perpendicular parking is possible and automatically controls the steering wheel. The driver can conveniently park the car by shifting gears and engaging/ disengaging the brake pedal · Around View Monitor (AVM): Four cameras mounted on the outside of the car give a 360 degree view of the area around the vehicle to ensure convenient parking and driving in a confined space · Rear Cross Traffic Alert (RCTA): When a parked car is reversing out of a parking space, this system detects vehicles approaching from the rear sides of the car and issues an alert V2X Vehicle to Everything Technology to exchange or share information with other vehicles or infrastructure while driving based on the wireless communication network Hybrid vehicles run on two power sources, an engine and an electric motor (an electric motor with higher energy conversion efficiency functions as an auxiliary power unit), that combine to deliver supeAs steel plates account for the largest portion of a vehicle’s weight, Kia Motors is continuously increasrior fuel efficiency and driving performance compared to ICEVs. In 2011 and 2013, Kia Motors released ing the application of safer and more lightweight ultra-high-strength steel plates, as well as using a hot the Optima (K5) HEV and K7 HEV, both of which are equipped with a parallel hard-type hybrid system, stamping technique to improve body rigidity. which enables driving in electric vehicle mode only on low-speed sections of road. Kia’s independently Kia Motors is also concentrating on the development of aluminum, which is 30% lighter than steel, and developed parallel system, in which the motor is installed between the engine and the transmission, carbon fiber reinforced plastics (CFRP), which in turn is 30% lighter than aluminum. Although both maproduces higher engine performance and fuel efficiency compared to motor capacity. The battery, a key Autonomous Driving Licenseterials are anywhere from three to twenty times more expensive than steel, Kia Motors is expanding the component in determining the performance of an HEV, is of the lithium i-on polymer type. Compared to in Nevada, U.S application of these materials by reducing the number of manufacturing processes and/or developing the nickel hydrogen type, it is approximately 30% lighter, and features a quadruple safety design. new techniques. Aluminum is already being used on wheel and powertrain components, and its appliKia Motors obtained a license from the Statecation of Nevada is being the U.S. to in expanded to the car bodies and chassis. Kia Motors’ premium midsize sedans released Kia Motors’ Hybrid Models test autonomous driving on highways Compared to other states, in the first half of 2017Nevada feature front-wheel shock absorber housing and a front bumper back beam aphas a stricter set of license issuance requirements including a technical Optima (K5) PHEV Niro HEV K7 HEV plied with aluminum materials. presentation and an on-the-road test. Year Released July 2016 March 2016 November 2016 The Soul EV autonomous driving vehicle, for Kia which Motors’ license theUltra Highwas Strength Steel Application issued, is equipped with intelligent high-safety autonomous driving techSpecifications 2.0 GDI engine, 1.6 GDI engine, 32kW Theta II 2.4 HEV engine, 50kW motor motor, 6-speed double38kW motor nologies ranging from zonal autonomous driving, and autonomous 2012 driv2016 2018 clutch transmission ing in traffic jams to emergency autonomous driving on the shoulder and Optima (K5), Sportage, Fuel Efficiency Combined fuel economy Combined fuel economy Combined fuel economy narrow road drive assist. In Korea, Kia Motors is Full-size Models the also accelerating Cadenza (K7) Niro Full-size Models 16.4km/ℓ 19.5km/ℓ 16.2km/ℓ commercialization of autonomous driving technologies. Having entered Approx. 20% 51% 53% Aim to increase application Customers · Progress in Quality and Service Electric combined fuel economy Compared to gasoline model, into an MOU with Hwaseong City for V2X system verification, a core up to 62% 4.6km/kWh, EV mode 44km, improvement by 46% (16.2kpl) technology for autonomous driving vehicle development, Kia Motors can HEV mode 902km Driving Environment · Green Promise for the Next Generation now test autonomous driving systems on actual roads. Soul EV Employees · Solutions for Mutual Prosperity CO2 Emissions 29g/km (2.0GDI PHEV 79g/km (1.6GDI HEV 97g/km Autonomous Partner Companies 17-inch tires) 6-inch tires) · Creating Sustainable Partnership 44 Driving in Nevada Other General 220v power outlet for charging Parking Assistance Parking Assistance System ADAS designed for safe and quick parking that reduces the EV FCEV burden of parking Electric Vehicle · Advanced SPAS: This system assists parking by searching for a Fuel Cell Electric Vehicle parking space where parallel or perpendicular parking is possible and automatically controls the steering wheel. The driver can conveniently park the car by shifting gears and engaging/ disengaging the brake pedal · Around View Monitor (AVM): Four cameras mounted on the outside of the car give a 360 degree view of the area around the vehicle to ensure convenient parking and driving in a confined space · Rear Cross Traffic Alert (RCTA): When a parked car is reversing out of a parking space, this system detects vehicles approaching from the rear sides of the car and issues an alert V2X Vehicle to Everything Technology to exchange or share information with other vehicles or infrastructure while driving based on the wireless communication network In 2014, Kia Motors released its second full electric vehicle model, the Soul EV, following the Ray. Having started fuel cell technology development in 1998, Kia Motors proved the durability and technoEquipped with an 81.4kW electric motor, the Soul EV produces a maximum output and torque of logical power of its second-generation Mohave FCEV, which is equipped with a 115kW fuel cell stack 111ps and 285Nm, respectively. It also has a 27kWh high-capacity lithium ion battery with the highest (a generator that produces electricity through the reaction between the supplied hydrogen and oxygen) cell energy density among vehicles of the same class (200Wh/kg). The mileage per charge is 148km and a 700-bar hydrogen storage unit, by completing the 2,655km course of the Hydrogen Road Tour and a quick charge takes approximately 33 minutes (based on a 50kWh battery). held in 2009. The Mohave FCEV can drive up to 690km per charge and reach a maximum speed of Autonomous Driving LicenseThe heat pump system operates the heater with heat generated from electric components and through 160km/h. Low-temperature start-up stability at 20 degrees below zero Celsius has been secured and a cooling water circulation to supplement battery efficiency during the cold winter months when the batdetection sensor to prevent hydrogen leakage as a result of collision together with a design to prevent in Nevada, U.S tery efficiency is lowered. In addition, using biomass-based materials and sheets as well as bio-paints damage to the hydrogen tank and pipes, in the event of a rear collision, are applied. As such, the MoKia Motors obtained a license from the Stateforofthe interior,initthe Nevada obtained U.S. toEnvironmental Claim Validation from UL. have FCEV is equipped with safety features that meet the automobile collision-related regulation stantest autonomous driving on highways Compared In 2016, 1,728 to other SoulNevada states, EV vehicles were sold in the U.S., thereby ranking eighth among top-selling electric dards in the U.S. has a stricter set of license issuance requirements vehicleincluding models in the country. In Germany’s electric vehicle market, it was the best-selling EV model a technical In 2015, Kia Motors achieved 100% localization of fuel cell system parts. Along with around 200 partner presentation and an on-the-road test. in October. With its marketability recognized, the accumulated sales volume of the Soul EV exceeded companies, it has since been conducting studies on stack size and cost reduction. In January 2015, The Soul EV autonomous driving vehicle, for 20,000 whichcars. the license was Kia Motors established the Center for Creative Economy and Innovation in Gwangju jointly with the issued, is equipped with intelligent high-safety autonomous driving techGwangju Metropolitan Government. In 2016, it built a combined energy charging station where both hydrogen and electric vehicles can be charged. In addition, the company is expanding infrastructure by 27 nologies ranging from zonal autonomous driving, and autonomous driving in traffic jams to emergency autonomous driving on the shoulder and installing fuel converters at compressed natural gas (CNG) and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) charging kWh narrow road drive assist. In Korea, Kia Motors is also accelerating the stations. Soul EV Lithium commercialization of autonomous driving technologies. HavingIon Battery Energy entered into an MOU with Hwaseong City for V2X system Cell energy density 200Wh/kg verification, a core Customers · Progress in Quality and Service technology for autonomous driving vehicle development, Kia Motors can Environment · Green Promise for the Next Generation 148 690 now test autonomous driving systems on actual roads. Soul EV Employees · Solutions for Mutual Prosperity km Autonomous km Partner Companies · Creating Sustainable Partnership 44 Driving Soul EV’s Per-charge Driving Range in Nevada Mohave FCEV’s Per-charge Driving Range Combined energy consumption efficiency 5.0km/kWh Max. speed 160km/h Parking Assistance Parking Assistance System ADAS designed for safe and quick parking that reduces the Safety burden of parking Crash Test · Advanced SPAS: This system assists parking by searching for a parking space where parallel or perpendicular parking is possible and automatically controls the steering wheel. The driver can conveniently park the car by shifting gears and engaging/ disengaging the brake pedal · Around View Monitor (AVM): Four cameras mounted on the outside of the car give a 360 degree view of the area around the vehicle to ensure convenient parking and driving in a confined space · Rear Cross Traffic Alert (RCTA): When a parked car is reversing out of a parking space, this system detects vehicles approaching from the rear sides of the car and issues an alert V2X Vehicle to Everything Technology to exchange or share information with other vehicles or infrastructure while driving based on the wireless communication network Kia Motors has established its own crash test laboratories inside its research center and conducts tests by simulating various conditions occurring on the road. Each vehicle is tested around 100 times starting with a computer simulation in the initial phase of development. In addition, the safety of newly released cars and those going through model year changes is reinforced and their crashworhtiness is verified by certified agencies. The all-new Cadenza (K7), which was Autonomous Driving Licensereleased in 2016, uses ultra high-strength steel for a 27% increase in strength from previous models. To prevent the engine or transmission from pushing into the passenger compartment, a hot stamping in Nevada, U.S technique is applied to key collision parts including the B-pillar. The scope of hot stamping application Kia Motors obtained a license from the Statehas of been Nevada increased in the U.S.fromtofive parts to 18 and the use of structural adhesives was also increased by test autonomous driving on highways Compared moreto than other6.5 times states, in comparison to the existing predecessor model. In addition, the Cadenza (K7) Nevada has a stricter set of license issuance requirements comesincluding with ninea airbags technical for considerably improved safety. With these efforts, the Cadenza (K7) was presentation and an on-the-road test. selected as “Safe Car of the Year” in 2016 by the Korea Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport. The Soul EV autonomous driving vehicle, for which the license was issued, is equipped with intelligent high-safetyKia Motors Safety autonomous drivingTest Results (2016) technologies ranging from zonal autonomous driving, and autonomous drivRegion Korea Euro China U.S. ing in traffic jams to emergency autonomous driving on the shoulder and (KNCAP) (NCAP) (CNCAP) (IIHS) narrow road drive assist. In Korea, Kia Motors is also accelerating the Optima (K5), Sportage, commercialization of autonomous driving technologies. Vehicle Having entered Cadenza (K7), Niro Optima (K5) Sorento, Grand Carnival/ into an MOU with Hwaseong City for V2X system verification, aSportage, core Niro * Safety pack Customers · Progress in Quality and Service Sedona (Carnival) technology for autonomous driving vehicle development, Kia Motors can Environment · Green Promise for the Next Generation now test autonomous driving systems on actual roads. Soul EV Employees · Solutions for Mutual Prosperity Rating Top scores Top rating Top rating Top safety pick Autonomous Partner Companies · Creating Sustainable Partnership 44 Driving in Nevada Customers Kia Motors is striving to center all its product and service planEvolution of Service Centers ning and marketing activities on consumers. By doing so, Kia Kia Motors has established a nationwide service network comprised Progress in Motors obtained “Consumer Centered Management (CCM)” certification* in 2012 for the first time in the automobile industry. of 18 service centers under the direct management of the head office and around 800 repair shops. Customers can services their cars conQuality and Service It has since been re-certified every two years, and successfully veniently anytime, anywhere. In December 2012, Kia Motors opened received certification again in 2016 for the third time. Kia Motors the Incheon Service Center, a new comprehensive service base, by believes that this is the highest form of recognition for its cusintegrating the existing Incheon Service Center and the Songdo Sertomer-centered management activities performed on the basis vice Center. The Incheon Service Center offers a one-stop service from of its systematic customer service system. Kia Motors is working maintenance to test rides and vehicle purchase in order to improve cushard to provide its customers with the best value and experitomers’ convenience. The interior space has been designed to place ences by solving the issues derived through external assessment an emphasis on privacy according to customers’ taste. The reception, and from customers’ responses on quality and service improveconsulting space and waiting areas are separated in order to minimize ment as directly experienced by customers. the inflow of noise in between the areas. As such, the Incheon Service Center provides a more comfortable and pleasant environment . Direction of Service Promotion As automobiles are constantly on the move, they need continuous care, thus leading to the importance and necessity of service. The experience of receiving quality service exerts a huge impact on customers in terms of their impression of Kia Motors. A customer’s favorable experience with professional and convenient services, friendly staff and pleasant facilities is highly likely to lead to a repurchase or recommendation to other customers, which are the company’s intangible assets. Kia Motors has set out extensive promotional directions in the three areas of “Software (service), Humanware (professional staff) and Hardware (facilities)” and is improving the quality of service by establishing detailed implementation plans. * Consumer Centered Management (CCM): A system where a company’s service is assessed by the Korea Consumer Agency and certified by the Fair Trade Commission Membership Program Since 2006, Kia Motors has been operating a membership program to help its customers enjoy their automotive life to the fullest by providing them with a number of services from vehicle purchase to maintenance Kia Motors’ Kia Motors’ RED SEMS Tablet Software Maintenance Service Network Membership Launching Distribution and disposal, together with various benefits and automobile-related Service information. In 2015, Kia Motors offered a wide range of vehicle mainApprox. 800 service centers 10 th anniversary Approx. 2,500 tenance services and related living services including regular checkups and car care for eight times over eight years, driving classes (for female novice drivers) and car remodeling (interior/ exterior of cars owned by Key customers by lottery) through its membership program launched under Promotional a renewed name, “Kia Red Members.” In recognition of its efforts, Kia Why Is This Material Issue? Direction Motors won top prize at the 2016 National Brand Awards in the autoFor automobiles, which are linked directly with the lives of customers, service is a factor that is directly related to brand reliability. To this Humanware Hardware mobile membership service category. end, global automobile brands search for various ways to attentively listen to the voice of customers and to reflect them in their service by Professional Staff Facilities advancing beyond simple marketing activities. A noticeable change is the efforts these companies are making to provide service beyond Evolution of Exhibition Centers customers’ expectations by communicating more closely with them. For the first time in Korea, Kia Motors introduced 3D hologram displays in its showrooms, which help customers freely experience the comDual Service Space System pany’s products. Applied first to the Teheran Showroom and Seocho APPROACH EFFORTS Showroom in 2016, this technology shows 3D images of Kia cars to In order to secure a system of professional and convenient services, · RED SEMS: Smart customer reception system utilizing mobile Off-line: Service Centers On-line: Mobile Channels visiting customers and passersby. The 3D hologram technology also friendly staff and pleasant service facilities, Kia Motors has set out exdevices during the entire process from vehicle reception to repair and · Leisure facilities for high-quality · Advanced remote repair service enables a virtual driving experience. It was introduced for the purpose tensive promotional directions in three areas Software (service), Huforwarding relaxation · Remote diagnosis of vehicle of solving the inconvenience of customers having to go to another manware (professional staff) and Hardware (facilities) and is improving · Q Friends: Customized vehicle management mobile application · Differentiated cultural facilities conditions showroom when a model they want to see is not on display at the first the quality of service by establishing detailed plans for implementation. · K-PLAZA: Digital communication channel for real-time according to local characteristics · Emergency roadside service · Driving center providing test · Vehicle management showroom they visit. Kia Motors plans to develop its showrooms as difcommunication with customers drive service information and maintenance ferentiated spaces for communication with its customers by increasing · Kia T-map: Smartphone navigation displayed through in-vehicle reservation service the installation of 3D hologram displays, delivering contents that satisfy monitor · Electronic contract system customers’ expectations and expanding customer experience zones. FUTURE ACTION Kia Motors will check the quality of its service through certified surveys each year and listen carefully to the opinions of customers, thus increasing the value of the service directly experienced by its customers. Customers 47 Advancement of Safety and Quality Management System Reinforcement of Future Quality Response Kia Motors is advancing its safety and quality management system in Kia Motors is establishing an educational infrastructure for training and order to strengthen the preemptive response to foster the competitive studying in the field, operating various educational programs and fospower of automobiles, its products, and new quality for the future. In ortering a highly qualified workforce equipped with global top-level quality der to secure the intrinsic competitive power of automobiles of not easily improvement competencies. breaking down and, above all else, safe, and also to build the compeSQ-Library: Quality Library tency to respond to the needs for new technology, engine and emotional Continuous accumulation of H/W* and S/W* knowledge and data for quality, Kia Motors is continuously evolving its quality infrastructure, sysfuture quality response on the basis of safety and quality improvement tems and HRD by centering on the market and its customers. expertise SQ-GTC*: Global Safety and Quality Preemptive Response Strenthening of Global Quality Improvement Base Program In order to study the market and the user environment, improve quality New technology and new growth power improvement competency issues in the field and reflect the results in new car development, Kia development program to discover, improve and respond to safety and Motors is operating the Global Quality Innovation Center* in five key quality issues at an early phase (premium cars, eco-friendly cars, new areas across the globe, in Europe, China, India and Asia/Middle East powertrains, ACEN) as well as in North America where the center was opened first in 2012. With employees of partner companies and professional staff working * Quality Innovation Center: North America (2012. 7~), Europe and China (2012. full-time, the Quality Innovation Center swiftly and fundamentally re11~), India (2013. 7~), Asia and the Middle East (2015. 8~) solves quality issues caused by diverse user environments and market * H/W: Data on hardware and technological information for structural analysis of dismantled components of competitors and new technology/ conditions through a joint project with the partner companies by opertechnique-applied parts (approx. 3,300 cases) ating a part quality precision analysis lab located within the center. * S/W: Parts function and structural analysis data, global quality case study data and quality improvement research papers (approx. 3,800 cases) Third-generation Quality System * GTC : Global Training Course Kia Motors shares market VOC information with all sectors by detailing quality issues and causes through the use of information technology. It also responds to safety and quality issues 24-hours a day through Kia Motors’ Quality Competitiveness a one-stop system covering everything from automatic selection of improvement parts to receiving complaints, establishing an action plan Recognized Across the World and remedying customers’ grievances. IQS (JD Power), U.S., 2016 First Generation (2003 ~ 2009) Kia Motors was the first in Korea’s automobile industry Developed Real-time Tracking System for Global Quality Information to be ranked first in the JD Power IQS. · Application of conveyor concept to automobile production · Real-time tracking of quality improvement status 1st Second Generation (2010 ~ 2015) Ranking among 33 brands Bolstered Preventative Quality System by Upgrading Quality System · Strengthened unit quality system integration and link Segment Winner Soul (compact urban crossover)/ Sportage (compact SUV) Third Generation (2016 onwards) Utilizing Advanced IT, Strengthening Safety and Quality Issue Verification, Such as Through Cause 2years in a row Analysis, Automatically Setting Improvement Areas Gwangju plant 1 won Excellent Quality Plant Award for Asian region (strengthening quality analysis multimedia function, supporting artificial intelligence function) China IQS (JD Power), 2016 · Fourth in general brand category (45 brands) SQ-STD: Integrated New Car Quality Securement System · Best Quality Award (Segment Winner): K2 (compact vehicle) An integration of accumulated safety and quality verification expertise, China CACSI (China Automobile Customer Satisfaction Index), enabling verification of various conditions of product use in the market 2016 including the worst conditions through company-wide communication · New Car of the Year: KX5 (midsize SUV) and cooperation · Overall Winner: K3, K5 SQ-VOC: Global Customer Safety and Quality Warning System Swift improvement and prevention of large-scale quality issues through Germany Autobild Quality Survey, 2016 automatic selection of improvement items and verification of improve· Overall Fourth (20 brands) ment effects (real-time monitoring for recurrence of quality issues, multi-language translation function) Customers 49 Environment 01· Design Phase Green Promise for the Next Generation VOCs Hazardous Chemicals +9.9 % -31.9 % Per-unit output change from 2015 Kia Motors eliminates the use of hazardous substances and rery, cadmium, and hexavalent chrome, ozone-depleting substances and duces the amount of resources and raw materials input from the hazardous chemicals is universally applied. Kia Motors bans the use of stage of vehicle design. It also improves efficiency of the power substances restricted by domestic and overseas laws, then develops, source by minimizing air resistance and vehicle weight. In addiand applies, alternative materials to all products. The parts and mation, the vehicles are designed to be easily recycled. As such, Kia terial weight information collected with the International Material Data Air Pollutants (excluding VOCs) Water Pollutants Motors is contributing to the promotion of greener life. System* (IMDS) is converted into a database under the independently operated e-CMS (e-Chemical Management System). Based on e-CMS, -2.9 % +2.2 % Green Design Procedures Kia Motors has established a digital system for convenient application Kia Motors has been managing the chemical substance information of all components and parts used in all vehicles produced since 2005. It of its eco-friendly design policy at worksites. A designer selects mateis also sharing this information by opening e-CMS to its partner comrials after checking the environmental impact of the materials through panies. a database, which is operated under Kia Motors’ eco-friendly design Environmental regulations implemented in each country include guide. Then, the designer devises a method to shorten the manufacstandards for recyclability of automobile parts. Kia Motors effectively turing process by simplifying the component structure and improving responds to the laws and regulations by utilizing Prod Tect, an indematerials and the assembly mode to ensure easy dismantling. When pendently developed system to calculate recyclability, and uses the Why Is This Material Issue? a design is completed, vehicle dismantling is demonstrated using a calculated information as basic data for environmental assessments. While the Kyoto Protocol only sets out the duty to reduce emissions, the Paris Agreement, which was signed in 2015, prescribes mandatovirtual 3D model and the dismantling convenience and recyclability of Up until now, all vehicles of the Hyundai Motor Group have met the rery setting of and compliance with reduction goals by all of the 195 member states. Korea, as one of the member states, announced a plan dismantled parts are concurrently assessed. According to the result, quirements of recyclability certification and related regulations in Korea, to reduce emissions to 37% of the BAU by 2030 and is setting up the implementation plan. the drawings are modified or parts with low recyclability are replaced. Europe, the U.S. and China. Once the drawings are finalized, a test vehicle is manufactured and dismantled. This is followed by a dismantling assessment to compare APPROACH EFFORTS the time required for dismantling and the number of connected parts Kia Motors proclaimed its commitment to global environmental · Build a green production system and practices with existing data. The comparison data are used as reference in the management in 2003 and has set out to position itself as a global · Conserve energy and reduce greenhouse gas emissions development of follow-up vehicle models. eco-friendly leader. It established a resource circulation policy to cover · Secure green technologies * IMDS(International Material Data System) the entire process from raw materials to disposal, executes projects · Build a resource circulation framework The parts and materials management system is operated jointly by automakers Chemical Substance Control through participation by all sectors, such as R&D, procurement, logisaround the world to meet regulatory standards on hazardous substances. Regulations on hazardous substances are being fortified across the Through IMDS, raw material suppliers, parts suppliers, and automakers share tics, production, marketing and service, and reports key issues and FUTURE ACTION world. Now, the restricted use of the four heavy metals of lead, mercuinformation on the weight and chemical composition of automotive parts status to management. In order to find a way to continue growing while Kia Motors is striving to reduce GHG emissions by 7.8% of BAU, the protecting the environment, Kia Motors is increasing the efficiency of goal of the automobile industry by 2020. In addition, with a target of material usage and discharge at the same time while cooperating with reducing per-unit GHG emissions by 30% from 2008, Kia Motors is partner companies. sharing its resource circulation policy for the entire production process from design to disposal with partner companies. Environment 51 02· Parts Procurement Phase 03· Production Phase The application of eco-friendly parts to automobiles, which are Growth Partnership* (GGP), which was launched in April 2014, Kia MoKia Motors produces over three million cars a year. The cost refood. Exploding population growth and the resultant increase in water comprised of around 30,000 parts, ensures sustainability of the tors passed on its energy saving technology and expertise to partner quired for each process of automobile production causes a conconsumption, coupled with climate change, have meant that water automobile industry. Kia Motors is dedicating efforts jointly with companies and executed improvement through diagnosis by specialsiderably large environmental ripple effect. Focusing on inputs, resources are being depleted. It is no surprise that many political disits partner companies as it enters into eco-friendly parts supply ists. By the end of 2014, Kia Motors implemented this project with five outputs and discharges at each stage of the production process, putes throughout the world are over water resources. According to agreements with partner companies so that the companies use partner companies. Kia Motors establishes and implements a system to reduce its the United Nations, more than one billion people worldwide already appropriate substances and consider environmental protection in Kia Motors provides energy-saving technologies and successful cases environmental impact. lack access to clean water. Korea is also classified as a potentially their manufacturing processes. This process complies internally in a database format by building an information sharing space within its This effort is not limited to production as it is a comprehensive water-scarce nation, with its annual per-capita potable water amount with the independently established environmental standards, data processing system. Additionally, the company hosts annual meetapproach taking into account the aging of production facilities as falling short of requirements. In a bid to address this issue, Kia Motors which are stricter than the global requirements. Since 2016, Kia ings for case studies and information exchanges on energy-efficient well as landfill disposal and waste recycling. is making facility investments and improving water spending practices, Motors has been mandating its partner companies supplying factories and market trends as well as new technologies for energy while encouraging its employees to conserve water. Per-unit water electric parts to obtain EU End of Life Vehicle (ELV) certification, conservation. Material Balance of the Auto Manufacturing Process consumption has been falling each year since 2003. Kia Motors’ perwhich previously had been applied to general parts only. Starting in 2015, Kia began supporting partners in setting up infraOn the production line, input, outcome and output are basically in unit water consumption has been less than five tons since 2013. structure for cutting their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Reducing proportion to each other. Kia Motors is striving to reduce the total disPartnerships in Mitigating Climate Change energy use or substituting renewable energy sources enables partners charge amount by efficiently changing the process, and thus reducing Waste Kia Motors has been assisting partner companies’ environmental to not only save on energy bills but also enhance their long-term comper-unit material usage and discharge, replacing facilities and systems Disposing of used resources rather than recycling or reusing them management practices through the SCEM project since 2003, and petitive edge in the era of tougher GHG regulations. Furthermore, the or increasing waste recycling. Kia Motors established goals for each leads to the exhaustion of limited resources. In addition, it can result in supported their development of an integrated GHG management reduced amount of GHG emissions from the supply chain will be used material based on the discharge amount. In addition, it checks the additional environmental loads and costs according to waste treatment system until 2010. Upon the company’s recommendation, all of Kia’s as carbon credits for Kia Motors to offset its direct emissions. amounts of inputs, outputs and outcomes over one year and uses the through incineration or landfill disposal. In other words, turning waste primary partners obtained the ISO14001 certification by 2012, and data in setting up additional improvement plans. into a resource is a valuable and meaningful way to protect and prethe scope has extended to secondary and tertiary partners through In 2016, Kia Motors’ production decreased by 8.2% from the previserve nature in addition to simply increasing the continuity of resourcthe SCEP program since 2006. Kia Motors expanded the scope of ous year and, accordingly, the total amount of raw materials, water es. support to secondary and tertiary partners in 2006 and has since been resources, hazardous chemicals and energy use dropped by 10.9%, Kia Motors is making efforts to increase the recycling rate of continSCEM implementing the SCEP* program with them. The Emissions Trading 6.5%, 37.5% and 2.5%, respectively. Air pollutants, water pollutants uously generated wastes and reduce the per-unit discharge, thus Establishing the System (ETS), which was started in earnest recently by the Korean and GHG emissions also decreased by 10.8%, 6.2% and 2.2%, relowering the overall waste discharge volume. It has been maintaining a environmental government, and GHG emission regulations that are being reinforced management system spectively. However, VOC emissions increased by 0.9%. In the case of waste recycling rate of over 90% since 2007 and has kept the percentin countries across the world are posing a new trade barrier resulting in waste, the discharged amount decreased by 8% and the recycling rate age of landfill disposal waste causing problems of soil contamination, detailed losses. has been kept over 91.0% for the past three years. Kia Motors is conetc. out of the total final waste generated from its plants below 1%. All businesses are alike when it comes to the consequences, but there tinuously striving to lower the landfill disposal rate to below 1%. Since 2008, the Sohari plant has not discarded any landfill disposal is no question SMEs, which often lack resources for effective responsCARBON SCEP Nevertheless, for VOCs, waste, hazardous chemicals and water waste. The landfill disposal waste ratio of Kia Motors’ three plants in Win-win es or preparation, are more susceptible. Under an agreement with the OFFSETS Upgrading the resources, per-unit usage (discharge) amount was found to have in2016 is 1.7%. For landfill disposal and incineration waste that are inevCooperation environmental Korean government, Kia Motors has created a consortium with partner Carbon offsets creased from the year before. itably generated as a result of technical and economic limitations, Kia management system companies and telematics engineering companies to oversee setting Motors is maximizing the recycling rate by administering strict waste up a supply chain energy management system (SCEnMS) for large, Raw Materials separation measures. In addition, the company is promoting conmedium and small businesses alike. Natural resources are limited, and as users, we are responsible for tinuous improvement by developing recycling companies in order to In 2013, Kia provided the measuring infrastructure and data processSCEnMS future resources. If a future task for dealing with finite resources is subchange its waste treatment method. Compared to 2003, the per-unit ing system to ten partner companies. Since then, it has established Setting up the integrated stitution with renewable materials, our current task for efficient use of discharge amount decreased by 30%. The total amount of discharge a consultative body with the participating companies to continuously energy/ GHG the resources is to save them. Of all the raw materials used in the auin 2016 decreased by 8% from the previous year. management system exchange information and discuss pending issues. With the Green to-manufacturing process, automotive sheet metal (steel) takes up the biggest proportion, followed by paint, thinner and plastic. Kia Motors is focusing on reducing per-unit raw material consumption to increase the ratio of products to the raw materials used. It is deSCEM: Supply Chain Environmental Management creasing the amount of raw material use by improving the production * * SCEP: Supply Chain Eco Partnership process and checking the amounts of steel, paint and thinner usage in * SCEnMS: Supply Chain Energy Management System order to increase the recycling rate, and thus reduce waste generation. * GGP: Green Growth Partnership Compared to 2003, when data collection started, the efficiency of raw material use has improved. In 2016, the total consumption decreased by 10.9% from the previous year. * Scope of Data Collection: Kia’s three domestic plants in Sohari, Hwaseong * Hyundai Kia Automotive Group Environmental Standard: Mandatory rules to be followed by partner companies in parts manufacturing and Gwangju, Scope 1 (direct) & 2 (indirect emissions from the generation of and related regulations. Water Resources purchased energy), and vehicle production volume excluding OEM units Environmental standard and eco-friendly parts supply agreement are available * Base Year: 2003, except for energy and GHG (2008) on the VAATZ Water is a finite resource too. With no substitute available, water is * Per-unit Input (output) Volume: Based on production volume, * Emissions Trading System: Greenhouse Gas Information Center and website essential to producing necessities for life, such as energy sources and the input (output) amount involved in the production of one vehicle 52 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Environment 53 Input-Outcome-Output Flow Input Outcome Outcome Output Water Resources Total Output Soil 214,754t 6,043,898㎥ Press Vehicle Body Painting Assembly Landfill Disposal Raw Materials 3,582t 262,481t GHG 747,955tCO₂eq Hazardous Chemicals Atmosphere Air Pollutants 1,776t 716t TRI Chemicals Energy 2,080t 15,131TJ Total Effluent Water 4,819,995㎥ TRI Chemicals (2015) Water Pollutants 45,258t Vehicle Production 1,326,589units 113t Recycle Recycle Heat Recovery Recycled Raw Materials (Steel) 2,097t Waste Recycling 199,273t / 92.8% Energy & Greenhouse Gases Environmental Pollutants Water Pollutants the improvement of hazardous chemical handling facilities or converUnprecedented heat waves, severe cold, extreme drought, and storms In order to reduce environmental pollutant emissions, Kia Motors has Water is an essential resource for all living organisms including humans. sion to eco-friendly systems (reverse osmotic pure water manufacturacross the world make headlines each year. Extreme weather events, established a set of internal standards that are stricter than the legal Kia Motors is making various efforts to reduce not only the amount of ing technology). In 2016, the total amount of hazardous chemical use which are increasing in frequency and intensity, are obstructing natural emission standards (30 percent lower than the legal minimum) for industrial water it uses, but also water pollutants discharged from its decreased by 1,065 tons compared to 2015. The per-unit amount also seasonal patterns. This is a warning sign. CO₂ in the atmosphere is the air and water pollutants discharged from its production process. In worksites. decreased by 31.9% from the previous year and 52.2% from 2003. main culprit of climate change and more than 80% of CO₂ is generated addition, Kia Motors introduced and has been applying eco-friendly Kia Motors is applying corporate standards that are stricter than the from energy consumption. systems by phase to reduce the use of hazardous chemicals. For hazlegally mandated discharge standards. In addition, for compliance with 2016 Change in Per-Unit Input/Output Against Base Year Unit: % Kia Motors is paying special attention to reducing CO₂ emissions from ardous chemicals that are inevitably used, it has established a strict the corporate standards and water quality stabilization, it is continuBase year Environmental Pollutants Fluctuation its production process. Since 2006, it has been identifying and conpreventative system. Kia Motors is contributing to the preservation of ously managing and improving treatment facilities. Moreover, to prevent trolling GHG emissions. In addition, it has been actively participating the natural environment around its worksites by recycling more than unexpected spill accidents, the company is monitoring the concentra2003 Raw Materials Input -23.8 in the Emissions Trading System (ETS), which began in 2015. The 90% of wastes generated from its production process and, ultimately, tion of water pollutants in discharged water on a regular basis. In 2016, Water Resource Input -32.1 amount of CO₂ emissions from Kia Motors’ domestic plants in 2016 reducing the resulting environmental pollutant emissions. As such, Kia the total water pollutant discharge amount decreased by 6.2% and the Waste Output -29.9 was 748,000 tons. Compared to 2008, the per-unit amount reduced Motors is dedicating efforts to minimize the environmental impact of its per-unit discharge dropped by 40.1% compared to 2003. Air Pollutant Emissions -54.0 by 189kg (753kg 564kg). This is equivalent to the amount of CO2 production sites. absorbed by 28 30-year-old pine trees over a year. When multiplied Hazardous Chemicals Water Pollutant Emissions -40.1 with the company’s domestic production volume, Kia has achieved a Air Pollutants Hazardous chemicals are required to be extensively controlled, as they Hazardous Chemicals Input -52.2 CO2 reduction effect equivalent to carbon absorption by 38 million pine Air pollutants not only affect humans directly through breathing, but also are harmful to both humans and the environment. Since 2007, when 2005 VOC Emissions -49.7 trees. exert considerable impact on the atmospheric environment through the REACH (Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals) mutual chemical reactions and by reacting to the sunlight. Air pollutants agreement took effect in the EU, a growing number of nations started 2008 GHG Emissions -25.1 generated from the auto-manufacturing process include paint particles to regulate hazardous chemicals worldwide. In Korea, the Chemicals and volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from the painting and coating Control Act went into effect in 2015 in line with the international trend process, dust particles, and gases from combustion. Kia Motors applies of strengthened chemical regulations and for the purpose of reducing a separate measure to collect and control hazardous VOCs. It is operthe number of chemical accidents taking place in Korea. ating a system to collect and remove pollutants from painting and other Kia Motors has completed a preliminary report to REACH and has * CO2 Intake per Pine Tree: 6.6kgCO2/tree/year (Korea Forest Service, 2013) air pollutant discharging facilities. Kia Motors is also striving to reduce continued monitoring the use of REACH-banned chemicals. It abides air pollutants by monitoring the pollutant discharge status. The amounts by the Ministry of Environment’s Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) program, * Input/Output of Substances and Our Improvement Efforts: pp. 84 88 of air pollutants and VOC emissions have been continuously decreasing a voluntary reporting system for the volume and type of restricted The amount of raw material consumption and air and water pollutant emissions * TRI chemical figures are for 2015 performance because the 2016 data in the flow chart above represent the sum of each substance in the index at the since 2003. In the case of VOCs, however, emissions have increased chemicals used and the sources of emission. Kia Motors is substituting was not yet available as of the reporting period. TRI chemical results are end of this report slightly from the previous year (0.9%, 64 tons). hazardous chemicals with safer materials and continuously investing in reported at the end of April of the following year 54 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Environment 55 04· Logistics Phase 05· Disposal Phase Having recognized the benefits of end-of-life vehicle recycling ELV Disposal System Flow Chart and the associated environmental impacts, countries across the world are actively promoting recycling policies. In Korea, it has become mandatory to recycle more than 95% of vehicle weight since 2015. 85% of scrapped cars are dismantled and recycled. The other 10% are used in electricity production through thermal Vehicle model and power generation. Kia Motors shares its eco-friendly dismantling specifications identified 1 technology with the scrapping industry and continuously invests in resource circulation technologies. Automobile Resource Regeneration Center Kia Motors’ Automobile Resource Regeneration Center, which has Hoods, batteries and tires been in operation since 2005, is equipped with a progressive 7-step removed dismantling system. It dismantles approximately 4,000 test vehicles an2 nually for research purposes and develops eco-friendly dismantling and recycling technologies. The end-of-life vehicle (ELV) dismantling proOver 90 percent of liquids retrieved to prevent water pollution cess is carried out in the order of ELV reporting, pre-treatment of tires and battery, removal of liquids, removal of exterior components such as bumpers, removal of interior parts such as seats, removal of the engine and transmission and, finally, compression. Having successfully Liquids retrieved Liquid collection device developed technologies for safely retrieving remaining liquids and fuels, 3 the center is now concentrating its efforts on improving dismantling The emergence of new protectionism as a result of Brexit (BritNew Shipping Yard for the Central Region efficiency and reusing components. The study results and data are Over 85 percent of dismantled parts recycled upon being sorted ain’s exit from the EU) and the inauguration of President Trump Due to the increasing scale of domestic production and sales since delivered to the vehicle development teams to ensure that new models by material type in the U.S. has amplified economic uncertainty worldwide. In line 2014, Kia Motors’ shipment schedule has been delayed by approxiare developed in ways that ensure easily dismantling and recycling. Vehicle rotation device with the resultant changes in the global automotive industry, mately 400 cars a day. This has resulted in complaints from customers Developed technologies are also being applied to components. As EVs the logistics environment is also undergoing extensive transforwho purchased vehicles from Kia Motors. Accordingly, Kia plans to and HEVs are different in structure from those of ICEVs, the center has Exterior components mation. Kia Motors is dedicating its efforts to developing each of improve customer convenience in Chungcheong-do, Gangwon-do and distributed separate dismantling manuals to automotive dismantling 4 dismantled its production plants into global best facilities by strengthening Gyeongsangbuk-do regions, areas where shipping delays occur most yards. Every year, the center passes on the dismantling technology to cost competitiveness and innovating production and marketing frequently, by increasing the number of shipping yards from seven to around 100 of Korea’s 500 dismantling yards. processes through elimination of waste and improvement of eight through installation of a new shipping yard for the central region (in logistics insufficiencies. To this end, the company is promoting Cheongju) (operation scheduled for commencement in April 2017). The substantial customer-centered improvements through continuchronic problem of insufficient storage and shipping capacity in the Exterior components ous investment. central region will be resolved and a more stable delivery service will be dismantled provided to customers. Through continuous efforts aimed at improving 5 Reducing Damaged Parts customer-centered logistics efficiency, Kia Motors is placing the highest As a characteristic of the manufacturing business, damaged parts priority on customer satisfaction. are generated in the course of production. Major causes of damage include negligent handling by workers and insufficient safety of conOptimizing Imported Parts Inventory Management tainers. Damaged parts lead to environmental problems as a result of Kia Motors receives approximately 1,000 components (based on doELV Component Recycling Technologies Engines and transmissions losses caused by disposal costs and waste generation. mestic plants) from overseas parts makers. Supply of parts from overThe surface of plastic components applied to the interior and exterior of dismantled Kia Motors is building a thorough management system for damaged seas locations takes a long period of time. In addition, a large amount an automobile become worn-out or contaminated over time. Therefore, 6 parts generated during its transportation and production processes. of unused stock is generated as a result of changes in part specificait is necessary to develop a technology to remove pollutants and reinIt is dedicating efforts to realizing the best logistics quality by securing tions according to fluctuations in market demand. To resolve this issue, force the lowered physical properties. Kia Motors, through technological the safety of parts transporting containers, administering strict receivKia Motors has established an innovative process for ordering amount exchange with its partner companies, developed a technology to recycle ing inspections, and training parts handlers. Kia Motors is also active in estimation and strengthened inventory management monitoring. Fullplastic components of scrapped cars and is applying it to the mass-proreducing costs arising from parts damage and disposal and preventing scale system operation will commence in April 2017. Based on acduction of wheel guards and undercovers. Seats from scrapped cars environmental pollution. In addition, Kia Motors is reducing costs by curate demand prediction, Kia Motors will be able to realize inventory are turned into luggage partitions to divide the interior spaces of cars. In Compressed recycling damaged parts generated in the course of production and management optimization. This is forecast to generate cost reduction addition, engine room materials are used to make roof racks or engine Vehicle body compressor 7 transportation. It is also practicing green logistics to minimize the ocequivalent to 15% and 26% of annual emergency air transportation and covers. Research into the removal of the silicon coating from airbags currence of waste. inventory expenses, respectively. and use of the material in creating wheel covers is in progress as well. 56 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Environment 57 Employees According to the “World Employment and Social Outlook,” an anEmployment by Region Unit: persons, As of December 31, 2016 nual report recently published by the International Labour OrgaSolutions for nization (ILO), the issue of unemployment in the world, especially 4,987 2,212 in emerging countries, will impede global economic growth. ForEurope Mexico Mutual Prosperity tunately, the unemployment forecast in Korea is relatively lower, 6,631 3,338 at below 4%, compared to other countries. Employment types, China U.S. however, are expected to be continuously weak. 243 Kia Motors is striving to alleviate employment and income inOthers equality by continuously expanding the employment scale and promoting stable job creation. Based on its open corporate culture, Kia Motors is also making efforts to establish a working environment where employees can display their competencies 33.9% to the fullest by providing them with equal opportunities and Overseas to domestic compensation without discrimination in terms of gender or naworkforce ratio Locally Hired Employee tionality. Kia Motors’ virtuous organizational cycle that helps Percentage at Overseas employees, the center of value creation, to work effectively and Global Workforce in 2016 Operations enjoy their lives, will leading the company’s future growth. 51,357 persons 98.0 % Equal Opportunities & Fair Compensation Korea Kia Motors guarantees equal working conditions and opportunities for all employees from around the world. Recruitment procedures are 33,946 open with no discrimination against gender, nationality, race, religion or * Others: Asia-Pacific countries (excluding China), the Middle East, and Africa social background. The paper review process prioritizes an applicant’s competencies and passion. In 2016, Kia Motors hired 356 new employees in Korea. Out of the toKia Motors’ overseas worksites hire local residents on their own. UnPercentage of tal domestic workforce of 33,946 people, disabled employees account der a glocalization policy to contribute to local economies and localize Per-employee Training Hours Union Members for 3.9%. In addition, 83.3% or 28,285 employees are union members operation practices, Kia Motors is implementing a HR policy to grant 47 83.3 with the right to collective bargaining. Kia Motors upholds the three preferential rights to residents of areas where its worksites are located. hours % labor rights stipulated in the Constitution of the Republic of Korea and As of 2016, non-Koreans made up 33.9% (17,411 employees) of Kia guarantees the right to fair and free union activities as per the CollecMotors’ entire workforce, which totals 51,357 employees, and 98.0% tive Agreement, while consulting the labor union on major issues at of its overseas workforce was locally hired. In addition, 79.8% of Kia quarterly Labor-Management Council meetings. Motors’ overseas management-level staff (1,385 people) was locally Kia Motors provides its employees with industry-leading pay and fringe hired. benefits with the uncompromising principle of equality and fairness in compensation and treatment without discrimination against nationality or gender under the corporate bylaws (Collective Agreement Article 25 and Employment Regulation Article 4). Basic pay is determined as per Why Is This Material Issue? a standardized compensation system according to the duration of service without gender discrimination. * Details: pp. 79 81 Hyundai Research Institute selected “choice between growth and distribution” as the key issue of the Korean economy in 2017. Many experts are skeptical about the resolution of these two issues, which are regarded as the two hares of the economy that are never to be Global Workforce Unit: persons caught. If the issue of choice is not a solution, job creation, by far, is most important to achieve a balance between growth and distribution. Businesses are responsible for creating a virtuous cycle of growth and distribution through job-centered inclusive growth. 51,357 Compared to 2007 50,348 APPROACH EFFORTS 48,942 Kia Motors is implementing composite strategies in preparation for · New employment in 2016: 356 people (Korea) 48,089 47,104 the future while also increasing stable jobs by continuously expanding · Percentage of employees with disabilities: approximately 3.9% (Korea) 45,312 its employment scale. Kia Motors has established an open corporate · Percentage of union members with collective bargaining rights: 44,098 culture to not discriminate people based on their gender or nationality. 83.3% (28,285 employees, Korea) It also offers an appealing working environment where opportunities · Locally hired employee percentage at overseas operations: 98.0% 42,066 and compensations are sufficiently provided. Kia Motors also supports · Promoting a paperless office by establishing video conferencing 40,384 40,523 employees to improve their job skills and expertise, helps them work infrastructure using intranet messenger and document asset system efficiently and supports them in enjoying their lives. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 FUTURE ACTION Kia Motors is increasing the number of stable jobs by continuously expanding its employment scale. It has established an open corporate culture that does not discriminate people based on their gender or nationality. It is also striving to create an attractive working environment where opportunities and compensation are sufficiently provided. In addition, the company is searching for ways to improve employees’ expertise from a shortand long-term perspective. Employees 59 Upholding Diversity Work-Life Balance Kia Spirit Kia Motors embraces diversity in its recruitment policy and provides The Smart Work Campaign has been in operation at Kia Motors since various opportunities for employees to have exchanges with each 2012 to establish a more sensible and productive work process. With other to build solidarity and unity as part of one global Kia family. For the goal of increasing work efficiency and realizing a paperless workKia Spirit Be Young at Heart instance, the Work Exchange Program helps non-Korean employees place, documents were computerized on databases; infrastructure understand Kia Motors’ corporate philosophy and culture, while the was built for video-conferencing on the corporate instant messaging Regional Specialist Program offers Korean employees an opportunity system; other work-related infrastructure, such as our corporate portal, Young at to learn the languages and cultures of other regions and to broaden is in operation; and a company-wide campaign is being conducted to Heart Self Confident Adventurous Work Hard, Play Hard Socially Connected their experiences by working abroad in regions with strategic imporimprove our business meeting culture and practices. In 2017, Kia MoCharacteristics tance to Kia. tors plans to establish a portal platform to support all operation areas. 1. Don’t hesitate. 3. Never stop learning. 6. Work smart and leave work 9. Use respectful and At the same time, Kia Motors continues to raise the portion of female In addition, it will extensively promote a campaign to improve commuYoung Heart Go ahead and do it. You will You can advance to a on time. persuasive language. Mode workforce in the long-term by focusing on the competencies of womnication among employees and to spread a flexible reporting culture. regret not doing it later on. bigger world only when you Enjoy the rest of the day with Manners make the man. Action Guide en, which account for half of the global population. As 65% of all Kia To achieve sustainable growth amidst the rapidly changing managerealize that what you know your family. 2. Use the word, is not everything. 10. Accept your coworkers’ employees are involved in production, the majority of female employees ment environment, it is essential for Kia Motors to build a corporate “challenge” instead of 7. Do not say that only your differences. are office workers. Accordingly, female employees make up only 2.9%, culture to lead its own value creation. Hence, Kia Motors is striving to “hardship.” 4. Do not be afraid of asking work is important. Diverse viewpoints or 994 people, of Kia Motors’ total domestic workforce. However, this establish a young and dynamic corporate culture based on the Kia Positive thinking has power. questions. We can create greater value and experiences create figure has increased by 2.9% from the previous year. The number of Spirit of “Young at Heart.” The Kia Spirit begins with these two quesHumility is more appealing through cooperation. synergistic effects. female managers is also growing steadily each year, totaling 54 as of tions, “What is the value we create?” and “What is the meaning of our than playing smart. 8. Do not become obsessed 2016, which increased by 28.6% from the previous year. work?” The value Kia Motors creates is more than simply automobiles. 5. Do not decide your own limit. with formalities. As childrearing is the main cause of female career discontinuity in KoThis is evident in Kia’s “A Different Beat” brand essence which encomOvercoming limitations is It is more important to hold rea, Kia Motors is constantly expanding maternity programs in line with passes the values that the company intends to deliver to its customers. easier than you think. on to the core of the matter. the growing number of female employees. On top of legally protected From the release Korea’s first four-wheel drive model as well as the maternity leave before and after childbirth, the company also guaranElan, Korea’s first authentic two-seater sports car, and groundbreaking tees a flexible work hour system and childcare leave for employees vehicle concepts such as the Soul and Sportage, to design managewith preschool-aged children. Kia Motors also plans on expanding the ment that is effectuating changes in its corporate system and culture, of people who are young at heart, how they work and how an organiaminations for general physical examinations, Kia Motors subsidizes number of corporate daycare centers at worksites, in addition to the Kia Motors has been making efforts to deliver the value of “being the zation of such people functions, Kia Motors announced “Young Heart screening for adult diseases. Employees working at Kia Motors for ten first one at the head office building in Yangjae-dong, Seoul that opened first and new.” Mode,” which is the Kia Spirit action guide, to all employees in Decemyears or more or those aged 40 or above can benefit from additional in 2013. Family-friendly management practices gained momentum with Kia Motors has been growing hand-in-hand with its young and enerber 2016. “Young Heart Mode” will guide Kia Motors’ employees to comprehensive physical examinations for one of their family members. the launch of a company-wide team under the control of the HR Divigetic employees who are always full of curiosity and enthusiasm. Being think and act younger. Beneficiaries can choose from any type of physical examination the sion in 2014, which is comprised of personnel dispatched from each young means to be young at heart, which goes beyond physical age. A company-wide comprehensive action plan to promote substantial company offers. Up to 50% of the cost of additional physician-advised business division and plant. This initiative helped Kia Motors earn a A person who has a positive outlook on life and is not afraid to take on changes in every employee and the organization by internalizing the tests is covered by the company. Kia Motors’ group accident insurance Family-friendly Business Certificate from the Ministry of Gender Equality new challenges or a person who respects different opinions of others Kia Spirit will start in 2017. With an organizational activation program, policy covers one dental implant and up to three cosmetic surgery proand Family that same year. and pursues harmony with them is young at heart. Embodying the lives employees will broaden the scope of their consensus. In addition, efcedures for injuries resulting from occupational accidents. forts will be made to improve the HR system, education opportunities In 2016, a total of 23,574 people (15,844 employees and 7,730 family and working environment. By doing so, Kia Motors will promote submembers) received physicals with the total subsidies amounting to stantial implementation of this plan on the basis of strong management KRW 4.6 billion. As a corporate subscriber to the National Health Insupport. Kia Motors will become a young and dynamic organization by surance Service, Kia Motors’ insurance policy also covers employees’ setting up a consistent direction for its actions through a reinvigorated immediate family members with medical allowances and other benefits. corporate culture and related activities at individual plants including In 2016, related expenditures stood at KRW 30.1 billion. overseas operations. In August 2012, Kia Motors launched the Maeum Sanchaek (literally, “Heartfelt Stroll”) Counseling Center. The psychological counseling cenManaging Health & Safety ters located at plants and mobile counseling service provided to sales Ensuring a safe and healthy workplace where employees enjoy doing offices and service centers were used by 2,745 people for 18,884 their job is important to Kia Motors. To that end, Kia Motors’ worksites hours (accumulated) over four years from August 2012 to July 2017. have industrial medical clinics on their premises to offer physiotherapy The service is now being expanded to include employees’ family memtreatment for musculoskeletal disorders as well as for general treatment bers (1,245 cases) and the employees of partner companies. 83.4% and care. These facilities are open to partner companies’ employees as of the applicants completed counseling sessions. An analysis on the well. Industrial medical clinics offer not only western medical treatment progresses of those that used this service indicates an improvement and care, but also oriental medicine and psychological counseling serin the quality of life, work satisfaction and work efficiency as well as a vices. In 2016, Kia Motors opened the industrial medical clinic website decrease in absenteeism. where plant workers can make reservations for medical treatment as well as check individual health checkup information and treatment details. Through the website, Kia Motors also provides medical information including health information for each account as well as extensive health screening allowances to ensure that employees receive regular checkups and remain healthy. In addition to the legally mandated ex* Maeum Sanchaek Website: www.kia7979.com 60 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Employees 61 Partner Companies The franchise agreement of Kia Motors does not use terms like “Party A” and “Party B.” Instead, to define the relationship with · Reinforcing quality Creating Sustainable 01 competitiveness its partners it uses the words “Dong” and “Haeng” ( ‘together’ and · Supporting productivity ‘go’) which collectively mean ‘walking together‘. This shows Kia Reinforcing improvement Partners’ Global · Improving technological Partnership Motors’ spirit of mutual growth as it escapes from a vertical reCompetitiveness development capacity lationship and redefines suppliers as its partners for cooperation and mutual growth. Without successful cooperation with partners, Kia Motors could have not been able to provide high-quality · Laying the foundation for 02 management stability products and services to its customers for such a long period of · Expanding global marketing Laying the No. of Quality Schooling No. of Technical Schooling Foundation for channels Attendees Attendees time. Kia Motors will continue to provide various support meaSustainable · Establishing growth sures so that its partner companies can build self-supporting Growth 4,329 1,319 infrastructure competitiveness based on advanced technologies. persons persons 03 · Fortifying cooperation Three Mutual Growth Strategies & Systems network Setting Up · Reinforcing support to Kia Motors has established three operating strategies for mutual a Framework for secondary and tertiary growth and is improving execution by setting up an organization in Mutual Growth partner companies · Establishing mutual charge. The three strategies are to reinforce partners’ global comgrowth culture petitiveness, lay the foundation for sustainable growth and create a framework for mutual growth. Centering on these three strategies, Kia Motors is actively implementing a number of programs to expand the scope of its support to secondary and tertiary partners. The organization in charge of mutual growth is comprised of the Supexecutes company-wide mutual growth programs and the Technology plier Cooperation Team and Technology Development Management Development Management Team takes charge of technical assistance Team internally and Foundation of Korea Automotive Parts Industry to partner companies. KAP was co-founded in 2002 by Hyundai Motor Promotion (KAP) externally. The Supplier Cooperation Team plans and affiliates and 165 partner companies to promote the advancement of the automotive parts industry. Each year, the Hyundai Motor invests * Figures in the text body are the sum of Hyundai Motor and Kia Motors’ figures. KRW 5 billion as an operating fund. * Data Collection: Primary parts suppliers (excluding subsidiaries and non-parts Kia Motors established ‘management by walking about (MBWA)’ in specialists with less than 10 percent dependence on Hyundai & Kia Motors), number of partners entering overseas markets alongside Kia includes 2010 to address the inconveniences of partner companies. In fact, secondary/tertiary partners (sales/financial indexes to be completed after MBWA at secondary partners are accompanied by the representatives 2013~2017 Donations to Manufacturing Quality May 2017, figures from 2015 used, other indexes based on 2016) of primary partners for tripartite collaboration to find solutions to quality Industrial Innovation Campaign Management Support and technological issues. Since 2014, Kia Motors has been contrib25 4,000 uting KRW 50 billion each year to a fund for financing R&D and HRD * Mutual Growth Performance Results: Hyundai & Kia Motors’ Transparent KRW billion Approx. companies Procurement portal sites of SMEs, IT convergence of manufacturing businesses, and suppliers’ http://winwin.hyundai.com/winwin/ entry into overseas markets over a period of five years. Why Is This Material Issue? As global enterprises are faltering in the sole pursuit of profits, many companies have realized the importance of “mutual growth.” The efforts of global enterprises to build and expand a sound ecosystem for coexistence with partner companies are a ray of hope amidst the difficult economic environment that surrounds us. Practicing ethical management to fulfill its social responsibilities in addition to investment and support, based on the recognition that competitiveness of partner companies is a shortcut to seizing market leadership, will make a company stand firm for many years to come. APPROACH EFFORTS Kia Motors’ responsibility and duty for its partner companies do not · Donating operating funds of KRW 5 billion every year to KAP end at simple economic growth. Kia Motors shares its vision with part· Contributing a fund of KRW 50 billion each year over five years for ner companies for mutual growth, passing on technologies to improve financing R&D and HRD of SMEs, IT convergence of manufacturing their competitive power at the source and support them so that they businesses, and partner companies’ advancement into overseas can build the strength to cope with external variables. It also executes markets and checks outcomes of detailed strategies so as to ensure that its · Operating quality and technical schooling for SMEs support policy reaches secondary and tertiary partners that are outside · Managing Mutual Growth Fund and Win-Win Molding Facilities Fund the range of direct support. Since 2001, Kia Motors has been checking · Evaluating partner companies’ quality, delivery and the usefulness of its strategies by investigating the external and internal technological standards according to a quantified criteria and growth of its partner companies on a yearly basis and continuously exnotifying results through an online system (VAATZ) panding the scope of its support. FUTURE ACTION Kia Motors supports its partner companies to build technological power recognized in the global market and self-supporting competitiveness to cope with external variables so as to keep pace with international trends in management. Partner Companies 63 Partner Corporate Size Average Sales Unit: KRW 100 million Assets Unit: KRW 100 million 2,500+ 2,500+ +270% +431% 61% 25% 700+ Below KRW 50 billion Below KRW 50 billion 500+ 18% Partner Companies 16% 2001 2015 2001 2015 Between with Sales of Between KRW 50 billion and KRW 100 billion and KRW 50 billion and 2001 100 billion Above in 2015 100 billion Debt-to-equity Ratio Unit: % No. of Partners Entering Overseas Markets +38%p Alongside Kia Unit: companies 21% 59% 152 KRW 100 billion and KRW 100 billion and 700+ above above 115 +1,695% -37%p 40+ 2001 2015 2001 2015 Strategy 1. Reinforcing Partners’ Global Competitiveness 45 Kia partners participated in Kia Motors’ R&D activities to develop eco-friendly competencies. In a bid to tackle the chronic disparity in under Kia Motors’ review to ensure that they are honoring their settleWith clear objectives to improve quality, technology and productivity, new models under the Guest Engineer Program. SME labor market supply and demand, Kia Motors has held a yearly ments with secondary/ tertiary partners. In 2016, Kia Motors earned Kia Motors provides practical support to its partners in reinforcing their Partner Job Fair since 2012. In 2016, 325 partner companies includan “Excellent” grade on the Mutual Growth Index for the third year in a global competitiveness through a dedicated team consisting of experts Strategy 2. Laying the Foundation for Sustainable Growth ing secondary and tertiary partners and service shops participated in row. The Mutual Growth Index is calculated based on fair transaction/ with on-the-job experience in R&D, procurement, quality control, and Stable cash flow is critical to sound business management. If a busithe fair. The number of annual new employment recruits by Kia Momutual growth agreement implementation results and SME satisfaction production under the KAP umbrella. ness is to achieve continued growth, it must be able to seize present tors’ primary partners in 2016 was 13,600. In 2015, Kia Motors also survey results. The support varies by need, such as training sessions, three-month to opportunities to invest in its future. That is part of the reason why Kia launched the Employment Stepping Stone Program where it will proKia Motors has also enacted a Procurement Headquarters’ Code of one-year stay-overs at sites for instructing, and arranging sessions for Motors pays all its bills and invoices to SME partners in cash. Based vide 2,400 young adults with job training and internships at its primary Ethics and Four-pronged Subcontracting Guidelines to ensure ethical information sharing and technology exchanges. Kia Motors also co-deon its negotiating advantage arising from massive purchases, Kia Mosuppliers until 2018. Participants will be joining the eight-week job practices by departments involved with its partner companies. Opervelops technologies with partner companies and supports them with tors either negotiates raw material prices in its favor or organizes bulk training course at Hyundai Motor before working three months at one ated in a non-disclosed manner for employees of partner companies, patent filings and license protection, with a particular focus on secondpurchases to help partners slash their procurement costs. In addition, of the Group’s primary partners to acquire on-the-job experience and a the Transparent Procurement Center receives grievances from these ary and tertiary partners who often lack opportunities in this regard. In 10 different funding programs are available for Kia Motors’ partner chance of securing permanent employment. employees, delivers them to the relevant departments and promotes addition to its internally developed programs, Kia Motors seeks collabcompanies according to their needs and uses. Since 2013, the scope the necessary follow-up and improvement activities. oration with related entities and primary partners to expand the scope of beneficiaries for the Mutual Growth Fund and Win-Win Molding FaStrategy 3. Setting Up a Framework for Mutual Growth Procurement is conducted through an online system called VAATZ.* of its activities. cilities Fund has expanded to secondary and tertiary partners. In 2016, By setting up a framework for mutual growth, Kia Motors aims to esThe results are published after evaluation on the submitted bids for For instance, in 2016, 4,329 trainees completed 10 quality/technology Kia Motors expanded the eligibility of payment in cash from the pretablish fair and transparent transactions as well as mutually beneficial product quality, payments and technological competencies according training courses for SMEs and MEs at the Quality School and 1,319 vious KRW 300 billion in sales volume to KRW 500 billion to increase growth practices within its corporate culture. Council meetings are deto the Five-Star System scale. trainees completed eight courses at the Technology School. While support to MEs. signed to help primary partners build cordial partnerships. From quality offering secondary partners with quality control education by business The second objective of laying the foundation for sustainable growth control and technology development to financing and global expansion type, Kia Motors helps them improve working conditions and procan be achieved by helping partner companies’ global market expanassistance, Kia Motors is increasing the scope of all programs to cover duction processes through technology innovation under the Industrial sion efforts. Hyundai Motor Company and Kia Motors provide all-out the entire supply chain. Innovation campaign. Hyundai Motor Group’s automotive affiliates have support to domestic partners as they advance into overseas markets Since 2009, Kia Motors has been entering into an Agreement on Mutumade a commitment with primary partners and related experts of KRW where Hyundai and Kia’s plants are in operation. As of 2016, 700 of al Growth with all suppliers every year, offering them support in ethical 25 billion in total over the course of five years from 2013 to 2017 to Kia Motors’ partner companies including secondary partners were acmanagement and corporate social responsibility management. At the * Procurement Headquarters’ Code of Ethics and Four-pronged provide any required assistance. From August 2015 to July 2016, 150 tive in global markets and the number has been growing each year. Kia same time, almost all of Kia Motors’ partners at home and abroad Subcontracting Guidelines: Mutual growth web portal Transparent of Kia Motors’ partner companies benefited from this program. AddiMotors’ extensive assistance to partners’ global expansion activities have obtained OHSAS 18001 certification upon its advice to ensure Procurement Center tionally, Kia Motors’ technicians visit the production lines of secondary includes sharing export logistics and assisting with the setup of country workplace safety. As a means of ensuring faithful compliance with the and tertiary partners to provide instructions on quality control. A total of of origin certification systems. agreement and that secondary/ tertiary partners benefit from it, Kia * VAATZ (Value Advanced Automotive Trade Zone): an open e-bidding system 4,000 partner companies including 200 from overseas operations have Lastly, Kia Motors supports its partners with their recruitment and Motors’ procurement executives carry out performance evaluations to for procurement received this support. Also, a monthly average of 436 engineers from training of employees and with realizing ideas for reinforcing their assess their mutual growth performance. Also, primary partners come http://www.vaatz.com/supplier/korea/english/ 64 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Partner Companies 65 UN Sustainable Development Goals & Kia Motors In 2016, SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) were officially launched with agreement from all of the 193 UN member states. Kia Motors supports SDGs, which are aimed at building a sustainable society, and has proclaimed the will to contribute to their implementation through CSR management. Kia Motors will establish SDGs initiatives in the short run centering on social outreach projects and spread them across its management system in the midto long-term. 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Introduction Establishment Diffusion Establishing Initiatives for SDGs Leading Communication of SDGs Establishment of Management System for SDGs (focusing on key projects) (CSR projects) (covering the entire management system) · Establishment of GLP/ of Green Trip initiatives · Initiative implementation report (using sustainable report) · Diffusion of SDGs across the company/ performance assessment · Reinforcement of GLP/ of the Green Trip Cooperation system · Participation in global forums · Reorganization of the CSR website Green Light Project Green Trip The Green Light Project (GLP) was planned with the goal of increasing In Salima, Malawi, a local project transfer is also scheduled for 2017. educational and public health rights in underdeveloped countries and GLP public health centers with full-time stationed Korean nurses and promoting the self-reliance of local communities. In order to establish a mobile clinics treated around 10,000 people in 2016. Considering that foundation for education, health and self-reliance to people facing limitaapproximately 49% of the patients are malaria-infected, a malaria pretions, Kia Motors built the GLP Job Training Center, schools and public vention program is provided to local residents. These facilities provide health centers in nine local communities in six African countries. Mobility better-quality public health services at only 50% of the cost of public programs to provide vehicle support, in particular, are a success case health centers in other regions. The revenues are again used as an opthat clearly reflects the Kia Motors’ area of business as an automobile erating fund. Kia Motors is also working on a project to provide fertilizers company. Kia Motors’ employees have been participating in the GLP to help the self-reliance of local residents. During the rainy season when Green Trip is Kia Motors’ signature social outreach program in Korea, in The Home-to-Home service was added to the Green Trip program in since 2013. In 2016, the fourth GLP Employees Volunteer Group, which it is difficult to secure fertilizers, Kia Motors provides corn fertilizers to which the company takes the mobility-challenged-those who are most 2014 and, as of present, the service covers the entire nation. Based on is comprised of Kia Motors’ employees at home and abroad, performed increase the production volume. At the same time, profits are generated in need of convenient access to mobility but often deprived of it—on a business partnership with the Korean Army, Kia Motors also began voluntary service activities for ten days in Salima and Lilongwe, Malawi. on the basis of bulk sales through the union. various types of trips. Launched in June 2012, the program has providsponsoring vehicles for parents who do not have a means of transporIn addition, through K-Nanum Together, an internal fund raising system, Starting with GLP bases in Tanzania and Malawi, Kia Motors will start ed (as of December 2016) travel opportunities to 25,917 beneficiaries tation available when they wish to visit their sons in the military. In 2017, Kia Motors’ employees are participating in a 1:1 affiliation campaign expanding local project transfers in 2017 by establishing a sustainability for a total distance of 1,592,032km, which is equivalent to forty roundKia Motors will also install a base for the eastern part of the capital rewith the students of the GLP School. In 2016, approximately KRW 630 system each year. It will concurrently apply this project model all around the-world trips. In 2016 alone, 7,985 beneficiaries, or approximately gion to ensure convenient mobility for a greater number of people with million was raised, which was double the amount of the previous year. the world in addition to Africa. In 2017, a new base will be built in 30% of the total number, participated in this program. The program disabilities and their families. Celebrating their fifth anniversary in 2017, the GLP bases in Tanzania Rwanda where the project will be promoted over the next five years. largely consists of a standard course that sponsors vehicles used for and Malawi where the project was first launched are soon to undergo As such, Kia Motors will continue striving to establish a sustainable family trips, and the Harmony Expedition program whereby university project transfers. Kipato House, a self-supporting project site in Tanzaself-supporting structure in local communities rather than simply giving students survey the installation of convenience facilities for the disabled nia, creates profits by selling school uniforms made by local residents them money. in key tourist sites across the country. A total of twelve Easy Move veand students. The profits are reinvested in the operation of the GLP hicles featuring special driver seats for disabled drivers and wheelchair School. loading are earmarked solely for the program. * Green Trip Website: www.greentrip.kr Green Initiatives to Support Growth and Ending All Forms of Poverty Everywhere Green Initiatives for Universal Mobility Reducing Inequality Around the Country Light Self-reliance of Local Communities in Improving the quality of life by establishing infrastructure, Trip by Supporting Trips for the Disabled Support for vehicles equipped with convenience facilities for the disabled Project Underdeveloped Countries such as GLP Schools · Support for trips for the disabled, Support for trips for the disabled · Establishing GLP bases/ Operating mobility development of tourist sites in Korea, service and self-supporting projects and activities aimed at improving mobility Promoting Sustainable Economic Growth and Building Sustainable Cities and Transportation System Increasing The Number of Quality Jobs Investigation and improvement of convenience facilities at tourist sites and Goals · Increasing project areas by Operating self-support projects and promoting local project transfers Goals · Travel support for approx. 10,000 people provision of travel information establishing at least one project base each per year (accumulated total of 60,000 year persons by 2020) · Realizing self-reliance of local · Building approx. 1,000 cases of Activation of Partnerships to Improve Means of communities that are subject to the Building Sustainable Cities and Transportation Systems travel data per year (10,000 cases of Implementation Expanding social infrastructure through mobility service operation five-year project duration data to be accumulated by 2020) Improvement of project outcomes through regional partnerships 68 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Community 69 Looking after Future Generations Employee Volunteerism Red Clover is a program which gives university students the oppores. In 2016, the number of overseas participants increased dramaticaltunity to plan and perform social outreach activities by themselves. ly, broadening the scope of cultural exchanges among participants. This year, participants carried out team activities on the subject of the Kia Motors has been continuously implementing traffic safety cam“transportation vulnerable,” which refers to persons with disabilities, paigns since 2005. The SLOW Campaign was designed under the children, pregnant women and foreign nationals, by following Kia Moconcept of “Stop, Look, Walk!” Using ENZY, the company’s brand tors’ CSR shared value of “mobility.” The activities included a campaign character, Kia Motors is providing traffic safety education to preschoolEmployee participation forms the foundation of all Kia Motors’ social teer teams. In 2017, Kia Motors will increase the diversity of employee to raise public awareness of the mobility of people with disabilities, a ers and elementary school students as well as their parents. The edoutreach activities. After founding its corporate volunteer corps in participation in voluntary service activities by introducing the “Voluntary campaign for banning illegal parking in school zones to prevent traffic ucation programs include “ENZY DAY,” an experience-type program 2005, Kia Motors changed the volunteer corps system and established Service Contest.” accidents involving children, a campaign to spread a culture of conheld in cultural centers in department stores, and “ENZY KIT,” which is the employee-centered “Challenge” and family-centered “K-Family” in sideration for pregnant women and the Public Transportation Picnic held in cooperation with early childhood educational institutes. In 2016, 2013. Since 2015, Kia Motors has been holding the “Company-wide STEP 1 Building the Voluntary Service Team system and program which aims to improve transportation convenience for people including a three-week education course in China, Kia Motors offered Service Week” for two weeks before and after the anniversary of its 2005-2015 Stabilizing Its Operation from multicultural backgrounds. The students also organized social traffic safety education to 40,336 participants through the ENZY DAY foundation. During the service week, Kia Motors performs comprehen· Launch of the first voluntary service team in 2005 · Introduction of the “voluntary service week” in 2015 to celebrate performances to share the results of their activities with the public. program and to 18,325 persons from 450 institutes through the ENZY sive environmental improvement activities to ensure safe mobility under the company’s foundation (10th anniversary of the service team) The Kia EcoDynamics Expedition Camp is an eco-friendly design KIT program. The accumulated number of educational institutes in the theme of “Mobility,” one of its shared social outreach values. development program that is aimed at improving the quality of life in 2015 and 2016 came to 1,079, which is equivalent to 8.6% of the early In 2016, the Challenge Volunteer Corps, which is composed of 4,311 STEP 2 Internalizing the Voluntary Service Program and 2016-2020 Improving Communication developing countries. In 2016, the Kia EcoDynamics Expedition Camp childhood educational institutes in the capital region. members from a total of 110 volunteer teams, performed 563 service · Expansion of scope to overseas countries was held in Changkat Bintang, an aboriginal village located near Kuala activities for a total of 16,831 hours, which is an increase of approxiLumpur, the capital of Malaysia. The expedition involved 88 participants mately 20% from the previous year (in terms of frequency, service hours STEP 3 Internalizing Voluntary Service of Employees as in total, including 39 from Korea, 39 from the four countries of China, Germany, Sweden and Saudi Arabia, and 10 locals from Malaysia. 40,336 persons and number of participants). The K-Family Volunteer Corps consists of 1,461 members from 471 families, including 198 university students. In 2021a Key Element of the Organizational Culture · Improvement of service team operation with focus on the voluntary service organization Through field trips and interviews with local residents, the expedition Annual no. of Participants in ENZY DAY addition to regular volunteer service activities, employees participate in · Establishment of employees’ voluntary service as an integral part of organizational culture suggested solutions to resolve environmental issues in outback villagIncluding 3,063 in China various social outreach projects as supporters or self-launched volunEnsuring Healthy Lives and Promoting Looking Initiatives for Fostering Human Employee Initiatives to Resolve Social Issues Well-being for All Ending All Forms of Poverty Everywhere after Resources for the Future to Volunteerism in Local Communities Provision of substantial benefits to the poor and vulnerable Launch of a campaign to improve awareness of the transportation vulnerable Future Contribute to Sustainable Development and traffic safety education to prevent traffic accidents involving children (The Poor and Vulnerable) Generations · Promotion of the social change project, · Improvement of residential environment, fostering of eco-friendly global leaders, securing safe mobility, dissemination of safety culture provision of disaster/accident relief Ensuring Healthy Lives and Promoting Guaranteeing Quality Education Well-being for Age Groups Provision of education to future generations to contribute to Launch of a campaign to improve awareness of the transportation vulneraGoals · Implementation of project annually/ sustainable development Goals · Each employee to participate in ble and traffic safety education to prevent children’s traffic accidents increase of participating countries and voluntary service once a year or more and percentage of overseas participants for at least four hours Expansion of Global Partnerships for (”Nanum Challenge 114 Campaign” based Sustainable Development on voluntary participation) Building Sustainable Cities and Transportation System Establishment of partnerships with a range of stakeholders Expanding social infrastructure through mobility service operation in order to achieve SGDs for developing countries 70 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Community 71 Social Outreach by Worksite Public Campaign 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals Kia Motors recognizes that the development of the local communities Kia Motors has been carrying out K-Bean, a public campaign with where its plants are located leads to the sustainability of its plants and, netizens, for three years since 2014. In 2016, it started a campaign to ultimately, to the continued development of the company. Accordingly, it deliver the value of “Opportunity for Challenge” by advancing from the examined the social outreach activities performed by each plant and re“Mobility” campaign to renovate the vehicles of the transportation vulestablished the project scheme according to the company-wide stratenerable. gic direction for social outreach by reflecting the characteristics of each Through this campaign, 1.47 million netizens sent messages of suplocal community and the operations carried out in each area. The comport to Lee Do-yeon and Jeon Mi-gyeong, wheelchair cyclists who pany also promoted an activity to upgrade the social outreach organicompeted in the Rio 2016 Paralympic Games, and raised a fund of zations and operating systems at each plant along with the discovery of KRW 21.31 million. Together with Kia Motors’ donation of KRW 15 key projects. In 2015, Kia Motors completed the system improvement million, the fund was delivered to the cyclists to support their training 1. End poverty in all its forms everywhere 10. Reduce inequality within and among countries for its domestic plants, and, since 2016, it has been promoting key alongside two latest-model hand cycles. With the heartfelt support of 2. End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable 11. Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable agriculture 12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns projects on the basis of the improved systems. For its overseas plants, netizens and Kia Motors, Lee Do-yeon won a silver medal by compet3. Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages 13. Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts system improvements were carried out in 2016 and their implementaing in the H1-2-3-4 road race. She made this splendid achievement 4. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning 14. Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable opportunities for all development tion will begin in 2017, centering on the key production subsidiaries. within only two years of learning how to cycle. For Lee Do-yeon, a 5. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls 15. Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, In order to support social outreach activities in local communities, Kia mother of three girls and a late bloomer aged over 40, the netizens’ 6. Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation 7. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all and halt biodiversity loss Motors has been holding meetings of its global social outreach consulsupport and encouragement served as great encouragement. Through 8. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive 16. Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access tative body, an extension of the social outreach committee operated in the K-Bean campaign, Kia Motors conducted the GLP Self-supporting employment and decent work for all to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels 9. Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and 17. Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for Korea, since the fourth quarter of 2016. Through this quarterly meeting, Village campaign, its representative global social outreach project, and foster innovation sustainable development Kia Motors searches for solutions to social outreach issues at domestic attracted public attention to Kia Motors’ social outreach activities. In and overseas worksites. It also plans to organize an annual conference 2017, KIa Motors will further strive to carry out even greater social out* UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Website: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/ for social outreach officers from all domestic and overseas worksites. reach activities with its customers. 72 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Community 73 Sustainability Management As an adherent to the UN Global Compact (UNGC) since July 2008, Kia Motors upholds the UNGC principles of human rights, UN Global labor, environment and anti-corruption. Our progress and commitment are detailed in the pages listed in the table below. Compact UNGC Index Area Ten Principles Coverage (pages) Human Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human 9, 66~73, 75 Rights rights; and Principle 2: make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 78, 80, 81 Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right 59, 80 to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 100 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and 100 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 58~61, 80, 81 Environment Principle 7: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 50~52, 86, 89 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 53~57, 84~90 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. 22~32, 38~44, Book in Book Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 82~83 The ISO 26000 is an international standard for social responsibility issued in 2010. Kia Motors endeavors to internalize its seven ISO 26000 core subjects and their implications, upholding them as standards of social responsibility in all our business management activities, from top to bottom, in the decision-making process at the managerial-level as well as job execution at the working-level. ISO 26000 Index Seven Core Subjects Relevant Issues Coverage (pages) Organizational Governance Decision-making process and structure, delegation of power 16, 17 Human Rights Discrimination and vulnerable groups, human rights risk situations, avoidance of complicity, 58~65, 79~83 civil and political rights, economic, social and cultural rights, fundamental rights at work Labor Practices Employment and employment relationships, conditions of work and social protection, 58~65, 79~83 social dialog, health and safety at work, human development and training in the workplace Environment Prevention of pollution, sustainable resource use, climate change mitigation and adaptation, 24~32, 38~44, Book in Book, protection and restoration of the natural environment 50~57, 84~90 Fair Operating Practices Anti-corruption, responsible political involvement, fair competition, promoting social 62~65, 82~83 responsibility in the sphere of influence, respect for property rights Consumer Issues Fair marketing, information and contractual practices, protecting consumers’ health 24~32, 38~49, 78 and safety, sustainable consumption, consumer service, support and dispute resolution, consumer data protection and privacy, education and awareness Community Involvement Community involvement, employment creation, technology development, wealth and income 24~44, Book in Book, and Development creation, social investment, education and culture, health, skills development 58~61, 66~73, 79~81 Association/Organization Purpose of Membership Membership to Korea Automobile Manufacturers Association (KAMA) To promote the auto industry; pursue inter-sectoral joint projects Associations and Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry Mandatory membership as per the Chamber of (Seoul, Gwangmyeong, Hwaseong, Gwangju) Commerce & Industry Act Organizations Korea Auto Industries Coop. Association (KAICA) To cooperate with relevant businesses in advancing the auto industry Korea Standards Association To promote industrial standardization and quality management Korea Fair Competition Federation (KFCF) To share information and opinions with government and businesses in observing fair trade regulations Korea AEO Association To promote safety management practicesat on Authorized Economic Operators (AEOs) BEST Forum: Business Ethics and To engage in ethical management and CSR work exchanges Sustainability Management for Top Performance Global Compact Network Korea To uphold the ten principles of the UN Global Compact Korea Association for Industrial Technology Security (KAITS) To promote efforts aimed at protecting industrial technologies Korea Economic Research Institute (KERI) To conduct comprehensive research on longand short-term development issues pertaining to Korean businesses and the nation’s economy Sustainability Management Kia Motors Slovakia About This Report Independent Assurance Statement GRI Index Appendix 75 Economy * Consolidated financial statements for corporate headquarters and overseas subsidiaries are drafted on a consolidated basis according to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 2014 2015 2016 Sales Revenue by Region Unit: KRW million Contribution to Sales Revenue by Region Unit: % Business Production Volume (vehicles) 3,049,692 3,040,650 3,024,045 Sales Revenue by Others 12.7 Korea 23.9 2014 2015 2016 Performance Sales Volume (vehicles) 3,041,685 3,050,834 3,018,093 Region Sales Revenue 47,097,049 49,521,447 52,712,906 Sales Revenue 47,097,049 49,521,447 52,712,906 Korea 9,311,265 11,640,861 12,580,145 Operating Profit 2,572,549 2,354,273 2,461,480 Outside Korea 37,785,784 37,880,586 40,132,761 Cash Flow 2,363,825 3,375,248 3,275,882 North America 16,865,983 18,896,020 20,088,820 Ordinary Income 3,816,316 3,100,266 3,442,034 Europe 11,892,172 10,889,617 13,343,504 * Unit: KRW million Net Profit 2,993,593 2,630,600 2,754,640 North America Others 9,027,629 8,094,949 6,700,437 Europe 25.3 38.1 2014 2015 2016 Financial Standing Production Volume by Year Unit: vehicles Assets 41,044,202 45,980,113 50,889,260 Production Korea Overseas Current Assets 16,655,401 18,390,784 20,912,221 Fixed Assets 24,388,801 27,589,329 29,977,039 Liabilities 18,560,387 21,776,082 24,309,836 3,049,692 3,040,650 3,024,045 Current Liabilities 11,974,388 14,579,485 16,246,900 Fixed Liabilities 6,585,999 7,196,597 8,062,936 Equity 22,483,865 24,204,031 26,579,424 Equity Ratio (capital/ assets) 54.78% 52.64% 52.23% 1,712,485 1,718,467 1,556,845 * Unit: KRW million Debt-To-Equity Ratio (liabilities/ capital) 82.55% 89.97% 91.46% Detailed Breakdown 2014 2015 2016 Value Distributed Total Value Generated 47,087,015 48,962,402 52,174,846 to Stakeholders Sales Revenue 47,097,049 49,521,447 52,712,906 1,337,207 1,322,183 1,467,200 Other Income Other income (other costs + depreciation) (10,034) (559,045) (538,060) Partner Companies Product & service costs 38,300,949 40,666,452 43,446,035 Value Added Generated 8,786,066 8,295,950 8,728,811 2014 2015 2016 Employees Wages and benefits 4,721,277 4,809,575 4,768,875 Shareholders Dividends 404,058 441,025 441,024 Production Volume by Plant Unit: vehicles Contribution to Total Production Volume by Plant Unit: % Investors Interest payments 57,240 89,060 139,211 2014 2015 2016 Mexico 3.6 Sohari 10.5 Government Tax payments (corporate taxes + other taxes) 747,054 730,200 754,753 Sohari 328,517 364,385 318,289 China 21.5 Hwaseong Local Communities Donations 26,224 28,399 28,751 562,355 546,809 509,620 16.9 Hwaseong Kia Motors Retained value 2,830,213 2,197,691 2,596,197 Gwangju 538,896 533,483 498,680 * Other income = (other operating income + income from investment in affiliated companies + financial income) other costs (other operating costs + financial OEM 282,717 273,790 230,256 * Unit: KRW million costs excluding interest costs and donations) depreciation costs (depreciation costs + depreciation cost of intangible assets) Georgia (USA) 369,379 369,063 370,100 Slovakia 323,720 338,020 339,500 Slovakia China 644,108 615,100 650,100 11.2 Gwangju Economic Value Mexico 0 0 107,500 16.5 Georgia (USA) Generated Total 3,049,692 3,040,650 3,024,045 12.2 OEM 7.6 & Distributed (EVG&D) Kia Motors 5.0 Local Communities 0.1 Sales Volume by Year Unit: vehicles Contribution to Sales by Vehicle Type Unit: % Sales Status Korea Overseas Government 1.4 Partner Companies 83.3 Shareholders & Investors 1.1 2014 3,041,685 Employees 9.1 2,576,485 465,200 Sedans Commercial/ Special 49.3 2015 3,050,834 Vehicles RV * Unit: % 3.2% 47.6 2,523,334 527,500 * Contribution to sales volume by vehicle type and sales volume by year 2016 3,018,093 (based on plant sales orders) 2,485,093 533,000 76 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Appendix 77 Society Customers ◆ Society Employees ◆ To ensure the objective assessment and tracking of its performance in sales and service issues from the customer’s perspective, Korea and Overseas Unit: persons Workforce by Region Unit: persons Customer Kia Motors commissions a series of customer satisfaction index (CSI) surveys to an external agency every year. Monthly e-mails Total Workforce Korea Overseas * Others: Asia-Pacific (excluding China), the Middle East and Africa request feedback from our customers on their most recent purchase of one of our latest models, or on our services at the car lot Satisfaction where they made their purchase. Separately, regular reviews are conducted on the customer reception (eight sessions annually) Korea 33,946 Assessment and over-the-phone response (four sessions annually) attitudes exhibited at our customer contact points. The survey results are published and sent to all relevant staff company-wide, serving as the basis for developing our CS (customer satisfaction) training USA 3,338 programs. Furthermore, the Kia Motors Customer Center has completed a fast-track cooperation system called “3-Step Fol51,357 Total 50,348 Mexico 2,212 low-up” whereby customer grievances are addressed, while preventing any similar recurrence in the future. At the same time, the 48,942 51,357 voice of the customers (VOC) program is promoted company-wide to ensure future improvements to our CS practices. Europe 4,987 China 6,631 14,976 16,364 17,411 External Others 243 Korea Productivity Center JoongAng Daily Korea Management Association Consulting Female Employees Unit: persons, % National Customer National Brand Awards Call Center Quality Index Korea Sales Satisfaction Index No. of female employees No. of female managers Satisfaction Index (NCSI) (NBA) (KSQI) (KSSI) Female to domestic workforce ratio Ranked 1st in the industry 2.93 Ranked 1st in the Recipient of the Automobile 2.76 2.84 for the 4th consecutive year, Ranked 1st in the industry for 33,966 33,984 micro-compact and RV Membership Award for 33,946 Best call center for the 3rd consecutive year segments the fifth consecutive year the 13th consecutive year 34 42 54 * As of December 31, 2016 * Target: Full-time employees 939 966 994 Kia Motors provides regular CS training to all its sales and service employees. Sales staff members receive customized training (excluding outsourced CS Training courses (CS consulting) designed to check their current practices at each regional office, as well as intensive training sessions to employees and interns) 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 help them develop the very best customer reception skills. In addition, the CS premium training course has been opened to train staff members capable of providing high-quality services. Moreover, 1:1 coaching sessions to improve the basic customer reception skills of new employees and image making programs have been provided. As such, differentiated CS training has been conRecruitment Unit: persons ducted a total of 2,202 times targeting 27,285 employees. In 2017, Kia Motors plans to systemize CS field training and expand Recruitment CS training for managers in order to maximize its effects. 695 Sales and Service Training 2014 2015 2016 356 340 No. of Annual Trainees (persons) 41,202 38,538 27,285 Total Training Hours 57,204 54,723 36,227 Per-employee Training Hours (person/ hour) 1.39 1.42 1.33 * Trainee composition in 2016 can be broken down into 15,596 salespeople (7,925 from regional sales offices including administrative staff and 7,671 from 2014 2015 2016 dealerships), 9,377 service staff (3,193 from regional service centers and 6,184 from partner companies) and 2,312 from other departments. Recruitment by Region Unit: persons Recruitment by Age/ Gender Kia Motors has been operating the Personal Information Protection Council since 2011 as part of its customer information pro* As of December 31, 2016 2014 2015 2016 2016(persons) Percentage(%) Customer tection framework, which runs concurrently with the enforcement of the Personal Information Protection Act. In addition, it has * Scope: Domestic Headquarters 76 69 85 By Ages 20 ~ 29 279 78.4 established a company-wide cooperation system and is taking measures to ensure security while preparing contingency plans Information workplaces 207 120 80 Age 65 18.3 for potential risks. In 2015, Kia Motors obtained the Personal Information Protection Level (PIPL) certification from the Ministry of * Target: Full-time employees Sohari Ages 30 ~ 39 Protection Government Administration and Home Affairs and built a more systematic management framework. In 2016, it dedicated efforts (excluding outsourced Hwaseong 203 84 69 Ages 40 ~ 49 8 2.2 employees and interns) to strengthening personal information protection by receiving a privacy protection certification follow-up review, which was then Gwangju 120 18 37 Ages 50 and above 4 1.1 * R&D centers are operated integrated into the PIMS (Personal Information Management System). As a result of these efforts, Kia Motors was found to have in conjunction with Hyundai Namyang R&D Center 5 4 14 By Male 305 85.7 had absolutely no cases of violations at an inspection conducted by the Ministry of Government Administration and Home Affairs Motor. R&D center figures Gender Others 84 45 71 Female 51 14.3 and the Korea Communications Commission, the overseeing government organizations. With this accomplishment, Kia Motors herein refer to “non-researchers.” Total 695 340 356 has once again proven that it complies thoroughly with all personal information protection laws and regulations. Kia Motors will continue to do its utmost to prevent personal information invasion accidents and protect customers’ personal information by introducing updated systems and physical security devices. Retirement & Resignation by Region Unit: persons Retirement & Resignation by Age/ Gender Retirement & All Kia models are labeled with CO2 emission (g/km) and fuel economy information to ensure that customers make informed 2014 2015 2016 2016(persons) Percentage(%) Resignation Product Labeling purchasing decisions. All new models rolled out since January 2013 are labeled with their weighted combined fuel economy (55 Headquarters 35 34 36 By Ages 20 ~ 29 48 13.4 percent for city driving, 45 percent for highway driving) as per the changes to the fuel economy calculation standards. Sohari 21 80 63 Age Ages 30 ~ 39 55 15.4 Hwaseong 23 47 49 Ages 40 ~ 49 51 14.2 * As of December 31, 2016 In terms of marketing and corporate external communications, Kia Motors strives to avoid any infringements upon customer pri* Scope: Domestic Gwangju 24 56 59 Ages 50 and above 204 57.0 Customer Marketing vacy, the application of double standards or exercise of undue influence on vulnerable groups. While aligning its marketing comworkplaces Namyang R&D Center 6 3 1 By Male 336 93.9 munication activities with cultural and ethical norms, Kia Motors also makes sure that its overseas marketing activities conform to * Target: Full-time employees Gender Others 51 117 150 Female 22 6.1 Communication (excluding outsourced local sensibilities through advance research and local canvassing. Kia Motors did not violate any regulations or receive any fines employees and interns) Total 160 337 358 with regard to its marketing communication efforts in 2016. 78 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Appendix 79 Indicator 2014 2015 2016 · Labor Union Association and Collective Bargaining: Kia Motors guarantees the three primary labor rights according to the Constitution and recognizes various labor union activities within the scope set out by the Collective Agreement. In relation to maintenance Average Period of Continuous Service (years) 18.2 19.6 20.4 and improvement of the working conditions of labor union members, the company decides the details through autonomous collective Wages Annual Wage (KRW Million) 3,540,533 3,576,069 3,403,637 bargaining. * Period of continuous service as of the date an employee joins the company. * Notification of Operational Changes: Duty of notification set forth in Article 17 of the Collective Agreement establishing and abolishing regulations that affect * The total wage amount was recalculated according to the audit report calculation criteria. the lives of labor union members, delivering management performance in a document format. * For wage per person, refer to the audit report and the business report. To create eco-friendly and safe production sites, Kia Motors is operating a comprehensive health, safety and environment system (i-HSE). Construction work commences at all Kia worksites only after receiving a permit under i-HSE. In addition, Kia Motors provides related inKia Motors’ fringe benefits system does not discriminate between full-time and temporary (or part-time) employees. On top of the legally Health, Safety & mandated fringe benefits, Kia Motors provides a wide range of benefit programs to contribute to the quality of life and security of its emformation and educational data so that field workers can check the necessary contents at all times. In 2014, the company upgraded its Fringe Benefits Environment (HSE) HSE management system by forming the Production Safety Department which takes charge of safety management of each plant together ployees, and to boost their morale for trust-based labor-management relations. In 2016, 86 employees used their legally mandated childcare leave, with 35 employees taking maternity leave (including miscarriage/ stillbirth leave). In addition, nine pregnant employees used the System with the Safety and Environment Planning Division, a company-wide HSE control tower. In the following year, it produced the Safety Facility flexible work hour system for an average of 39.4 days each. Guide, a scheme for eliminating risk elements to prevent accidents at worksites, and distributed it so as to prevent the omission of compulsory safety devices in facility investment and to remove major risk elements according to the order of priority. Each plant has adopted Childcare Leave Fringe Benefit Expenses self-directed daily/weekly/monthly safety check procedures to detect, control and improve risk factors on site. During the period of MERSCoV proliferation in 2015, Kia Motors organized an emergency response task force team to block virus diffusion and also prepared an 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 infectious disease response manual. In 2016, when the Zika virus was widespread, it established scenarios for various risk situations on Male 12 20 18 Total Expenses (KRW 100 M) 5,566 5,702 5,927 the basis of the “Infectious Disease Response Manual” and distributed guidelines to its domestic and overseas plants, thereby contributing No. of Employees on Childcare Leave (persons) to prevention of the disease. Kia Motors also established a vision for the creation of a company-wide safety culture in the same year. From Female 60 75 68 Per-employee Benefit Expenses 16.60 16.80 17.46 2017 to 2020, it plans to secure HSE leadership, establish an award system and activate HSE investment according to a midto long-term (KRW million) Rate of Return after Childcare Leave (%) 100 100 99 road map. For this, the company will establish a prevention and swift response system with the goal of achieving zero accidents, improving * Total expenses were recalculated according to the audit report calculation awareness of safety and the environment, and inducing the participation of its partner companies. * No. of Employees on Childcare Leave: Employees who took childcare criteria. leave for at least one day during the reporting period. * Rate of Return after Childcare Leave: Employees who returned from childcare leave during the reporting period Establish Preventative Management and Swift Response System * If the same employee with several children extends childcare leave for a Safe Work · To achieve zero accidents (serious disasters/accidents) different child, it is counted separately. Build safe worksites · To administer preemptive response to domestic and international regulatory Environment through accident reinforcement Management Establish prevention and become Kia Motors upholds the basic human rights of its employees. Employees can vent their grievance(s) through the intranet-based processing Improve Culture of Safety Awareness Policy a Corporate a global-leading system, where the progress and outcome of the handling of received grievance(s) can also be tracked. Furthermore, in its efforts to prevent Culture of Respect company in terms of · To spread safety awareness and comply with work procedures sexual harassment and protect human rights, Kia Motors gives its employees semi-annual classes on all the relevant laws, corporate regufor People safety to · To create a pleasant work environment and improve health Human Rights lations and related punishments. Also, Kia Motors runs the Sexual Harassment Counseling Center within the Employee Counseling Center achieve sustainable Promote CSR Management and Win-Win Cooperation to prevent such incidents at the source. Separately, the Committee for Female Employee Counseling assists female employees in resolving management any problems. · To increase cooperation with and participation by partner companies and local communities · To create corporate value as an eco-friendly company Based on the directive to “establish a high-performance organization for future business value creation,” Kia Motors is setting up a human resources fostering scheme and providing a range of HR development programs in order to contribute to improving the competency and Human Resource Kia Motors maintains safe and agreeable working conditions as stipulated in Article 79 of the Collective Agreement and through the Inperformance of its employees at home and abroad. To improve employees’ competencies, it is providing job training to develop global Development dustrial Health & Safety Committee, which is composed of seven members each from labor and management, at each plant. In addition top-level experts. In addition, by targeting future leaders, the company is systematically fostering human resources, including future leaderPreventing and to the Industrial Health and Safety Committee installed at each business site according to the Occupational Safety and Health Act, a ship building. Kia Motors is also creating a sound organizational culture so that individual employees and the organization can move in the Reacting to company-wide Industrial Health & Safety Committee convenes labor and management representatives from each plant to discuss and same direction and pursue the same overall goals together. At the same time, it is providing a consulting service designed to help employees create greater outcomes and resolve their job-related problems. Since 2004, Kia Motors has been offering a post-retirement life design Industrial Accidents reach agreements on major health and safety issues. The departmental safety and health working-level committee applies resolutions of the company-wide Industrial Health & Safety Committee and the committee of each plant to worksites and implements health and safety program to employees leaving the company through regular retirement. Under this program, the company offers opportunities for career measures according to the characteristics of each department. In addition to conducting regular inspections every third year, the company setting and helps relieve employees’ anxiety about retirement. In 2016, a total of 170 retirees participated in the program. Kia Motors was separately assesses the potential risks involved in production line renewal to identify processes that place burden on the musculoskeletal unsparing in its support, providing them with education on subjects including economy, occupation and health. In addition, Kia Motors is system and establish mid-to-long-term plans to improve such processes. If any musculoskeletal diseases are reported, Kia researches risk organizing human rights educational sessions related to sexual harassment as well as cultural, industrial safety and security education in factors and takes appropriate measures to improve the work process. order to establish human rights practices amid the current global management environment. Through these efforts, Kia Motors is preventFurthermore, Kia Motors has put in place a program to prevent hearing loss from worksite noise and respiratory damage from hazardous ing and improving a wide range of human rights violations that are happening or could potentially take place at its worksites. Kia Motors is airborne substances. All factory and plant workers receive regular health check-ups (ordinary, special, random, and pre-deployment) and also making efforts to respect the human rights of all stakeholders that are impacted by its management activities. can consult with doctors when needed, and the results of their health check-ups are inputted into a computerized database for any possible follow-up measures. Those who are diagnosed as having abnormal symptoms through the health check-up are categorized into three Employee Education & Training Unit: KRW, hour stages according to the risk of cardiovascular disease and receive doctor’s consultation, health management collective training, as well as Indicator 2014 2015 2016 company-wide safety and health training. When an employee is injured through an accident in daily life, he or she will receive compensaPer-employee Education & Training Expenses 600,000 470,000 300,000 tion during hospitalization through the group accident insurance. The company also offers individualized rehabilitation care (over a period of eight weeks) for employees returning to work after treatment for injuries caused by industrial accidents. Each plant is operated according Per-employee Education & Training Hours 43 33 47 to the certified I-HSE (Sohari and Gwangju plants: KOSHA 18001, Hwaseong plant: OSHAS 18001/ KOSHA 18001). In addition, Kia MoTotal Education & Training Expenses 20,000,000,000 19,700,000,000 18,500,000,000 tors strives for accident prevention by complying with standardized safe working methods, providing safety and health training to employees and re-inspecting health and safety facilities. Last year, the number of industrial accidents occurring at Kia Motors’ domestic worksites * Accumulated Number of Employees Who Completed Training in 2016: 290,274 declined by 16%, from 304 cases in 2015 to 255 in 2016. In fact, the frequency of accidents has been decreasing continuously over the last five years. Kia Motors has established mutually cooperative and productive labor-management relations based on communication and understanding. In this way, it is not only securing customers’ trust by providing them with high-quality products and services, but is also sincerely fulfilling Industrial Accident Rate Industrial Accidents in 2016 Labor-management its social duties, including giving back to society. No. of Accidents (cases) Accident Rate (%) Relations No. of Accidents (cases) Accident Rate (%) · Agreement on 8+8 Shift System: Both labor and management agreed to a change of work pattern to ensure employees’ health by reducing nighttime work and establishing a stable production system that maintains the current production 1.07 0.90 Sohari 44 0.75 0.76 volume (entered into effect as of Jan. 3, 2017). Hwaseong 124 1.02 · Agreement on Special Employment of Partner Companies: In response to the social issues surrounding part-time 73 1.01 Gwangju employment, Kia Motors has been making efforts to secure quality jobs through discussion and agreement between labor and * Industrial accident rate 363 304 255 14 0.17 management. As a result, special employment has been carried out for a total of 1,049 people. formula: Total number of Outside plants industrial accident · Labor-management Social Outreach: With the social outreach fund raised during collective bargaining, Total 255 0.76 workers/total workforce x Kia Motors provides the “Kia Dream Scholarship” to children of families suffering from automobile accidents. It is also striving to 100 fulfill its social responsibilities by performing a number of joint labor-management social outreach activities. 2014 2015 2016 80 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Appendix 81 Society Partner Companies ◆ Society Partner Companies · Local Communities ◆ Type Unit Primary Partners Secondary Partners Compliance Program Training Support & In-House Technical Assistance (Quality/ Technology Period No. of Targets Subjects 12 business types 6 95 Assistance through Volunteer Corps) companies Sessions Business Consulting (Partner Support Corps) 6 business areas 31 19 the Promotion of In-house 1H 7 Heads of domestic regional sales offices Latest cases related to the Franchise Business Promotion Technical Schooling 8 courses 1,058 261 (8 sessions) and dealers and service center Act and agencies; training on illegal internal trading the Foundation of managers Quality Schooling 10 courses 2,747 1,582 Korea Automotive 2H 10 Working-level staff from the Apgujeong and Guro Operation of customized courses including unfair transactions General Management Training 2 courses persons 329 91 Offices among domestic regional sales offices, and the Act on Fair Labeling and Advertising Parts Industry Seminars by Business Type 11 business types 1,020 2,362 directors of domestic regional sales offices Production Management Training 11 business types 26 68 Commissioned 1H 4 CP executives and working-level staff Participation on four occasions in training organized by the Fair Competition Federation on cases of illegal trading and violations of the Act on Fair Labeling and Advertising/fair trading policy 2H 4 Participation on four occasions in training organized by the Fair Payment Method Payment Cycle Competition Federation on key related laws, Payments for Parts for SME Partners Cash Weekly the Franchise Business Promotion Act, illegal internal trading and Goods & Services Domestic Use illegal corporate actions ME Partners (with annual sales of under KRW 500 billion) Cash Weekly ME Partners (with annual sales of KRW 500 billion or above) Cash e-promissory notes (60 days) Weekly Compliance Training Status in 2016 Large Corporations E-promissory notes (60 days) Weekly Parts for Export Cash Monthly Region No. of Sessions Persons General Compliance Training Korea 10 205 Overseas 2 611 Type Program No. of Sessions Persons Advanced Compliance Training Korea 29 7,230 Education/Training Executive/ Quality Competency Quality seminars and education for quality enhancement of parts 550+ 130,000+ Overseas 1 180 Working-level Programs for Job Training Job competency building/assistance education 450+ 24,000+ Anti-corruption Training Korea 21 1,100 Staff Partner Companies Quality Awareness Quality awareness and transparency/ethics education 400+ 59,000+ Overseas 2 611 Total (including overseas worksites) 1,400+ 213,000+ 2014 2015 2016 Total by Sector Kia Motors defines ethical management as the rectification of wrongful practices or cost structures in order to meet the ethical Social Outreach Social Welfare 10,306,917,495 11,904,885,000 10,504,828,455 32,716,630,950 Ethical standards for the benefit of stakeholders, and believes this is an effective means of enhancing the company’s long-term competitiveness. In order to secure the momentum for ethical management and monitor the status of its implementation, Kia Motors Expenditures Medical Care, Public Health 50,000,000 177,000,000 190,800,000 417,800,000 Management has formed the Transparent Management Committee under the BOD and assigned it the role of a supervisory organization. In Education, Schools and Academic Research 4,637,670,700 7,482,683,060 8,552,977,564 20,673,331,324 addition, it has established and encourages employees’ full compliance with the company’s detailed regulations and Charter of Arts & Culture, Sports 2,573,671,332 4,151,490,410 5,357,943,388 12,083,105,130 Ethics as guidelines to be followed at actual worksites. Furthermore, to raise awareness of ethical management throughout the Environment 253,855,000 532,460,000 66,000,000 852,315,000 entire company, it provides education and training on the Fair Trading Act to all its employees. Kia Motors also developed the CP Emergency & Disaster Relief 1,880,000,000 0 993,835,400 2,873,835,400 (Compliance Program) in 2002 to ensure the correct implementation and supervision of ethical management, and, since 2012, International Programs and Activities 3,246,032,416 3,709,434,380 4,427,897,528 11,383,364,324 the company has been operating a compliance management system as an advanced scheme aimed at integrating all its corporate compliance activities. Others 3,499,000,000 499,335,856 100,500,181 4,098,836,037 Total 26,447,146,943 28,457,288,706 30,194,782,516 85,099,218,165 Ethical Management, CP Details and Related Regulations * Scope: Data collection standard at domestic worksites, expenses qualifying as donations as per the relevant tax laws, cause marketing expenses and sponsorships classified as academic, arts & culture and sporting events. The CP (Compliance Program) is an internal compliance scheme that a company operates internally for the purpose of following Anti-corruption the laws and regulations on fair trade. Kia Motors has registered the CP operating regulations as its work standard and checks the status and progress of their implementation through internal audits. It also shares the details of this standard in company-wide 2014 2015 2016 Program notices and reports the implementation performance to the BOD. In addition, Kia Motors operates the Autonomous Compliance Social Outreach Annual Involvement (persons) 12,275 11,548 11,270 Committee, which is composed of fair trade-related executives and the heads of key departments, together with internal and Involvement Total Service Hours 33,968 35,590 36,032 external training sessions. In 2016, the CEO signaled his determination to practice autonomous compliance on six occasions to 1.00 1.05 1.06 Per-person Service Hours all the company’s employees, while customized training related to the key issues of fair trade was expanded. By inspecting the CP operational status, Kia awarded departments that achieved an excellent performance in autonomous compliance. As for its * Per-person service hours are the total number of service hours divided by the total number of employees in Korea for the respective year. partner companies, Kia Motors guarantees them equal opportunities by introducing the principle of competitive bidding for all transactions. In 2012, Kia Motors established a basic supporting organization for compliance management centered on the Chief Compliance Officer appointed by BOD and established corporate compliance control standard and its enforcement serve as the basis for its compliance management activities. Since 2013, Kia Motors has established compliance guidelines for application to its domestic and overseas worksites in relation to the major legal risks that had been identified, and has provided online and offline compliance training to its employees. In 2016, Kia Motors punished employees who were involved in cases of corruption that were detected through its internal monitoring system, including the Cyber Audit Office, according to the severity of each case. Kia Motors will continue to exert its best efforts to ensure fair competition and transparent work processes by performing strict inspection and prevention activities. 82 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Appendix 83 Environment Based on its environmental management key actions plans, Kia Motors sets targets for key indicators and monitors its perforKia Motors gets its water supply from reservoirs that hold more Water Resource Use Targets and mance against them. Water Resources than 200 million tons of water, such as Paldang Dam for its Groundwater consumption (m3) Total consumption (m3) Sohari and Hwaseong plants and Juam Dam for its Gwangju Performance by 2016 2017 Per-unit consumption (m3/ vehicle) Subcategory plant). Since 2000, the company has stemmed cooling water Indicator Target Performance Achievement Rate Target overflow, increased the water recovery rate from condensed 1,323,474 Green Growth Energy tCO2eq Unit reduction from steam, and conserved lavatory water use by carrying out con2003 6.7 25.0 25.1 100.4 26.0 5,718,554 (Greenhouse Gas) 2008 level tinuous water conservation campaigns. * Data Collection Target: Green Air Dust 65.0 70.4 108.3 65.0 In 2016, the company’s total production volume decreased 1,505,573 3 domestic plants (Sohari, 2014* 4.6 Production SOX 35.0 27.5 78.6 35.0 Hwaseong, Gwangju) slightly and, accordingly, total water resource consumption 6,648,282 40.0 30.2 75.5 40.0 * Per-unit Consumption dropped by 6.5% from the previous year. However, per-unit 1,020,980 NOX Unit reduction from (Discharge): Based on 2015* 4.5 * Data Collection Target: Water COD 2003 level 50.0 41.2 82.4 50.0 consumption increased by 2.2%. The efficiency of water input 6,463,932 3 domestic plants (Sohari, production volume, amount consumed or discharged is on the rise, as per-unit consumption declined by 31.3% Hwaseong, Gwangju) SS 50.0 15.0 30.0 20.0 1,128,013 per automobile produced from 2003, while total consumption increased by 5.7% over 2016 4.6 * Per-unit Consumption Hazardous Chemicals Amount Used 40.0 52.2 130.5 60.0 6,043,898 (Discharge): Based on * Each value has been the same period. production volume, amount Resource Waste Recycling 92.0 92.8 100.9 93.0 rounded off to the first or second decimal place * Water resource (groundwater) consumption has been modified according to a change in the method of data collection (2014, 2015), and the per-unit consumed or discharged Regeneration As a percentage of Landfill Disposal 1.0 1.7 58.8 1.0 consumption has also been modified. per automobile produced total waste output * Each value has been Incineration 6.0 5.5 109.1 5.0 rounded off to the first or In 2016, the three domestic plants (Sohari, Hwaseong, Gwangju) generated a total of 215,000 tons of waste, showing a decrease VOCs Amount Discharged Unit reduction from 56.0 49.7 88.8 56.0 of 8% from the previous year; however, compared to 2003, they showed an increase of 9.1%. Of this figure, 199,000 tons, or second decimal place 2005 level Waste Reduction & 92.8%, were recycled to make cement and other materials. In 2016, the per-unit waste output dropped by 29.9% from 2003. Recycling In 2016, the total volume of raw materials consumed declined by 10.9% from 2015, although it showed an increase of 19.3% * Data Collection Target: Waste Disposal by Method 3 domestic plants (Sohari, Raw Materials from 2003. However, the per-unit consumption of raw materials fell by 3.0% from 2015 and by 23.8% from 2003. The per-unit Hwaseong, Gwangju) 2003 2014 2015 2016 input of steel (not including partner companies’ steel usage) decreased by 25.0% from 2003, and both the total and per-unit input * Per-unit Consumption Total Per-unit waste Total Per-unit waste Total Per-unit waste Total Per-unit waste dropped from 2015. The per-unit consumption of paints and thinners also decreased by 9.6% and 11.7%, respectively from (Discharge): Based on waste (t) (kg/ vehicle) waste (t) (kg/ vehicle) waste (t) (kg/ vehicle) waste (t) (kg/ vehicle) 2003. Leftover zinc-coated steel is sent to steelmakers, while uncoated steel is recycled at the foundry in Gwangju. In 2016, 2,097 production volume, amount consumed or discharged Recycling 167,145 196.1 214,264 149.8 218,814 151.5 199,273 150.2 tons of steel were recycled, down 5,995 tons from the previous year. The Gwangju plant retrieves thinners and outsources them per automobile produced for recycling, and then reuses the recycled thinners within the plant. Landfill Disposal 16,931 15.0 2,049 1.4 2,881 2.0 3,582 2.7 * Each value has been rounded off to the first or Incineration 12,797 19.9 17,469 12.2 11,747 8.1 11,898 9.0 Steel (Steel Plate) Paints second decimal place Total 196,873 231.0 233,782 163.6 233,442 161.6 214,753 161.9 Total consumption (t) Per-unit consumption (kg/vehicle) Total consumption (t) Per-unit consumption (kg/vehicle) Kia Motors has consistently monitored its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and maintained a GHG inventory since 2006 when 240.0 215.4 14.7 Energy and it became the first Korean company to undertake third-party assurance of its GHG emissions on its service and production fa12.6 13.0 13.3 187.0 180.1 cilities. In compliance with the Framework Act on Low Carbon, Green Growth, which took effect in 2011, all of Kia Motors’ doGreenhouse Gas mestic worksites have been tracking and reporting their GHG emissions and energy consumption to the government retroactively since 2007. In 2016, Kia Motors’ domestic plants, service centers, sales offices, shipping offices and training centers collectively 307,969 generated GHG emissions totaling 769,909 tons, of which direct emissions from fuel consumption amounted to 275,087 tons 270,207 238,876 204,000 18,030 18,759 17,631 (scope 1) and indirect emissions from electricity use (scope 2) totaled 494,848 tons. Specifically, GHG emissions from the Sohari, 12,000 Hwaseong and Gwangju plants amounted to 747,955 tons, accounting for approximately 97% of the total emissions from Kia Motors’ domestic worksites. Meanwhile, its overseas worksites received their first third-party assurance on GHG emissions at the 2003 2014 2015 2016 2003 2014 2015 2016 Slovakia plant and China plants 1 and 2 in 2007. The Georgia plant in the U.S. followed suit in 2010, as did the Chinese plant 3 in 2014, and the Mexico plant in 2016, thus completing the third-party assurance of all of Kia Motors’ worksites. In 2016, the total GHG emissions from Kia Motors’ overseas worksites stood at 507,434 tons, which can be broken down into 135,449 tons of Thinners Total scope 1 emissions and 371,984 tons of scope 2 emissions. Total consumption (t) Per-unit consumption (kg/vehicle) Total consumption (t) Per-unit consumption (kg/vehicle) GHG Emission Reduction Performance and Goals 5.1 5.0 259.8 Having signed the voluntary agreement (VA) for energy conservation in 2000, Kia Motors is striving to slash its energy consump4.5 233.0 4.0 203.9 197.9 tion and GHG emissions, and has been submitting progress reports to the Korea Energy Management Corporation (KEMCO). As a proponent of the Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target initiative, Kia Motors sets annual reduction goals for its GHG emissions and energy consumption based on the mutual consent of the government, and has been reporting on its progress in this domain 7,153 333,152 294,739 since 2011. Kia Motors is also participating in the Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) that took effect in 2015. Under the scheme, 5,773 5,974 220,000 262,481 4,000 participants are allotted GHG emissions credits which they can exchange or trade in order to control their emissions within the set cap. Kia Motors will continue implementing its reduction initiatives to keep under the target set for the first phase (2015-2017). In * Data Collection Target: 3 domestic plants (Sohari, the longer run, however, the company has set the goal of curtailing per-unit GHG emissions by 30 percent from 2008 levels, and 2003 2014 2015 2016 2003 2014 2015 2016 * Calculation guidelines: Hwaseong, Gwangju) is looking to achieve the global automotive industry’s agreed-upon goal, namely cutting emissions by 7.8 percent compared to ISO 14064-1 (2006), WRI/ * Per-unit Consumption WBCSD GHG Protocol the BAU level by 2020. (Discharge): Based on (2004) Account Unit 2003 2014 2015 2016 * BAU (Business As Usual): Projected total amount of GHG emissions if no reduction measures are taken production volume, amount * Scope 3 is not calculated consumed or discharged Recycling Steel (Steel Plate) t 8,544 8,092 2,097 according to domestic laws per automobile produced * Greenhouse gas emissions Energy Management System kg/vehicle 5.9 5.6 1.6 * Each value has been can fluctuate slightly For the systematic management of energy consumption, Kia Motors is working to attain ISO 50001 (energy management systems) rounded off to the first or Waste Recycling (Not Reuse) t 167,145 214,264 218,814 199,273 through third-party certification. ISO 50001 is an international standard on corporate energy conservation planning and implementation that took effect second decimal place kg/vehicle 196.1 149.8 151.5 150.2 assurance in June 2011. The Gwangju plant acquired the certification in 2012, followed by the Sohari and Hwaseong plants in 2015. 84 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Appendix 85 Total Energy Consumption Unit: 1,000 TJ Total GHG Emissions Unit: 1,000 tCO2eq Air Pollutants Energy and Environmental Kia Motors has installed optimal air pollution prevention facilities at all of its plants as part of the drive to minimize its air pollutant Account 2008 2014 2015 2016 Account 2008 2014 2015 2016 emissions. In particular, it is using LNG, a clean fuel, to power the boilers at its domestic plants. In addition, the boilers and other Greenhouse Gases Plants 13.1 15.8 15.5 15.1 Plants 677 780 765 748 Pollutants high-polluting facilities at the Sohari and Hwaseong plants are equipped with tele-monitoring systems (TMS) for round-the-clock Others 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.4 Others 15 14 22 22 monitoring. The air pollutants emitted by each worksite are scrupulously controlled according to corporate standards that are Total 13.4 16.1 15.9 15.5 Total 692 794 787 770 only 30 percent of the legal minimum permissible amount. Thus, total GHG emissions for 2016 fell by 10.8% from 2015, while per-unit emissions dropped by 2.9% over the same period. However, against the base year (2003), the total volume and per-unit * Energy consumption at all domestic worksites (subject to slight fluctuations through third-party assurance) * Plants: Sohari, Hwaseong and Gwangju plants / Others: Corporate headquarters, service centers, sales offices, shipping offices, Osan Training Center and emissions dropped by 28.4% and 54%, respectively. The per-unit emission reduction since 2003 is equivalent to 27.5% for SOx, Pyeongtaek Port 30.2% for NOx and 70.4% for particulate matter (PM). Per-unit GHG Emissions Particulate Matter (PM) SOx Total emissions (t) Per-unit emissions (g/ vehicle) Total emissions (t) Per-unit emissions (g/ vehicle) Total GHG Emissions (1,000 tCO2eq) Per-unit Emissions (kgCO2eq/ vehicle) 745 706 753 691 691 694.0 1.3 615 599 630 600 545 530 564 259.4 257.4 0.9 797 818 788 780 765 591 205.3 692 685 677 643 742 748 0.8 0.8 599 371 372 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 272 1 1 1 1 * Scope: Domestic plants (Sohari, Hwaseong, Gwangju) * Emissions Calculation Formula: Scope 1 & 2 emissions based on lower heating value (2000-2006), Operating Guidelines on Greenhouse Gases and Energy Target Management System (Notification No. 2011-29 from the Ministry of Environment [2007 onwards]) 2003 2014 2015 2016 2003 2014 2015 2016 Employee Mobility Emissions NOx Total Kia Motors is currently applying a series of measures designed to minimize GHG emissions generated by employee commutes and Total emissions (t) Per-unit emissions (g/ vehicle) Total emissions (t) Per-unit emissions (g/ vehicle) business trips. Driving to work is discouraged by limiting the issuance of parking passes and enforcing a rotating parking system. At the same time, the company helps employees with their commutes by providing shuttle bus services. At present, some 26,500 employees, or 79% of the company’s domestic workforce (33,596 employees), are using the shuttle buses to get to and from 478.4 1,173.7 work. In order to reduce business trip distances, Kia Motors has set up a video conference infrastructure at all of its domestic and over320.2 333.7 297.6** seas worksites, while encouraging the use of public transportation and carpools for domestic business trips. Adopted in 2012, the 580.4 555.8** 539.9 number of carpool business trips surged by 321.0%, rising from 1,554 cases (2.8% of all business trips) in the first year to 4,988 (10.6%) in 2016. Although the total number of business trips increased by 5.0% from 51,616 in 2015 to 54,184 in 2016, the result458 430* 443 408 ing environmental load decreased, with traveling expenses for business trips dropping by 6.9% as a result of the decrease in the 1,000 number of employees driving to and from work, and from increases in the use of the carpool system and public transportation. 830 803 716 Video conferencing not only cuts CO2 emissions but also contributes to better meeting practices. Kia Motors’ Smart Work Campaign promotes an efficient conferencing culture while providing personal video conferencing equipment to applicants. In 2016, the number of video conferences increased considerably. In fact, around 760,000 video conferences, representing a threefold increase over the previous year (based on Hyundai Motor), were convened during this period. In addition, it established Telepresence* at 2003 2014 2015 2016 2003 2014 2015 2016 head office in December of the same year, and its sales offices in the US and Europe by March 2017 so as to decrease the number of business trips and to ensure accurate and swift decision-making and efficient operations. In addition to the existing video-con* NOx emissions were amended to 430.0 tons for 2015 (initially reported as 424.0 tons in 2016 due to an error in data collection) ** Per-unit emissions were modified as a result of the modification of NOx emissions for 2015. (Per-unit emissions for 2015 were reported as 293.5kg/ vehicle.) ference system and facilities, Kia Motors plans to continuously expand its digital conference infrastructure. No. of Cases in 2015 No. of Cases in 2016 Comparison with the Previous Year VOCs VOC Emissions Privately-owned Vehicles 16,827 15,809 94.0% VOCs* are one of the main culprits behind global warming and Total emissions (t) Per-unit emissions (kg/ vehicle) Express Buses, Nonstop Buses, Airport Shuttles 13,068 15,940 122.0% ozone depletion, generating noticeably unpleasant odors. Kia Railway Express Railway 9,808 9,177 93.6% Motors makes every effort to minimize its use of VOCs and the 10.8 Saemaeul Train 1,135 949 83.6% related emissions in its manufacturing processes. However, VOC emissions in 2016 increased by 0.9% from the previous 5.9 Air 394 317 80.5% 4.9 5.4 year, while per-unit emissions rose by 9.9% as a result of a Carpool 4,462 4,988 111.8% decrease in production volume. Nevertheless, in comparison 10,385 Other (Subway, Intra-city Buses) 5,922 7,004 118.3% to the base year (2005), the total and per-unit emissions de8,475 Total 51,616 54,184 105.0% creased by 30.6% and 49.7%, respectively. 7,142 7,206 * Telepresence: A virtual video conference system that creates the illusion that the participants are actually sitting face to face in the same room via the application of virtual reality (digital display) and Internet technologies. Telepresence is a highly advanced next-generation conference tool that represents a significant step up from the existing video conference system * Since 2016, business trips without travel expense payment are included in the total number of business trips (intra-city bus and subway trips are processed as intra-city travel expenses) * VOCs: Volatile Organic Ompounds 2005 2014 2015 2016 86 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Appendix 87 Water Pollutants & Hazardous Chemicals Kia Motors has obtained certification for the environmental management system implemented at its domestic and overseas plants Environmental Kia Motors has created a database of all the chemical substances applied to its automobiles output since 2005 through the Environmental (ISO 14001). Each year, it identifies and thereby improves its environmental management status and related problems through group-wide e-CMS (chemical management system). Furthermore, each plant has installed independent systems to monitor their an internal audit and an inspection by a certified organization. In Korea, the environmental management operational standards Pollutants Management use of hazardous chemicals on a regular basis. In 2015, the Hwaseong plant replaced the ion-exchange type manufacturing applied to the three plants and the service business division were integrated in 2014. In 2016, Kia Motors improved the integrated technique applied to its painting process with the reverse osmotic type, thereby minimizing the use of hazardous chemicals. The System standard prior to its application as a company-wide standard. It plans to upgrade its environmental management system accordapplication of this technique will be gradually expanded to the Sohari and Gwangju plants in phases. ing to ISO 14001:2015 while simultaneously raising the standard of its environmental management system operation through In 2016, the total input of hazardous chemicals decreased by 37.5% from the previous year with the per-unit input dropping by trained internal auditors. By 2018, it will apply ISO 14001:2015 to all worksites. In 2016, Kia Motors provided special and general 31.9%. Compared to 2003, the total volume and per-unit input fell by 22.2% and 52.2%, respectively. According to the Chemieducation on the environment through a specialist institute in order to improve the job competencies of its employees who work cals Control Act, which took effect in 2015, Kia Motors has reorganized its internal system as part of its management activities to in environment-related fields. The company plans to continuously provide this education. prevent accidents involving hazardous chemicals. As a result, Kia Motors had no cases of accidents or violations of the related laws in 2016. Both production volume and domestic water supply input decreased in 2016. In addition, as the concentration of Each year, Kia Motors collects data on its environmental improvement and management expenses by classifying them into five major water pollutants, such as COD, dropped, the overall volume of water pollutant emissions decreased. As for water pollutant Environmental categories. Since 2004, it has been collecting data on each type of environmental expenditure by introducing a classification sysdischarge in 2016, the total and per-unit amounts increased by 6.2% and 2.2%, respectively, from the previous year; but the tem. In 2015, Kia Motors set up an environmental investment framework to manage air quality, water quality, waste materials and amounts decreased by 6.8% and 40.1%, respectively, compared with the figures for 2003. Since 2003, the per-unit discharge Expenditures hazardous substances by medium. The company is also promoting improvements in the conversion to eco-friendly facilities so amounts of COD and SS have decreased by 41.2% and 15.0% respectively (as of 2016). as to fundamentally eradicate environmental issues when executing environmental investments, such as by replacing old facilities and introducing new ones. In 2015, the Hwaseong plant introduced green manufacturing facilities that do not require the use of COD SS hazardous chemicals for its painting line, thereby drastically reducing the input of toxic substances. This measure will be applied Total emissions (t) Per-unit emissions (g/ vehicle) Total emissions (t) Per-unit emissions (g/ vehicle) to other plants in phases. Since 2014, Kia Motors has increased its environmental expenditures, including environmental invest72.9 9.0 ments, to achieve continuous reduction of its environmental load. As of 2016, the company spent KRW 87.8 billion on environ8.5 7.7 mental facilities and initiatives over a period of three years. 49.5 42.9 40.1 4.4 Domestic & Overseas Environmental Expenditures Unit: KRW 1,000 12 71 10 62 58 57 8 Category of Expenditure 2014 2015 2016 6 Direct Reduction on Environmental Loads Environmental Investments & Maintenance 20,321,968 33,509,692 21,754,706 Indirect Reduction on Employee Environmental Education & 970,912 831,240 888,906 Environmental Loads Assessments 2003 2014 2015 2016 2003 2014 2015 2016 Waste Disposal & Recycling Waste Disposal Outsourcing 4,309,483 4,148,675 4,345,902 Environmental Risk Management Costs Environmental Regulatory Compliance & 10,080 Others Total 7,400 0 Accident Prevention Total emissions (t) Per-unit emissions (g/ vehicle) Total emissions (t) Per-unit emissions (g/ vehicle) Total 25,612,443 38,497,007 26,989,514 34.7 34.5 141.9 21.5 75.4 83.2 85.1 Kia Motors is developing eco-friendly and pleasant worksites by creating more green areas in proportion to the increase in areas Afforestation with buildings. It has strictly controlled soil-polluting factors since 2000 and, as a result, has prevented even a single case of soil 51 50 121 120 contamination during the past fifteen years. 46 108 113 31 Afforestation Status Sohari Hwaseong Gwangju Slovakia (KMS) 2003 2014 2015 2016 2003 2014 2015 2016 Area (m2) 498,908 3,199,636 1,014,941 1,898,288 Building Area (m2) 226,539 1,162,072 597,446 288,281 * Others: n-H, T-P, T-N Account Unit 2003 2013 2014 2015 2016 Green Area (m2) 74,850 663,848 80,007 1,218,314 * BOD (biochemical oxygen Hazardous Chemicals t 2,283 3,440 3,297* 2,840* 1,776 Green Ratio (%) 27.5 32.6 19.2 75.7 demand) is a water pollution indicator similar kg/ vehicle 2.8 2.6 2.3 2.0** 1.3 to COD (chemical oxygen China 1(DYK1) China 2(DYK2) China 3(DYK3) Georgia(KMMG) Mexico(KMM) TRI Chemicals t 41,206 44,756 45,258 demand), with which it was Area (m2) 405,258 1,473,120 1,470,000 2,611,380 3,338,843 (2013 2015) integrated in 2016 kg/ vehicle 31.4 31.3 31.3 * SS (Suspended Solids): Building Area (m2) 90,415 275,536 223,602 225,048 203,583 * The total amount was modified due to an error in hydrogen peroxide data collection in 2014 – 2015 (In 2016, 3,280 tons(2014) and 2,816 tons(2015) were * Green area ratio: Concentration of solids Green Area (m2) 36,752 310,437 337,581 785,487 1,219,021 reported as a result of an error in data collection) Green area/ (site area suspended in water ** Per-unit emissions were modified as a result of modification of the total amount for 2015 (per-unit emissions for 2015 reported as 1.9kg/ vehicle) building area) Green Ratio (%) 11.7 25.9 27.1 32.9 38.9 Kia Motors shares information on controlled chemicals with its partners through the IMDS and its own in-house-developed Partners’ e-CMS. Changes in environmental regulations and industrial trends are updated during the regular education sessions held for our partner companies in order to promote the elimination of the use of hazardous substances and their substitution with safer subEnvironmental stances. Random inspections of our partners’ production lines are accompanied with the corresponding disciplinary measures, Management or corrective requests are made depending on the seriousness of the use or type of substance. The use of any of the four major heavy metals automatically results in a 10-point deduction from a company’s quality management score under the Quality FiveStar scheme. As for the IMDS-banned and carcinogenic chemicals, a corrective order is issued and the relevant training and education is mandated. Kia Motors provides its primary partners with environmental management guidelines under the Agreement on the Supply of Eco-Friendly Automotive Parts as signed in 2007. Kia Motors also regularly updates and distributes guidelines on global environmental regulations pertaining to automotive parts manufacturing. 88 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Appendix 89 Kia Motors Slovakia A Responsible Corporate Citizen from Slovakia Slovakia plant Environmental CO2(Energy) Total Emissions Unit: 1000 tons CO2(Energy) Per-unit Emissions Unit: t/ vehicle Performance at Overseas Plants 2014 53 2014 0.2 Kia Motors Slovakia strives to fulfill the company’s vision and become a “lifetime partner in automobiles and beyond,” while also working 2015 55 2015 0.2 hard for a better future. At the same time, Kia Motors Slovakia is determined to be a responsible corporate citizen. Achieving this goal is beneficial not only for the Zilina region, where Kia Motors built its first European factory, but for all of Slovakia, whether looked at 2016 59 2016 0.2 from an economic or social perspective. Thus, a great deal of attention is paid to human resources, education, health, environment and safety, fair and ethical business practices, and customer and supplier care. Because of such approach to social responsibility, Kia Motors China Yancheng Plant 1 Slovakia was on April 4, 2017, awarded the most prestigious CSR award in Slovakia for its activities in 2016 Via Bona 2016 in the main CO2(Energy) Total Emissions Unit: 1000 tons CO2(Energy) Per-unit Emissions Unit: t/ vehicle category Large Responsible Company. Via Bona means “the right way.” The Via Bona Awards have been presented annually since 1998 by the Pontis Foundation, the largest 2014 45 2014 0.3 charity group in Slovakia. Winners are selected by assessing the corporate responsibilities of all stakeholders involved in the companies’ profit-making activities. This year, ten companies competed in the large enterprises category. Only three companies were selected and 2015 41 2015 0.3 Kia Motors Slovakia was the first ever automobile brand to win. 2016 40 2016 0.4 China Yancheng Plant 2 CO2(Energy) Total Emissions Unit: 1000 tons CO2(Energy) Per-unit Emissions Unit: t/ vehicle 2014 119 2014 0.4 2015 113 2015 0.4 2016 112 2016 0.4 Environment Employees Partners Local Community China Yancheng Plant 3 Energy savings (17%) and reducing CO2 emissions (13%) through effiActively responding to employees’ needs by operating the “Harmony Selecting and assessing partners based on transparent management EUR 1.9million cient plant operations Room” at worksites (fair bidding) Cost Implemented 181 CSR CO2(Energy) Total Emissions Unit: 1000 tons CO2(Energy) Per-unit Emissions Unit: t/ vehicle Projects 2014 99 2014 0.6 -17% Managing/supporting partners Energy Savings through regular seminars 521people 2015 101 2015 0.5 Employee Participation 2016 122 2016 0.4 -13% in Volunteer Programs Reducing CO₂ Emissions U.S. Georgia Plant CO2(Energy) Total Emissions Unit: 1000 tons CO2(Energy) Per-unit Emissions Unit: t/ vehicle Milestones 2014 122 2014 0.3 2004 Mar. KMS established 2011 Nov. One millionth engine produced at Kia Motors Slovakia 2015 111 2015 0.3 Apr. Groundbreaking ceremony for the Slovakia plant 2012 Jan. Grand celebration for production of the one millionth 2006 Dec. Initial production of the cee’d car at Kia Motors Slovakia 2016 109 2016 0.3 2007 Apr. Completion ceremony of the Slovakia plant 2013 Mar. Kia pro_cee’d GT and cee’d GT make their world debut Oct. cee’d production volume exceeded 100,000 at Geneva Motor Show Mexico plant Nov. Slovakia plant received ISO 14001 certification 2014 Sep. Won a European Business Award 2014/15 in CO2(Energy) Total Emissions Unit: 1000 tons CO2(Energy) Per-unit Emissions Unit: t/ vehicle 2008 Apr. cee’d became the first Korean car to receive ISO 14062 the Environmental & Corporate Sustainability category certification from TÜV Nord 2015 Apr. KMS’s cumulative production volume exceeded 2014 2014 2009 Feb. Kia had the quality production of two million vehicles * GHG emissions can its vehicles verified Recipient of the Quality Management Aug. cee’d production volume exceeded one million units fluctuate slightly through 2015 2015 third-party assurance. System ISO 9001 certificate 2017 Apr. KMS was awarded Via Bona 2016 * The Mexico plant began 2016 66 2016 0.6 2010 May. New engine shop construction begun at (Large Responsible Company Category) operating in 2016 Kia Motors Slovakia 90 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Appendix 91 Environment recyclability increase and fulfilment of clean production. Throughout An Environmental Management System at Kia Motors Slovakia is the whole manufacturing process, Kia Motors Slovakia takes environbased on corporate social responsibility principles valid for the whole ment into consideration focusing on car production and R&D activities Hyundai Motor Group divided into economical, societal and environwhich are environmentally friendly. Evidence of such behavior is shown mental responsibility. The company implements management systems in the implementation of the Environmental Management System, in order to achieve its environmental responsibility as an outstanding which was certified according to the international standard ISO 14001. carmaker. Environmental strategy is based on the key factors such Among others are certificates received for manufactured car models: as minimization of climate change effect, reduction of gas emission, LCA Life Cycle Assessment based on ISO 14040 and Integrating Environmental Aspects into Product Design and Development based on ISO 14062. The company is a member of several national and international environmental groupings, e.g. membership in the legislative committee of Automotive Industry Association of the Slovak Republic, working groups of ACEA (industrial emissions, process chemicals, REACH), etc. The Environmental Management System commits the company to comply not only with the required legislation, but also with a constant improvement of environmental protection, regular evaluation of environmental performance and growth in environmental awareness of all employees. An important part of the system is regular monitoring and evaluation of consumption of water, energy, materials as well as the amount of waste, waste waters and emissions over the period of one car production, and acceptance of environmental goals for their reduction. The Kia manufacturing plant reduces its long-term impact on the enviHuman Resources in South Korea. Throughout the year 2016, Kia Motors Slovakia’s ronment. While using the electric energy in the main plant, the energy As of December 31, 2016, the plant employed a total of 3,625 peoemployees were trained for 41,986 hours altogether. For employees effectivity has been improved by 17 percent in the last five years due ple, while the average age reached 35 years.The human resources with best work results, Kia organizes a motivational program Kia Spirit to implementation of innovative solutions. Also decreased consumppolicy at Kia Motors Slovakia stands on the following basic pillars: Up every year in South Korea; last year, 60 of them participated in the tion of natural gas has been recorded thanks to which the amount of employee care, transparent communication with employees on horiprogram. Kia Motors Slovakia has its own Training Centre. CO2 emitted during the car production was reduced by 13 percent in zontal level, highly competitive remuneration system, and wide range the same period. Kia has confirmed its responsible approach towards of benefits usable in free time as well as improvement of conditions Safety at Work the environment by planting 1,258 trees on its premises. for employees. Since 2005, a unique concept of counselling rooms In 2016, several activities in the field of occupational health were carThe goal of Kia Motors Slovakia is to proceed in the development of so-called Harmony rooms have been utilized; Harmony rooms are ried out focusing on prevention against health damage of employees, environmental management because environmental protection is a located directly in production shops, through which employees have especially through medical exams, field evaluation factors of work and key to a successful business and sustainable development. an opportunity to actively participate in improvement of the working workplaces as well as ergonomics. Throughout the year, orientation environment and relationships in the workplace. exams with electromyograph and perimeter were launched at the Suppliers Every year the company organizes events for its employees and their company’s doctor’s office, which optimize conditions for selection of Kia Motors Slovakia takes its supplier chain very seriously, as our family members; the most significant ones being the Kia Family Day employees for certain positions. success and the quality of our products depend on the quality and and Parents’ Day. This year, in the area of field evaluation of work factors, the company excellent performance of our suppliers. When choosing a supplier, the In order to increase the level of care for its employees and offer asfocused on re-evaluation of all positions in the plant that are in contact company keeps three key things in mind: quality, delivery time, and sistance in overcoming personal difficulties, the company prepared a with chemical agents. At the same time, in cooperation with producprice. Kia Motors Slovakia organizes seminars and training sessions new program of psychological counseling available from December tion related departments and based on results from measurement of for suppliers during which we exchange information and strengthen 2016. work factors (noise, vibration and physical load), a uniform so-called mutual cooperation. Also, Kia Motors Slovakia is fiscally responsible healthiest possible rotation of positions was established during a shift in terms of payment discipline. In fact, the company is adamant about Education in four production shops, according to which the Regional Office of paying suppliers on time and within the agreed upon contract period, Kia Motors Slovakia has, since its inception, focused on the personal Public Health in Zilina categorized positions to one of the four work general terms and conditions. and professional growth of its employees, which the company considcategories. ers a key to its success. Last year, production and administrative emIn ergonomics we successfully managed to improve workplaces, e.g. Customer Care ployees attended 345 different types of trainings, including trainings by supplementing ergonomic pads for underneath the feet and exKia Motors Slovakia offers its products with a unique seven-year required by law. changing or determining processes of repairing vibration tools. Morewarranty—the longest provided by any car company in Europe. In The goal of all trainings was to improve their skills and increase their over, Kia Motors Slovakia purchased ergonomic software that we plan addition, our sales department communicates with customers at expertise as well as strengthen the work and management competo start using in 2017, thereby contributing to analysis of problematic regular conferences and meetings organized in cooperation with the tencies. Kia Motors Slovakia also organizes trainings in cooperation places and positions in terms of physical load. Suggested solutions European headquarters for sales and marketing as well as the Korean with the parent company Kia Motors Corporation. The main objective of problematic places will be consulted and applied by members of a headquarters. Based on current needs, investigations into problem aris to acquire necessary skills and technical knowledge required for work group created in 2016 to make workplaces even more effective eas are conducted directly at the related dealer, allowing the company production of new models. In 2016, 91 employees attended trainings from ergonomics point of view. to gather feedback on product quality and overall cooperation. 92 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Appendix 93 Making a Difference in The Community In 2016, Kia Motors Slovakia continued to realize its intention to be vocational practical training in the Kia plant. In the 2016/2017 school year, Kia is participating in the dual education system for the first time. About This Report a responsible partner for organizations and inhabitants of the Zilina Twenty-two students in total will graduate in Mechanical specialist of Self-Governing Region by supporting various philanthropic activities. car production and Programmer of machining and welding tools and The company supported 181 projects via Kia Motors Slovakia Foundevices. The students have not only been receiving practical experiSince 2003, Kia Motors has been publishing its annual sustainability report, “MOVE,” to disclose its efforts and progress in maindation with the total amount of EUR 1,614,726. The company also ence with the most attractive employer in the Zilina region, they are Introduction taining and enhancing sustainability and to renew its commitment to proactive action and improvements for its stakeholders by donated a financial amount of EUR 375,000 for direct realization of also going to be guaranteed a working position after their graduation. reflecting their feedback. projects. The primary fields of support in 2016 were self-realization of Six secondary students and two university students have joined the Borrowing from the more liberal structure of magazines, “MOVE” strives to improve its reader-friendliness each year. For this report, we have augmented our analysis of international standards, industry best practices, and media coverage to provide more disabled sportsmen, equal opportunities for minority groups, increase scholarship program at Kia Motors Slovakia in the 2016/2017 school information of concern to our stakeholders. The 2017 report has been compiled under the theme of “Between Cars and (someof environmental stability and safety, education, culture, development year. Conditions for obtaining scholarships were excellent study rething).” This report shows which values Kia Motors endeavors to realize between cars and human, cars and nature, and cars and of sports and volunteering of the company employees. sults and practical vocational training during their studies. Kia Motors challenge, and how Kia Motors is taking up challenges to advance towards a better world with its stakeholders. A significant part of the corporate responsibility of Kia Motors Slovakia Slovakia offers plant tours of its production shops to secondary vocais the company’s volunteering program: blood donation, support of 20 tional school students and technical university students. In 2016, 3,422 Kia Motors’ 2017 Sustainability Report follows the comprehensive GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4). Item-for-item covReporting nonprofit organizations via volunteering or help with reconstruction of students accompanied by their teachers visited the production plant. erage ratings and the relevant pages can be found in the GRI Index in the Appendices section. Standards Zilina Faculty Hospital. In 2016, Kia volunteers worked for 1,875 hours * GRI : Global Reporting Initiative altogether. In the same year, 69 of our employees participated in the Due Fulfilment of Obligations largest volunteering event in Slovakia titled Our City, which benefited Kia Motors Slovakia follows and fulfils all legal obligations, such as Reporting & All of the information disclosed herein is based on verified materials gathered by the relevant departments of Kia Motors. To en10 various organizations in the Zilina region in one day. In 2016, Kia filing reports and payment of taxes, insurance and all other obligations hance its reliability, the DNV GL, a third-party assurance agency, has verified this report. The assurance statement is provided in Assurance the Appendices section of this report. Motors Slovakia Foundation in cooperation with the National Blood under VAT, customs duties and employee-related duties. The comTransfusion Service organized three blood donations for administrative pany observes the obligations under the statutory audit act, whereby employees. The most precious body fluid was donated 57 times. Volthe legally stipulated functions of the audit committee rest with the This report covers the period from 2014 to 2016. The quantitative performance data covers trends over the past three years in orReporting Scope & der to provide a comprehensive overview of all positive and/or negative progress. The base year is listed for systems whose year untary blood donations have been organized in Kia Motors Slovakia company’s supervisory board. Investment reports about the fulfilment of adoption is clear. If the point of adoption is 2015-2016, however, only the performance data for the year in question in adoption since 2007. of obligations connected with the drawing of state aid are prepared on Period is included. As for the qualitative performance, this report focuses on 2016 activities and initiatives. The corresponding time peria regular basis and provided to the Ministry of Economy of the Slovak od is listed for those activities and efforts that are under way without any significant changes upon their adoption or implementaCooperation with Schools Republic. Kia settled all due claims and due liabilities towards all state tion. The reporting period corresponds to Kia Motors’ fiscal year, which is January 1 to December 31. There were no significant Kia Motors Slovakia has cooperated actively with secondary vocationauthorities by December 31, 2016. changes during the reporting period of the Kia Motors 2017 Sustainability Report. al schools in the Zilina region since 2007; since then it has enabled more than 700 students to obtain practical experience in its proThe tabulation of environmental and socially responsible investments and expenditures meet the accounting standards assured Accounting by the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee, and independent auditors, and follow the investment assessment standards duction facilities. In the 2016/2017 school year, 39 students finished Standards adopted in 2004. Details of the environmental and CSR expenditures are provided in the Data Sheet in the Appendices section of this report. This report covers those of Kia Motors’ subsidiaries that are joint stock companies in which it owns 50 percent or more shares, Reporting Scope and those overseas offices which are joint-venture corporations. The subjects of the report include domestic worksites (headquarters; Sohari, Hwaseong, and Gwangju plants; technical centers; and service centers) as well as overseas plants such as Dongfeng Yueda Kia (China), Georgia (U.S.), Slovakia and Mexico plants, and the technical centers and worksites of all overseas offices. The data collection schemes were first applied to our Korean worksites followed by our overseas worksites. This means that some of the coverage in this report is confined only to domestic worksites, and is footnoted or noted accordingly in the main text. The Korean version of 2017 “MOVE” was published on March 24, 2017 and distributed at the general shareholders’ meeting. The Reporting Cycle & English version was published on May 12, 2017. This is the 15th edition of Kia Motors’ annual sustainability report. Additional Please refer to the following resources for additional information. Information Management and Product Information: Kia Motors’ official website and official PR website Business Report: Kia Motors’ PR website, Repository of Korea’s Corporate Filing to the Financial Supervisory Service Department in Charge: CSR Management Team, Planning Division (Refer to the “Contact Us” page for contact information) 94 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Appendix 95 Independent Assurance Statement At request of Kia Motors Corporation (the “Company”), we have reviewed the information presented in 2017 Kia Motors Materiality Introduction Sustainability Magazine MOVE (the “Report”). The management of the Company is responsible for preparing the Report. Has the Report covered material aspects of the Company? Our responsibility is to carry out a limited assurance engagement on the Report and to provide opinions on it based on ∙ We are not aware of any material aspects related to the Company’s CSR performance which have been our review. excluded from the Report. ∙ We are not aware of any matters that would lead us to conclude that the Company has not applied the Our assurance engagement has been performed to review the Report’s application of the ‘Principles for Defining Report materiality assessment process in developing the Report. Procedures Content’ set out in the “G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines”. Performed Completeness The procedures we performed for our assurance engagement are as follows: Has the Report included coverage of material aspects and their boundaries, sufficient to reflect significant economic, · Reviewed the Company’s stakeholder engagement process environmental and social impacts, and to enable stakeholders to assess the organization’s performance in the reporting · Reviewed the Company’s process for determining of material issues. period? · Reviewed media sources addressing CSR issues during the Reporting period that are relevant to the Company. ∙ We are not aware of any matters that would lead us to conclude that the Company has not applied the · Analyzed latest CSR reports published by peers. completeness principle in developing the Report. · Interviewed a selection of people in charge to understand the current status of sustainability performance and ∙ We recommend that the Company reports several environmental and social data and performance, the Reporting process during the Reporting period. which are currently focused on domestic facilities, expanded to the Company’s overseas worksites. We undertook a limited assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000*. The nature, timing and the extent of proIndependence We comply with the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants. Level of Assurance cedures for gathering sufficient, appropriate evidence are deliberately limited relative to a reasonable assurance engagement. * International Standard on Assurance Engagement(Revised) Published by International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board: Our Assurance Team Our assurance team is composed of CSR professionals with competencies and experience in assurance engagements. Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information This assurance statement has been prepared solely for distribution to the Management of the Company in accordance Limitations of with the terms of our engagement. We do not accept or assume any liability or responsibility for any other purpose or to Our Review any other person or organization. The result of our review is outlined below. Jin-Sug Suh Our Conclusions Stakeholder Inclusiveness Regional Managing Partner Has the Company identified its key stakeholders and responded to their expectations and interests? EY Han Young ∙ We are not aware of any key stakeholder groups which have been excluded from stakeholder engagement process Seoul, Korea mentioned in the Report. May 2017 ∙ We are not aware of any matters that would lead us to conclude that the Company has not applied the stakeholder inclusiveness principle in developing the Report. Sustainability Context Has the Report presented the Company’s performance in the wider context of sustainability? ∙ We are not aware of any matters that would lead us to conclude that the Company has not applied the sustainability context principle in developing the Report. 96 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Appendix 97 GRI(G4) Index Fully reported Partially reported Not reported Not applicable Fully reported Partially reported Not reported Not applicable Performance Performance Description Status Page Description Status Page Indicator Indicator 1. General Standard Disclosures G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 13~15 Strategy and G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 8, 9 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to Ethics and G4-57 82, 83 Analysis G4-2 Provides a description of Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 10~15, 20~32 organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines Integrity G4-3 Report the name of the organization 6, 7 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related G4-58 80~83 to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines G4-4 The primary brands, products, and services 6, 7 2. Specific Standard Disclosures G4-5 The location of the organization's headquarters 7, Back cover The number of countries where the organizaion operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant operations Economic G4-6 6, 7 or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-EC1 Direct econmic value generated and distributed 34~37 G4-7 The nature of ownership and legal form 16, 17 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change 26, 27, 50~57 G4-8 The markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) 6, 7 Economic Performance Corporate pension plan in G4-9 Scale of the organization 76, 77, 79 G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations Organizational operation Profile G4-10 Total workforce 79 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 58, 59 G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation Refer to our business report G4-12 The organization's supply chain 52, 56, 82 Market Presence G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation 59 G4-13 Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization's size, sutructure, ownerhsip, or its supply chain 6, 7, 16, 17 Indirect Economic G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 66~73 G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 36, 37 Impacts G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 22, 23, 66~73 List Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes G4-15 9, 73, 75 Procurement Practices G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation or endorses G4-16 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization 75 Environmental G4-17 List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents 6, 7, Refer to our business report G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 53~55, 84~90 Materials G4-18 The porcess for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 19 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 53~55, 84, 85 Identified G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 19, 46, 50, 58, 62 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 53~55, 84~90 Material Aspects G4-20 For each material Aspect, report Aspect Boundary within the organization 19 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization 84~90 and Boundaries G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization 19 Energy G4-EN5 Energy intensity 84~90 G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements 95 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 50~57, 84~86 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 95 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 24~32, 38~44 G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 18 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 85 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 18 Stakeholder G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 85 Engagement G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 18 Water No reuse/recycling of Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused G4-27 18, 19 water resources those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting G4-28 Reporting period such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided 95 G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 95 G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on Biodiversity Boidiversity G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored G4-30 Reporting cycle such as annual, biannial) 95 Report Profile G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 101, Back cover Total number of IUCN red list species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas afected by operaions, G4-EN14 by level of extinction risk G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen 98~100 G4-33 Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 96, 97 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions (scope 1) 85, 86 G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body 16, 17 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions (scope 2) 85, 86 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions (scope 3) G4-35 16, 17 senior executives and other employees Emissions G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 85, 86, 90 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions 55, 85, 86, 90 G4-36 14~17 social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics G4-37 16, 17 If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body G4-EN21 Nox, Sox, and other significant air emissions 54, 55, 87 G4-38 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees 16, 17 G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 53~55, 57, 84, 85 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, his or her function within the organization’s G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 53~55, 57, 84, 85 G4-39 16 management and the reasons for this arrangement) Effluents and G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 53~55, 57, 84, 85 Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating Waste G4-40 16, 17 G4-EN25 Weight of trnsported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous and selecting highest governance body members G4-41 Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed 16, 17 Identity, size, proteted status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and realted habitats significantly affected by G4-EN26 55, 88 the organization's discharges of water and runoff Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s G4-42 16, 17 purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts Products and G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitication of environmental impacts of products and services 26, 27, Book in Book Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and Services G4-EN28 Percentage of porducts sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 57 G4-43 16, 17 social topics Monetary value of significatn fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, Compliance G4-EN29 89 G4-44 16, 17 environmental laws and regluations environmental and social topics Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials ofr the organization's operations, Governance Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and Transport G4-EN30 56, 86 G4-45 16, 17 and transporting members of the workforce opportunities Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 89 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for economic, G4-46 16, 17 G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using enviromental criteria 65 environmental and social topics Supplier Environmental G4-47 Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities 16, 17 Assessment G4-EN33 significant actual and potential engative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 65 Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all Environmental G4-48 16, 17 G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievnce mechanisms material Aspects are covered Grievance Mechanisms G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body 16, 17 Labor Practices and Decent Work Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new empoyee hires and empoyee turnover by age group, gender, and region 79 G4-50 16, 17 used to address and resolve them Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, G4-51 Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives 16, 17 Employment G4-LA2 80 by significant locations of operation Report the process for determining remuneration Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration and G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 80 G4-52 whether they are independent of management Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization Labor/Management Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements 81 G4-53 Relations remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable Occupational Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to G4-LA5 81 G4-54 Refer to our business report Health and Safety help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in G4-55 each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees Refer to our business report (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country 98 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Appendix 99 Fully reported Partially reported Not reported Not applicable Performance Description Status Page Indicator Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, G4-LA6 81 by region and by gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 81 G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 81 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee, by gender, and by employee category 80 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them Training and Education G4-LA10 80 in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category Diversity and Equal Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, G4-LA12 16, 17, 58~61, 79 Opportunity minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Equal Remuneration 59, 80, G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation for Women and Men Refer to our business report Supplier Assessment G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practice criteria for Labor Practices G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken 65 Labor Pracitces G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 80 Grievance Mechanisms Human Rights Contact Us Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent G4-HR1 human rights screening Investment G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, 80~83 Board of the Sustainability Report Environment Society including the percentage of employees trained Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 80, 81 Byung-Yun Park Ji-Min Song Young-Jae Lee Freedom of Association Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or G4-HR4 59, 80 Senior Vice President, Corporate Planning Division Research Engineer, Regulation & Certification Team 2 Manager, Procurement Planning Team and Collective Bargaining at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to Yong-Sun Kwak Ji-Hwan Choi Hoi-Kang Kim Child Labor G4-HR5 Prohibition of child labor the effective abolition of child labor Director, Management Strategy Group Staff, Product Management Team Manager, Labor Relations Negotiation Team Forced of Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to G4-HR6 Prohibition of compulsory labor Compulsory Labor the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Kye-Hwan Roh Sung-Hun Kim Yoo-Jin Lee Security Practices G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations Deputy General Manager, CSR Management Team Deputy General Manager, Production Logistics Planning Team Manager, Vision Strategy Team Indigenous Rights G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken Dae-Hyeong Jin Jae-Kyung Shin Won-Bae Kim Assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 82, 83 Deputy General Manager, CSR Management Team Staff, Safety Management Team Staff, Supplier Cooperation Team Supplier Human G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 65 Rights Assessment G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Jae-Young Lim Myeong-Ro Lee Hyo-Ji Byeon Deputy General Manager, CSR Management Team Research Engineer, R&D Strategy Team Assistant Manager, Safety & Health Planning Team Human Rights G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 80 Grievance Mechanisms Min-Ho Lee Byeong-Hoon Do Seung-Gyu Lee Society Manager, CSR Management Team Senior Research Engineer, Vehicle Analysis Team Staff, Human Resources Administration Team G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 66~73 Local Communities G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 66~73 Hyun-Jin Cho Eui-Jung Kim Jung-Min Woo G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified 82, 83 Manager, CSR Management Team Senior Research Engineer, Vehicle IT Product Planning Team Staff, Human Resources Support Team Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 82, 83 Yong-Been Kim Ji-Young Park Han-Eol Kim G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 83 Assistant Manager, CSR Management Team Senior Research Engineer, Powertrain Project Management Team Staff, HRD Strategy Team Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary No political donations made Min-Su Jung Sang-Mi Han Ga-Na Lee Anti-competitive No violations of the fair Behavior G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes transactions act Staff, CSR Management Team Research Engineer, Eco Technology Planning Team Assistant Manager, Affect Development Team No servere legal violations Ki-Dong Lim Young-Ah Jeong Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations except for penalties Manager, Environment & Fire Planning Team Manager, Compliance Team Supplier Assessment for G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 65 Impacts on Society G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken 65 Sang-Yul Park Ha-Jin Park Grievance Mechanisms Assistant Manager, Environment & Fire Planning Team Assistant Manager, General Affairs Team G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms for Impacts on Society Sun-Wook Kim Hye-Jin Jo Product Responsibility Staff, Environment & Fire Planning Team Assistant Manager, Quality Education & Training Team G4-PR1 Percentage of significant products and services categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement 26, 27, 44~49 Customer Health and Safety Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of Jae-Woon Hwang G4-PR2 products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Assistant Manager, Customer Satisfaction Planning Team Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, G4-PR3 78 and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements Product and Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and Service Labeling G4-PR4 labeling, by type of outcomes No case of violations Economy Reference Materials Design Supervision G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 78 G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputes products So-Young Um Yang-Seok Choi Min-Ho Goh Marketing Assistant Manager, Management Strategy Team Manager, Domestic Advertising Team Team Manager, Kia Advanced Design Team Communications Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, G4-PR7 78 including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Bum-Sang Jung Jae-Woo Kim Julliana Cho Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 78 Assistant Manager, Transparent Management Support Team Deputy General Manager, Corporate Culture PR Team Senior Research Engineer, Kia Advanced Design Team Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services Jae-Yoon Jeong Rack-Hyuck Chung Ah-Reum Jang Assistant Manager, Accounting Team Assistant Manager, Overseas Promotion Team Assistant Manager, Brand Communication Team Jozef Bačé Hyun-Woo Bae KMS Public Relations Team Staff, Brand Communication Team English Editing Michael Choo General Manager, Overseas Communication Planning Team 100 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2017 Publication Date May 12, 2017 | Publications Director Hyoung-Keun (Hank) Lee | Publisher Kia Motors +82. 2. 3464. 5169 | Planning & Design DenoFlat +82. 2. 826. 9461 | Printer Young-Eun Printing +82. 2. 2274. 9250 This report is printed in soy ink and on FSCTM-certified paper. Kia Motors CSR Management Team 12, Heolleung-ro, Seocho-gu, Seoul 06797, Korea +82. 2. 3464. 5169 chjc79@kia.com www.kia.com
