OLCARTOUR GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 -2017 CONTENTS Massage From Founding General Manager Identification Who Are We? Membership Associations Olcartour Tourism Services Philosophy HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES LABOUR PRINCIPLES ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES ANTICORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Future In Conclusion Message From Founding General Manager OLCARTOUR signed up to the United Nations Global Compact on 19 March 2014 and continues to support the principles outlined in the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to implement those principles. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day to day operations of our company and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Our company will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. As an Olcartour, We would like to increase the living quality and life standards of the people, and we are determined and eager on our goal. We are making the quality of service as our priority and believing that quality brings the quantity of the customers. Numan Olcar Founding General Manager Identification Title Olcartour Tourism and Travel Agency CEO Numan OLCAR Founded In October / 1987 Amount Of Personal 38 Document No and Group Group “ A “ / No: 1607 Main Activities National and Internationbal Tour Operator Location Services Incentive Events Convention, Conference and Meeting Organizations Car, Bus and Aircraft Renting Services Travel Brokerage Corporate Travel Services Organization and Implementation of Special Projects Sailing, Yachting and Port Services Representation and I.A.T.A. Airways Mersin, Adana ve İstanbul Offices Regional Offices Turkish Airlines Mersin,Adana ve İstanbul Offices TAX FREE East Mediterranean Region Offices ETS East Mediterranean Region Offices Who Are We? Olcartur“ has been active as a Destination Managment Company since 1987. With 8 national offices as an experienced travel agent has created a lot of new things, 99% of the services are provided electronically. Turkish Airlines included with the other 164 IATA Airways representative and the ticket sales of these airways; fully serving your requests on accomodation, car rental services, touristic tours; emergency phone line open 24/7; convention, seminar organizations Incentive tours intended for the company personals are some of the services you can acquire from “Olcartur”. We know; that every company in the tourism sector exist on the information level of their personal of the sector and service quality. We will be honored to serve to our guest with our experience and possibilities. Our Departments Olcartur has been gaining experience for the past 26 years and has come to a point where we are able to give all kind of service of which our guests would require. Also the service units which were created in the beginning are now growing independently on the way to being a permanent brand. Omice T icketing Business Travel Yachting Transport Membership Associations; · TURSAB Turkish Travel Agencies Association · IATA International Ailines Transport Association · DRV German Travel Association · ASTA American Travel Association. · MDTO Mersin Chamber of Shipping · MSTO Mersin Chamber of Commers · İTO İstanbul Chamber of Commers · FSTO Fethiye Chamber of Commers · SKAL Skål International Olcartour Tourism Co.Ltd’s Services Philosophy; · Friendliness towards clients and colleagues · Readiness to serve clients and colleagues · Thorough knowledge of products and service procedures · Reliability · Decisive action and prompt service · Effective Communication · Efficient execution of task and request HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human rights is the general name of all rights and freedoms that are given to people which aims to let people all around the world to live in common values and equally. Each person should have the same rights equally regardless of; race, gender, skin color, religion, language, national or social origin, social statues, political or other view, etc. Olcartour family contains employees who are from different nations, faith groups, gender, social class and political views that are working together in peace which is reserved for them by the international human rights. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES The rights of our workers; Olcartour members are getting paid during training and probation period and their social rights and benefits take in action from the first day of their employment. Work place rules and regulations and job descriptions are introduced and oriented by the Hr. manager and trained staff. All the necessary trainings and courses are given equally to all employees in terms of equal opportunity and workplace motivation. Each employee’s performance is closely monitored and validated by the branch managers on regular basis; each manager is responsible to improve their employee’s productivity and take employee’s lean suggestions and opinions regarding all terms of work place. Salary increase takes in place annually. Each employee within the company should follow the human rights, and Olcartour has no tolerance for work place harassment, mobbing, discrimination alongside it is responsible to take all the necessary action to avoid any unpleasant situation. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES The rights of our Customers We keep our customers personal information as private and confidential and do not share with third parties under any circumstances. There is a contact section in our website for our customers which forwards the messages directly to the manager and CEO of the agency. Once the messages are received, they forward to the authorized person of whose area is taking care of the customers’ request, such as ticketing, visa, accounting, etc. and making sure to respond each and every message as soon as possible. LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Enterprises should attach importance to trade union and collective labor agreement freedom. Principle 4: Enterprises should attach importance to employment under pressure and for removing forced labor. Principle 5: Enterprises should attach importance to remove child employment. Principle 6: Enterprises should attach importance for removal of discrimination in recruitment and profession. There is a freedom of speech with respect and everyone has a right to express their opinions to his/her manager CEO without any hesitation, also there is a comment and wish box that is used for any kind of request by the labors of whom that has privacy concerns. There is no force to work overtime in Olcartour. There is no employee working in Olcartour, who is underage and/or without social security benefits. LABOUR PRINCIPLES There is no gender discrimination in terms of employees. Olcartour contains total of 30 employees as follows; 15 male and 15 female. There is a maternity leave for female employees with full payment which is reserved by the law. Severance allowance is provided by Olcartour in terms of resign or termination of the job as well as marriage, military service, etc. Holiday pay and quality bonuses are provided for all employees in Olcartour. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7 : Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 : Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 : Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. As a nature of our business, we support and contribute all governmental, nongovernmental and nonprofit organizations that are environmentally friendly and protective. As an Olcartour family, hereby we declare our support and contribution by any means to protect environment and nature. As a company policy, we do not use any none recyclable product and in case of an exception, we are making sure to dispose it without causing any hazard to the nature. There are 3 kinds of recycle boxes in our office that, which are separated by the type of the recycle. We annually plant a tree in the region and if there is any support or help needed to do such an action, we play our role, both financially and morally. We are attending to environmental symposiums that are related to our business. Mersin has a coast to the Mediterranean Sea and is a unique place with its long seashore where Caretta carettas lay their eggs. We as an Olcartour family, do all the support and contribution to protect this nature and environment. ANTICORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. As a company policy, we implement effective zero tolerance and making sure for our employees to adopt our work ethics. We do not associate with any company, organization or person by any means which are on black list in terms of bribery and anti-corruption. We do not accept nor give bribe to any organization or person to take benefit for our businesses. Future ; The constant changing and expanding tourism sector is one of the worlds most dinamic sectors. Every day all over the world new and different touristic place show up. We are proud to be a careful follower of all of these big momentums and henceforth try to provide you with different and more fun places in your future travels. In Conclusion ; To give a perfect exclusive service to you we have been working non-stop. No place is to far, no wish is to big or too small for us. Olcartur aims to lead the sector. Olcartur has been in this bussiness for 26 years and in these 26 years it has found it’s own place with hard and honest work and we hope to be working with our guest for another 26 years, and will fallow the Ten Principles of the Un Global Compact. 0 850 750 0000 www.olcartour.com Mersin Güvenevler Mh. 20. Cad. Adana Atatürk Blv. Lokman Apt. No : 20 33140 Mersin No: 47 / 1 01120 adana mersin@olcartour.com adana@olcartour.com İstanbul Nispetiye Aytar St. 28/8 Antalya Liman Mah. Atatürk 34330 Levent İstanbul Bulvarı, No:236/3 07130 istanbul@olcartour.com Konyaaltı antalya antalya@olcartour.com Regional Offices; Eastern Mediterranean Region | Mersin | Adana | Kızkalesi | | Alanya | Side | Antalya | Göcek | West Mediterranean Region | Marmaris | Bodrum | Kuşadası | Aegean Region | Istanbul | Marmara Region
