Basic Communication on Progress (COP) Doxee per United Nations Global Compact Program General Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: January 17, 2017 To: January 17, 2018 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Please provide a statement of your company's chief executive expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing your company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles (Please include name and title of the chief executive at the bottom of the statement). Sample Statement of continued support January 17, 2017 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Doxee S.p.A. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Sergio Muratori Casali Doxee President Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. 1. Doxee actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We will not carry out business with any countries or regimes where flagrant human rights abuses are known to exist e.g. torture, politically motivated disappearances etc. 2. Doxee supports as well the Principles of the Italian Republic Constitution that states “All citizens have equal social dignity and are equal before the law, without distinction of sex, race, language, religion, political opinion, personal and social conditions.” 3. Doxee has its own Work Policy and Code of Conduct and is committed to ensuring that all our employees are treated fairly and with respect. Examples • Reference to (statement of support for) the Universal Declaration of Human Rights or other international standards • Written company policy on respecting Human Rights and preventing potential abuses (e.g. in code of conduct) • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the principles on Human Rights • Assessment of Human Rights related risks and impact in industry sector and country(ies) of operation (see Risk Assessment Report at www.humanrights business.org) • Specific goals in the area of Human Rights for the upcoming year Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, reduce Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. 1. Where there are changes within the Doxee organization, extensive consultation exercises are held to ensure staff are involved in the process. 2. We have a range of Human Resources policies which reflect Doxee pro-active stance on human rights including our Dignity at Work Policy, Equal Opportunities Policy and Flexible Working Policy. 3. A flexible working policy has been created for working mothers allowing flexible working time. 4. Doxee cooperates with Modena and Reggio Emilia University (UniMoRe), in order to encourage the female admission to the IT engineering faculty. 5. Doxee sponsors “Ragazze digitali” (Digital girls) – the first University Campus IT Program affiliated with Modena and Reggio Emilia University (UniMoRe) dedicated to the female world, the initiative is part of European Women’s Management Development Program. 6. Doxee supports “Bambini nel Deserto” (Children in the Desert) NGO that is involved in case of humanitarian emergencies alongside government agencies and the United Nations. In particular Doxee sustains the “Bambini nel deserto” NGO alternative strategy of migration, through an ambitious and still only intervention plan (Reseau Exodus) to understand and monitor migration flows and invest in vocational training to discourage the exodus of people from Africa, especially young people, to reduce the loss of human lives in the long desert crossings and or boat crossing via the Mediterranean sea, provide job opportunities and future prospects to those who otherwise would not have them. Examples • Suggestion box, call center or grievance mechanism • Awareness raising or training of employees on Human Rights • Consultation with stakeholders and affected parties • Allocation of responsibilities for the protection of Human Rights within your company • Human resource policies and procedures supporting Human Rights Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. To date, Doxee has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations. Examples • Specific progress made in the area of Human Rights in the past reporting period • Information about how your company deals with incidents of Human Rights violations • Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to Human Rights • Periodic review of results by senior management • External audits of Human Rights performance Labor Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of force d and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of labor rights for the company (i.e. labor rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labor rights. 1. Doxee is not doing business with any organization who uses forced or child labour. 2. Doxee employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms and conditions including pay rates and overtime pay arrangements procedures. 3. Doxee is issuing a Company Handbook / Welcome Kit which includes information on standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. Examples • Reference to ILO Core Conventions or other international instruments • Written company policies to uphold the freedom of association and collective bargaining and the elimination of forced labour, child labour and employment discrimination • Written policies that clearly state employee rights and responsibilities and their compensation and benefits • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the Labour principles • Assessment of labour-related risks in the industry sector and country(ies) of operations • Specific goals in the area of Labour Rights for the upcoming year Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by your company to implement labour policies, reduce labour risks and respond to labour violations. 1. Doxee is compliant with the Italian Law that prohibits child labour in accordance to EU directive 94/33 2. Doxee consults with staff on a continuous basis each year we hold a Company Review Day which everyone attends and where the CEOs comment on the Company’s performance, appraising staff of what we have achieved, commenting future on developments and thanking/recognizing those individuals who have made a specific or major contribution. 3. Doxee has a range of HR Policies which support best practice in terms of labour and employment including Equal Opportunities Policy, Appraisal Procedure and Flexible Working Policy. 4. Doxee provides its employees a supplemental health insurance; Doxee offers to its employees and contractors free entrance to an indoor swimming pool twice a week and has implemented a food program to increase the consumption of fresh fruits providing free of charge seasonal fruits to employees. Examples • Suggestion box, call center or grievance mechanisms • Awareness raising or tra ining for employees on labour rights and policies • Describe how the health and safety of all employees is ensured • Describe how your company prevents discrimination of all kinds and ensures comparable pay for comparable work • Consultation with employees a nd other stakeholders • Allocation of responsibilities for the protection of labour rights within your organization • Human Resource policies and procedures supporting the Labour principles • Participation in international framework agreements and other agreements with labour unions Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. 1. At the most senior level there are 1 female manager and 15 male managers with a range of ages across the spectrum. IT engineering, in which Doxee works, is an area which is quite male dominated profession e.g., but this in no way reflects Doxee approach to hiring, encouraging and promoting staff within the organization. 2. We schedule annual staff appraisals (performance review) each year to identify personal development needs and training requirements and these are actioned where ever financially possible. 3. Doxee has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other related events in the violation of the Global Compact Labour principles. Examples • Demographics of management and employees by diversity factors (e.g. gender, ethnicity, age, etc.) • Describe how your company deals with incidents of violations of the Global Compact Labour principles • Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to Labour • Periodic review of results by senior management • Specific progress made in the area of Labour during the last reporting period • External audits (e.g. SA 8000) Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i .e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. Environmental sustainability is part of Doxee’s core business. In the dematerialization of processes, “Paperless” , Doxee is a market leader in Digital and Legal Electronic Archiving and Electronic Invoicing solutions and services with over half a billion documents electronically archived in accordance with the law at its data centers and over a hundred million electronic invoices handled every year for its customers. Doxee also stands out for its important Center of Excellence in the area of “document dematerialization processes”. The only center of its kind, the Center of Excellence is able to offer highly specialized support and can act as a partner in the area of consulting and regulatory compliance services, training and pre-sales support, compliance assessment and auditing. In the coming year, Doxee’s main environmental target is to develop a Comprehensive Sustainability Policy for the company. Examples • Assessment of the environmental footprint and impact of your company • Written company policy on environmental issues, including prevention and management of environmental risks • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the environmental principles • Describe specific goals in the area of the environment for the upcoming year Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, reduce environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. 1. Doxee has provided training in waste separation and recycling to our staff. 2. At our HQ offices we have solar light tubes, physical structures used for transporting and distributing natural light for the purpose of illumination to reduce costs and saving energy. We also have a building management system which centrally controls heating and air conditioning 3. Employees are sensitized to eco-friendly printing procedure in order to save paper avoiding CO2 emissions. In addition, the company has a car pooling procedure in place to encourage staff to use Examples • Awareness raising or training of employees on environmental protection • Initiatives and programs to reduce waste materials (e.g. recycling) and consumption of resources (energy, fossil fuels, water, electricity, paper, packaging, etc.) • Activities aimed at improving the energy efficiency of products, services and processes • Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies • Raise awareness among suppliers by asking for the environmental footprint of products or services • Environmental management system to identify, monitor and control the company’s environmental performance • Allocation of responsibilities for environmental protection within your company Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. 1. Doxee has not had any environmental incidents within the last year and has not been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions. 2. Doxee uses licensed waste companies for disposal of waste and is registered with “Conai” a company for disposal of electrical waste and electronic equipment. 3. Disposal of hardware assets Doxee is compliant with the Italian regulation D.lgs. 152 del 03.04.2006 for disposal of hardware assets. 4. This type of waste is delivered to companies duly registered in the Italian National Waste Register, which will handle the various phases of withdrawal and recovery of materials and /or disposal. Examples • Information about how your company deals with incidents • Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to environmental principles • Specific progress made in the area of the environmental protection during the last reporting period • Periodic review of results by senior management • External audits of environmental performance Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i .e. anti-corruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. 1. Doxee does not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion. Doxee supports the UN Convention Against Corruption and we will not operate in countries or with organizations who have been blacklisted. 2. In the coming year as our business expands, Doxee will investigate all countries and organization we are working with the information available from “Transparency International” or similar entities to ensure their suitability Examples • Assessment of risk of corruption and bribery in the company’s industry and country(ies) of operation • Written company policy of zero-tolerance for corruption, bribery and extortion • Reference to (or statement of support for) the UN Convention Against Corruption and other international instruments • Protocol to guide staff in situations where they are confronted with extortion or bribery • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the anti-corruption principles • Specific goals in the area of anti-corruption for the upcoming year Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, reduce anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. 1. Anti-corruption and bribery conduct guidelines have been communicated to employees 2. Our two CEOs are ultimately responsible for anti-corruption controls and implementation of the policies within Doxee. Examples • Suggestion box, call center or grievance mechanisms • Awareness raising or training of employees about company's policies regarding anti-corruption and extortion (e.g. mailings, internet, internal communication, etc.) • Allocation of responsibilities for anti-corruption within the company • Participation in industry initiative or other collective action on anti-corruption Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. 1. Doxee has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption or bribery 2 Doxee prepares audited accounts each year which are verified by external auditors and this is one of the methods of identifying any spurious payments which could be related to bribery or corrupt behavior. Examples • Information about how your company deals with incidents of corruption • Internal audits to ensure consistency with anti-corruption commitment, including periodic review by senior management • Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to corruption and bribery • Specific progress made in the area of anti-corruption during the last reporting period • External audits of anti-corruption programs
