SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 have come a long way and evolved as a this is not any different. Sustainability is a responsible and ethical practitioner in the global issue but it requires local actions and industry. Full commitment and endeavors this is irrespective of the size of the led us to be one of the largest composite knit organization, type of business, country of garments and textiles manufacturers and operation, etc. Partnership – whether it is exporters in Bangladesh. DBL Group’s between industries, development partners, Sustainability strategy focuses on ﬁve major or the government – is a crucial factor for components: People, Process, Product, sustainability since collaborative Community and Environment. Incorporating approaches act as catalysts for sustainability into all our business decisions development. and into every member of our organization is helping with our mission of becoming an It should be understood that sustainability economically, socially and environmentally can be an excellent marketing tool as well. efﬁcient sustainable group. We endeavor to When we refer to upgrading the reputation of “sustain” the ideas and associated actions of a business, there are no alternatives to Sustainability for generations to come. sustainability. When we are concerned with the well-being of our workers and the With a skilled and dedicated workforce of community where they live, become 24,500 people, we are committed to deliver responsible with our production processes products and services of superior quality as well as the end products and act to and international standards to our restore the environment, reputation of our customers. We are supplying quality company will precede our products and apparels to renowned retailers and popular services. fashion brands across the world, with a total turnover of the group worth USD 367 million We believe that creating employment in 2016 ﬁscal year alone. In recognition of opportunities is the best way to serve the our excellent performance, DBL Group has community that we work in. With vast received the highest rank of recognition in expansions in progress, DBL Group is the form of awards and accolades for targeting to add another 10,000 outperforming in categories such as social employment opportunities by 2017, thus and environmental sustainability, contributing to SDG-1: No Poverty. Our compliance, CSR, export and the working expansion plan is very well researched to and living conditions of workers. These ensure that the growth is sustainable and recognitions are not only in the national level ethical from all aspects. but the international level as well: the last being our spinning mill winning the “Spinner A substantial portion of DBL's proﬁt is of the Year” and the “International Textile channeled into CSR activities, reflecting our Firm of the Year” from the World Textile commitment to social development. We Awards. provide a wide range of support in ﬁelds of health, in alignment with SDG-3: Good The SDGs have opened not one but several Health and Well-being, and education, in doors through which an organization can alignment with SDG-4: Quality Education. adapt to, improve on, and contribute to its Our focus on agricultural ventures to Sustainability practices. When we have a support our own workforce is in alignment collective contribution from all with SDG-2: Zero Hunger. DBL Group and its organizations, we can truly contribute to the management are actively involved in development of an entire country. supporting a large number of education Several people have stated: “Think globally, institutions, imparting educations at primary act locally” and in relation to sustainability, and secondary levels. 6 We consider Sustainability even during ensure sustainable future for people and procuring machines. The high end environment and to stand against machineries we have do not just add corruption. We also respect human rights as production values, but ecological values as part of our commitment to the U uiding well. For instance, the Toyota spinning rinciples for usiness and uman ights. machine operates using lesser power consumption and also produces lower noise feel the sun of s Sustainability is rising. levels. n our fabric ﬁnishing processes, the e are committed to create a platform for Santex machine’s “relax dryer” system ensuring sustainable growth for our ensures proper shrinkage for low S company. In this regard, I sincerely thank all grams per s uare meter and loose fabrics. our stakeholders for their ongoing This reduces wastage from the processes. understanding and continued support in our ven our ffluent Treatment lants company. contributes positively to the environment. The uality of treatment allows the sludge produced to be as good as that for municipal waste instead of industrial waste. ence, we have visible contribution to SDG-12: Responsible Consumption and Production. DBL has ventured into Public-Private Abdul Wahed Partnership through the Mini Fire Brigade. Chairman Along with the German Cooperation and the angladesh ire Service and ivil efence, this tripartite alliance will act as a rapid response unit to any ﬁre or other emergencies within the Kashimpur community, where most of s operations are present. The foundation stone was laid on 7 ctober 2015 by . . r. erd ller, onorable ederal inister for conomic Cooperation and Development, Germany, and . . r. Tofail hmed, onorable inister of ommerce, overnment of Bangladesh. To further aid the community, we have signed an agreement with Marie Stopes Bangladesh to establish a Community Clinic within Kashimpur. To add value in shortening the skills gap in the country, DBL will also be setting up a Technical and Vocational Education Training Centre. DEG is keen on supporting this initiative and had even invited the Boston Consulting Group to help with the analysis. n alignment with the 10 principles of U Global Compact, we are committed to 7 8 Learning is Growing Sharing is Caring 9 MATERIALITY TEST FOR DBL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Most material Material Least material Any impact 1 No impact 0 Sustainability impacts, risks, or Category Aspects opportunities Economic Performance 1 Economic Indirect Economic Impacts 1 Procurement Practices 1 OHS 1 Equal Remuneration For Men & Women 1 Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices 1 Social Wasif Gaws Creative Director Grey Shack Limited Grey Shack, a communications and consultancy company which provides support to development organizations, multi-nationals, large corporations, SMEs, NGOs, institutions and individuals in all aspects of Communication Solutions, ICT Solutions and Strategic Business Consultancy. We provide special assistance in social awareness raising, behavior change communication, advocacy campaign, information education and communication, visibility and branding. By creating an end to end communication strategy and carefully planned implementation, Grey Shack helps to empower all its stakeholders understand the project goals and to contribute actively to the decision-making processes of development as a whole. Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms 1 Local Communities 1 Compliance 1 Energy 1 Water 1 Emissions 1 Environment Effluents & Waste 1 Compliance 1 Supplier Environmental Assessment 1 10 Sustainability interests, Future challenges for topics, & indicators the sector, reported by Organizational values, raised by stakeholders peers & competitors Legal compliance policies & strategies Total 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 0 1 1 4 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 0 1 4 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 11 T T Influence on Stakeholder Assessments & Decisions Significance of Economic, Social & Environmental Impacts 12 REPORTING PARAMETERS Period : 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2016 Reporting cycle : Annual Most recent previous report : DBL Group Sustainability Report 2014-15 GRI Guidelines followed : GRI G4 ‘In Accordance’ option chosen : In Accordance Core Contact person : Mohammed Zahidullah Head of Sustainability Mobile: +880 1711 677 626 Email: zahid@dbl-group.com DEFINING THE REPORT CONTENT AND THE ASPECT BOUNDARIES The content of the report is based on the social, environment, economic and product sustainability practices at DBL Group. Identifying of the Aspects has been as per the guidelines of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and indicators have been selected based on the availability of information on those practices. Some of the sustainability projects of DBL Group are beneﬁcial to the organization itself and some others are beneﬁtting the community as well. We have tried to create meaningful connection between the sustainability practices of DBL Group with the reporting guidelines of GRI. This is our third reporting on sustainability adhering to the GRI’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Through this report we have focused our insights on setting goals, measuring performance and managing change in order to implement better performances. We would like to take our sustainability reporting practice to the next level by continuous improvement in our future endeavors in reporting. Through this report, DBL Group continues its journey in sustainability reporting on the economic, environmental and social dimensions of its business activities. Through progressive advancement in reporting, DBL Group is committed to report transparently on how it manages its economic, environmental, social and governance performance. 13 Chapter 1 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH “There is no ‘Plan B’ because we do not have a ‘Planet B.’ We have to work and galvanize our action.” Ban Ki-Moon SDGs AND DBL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs) Countries around the world adopted a set of goals on September 25 2015 for eradicating poverty, protecting the planet, and ensuring prosperity for everyone as part of a new agenda for sustainable development. Speciﬁc targets under each goal are present which are to be achieved within the year 20301 . These are popularly referred to as the Sustainable Development Goals or SDGs. The SDGs have portrayed a huge potential for development by which a government, an organization, and even an individual can contribute to. Speciﬁc targets under each goal attempt to map out activities which can facilitate the progression of not one but multiple economies. The UN Global Compact even refers to “Making Global Goals Local Business”2 thus referring to the business beneﬁts along with development. 1. “Sustainable development goals United Nations”, http://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sustainable-development-goals, Accessed: 21 September 2016 2. “Making Global Goals Local Business _ UN Global Compact”, https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/our-work/sustainable-development/global-goals-local-business, Accessed: 21 September 2016 16 16 SDGs AND DBL Sustainability in DBL Group is constantly DBL believes in performing social business. evolving throughout the years. DBL believes Such businesses do not keep only proﬁts in in “Learning is growing” and through existing consideration but also encompasses and future practices and programs, DBL obligations to social welfare, including wishes to learn and adopt globally employees and the communities, as well as recognized standards. DBL also wants to be preventing environmental degradation by a model example for other organizations in creating products through responsible Bangladesh, regardless of the size, by processes. The different programs help showing the feasibility of the SDGs and achieve all these and hence make DBL be thereby engage their participation. The Small proactive rather than reactive in addressing and Medium Enterprises (SME) themselves the variety of issues faced in conducting can come into a common coalition within business. themselves or with large enterprises in order to form a joint-partnership to contribute to the SDGs. SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 17 An overview of DBL Group’s Sustainability initiatives in alignment with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): SDG SDG description DBL Group’s initiatives Employment generation End poverty in all its forms Bandhan Fair Price Shop everywhere Flourishing local economy Rice Fortiﬁcation Program with World Food End hunger, achieve food security Program (WFP) and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture Breastfeeding in the Workplace Initiative (BFWI) with UNICEF Medical Centre for employees and community In house pharmacy with medicines being sold at manufacturers’ prices Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages Women Health Program Initiative (WHPI) Nirapod: Saving Women from Unwanted Pregnancy & Unsafe MR with Phulki and the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands Ensure inclusive and equitable Education support quality education and promote Community Knowledge Exchange Programs lifelong learning opportunities for all Community Health Programs Women in Factories Initiative (WiFI) with CARE Female Supervisors Leadership Program Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls Female Security Guards Empowering Women Financial Services Agents in Bangladesh (EWFSAB) Project with CARE Partnership for Cleaner Textiles (PaCT) with the International Finance Corporation (IFC) Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) sanitation for all with H&M, Puma, and G-Star Sustainable Action and Vision for a better Environment (SAVE) with Puma 18 SDGs AND DBL DBL Group’s initiatives SDG description SDG Bio-Gas Generation Plant with GIZ Ensure access to affordable, reliable, Study on feasibility of using solar sustainable and modern energy for all photovoltaic cells (PVC) with IFC DBL Idea Club Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full DBL Quality Control (QC) Circles and productive employment and decent work for all Energy efﬁcient machineries Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable Energy Saving Dyeing & Finishing industrialization and foster innovation Female Supervisor Leadership Program Reduce inequality within and among countries Female Security Guards Innovation in yarn production Organic Cotton and Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) Ensure sustainable consumption and DBL Quality Control (QC) Circles production patterns Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) with H&M, Esprit, Puma and G-Star Biological Effluent Treatment Plants (ETPs) Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals development (ZDHC) with H&M, Puma, and G-Star Mini Fire Brigade with the German Cooperation and the Bangladesh Fire Strengthen the means of implementation Service and Civil Defence (BFSCD) and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development Knowledge Partners SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 19 DBL Group’s Sustainability is based on ﬁve pillars: People, Process, Product, Community and Environment; thus integrating a holistic approach towards Sustainability. For each pillar, there are a number of Sustainable Action Programs in place – both on large and small scales and short and long terms – through which the sustainability plans are translated into actions. Wasif Gaws Creative Director Grey Shack Limited Grey Shack, a communications and consultancy company which provides support to development organizations, multi-nationals, large corporations, SMEs, NGOs, institutions and individuals in all aspects of Communication Solutions, ICT Solutions and Strategic Business Consultancy. We provide special assistance in social awareness raising, behavior change communication, advocacy campaign, information education and communication, visibility and branding. By creating an end to end communication strategy and carefully planned implementation, Grey Shack helps to empower all its stakeholders understand the project goals and to contribute actively to the decision-making processes of development as a whole. ENVIRONMENT Environment is a high priority for our company and we work to decrease carbon footprint, water consumption, and waste from our manufacturing processes. We dedicate ourselves in conserving energy, COMMUNITY managing waste effectively and replenishing the environment to the best of our capacity. We believe that together with our employees, DBL recognizes that its own sustainability customers, business partners and other rests on its ability to work harmoniously in its stakeholders, we can create real and social and environmental settings. So, with long-term changes for the betterment of the economic success we also want to balance community and the environment. And social and environmental prosperity. together with our thousands of employees we can extend this impact even further – from improving the livelihood of our employees to the development of the society where we conduct our businesses. 20 DBL SUSTAINABILITY PILLARS PEOPLE As an organization, DBL Group realizes its responsibility towards its people: our employees. Our company understands how the business practices impact our employees and we work to serve in their best interests. PROCESS DBL Group is committed to continuously improve all its business processes: ranging from purchasing raw materials to transporting ﬁnal ﬁnished goods. We give a strong emphasis on eliminating non-value added activities while delivering quality products on time with the least effect on the environment and greater efﬁciency. PRODUCT DBL Group continuously works towards improving the quality of the products, and all the processes that go into making the ﬁnal ﬁnished product, and ensures to minimize the negative impact on the environment and the consumers. The R&D department is actively involved in creating new and researching existing products and the processes associated with them. SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 21 Chapter 2 Wasif Gaws Creative Director Grey Shack Limited Grey Shack, a communications and consultancy company which provides support to development organizations, multi-nationals, large corporations, SMEs, NGOs, institutions and individuals in all aspects of Communication Solutions, ICT Solutions and Strategic Business Consultancy. We provide special assistance in social awareness raising, behavior change communication, advocacy campaign, information education and communication, visibility and branding. By creating an end to end communication strategy and carefully planned implementation, Grey Shack helps to empower all its stakeholders understand the project goals and to contribute actively to the decision-making processes of development as a whole. DBL AND SUSTAINABILITY “When it is obvious that the goals cannot be reached, don't adjust the goals, adjust the action steps” Confucius COMPANY PROFILE roup is a diversiﬁed conglomerate with a strong backward linkage. The roup started its business in 1 1. The diversiﬁed business includes spinning, knitting, dyeing, all over printing, screen printing, garments manufacturing, garments accessories manufacturing, washing, packaging, ceramic tiles, telecommunications, dredging, and pharmaceuticals. roup is one of the largest and 100% e port oriented composite knit garments and te tiles manufacturing industries in angladesh. e are supplying uality apparels around the world to the best of the retailers and the biggest brands of the fashion industry. The company is head uartered in haka, angladesh and operating its production processes at factories situated at a ipur, haka, angladesh. Vision We envision to sustain and grow as a diversified global conglomerate. Values Integrity Passion Adaptability Care Excellence Concerns Color City Ltd. Jinnat Knitwears Ltd. DB Tex Ltd. Matin Spinning Mills Ltd. Dulal Brothers Ltd. Mawna Fashions Ltd. Flamingo Fashions Ltd. Mymun Textiles Ltd. Hamza Textiles Ltd. Parkway Packaging and Printing Ltd. Jinnat Apparels Ltd. Textile Testing Services Ltd. Jinnat Fashions Ltd. Thanbee Print World Ltd. 24 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES DBL Group offers the following products and services: arns, abrics asual knitwear T Shirts, olo Shirts, Tank Tops, oggers, ooded ackets, ardigans, ants, and resses ashionable wear Skirts, owns MANUFACTURING PROCESSES roup makes use of the following in the manufacturing processes State of the art machineries est grade cotton in our spinning mill for all products abric knitting makes use of low proﬁle ha ardous materials eko Te 100 Standard with roduct lass yeing operation makes use of low water to dye ratio only 55 liters per kilogram of fabric arments processes make use of , S and systems ashing operations make use of machines which consume less water and have best ﬁltering and spinning systems e use cutting edge technology to put our enabling the production of products with yarn through a series of uality control good uality at the lowest cost possible in checks, to ensure strict uality standards. the shortest time. This desire for uality is This is then supplemented by concentrating also shared by our team of highly ualiﬁed on process manufacturing and process and competent professionals, who under the improvements. e have setup ndustrial capable and dynamic leadership of the oard ngineering and ork Study departments. of irectors have made our remarkable oot cause analyses are done by using growth possible. t is with this shared vision statistical uality control tools. that we are marching towards our goal of attaining acknowledged leadership in The department helps in developing providing uality products at competitive new products and process improvements for price. DBL AND SUSTAINABILITY 25 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES PROCESS FLOWCHART COTTON IMPORT SEWING WASHING SPINNING SCREEN PRINTING FINISHING KNITTING CUTTING PACKAGING DYEING AND FINISHING ALL OVER PRINTING TRANSPORTATION 26 BUYERS AND T S MAJOR BUYERS KNOWLEDGE PARTNERS DBL AND SUSTAINABILITY 27 PEOPLE PROGRAMS Bandhan Fair Price Shop “Bandhan” is a fair price shop which serves low income workers with all the essentials and commodities at factory price of manufactures. The shop is aimed at reducing workers’ monthly expenditure burden and sheltering them from the economic inflation. Any worker of DBL can buy items 370 Items through zero-cash and on-credit transaction: the bills are simply adjusted with their salaries at the end of Sales in 2015-16 (US$) 825,129 the month. Bandhan was featured in the UN Global Compact’s Industrial Manufacturing document under SDG-1. Wasif Gaws Creative Director Grey Shack Limited Grey Shack, a communications and consultancy company which provides support to development organizations, multi-nationals, large corporations, SMEs, NGOs, institutions and individuals in all aspects of Communication Solutions, ICT Solutions and Strategic Business Consultancy. We provide special assistance in social awareness raising, behavior change communication, advocacy campaign, information education and communication, visibility and branding. By creating an end to end communication strategy and carefully planned implementation, Grey Shack helps to empower all its stakeholders understand the project goals and to contribute actively to the decision-making processes of development as a whole. 28 PEOPLE PROGRAMS Women in Factories Initiative (WiFI) The objective of the program is to create awareness about the rights of women regarding basic facilities at work, work environment and proper evaluation of work. In addition, the program also made way for women workers to move into the supervisory roles. t is ﬁnanced by Walmart with technical support by CARE Bangladesh and implemented by the NGO Sheva. The program, launched in 2012 in Jinnat Fashions Ltd., has three phases: Foundation Training, iteracy Training and dvanced Training. The primary beneﬁt for the company is decreased absenteeism and increased productivity. The success of Jinnat Fashions Ltd. encouraged us to expand to other units too and have even been replicated to ensure the sustainability of the program. WiFI was featured in the UN Global Compact’s Industrial Manufacturing document under SDG5. DBL’s vision regarding female workers: “To be the most attractive employer for the female workers in the garments industry of Bangladesh” Female Supervisors Leadership Program DBL designed an in-house training program for its Female Supervisors. This comprises of 18-hour lessons covering areas of skill, counseling and general management. Over a period of 2 months training is provided to potential in-house female workers having worked in sewing or quality departments within DBL. After successful completion of the training program, they are promoted as Female Supervisors. DBL has 164 garments sewing lines which were led only by male supervisors. rom the ﬁrst and second training batches, we have 21 female supervisors which cover 12% of the sewing lines. A third batch comprising of 8 workers completed training on April 2016. DBL now has 17% of sewing lines led by female Supervisors. DBL AND SUSTAINABILITY 29 PEOPLE PROGRAMS Women Health Program Initiative (WHPI) Starting from March 2013, the program targeted all the female workers at in DBL Group. It has a long-term objective to ensure good health and hygiene for all female workers. The initial activity was providing women with sanitary napkins at discounted price: thus, not only limiting to teaching women but providing opportunities for safe health as 13,234 Pads sold in 2015-16 well. 116% Analysis and follow up are done in order to encourage women to make proper use of these products. For instance, in order to maintain the Increase in sales privacy of workers, the pads are now made available compared to 2014-15 in the female washrooms. Counselling sessions are also done regularly to aware women regarding the health beneﬁts of the products. The effectiveness of these initiatives has been visible from the substantial increase in sales. 30 PEOPLE PROGRAMS Breastfeeding in the Workplace Initiative (BFWI) DBL signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with UNICEF in December 2015 to promote and improve breastfeeding practices in the workplace. The program is expected to reach 4,767 female workers, 340 pregnant and lactating women, and at least 340 infants and young children in the course of 3 years of program implementation. Financial Literacy Program Funded by VISA Worldwide Inc. USA and implemented by CARE, the Empowering Women Financial Services Agents in Bangladesh (EWFSAB) project’s focus is to socially and economically empower women garment workers in angladesh through increased ﬁnancial inclusion. Nirapod: Saving Women from Unwanted Pregnancy and Unsafe MR NGO Phulki, in partnership with the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, is working towards promoting health awareness amongst the female garments workers of DBL Group involving peer educator group. Starting in August 2013, Phulki has expanded the reach of this project through partnership approach. These trainings are done during orientation. Phulki developed Master Trainer group of 58 employees, 29 males and 29 females, from Mid-Level Management staff of DBL Group through training on SRHR issues. They carry out further trainings to workers thus ensuring continuity of the program. DBL AND SUSTAINABILITY 31 PEOPLE PROGRAMS Children Education Support Initiative A set of programs exist under the Children Education Support Initiative which focuses on accessibility to education for all the employees of DBL. These consist of : Recognition for meritorious students Sponsoring two children of each staff and worker whose monthly income is below BDT 25,000 Providing career path counselling to students who have passed Higher Secondary education 55 students received acknowledgement 3,664 students were provided as scholarship Rice Fortification Program n initiative by the orld ood rogram , the ice ortiﬁcation rogram aims to contribute to the reduction of micronutrient deﬁciencies in high risk groups in angladesh through the consumption of fortiﬁed rice. ith a strong focus on women, different awareness programs and workshops have been held to educate workers on the need for nutrients. The pilot pro ect has started providing fortiﬁed rice to 100 selected workers. Upon completion of the pilot study, the rice will be made accessible for all workers. 32 PROCESS PROGRAMS Lean Manufacturing Lean Manufacturing is a business model and collection of tactical methods that emphasize eliminating non-value added activities (waste) while delivering quality products on time at the least cost with greater efﬁciency. The pro ect was launched following the guidelines and support of Walmart in Jinnat Fashions Ltd. and various methods were implemented for the sewing operations to fully transfer them into ean lines . The cutting and ﬁnishing operations have also being converted to lean. The success in Jinnat Fashions Ltd. enabled replication of the practices to other garments and non-garments units including fabric knitting, fabric dyeing and ﬁnishing, and garments printing. n addition, roup introduced a guidebook for smooth production entitled “Elementary Lean Manufacturing”. Lean in non-garments units are making use of: 5S Machine wise standard minute value (SMV) Standard maintenance timing, scheduled maintenance Visualization through display screen Right First Time (RFT) for quality Generating key performance indicators (KPI) Efficiency Spill-Over in RMG Factories The University of arwick studied e istence, determinants and nature of efﬁciency spill over between sewing lines in the sewing departments of DBL’s factories. The representatives interviewed all ine hiefs, analy ed daily efﬁciency data for all sewing lines from pril to October 2014 with up to date statistical methods, and implemented experiments relating to communication. A report of the assessment has been provided in 2015. Sudokkho Skill Development Program Sudokkho is a skill development program for sewing operators which caters to the capacity building for factory-based training centre. The program inspires the industry to invest in developing and operating skills training and employability activities. Sudokkho supports the industry to develop innovative and sustainable training models allowing employees to 56 graduates in acquire the skills leading to employment in higher 2015-16 valued semi-skilled or skilled jobs. The program is funded by UK Aid and SDC and implemented by The Palladium Group in consortium with Swisscontact and the British Council. DBL AND SUSTAINABILITY 33 PROCESS PROGRAMS Energy Saving Dyeing and Finishing Multiple initiatives have been taken by DBL Group in order to reduce the consumption of energy for the dyeing and ﬁnishing processes. The energy meters installed ensure proper measurement of power consumption. For certain fabrics, a temperature of only 60 degrees Celsius is required instead of the Features usual 100 for the dyeing, scouring-bleaching and soaping processes. The dyes used allow Low temperature dyeing consumption of less energy as well. Energy saving dyes Moisture management The wicking ﬁnishing process converts hydrophobic fabrics (such as polyester) to hydrophilic. Hydrophilic products intake water much better than hydrophobic ones and thus enable optimum consumption of water. It also reduces weight loss of fabric during processing: which allows better hand-feel and increased fabric strength. DBL Idea Club DBL encourages ideas from any employee or worker, regardless of their designation. Their efforts are recognized through a monthly recognition system: the “Employee of the Month”. In 2015, a yearly recognition system was launched as well, named the “Employee of the Year”. The program has been inaugurated in the knitting section and has been replicated for other units too. This encourages employees to work at their full potential and gives them a feeling of fairness as every employee has an equal shot at obtaining this reward. Some of the ideas have been stated below. 34 PROCESS PROGRAMS kg extra production 270 Ms. Mamotaj Begum Operator, Spinning She proposed starting a new ring machine 10 to 15 minutes earlier than others. This enabled an increased production of 4-5 kg per lot. Lots are changed twice a day. Henceforth, the monthly production went up by 270 kg. Mr. Md. Sumon Miah 18 additional batches Senior Operator, Fabric Dyeing He dyed a black color batch from an order in 7.5 hours after receiving a recommendation by the senior management. Previously it took 9 hours. In terms of time, 4.5 hours have have hav e been sa s saved av ved ed ev every day (3 batches) and a Wasif Gaws Creative Director Grey Shack Limited Grey Shack, a communications and consultancy company which provides support to development organizations, multi-nationals, large corporations, SMEs, NGOs, institutions and individuals in all aspects of Communication Solutions, ICT Solutions and Strategic Business Consultancy. We provide special assistance in social awareness raising, behavior change communication, advocacy campaign, information education and communication, visibility and branding. By creating an end to end communication strategy and carefully planned implementation, Grey Shack helps to empower all its stakeholders understand the project goals and to contribute actively to the decision-making processes of development as a whole. total of 135 hours every month. The company can now process an additional 18 batches of the same order which amounts to a total of $13,816. hours saved per day 4.5 Mr. Md. Zahidul Islam Helper, Garments Washing The drying time of a particular style for one of the buyers after wave dyeing in finishing process was 80 minutes. He minimized it to 65 minutes by applying his own creativity. He cleaned up the dryer dust box in the middle of the process period and he got proper heating and drying quicker than the previous time frame. He saved 15 minutes in the dryer cycle time for each batch. Converting this for one day with 18 batches, the total time saved was 4.5 hours. DBL AND SUSTAINABILITY 35 PROCESS PROGRAMS DBL Quality Control (QC) Circles The Quality Control (QC) Circles promote employee engagement in workplace decision making. The bottom-up approach to quality empowers employees and workers to make effective decisions which influence production directly. Each of the different operations has their own QC Circles. These teams have participated and won awards in both national and international QC Circle competitions. One such example is included below. 84 QC Circles in different business units Reducing fabric cutting/holes/split The team “JAGGROTO”, which means “Awakened”, was from one of DBL Group’s fabric ﬁnishing units. This team focused on reducing the cutting/holes/split from 15% to 5% in one month. “JAGGROTO” analyzed and found out that the problem was due to lack of knowledge of the workers and absence of an effective guidance to cut the fabrics. Lack of awareness and supervision were found to be considered as well. To counter the problems, the team: Set up the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) in appropriate areas Developed awareness through counseling, training, and maintaining registers where the fabrics were being cut Counseling he operators and floor in-charges and declaring incentives for best performers. In less than a month, the production went up by 5,012 kg per month and the problems of fabric due to the holes being present went down by 70%. The net savings per year amounted to US$ 507,636. 36 PRODUCT PROGRAMS Innovation in Yarn Production Our Spinning Mill makes use of different processes that reduce the consumption of cotton. Recycled textile materials are used instead of raw cotton. The Coarse yarns used to produce fabrics reduce the consumption of raw materials by up to 60%, as wastage is used instead of raw cotton. Up to 30% recycled material can be used with virgin ﬁber to produce ornamented products known as Neppy yarns. Different colored neps are visible in the yarn body and this works as ornamentation on the fabric surface. Mixing of spinning waste produces Snow yarns, which create a snow effect in the ﬁnished fabrics which takes place in the new fashion trade. The Spinning ill now targets to have 20% of total production made from these recycled products. Special Certifications ORGANIC COTTON: It is an initiative to reduce the negative impact on the environment and consumers. Organic cotton is imported from India to process organic yarn. BETTER COTTON INITIATIVE: The program has been adopted to support the global standards for Better Cotton and to promote our commitment to make global cotton production better for the producers, environment and the sector. OEKO-TEX STANDARD 100: For our Spinning, Dyeing, Printing and Garments processes, we follow the Restricted Substances List S speciﬁed by roduct lass 1 of the eko Te Standard 100 certiﬁcate. GLOBAL ORGANIC TEXTILE STANDARD (GOTS): The TS certiﬁcation is a worldwide leading te tile processing standard for organic ﬁbers. This includes ecological and social criteria, backed up by independent certiﬁcation of the entire te tile supply chain. DBL AND SUSTAINABILITY 37 COMMUNITY PROGRAMS Mini Fire Brigade The Mini Fire Brigade is DBL Group’s first public-private partnership, which is in collaboration with GIZ (through the German Cooperation) and the Bangladesh Fire Service and Civil Defence (BFSCD). The objective of the Mini Fire Brigade rapid response and risk reduction unit is to prevent fire in the industrial buildings around Kashimpur, Gazipur area. The unit is located outside the Jinnat Complex of DBL Group which will also serve other factories in the Kashimpur-Konabari industrial cluster. The foundation stone was laid on 7 October 2015 by H.E. Dr. Gerd Müller, Honorable Federal Minister for Economic Cooperation and Development, Germany, and H.E. Mr. Tofail Ahmed, Honorable Minister of Commerce, Government of Bangladesh. DBL Group is providing land, a suitable construction for the Mini Fire Brigade and volunteers. The Bangladesh Fire Service and Civil Defense will undertake the initiative to organize training for volunteer firefighters and provide infrastructure support. GIZ will facilitate the procurement of fire-fighting equipment. The facility will be staffed 24 hours a day with a target to respond within the first critical 10-15 minutes to both industrial fire and building collapse. 38 COMMUNITY PROGRAMS Community Education Support As part of endorsing the need for SDG-4: Quality Education in Bangladesh, DBL Group has been involved with multiple initiatives. A four-storied building has been constructed by DBL for Hatimara School and College. Computers with audio-visual systems were installed to equip the college 100 auditorium with latest classroom facilities. The sets of benches building can accommodate about 1,000 students. donated also donated 100 sets of benches to Sardagon overnment rimary School to accommodate 300 students. A renovation of an existing building in the school has also been done to further facilitate the students. Community Knowledge Exchange Program In collaboration with CARE, Community Knowledge Exchange Programs are being held in Kashimpur, Gazipur, where four facilities of DBL are located. Topics include: These programs focus on empowering women Financial literacy through ﬁnancial literacy such as family budget, Personal hygiene savings, mobile banking, etc.; and personal hygiene SRHR for women including the use of sanitary napkins and Sexual and Reproductive Health Rights (SRHR). In the ﬁrst two phases, more than 60 participants took part, 50% of whom were women. Community Health Program n order to further focus on S 3, ood ealth and 50+ Well-Being, a Community Health Development Program was held at the Kashimpur community on 30 ay 2016. hildren, women, men, and the elderly free prescriptions of the community visited to take the free treatment. provided ore than 50 people received free prescriptions. DBL AND SUSTAINABILITY 39 ENVIRONMENT PROGRAMS Partnership for Cleaner Textiles (PaCT) A program by the International Finance Corporation (IFC) of the World Bank Group, PaCT is a holistic program supporting textile wet processing factories to adapt to cleaner production. It engages with 1.2 billion liters of water brands, government, communities, ﬁnancial saved in 2015 institutions and other stakeholders in bringing about systemic, positive environmental change for the Bangladesh textile sector, the workers and the communities of operations. The program contributed to water, gas, electricity, steam, dyes/chemicals and carbon emission consumption reduction. Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) n 2011, a group of ma or apparel brands and retailers made a collective commitment to help lead the industry towards zero discharge of hazardous chemicals by 2020. rands involved in this pro ect are H&M, Esprit, G-Star and Puma. A “Joint oadmap was published in ovember 2011 which demonstrates the group’s collaborative efforts in leading the apparel and footwear industry towards for all products across all pathways by 2020. Bio Gas Generation In collaboration with GIZ, a bio gas generation plant has been set up in the Jinnat Complex, where the knitting and garments operations take place. Cattle excrement in used to provide as source of the gas and is currently being used as a source of fuel in cooking. ith an initial investment of T 5,000, a return of about T 600,000 is obtained per year. 40 ENVIRONMENT PROGRAMS Sustainable Action and Vision for a better Environment (SAVE) pro ect by uma and co ﬁnanced by with support from and SS ST, S is aimed at reducing carbon emission, energy consumption, waste and water consumption by 25% by 2015 keeping 2011 as the baseline. number of recommendations were implemented in the garments unit Jinnat Knitwears Ltd. based on an onsite assessment performed in ovember of 201 . These recommendations have immediate, short term or long term payback periods and were implemented throughout 2015. received the recognition for having the est anagement System during the event closing in anuary 2016. 351,188 22,927 8,000 kwh energy m3 water kg waste Savings from SAVE Clean Energy Solutions In collaboration with IFC, a study has been done to identify the feasibility of making use of Solar Photovoltaic (PV) cells. These cells will be on the roof-tops of production buildings as well as ground mounted. The study assessed the technical and ﬁnancial feasibility of investing in Solar PV. 3E The nergy fﬁciency ngagement 3 rogram is implemented by the ordic hamber of Commerce and Industry in Bangladesh (NCCI) and funded by the Danish International Development Cooperation (DANIDA). The overall goal of this program is to reduce carbon emissions and decrease costs related to industrial energy consumption. This is achieved by offering companies the opportunity to have energy assessment of their production facilities. Three of DBL Group’s facilities have gone through the assessment and reports have been provided for the respective implementation procedures. DBL AND SUSTAINABILITY 41 Chapter 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE “The way a team plays as a whole determines its success. You may have the greatest bunch of individual stars in the world, but if they don't play together, the club won't be worth a dime.” Babe Ruth T S The highest governing body in DBL Group is the Board of Directors. Our current Board consists of four Directors and one Advisor. The Vice Chairman is also a director of the BGMEA. The company has deﬁned guidelines and established framework for the board meetings and other proceedings. These guidelines help decision making processes of the board members in a systematic, informed and efﬁcient manner. The Board evaluates: Strategic decisions of the company Management policies and their effectiveness Strategic review from each of the board members Financial, production and other business performance through relevant reports. DBL Group’s senior management personnel are chosen by the Board of Directors because of their vast e periences, immense knowledge, fascinating competence, cross industry e posure, local and overseas footage, and well accepted market reputation. This cohesive team wants to make a difference, develop and inspire others, drive innovative ideas and deliver results, and live with roup s values. Virtually all of our senior management personnel are angladeshis, with a small proportion less than 1% from other nations. ur operations are currently in haka and a ipur. e take these two areas into account when we deﬁne signiﬁcant areas of operation . The term local usually refers to our areas of operation as well. n this regard, all of our senior management is based in haka and a ipur. The distinguished oard is cultivating a sustainable work culture through them. credits its strength and sustain to a consistent approach in managing the business and to the constant growth of its people to the senior management team. 44 U T TT T roup adheres to the deﬁnition of orporate overnance of the nternational inance orporation a set of structures and processes for the direction and control of companies, which involves a set of relationships between the company s shareholders, board and e ecutive bodies with the purpose of creating long term shareholder value. DBL views corporate governance as a means to: Improve operational efficiency Attract financing at a lower cost Build a better reputation. DBL Group also considers a sound system of corporate governance as an important contribution to the rule of law in angladesh and an important determinant of the role of the company in a modern economy and society. Through implementing the recommendations by , roup aims at bringing its corporate governance framework up to the best international practices and standards to the e tent possible. This is critical to roup given the company s e pected growth. The desire to attract new investors will heavily rely on the e istence of a concrete corporate governance system. roup intends to establish a sound corporate governance system which will facilitate the organi ation to attain Better access to external capital Lower financing costs Higher credit ratings Strong investor confidence CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 45 Chapter 4 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE “Economic growth doesn't mean anything if it leaves people out.” Jack Kemp Wasif Gaws Creative Director Grey Shack Limited Grey Shack, a communications and consultancy company which provides support to development organizations, multi-nationals, large corporations, SMEs, NGOs, institutions and individuals in all aspects of Communication Solutions, ICT Solutions and Strategic Business Consultancy. We provide special assistance in social awareness raising, behavior change communication, advocacy campaign, information education and communication, visibility and branding. By creating an end to end communication strategy and carefully planned implementation, Grey Shack helps to empower all its stakeholders understand the project goals and to contribute actively to the decision-making processes of development as a whole. BANGLADESH GARMENTS INDUSTRY AND EMPLOYMENT Bangladesh is the second largest supplier of readymade garments (RMG) in the world after China. The industry contributed to over 82% of total exports of the country in 2015-16 and hence the signiﬁcance of the industry is not to be ignored. uick summary of the e ports has been reported below, as reported by the Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association (BGMEA) and the Export Promotion Bureau (EPB)1. Bangladesh RMG export (in million US$) in 2015-16: 10.21% more exports Woven 14,738.74 than 2014-15 Knit 13,355.42 Total 28,094.16 82.01% of total exports of Bangladesh The BGMEA also reports that the RMG of more than 4% employment each for male industry currently creates employment for and female. over million workers. Thereby, for employment generation and hence moving towards Bangladesh’s population has appeared to be S 1 o overty , the signiﬁcance of this the blessing for Bangladesh as it is the industry is again apparent. A report from the driving force behind the success of the RMG orld ank2 states that the same. The World industry. The demographic proﬁle of anglaank reports that a 1% growth in apparel desh’s population has helped the apparel output will contribute to 0.3% to 0.4% industry to thrive. The vibrant and young increase in employment in Bangladesh. The population of this country is the major sector’s contribution to the employment, strength of our RMG industry. especially in the South Asian countries, is greater than that for other industries. In addiur duty free access to the world market is tion, orld ank also reports that a 10% another big advantage over other competiincrease in the prices uoted by hina to the tors. As a developing country, we have United States alone will lead to an increase duty free market access to most of the 1 http://bgmea.com.bd/home/pages/TradeInformation, Accessed 29 Nov 2016 2 https //openknowledge.worldbank.org/bitstream/handle/10 6/23 61/ 7 1 6 0 135.pdf se uence 2 is llowed y ccessed 22 ov 2016 52 BANGLADESH GARMENTS INDUSTRY AND EMPLOYMENT developed countries. This trade privilege hile industrial speciali ation was taking also helps us offer competitive price. The place, our RMG sector felt the need for buyers also give priority to Bangladesh as we strong support of backward linkages to have been able to earn their conﬁdence on reduce dependence on imported immediate timely delivery of ordered products of materials like yarn and fabric. ompanies desired uality at very competitive price. with strong backward linkage is also reducThis is one of the major reasons why global ing dependency on external suppliers for brands are choosing Bangladesh. processes which have made us self-sustainable. DBL’s approach DBL Group strongly believes in a sustainable growth which diminishes the unfavorable impacts on its surrounding. This is reflected in the company’s economic performance which has consistently got better every year. The organizational responsibility for the economic performance lies with the Finance Department. Annual statutory audit is carried out by third party in line with the country s regulation and ﬁnancial performance is assessed and reported after approval by the Board of Directors. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 53 DBL EXPORT SUMMARY 73,972,211 PIECES EXPORTED IN 2015-16 29.70% Wasif Gaws Creative Director Grey Shack Limited Grey Shack, a communications and consultancy company which provides support to development organizations, multi-nationals, large corporations, SMEs, NGOs, institutions and individuals in all aspects of Communication Solutions, ICT Solutions and Strategic Business Consultancy. We provide special assistance in social awareness raising, behavior change communication, advocacy campaign, information education and communication, visibility and branding. By creating an end to end communication strategy and carefully planned implementation, Grey Shack helps to empower all its stakeholders understand the project goals and to contribute actively to the decision-making processes of development as a whole. MORE EXPORTS THAN 2014-15 ASIA & NORTH SOUTH EUROPE AFRICA OCEANIA AMERICA AMERICA AUSTRIA MOROCCO AUSTRALIA CANADA ARGENTINA BELGIUM SOUTH AFRICA CHINA EL SALVADOR BOLIVIA CROATIA HONG KONG MEXICO BRAZIL DENMARK INDIA USA CHILE FRANCE INDONESIA ECUADOR GERMANY JAPAN PANAMA GREECE MALAYSIA PARAGUAY ITALY NEW ZEALAND PERU NETHERLANDS PHILLIPPINES URUGUAY NORWAY SINGAPORE VENZUELA POLAND SOUTH KOREA RUSSIA TAIWAN SERBIA THAILAND SPAIN UAE SWEDEN TURKEY UK 54 ECONOMIC SUMMARY Economic summary of DBL Group: 2015-16 & 2014-15 All amounts in million US$ (USD 1 = 78.45 BDT) 2015-16 2014-15 Export amount 205.49 168.64 evenue gross 362.75 31 .51 ther income .01 5.77 Direct economic value generated 366.76 324.28 perating costs 237. 7 21 .5 mployee wages and beneﬁts .12 37. 1 Payments to providers of capital 11.49 9.90 ayments to government 13. 2 16.17 Community investments 0.60 0.28 Economic value distributed 311.10 283.34 Economic value retained 55.66 40.94 (direct economic value generated less economic value distributed) TAX RATES 2015-16 2014-15 Garments 20% 35% Textiles 15% 15% Corporate 35% 35% ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 55 WAGE AND ECONOMIC IMPACTS Entry level wage DBL Group always abides by the minimum wage as set by the government when recruiting. The levels of wages are a common standard for the industry regardless of gender or area of operation this is constant throughout angladesh. ach worker is recruited in one of seven grades (apart from trainees). For grades, higher than the lowest one, DBL pays at a premium rate than the minimum as e perience is taken into account in these cases the lowest grade usually comprises of people with little or no prior experience. The surplus amount depends on the amount of prior experience the recruit has. Economic impacts Apart from the machinery used in the different operations, DBL procures all other products and services from haka. USD Million When DBL began its operations in Kashimpur (Gazipur), the entire area/locale was undeveloped. The 35 progression was escalated by industries and the 30 30 locality has gone through a signiﬁcant transforma26 25 tion. Popular local branded shops and local and 21 20 20 global branded products are now available in the community. 15 14 9.3 10 8.4 makes an assumption 70% of a worker s earn6 5 ings are spent on rent, children education and house0 hold items for their daily needs. Based on this, the 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 graph on the right shows the improvement throughout the years and the contribution of DBL to the improvement of the local economy. The Bandhan Fair Price Shop of DBL Group plays an important role towards the positive contribution through its product lines. Premium brands such as GlaxoSmithKline, Unilever, etc. are available for the workers at prices which are more affordable to them hence they now have access to better uality as well as healthier products. DBL Group has also contributed to the economy through the following ways: roviding access to medicine at manufacturer s price for workers and their families Contribution to educational institutions in the community Conducting surveys to understand the needs of the community Providing assistance to various hospitals 56 RECENT AWARDS AND ACCOLADES atin Spinning ills imited secured the ﬁrst position as the Best Corporate in the Textile/Garments sector in the ICMAB Best Corporate Award 2015 DBL Group has been awarded the 6th HSBC Export Excellence Awards under the category ‘A’ for having exports over USD 50 Million in ‘Garment and Textile’ Matin Spinning Mills Limited has received Gold Award in the Textiles & RMG Companies category at the 3rd ICSB National Award 2015 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 57 RECENT AWARDS AND ACCOLADES DBL Group received Sustainability Award 2015 in the H&M Knitwear Supplier Day event DBL Group’s concerns received awards as Sustainable Performer on Waste Water Management – 2016 in the Supplier’s Day event of Decathlon Matin Spinning Mills Limited received “Spinner of the Year 2015” and “International Textile Firm of the Year 2015” from the World Textile Awards 58 RECENT AWARDS AND ACCOLADES DBL Group’s concerns received awards as Best Sustainable Performer on Human esponsibility in roduction 2016 in the Supplier s ay event of ecathlon DBL Group has won one Gold and two Silver awards in the International Convention on uality ontrol ircles 2016 held in angkok, Thailand ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 59 Chapter 5 ENVIRONMENTAL PRACTICES “No water, no life. No blue, no green.” Sylvia Earle ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT APPROACH DBL management is committed to manage and protect environment as an integral part of its business. The company prefers to run its businesses in a responsible, environmentally sound and sustainable manner by implementing effective environmental policy and procedures in all the factories. A number of sustainability projects relating to environmental management system have been implemented. Environment Management Approach To reduce environmental footprint, DBL Group has formed an Environmental Management System (EMS) team of ﬁve members. Standard environmental policy and Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) policy have been formulated which addresses management of: Waste Energy Wastewater Noise pollution Water use Greenhouse gas (GHG) Ozone depleting substances (ODS), etc. These guiding activities help us address environmental challenges such as biodiversity conservation. These are given priority to ensure environmental responsibilities and continual improvement to reduce environmental impacts. As minimization of pollution is addressed, the organization can ensure sustainability of the environment as an integral part of the business. Awareness Training on Environment Environment awareness trainings are conducted every month for all employees relating to more general issues as well as on the production processes. All new employees, irrespective of their levels, are briefed about EHS and environmental related aspects of the organization during their induction process. Employees are also made to undergo speciﬁc training with respect to the nature of their work. Need identiﬁcation for this is done by the respective heads of departments for sending staff across for internal as well as external trainings. Monitoring and Follow-up of Environmental Practices The EMS team carries out internal audits based on legal requirement and buyers’ standards to review the environmental aspects. External (third party) audits are also involved to assess important aspects such as stack and ambient air emission test, noise test, Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), etc. The different issues are addressed without delay: monthly meetings are also conducted to tend to the remaining issues. The EMS and EHS committees in each unit are also involved to implement the environmental practices. 62 ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT APPROACH Environmental Certifications Certification Processes nvironmental learance ertiﬁcate Spinning, fabric dyeing, all-over printing, screen printing and packaging Spinning, fabric dyeing, all-over printing, Oeko-Tex Standard 100 garments and screen printing Spinning, fabric dyeing, all-over printing, Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS) garments and screen printing Organic Content Standard (OCS-IN) Garments ISO 14001 Fabric dyeing and all-over printing Environmental initiatives in different business operations Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) Cotton Organic Cotton import Energy saving machinery Spinning Innovation in yarn production Energy saving dyeing process Fabric Partnership for Cleaner Textiles (PaCT) Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals dyeing (ZDHC) Carbon Performance Improvement Initiative (CPI2) Garment Sustainable Action and Vision for a production better Environment (SAVE) ENVIRONMENTAL PRACTICES 63 MATERIALS USED BY WEIGHT OR VOLUME Depending on the different production processes, different raw materials are used. The primary raw materials for the different production processes are shown below. Process Input material(s) Output from process Cotton spinning Raw cotton Yarns Fabric knitting Yarns Fabrics abric dyeing and ﬁnishing abrics, dyes and chemicals yed fabrics All-over printing Fabrics, dyes and chemicals Printed fabrics Garments manufacturing Fabrics, accessories Finished garments Garments printing Finished garments, dyes Printed garments and chemicals Garments washing Finished garments Washed garments Corrugated carton Cardboard paper Cartons All input materials are weighed and tracked to control unwanted wastage. Different systems such Materials used by weight or volume as Lean Manufacturing, Kaizen and 5S are included to make proper use of materials thereby reducing Materials Unit Amount waste. Electronic tabs are used for data input with Chemicals Kg 5,728,068 in-house developed software and hence moving a Cotton Kg 10,198,282 step closer to paperless systems. Cut-panel Pieces 26,158,893 External assessments by government and private Dyes Kg 805,029 organizations are made on noise and air pollutions Fabric Kg 48,648,352 and the quality of wastewater before discharging. Cardboard Kg 7,411,643 DBL performs its own assessments as well. All paper recommendations are implemented in order to reduce impact on the environment. 15% less dyes than 2014-15 64 WATER MANAGEMENT DBL Group continuously tracks the water consumption by using water flow meter in the factories and takes initiatives to reduce the consumption. Water withdrawal for different facilities 64% Type of water Unit 2015-16 less water than Groundwater m3 2,077,470 2014-15 Some initiatives to reduce water consumption Efficient machineries We have installed state-of-the-art dyeing machines that consume 50% less water in comparison to the average dyeing machines. This in turn has a direct effect on the receding water table and energy consumption. Reduced water consumption Water consumption in the fabric dyeing process has been reduced from 120 liters per kg of fabric to 55 liters per kg. Less water means consumption of less dyes, chemicals, steam and electricity and reduction in waste water discharge. As such the environmental impact is reduced and production cost is also lowered. Other water saving practices Repair leaking taps and educate staff to turn off after use Replace water taps without aerators by taps with aerators Replace single flush cisterns with dual flush Begin rain water harvesting Boiler hot water reuse ENVIRONMENTAL PRACTICES 65 ENERGY MANAGEMENT Energy is an essential point of the industrial sector to achieve sustainability as it is directly related to ﬁnancial matters and global climate change. Energy consumption within the organization is monitored and tracked to reduce wastage of the energy. The following steps are currently implemented to reduce energy consumption: Preparation of energy management policy Collecting consumption of water, steam, diesel, gas and electricity along with monthly production Benchmarking and regulating energy consumption in consultation with the production team by doing process re-engineering and innovations Reducing carbon emission Reducing diesel consumption in generators by 10% Taking initiative to reduce energy consumption by choosing alternative sources of non-renewable resources Training employees on energy and environmental aspects within the industry DBL currently makes use of non-renewable energy sources for its operations. In 2015-16, 10,861,313 liters of diesel and 40,972,573 cubic meters of natural gas has been used. For transportation, 1,819,394 cubic meters of CNG, 1,887,658 liters of diesel and 338,222 liters of octane has been used. Some initiatives to reduce energy consumption Natural water cooling pads We are using natural water cooling pads in our production floors. One side of the production floor has cooling pads through which water flows continuously while the other side has blower fans which “pull” and circulate the generated cool air on the floor. The room temperature for the workers is comparatively lower than the cooling done by ceiling fans. The need for installing hundreds of ceiling fans has been abandoned and energy consumption has been greatly reduced. Workplace comfort has also increased signiﬁcantly. Servo motors We are using sewing machines with energy efﬁcient servo motors instead of the traditional clutch motors in the sewing lines. Servo motors consume electricity only when the machine needle is active whereas the clutch motor consumes electricity even on standby mode. The clutch motors are replaced as soon as the machines are out of order. 66 ENERGY MANAGEMENT Energy efficient machineries igh end energy efﬁcient capital machineries from urope, US and apan are used in our production processes. These world class machineries have greatly reduced the energy consumption for different production processes by 15%. Some of the features of our energy efﬁcient and environment friendly machines are as follows The dyeing machines have individual heat recovery unit resulting in lower power consumption and energy saving by 15% Water consumption saving of 20% compared to normal dyeing machines Reduction in consumption of dyes, chemical and steam due to less water consumption Heat recovery from Captive Power Plant is providing energy saving of about 15% Other energy saving practices Reducing light intensity in certain areas Switching off unnecessary lights during day time eplacing T lights with the more efﬁcient T5 lights and LEDs Recovering steam condensates Purchasing Variable Frequency Drive (VFD) in built air compressor Regular maintenance ENVIRONMENTAL PRACTICES 67 EMISSIONS Emissions Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions within organization (Calculated using IFC & GHG protocol Guidelines) GHGs Facilities Unit 2015-16 CO2 Stitching Ton 112,528 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions within organization by transportation services (Calculated using IFC & GHG protocol Guidelines) Fuel Type Unit 2015-16 CNG Ton 3,405 Diesel Ton 5,052 Octane Ton 768 GHGs are related with energy production and reducing energy consumption helps with reduction of GHGs, thus contributing to minimization of climate effects. To ensure effective monitoring and minimizing of energy consumption and GHG emission, the following tasks are done: Maintaining an energy use inventory (e.g. energy consumption data such as gas bill, electricity bill and fuel use in vehicle) Checking electricity lines, gas lines, oil tankers and generator connections. Maintaining GHG emission inventory including direct and indirect energy consumption. 68 BIODIVERSITY AND EFFLUENTS Biodiversity management In overall, DBL has a total operational area of 488,699 km2. Environmental impact assessment is done for every facility and preventive actions are taken against the possible impact. This assessment takes the following into consideration: Noise pollution management Safe disposal of waste materials from production process Air emissions management Biodiversity conservation Greenhouse gas emissions monitoring and energy management Effluents DBL Group currently has two Effluent Treatment Plants (ETPs). The ﬁrst one with the capacity of 4,000 m3 was taken as a benchmark by the Department of Environment (DoE) of the government of Bangladesh. To meet the extended capacity of the dyeing process, a second ETP of 7,500 m3 was constructed and went into operation in November 2014. The cumulative total of 11,500 m3 is currently among the largest ETPs in the country that is under a single factory complex. Effluent quantity ETP Unit 2015-16 Cumulative m 3 2,402,878 69 WASTE All wastages are tracked and monitored regularly. Non-hazardous and hazardous are given to government authorized waste collectors for proper disposal. Different types of wastes have different ways of disposal. Before disposing any waste, they have to be categorized according to their characteristics. In general, they may be categorized as hazardous and non-hazardous. Category wise list of wastes in different sections Section / Area Types of Waste Non-hazardous Hazardous Cutting Cotton fabric, paper, carton, tubes of Synthetic fabric, poly bag, fabric roll cutter knife, scissors, blade, pp van Sewing Cotton fabric, cotton thread, cotton Synthetic fabric, synthetic label, paper thread, synthetic label, poly, cutter, scissors, needle, plastic cone, button, zipper, rivet Finishing Cotton thread, carton Needle, poly, used gum tape, tag pin, empty bottle of spot lifter Medical Gauge, unused cotton Syringe, synthetic packaging Centre materials of medicine, empty medicine bottle Canteen Food substance Plastic packets, water bottle etc. Lab Cotton, paper box etc. Detergent (liquid and solid) Common Wood, paper, etc. Tube light, electric bulb, oil, electric ware, rubber mat, metal, empty chemical drums 70 WASTE Total weight of waste by type Waste types Unit 2015-16 Drums Pieces 7,065 Hazardous Kg 319,033 Hazardous Pieces 9,112 Non-hazardous Kg 5,268,312 Others Pieces 1,210 There are 3 separate dustbins clearly labeled set in the medical center for depositing all types of bottle/strips, cotton/bandages and syringes/needles respectively. All concerned staffs are instructed to deposit waste in those speciﬁc dustbins. 33% less non-hazardous waste 2014-15 OTHERS Products and services To mitigate the impacts on the environment, a number of Sustainability programs have been taken by DBL Group. Brief explanations of these programs have been included under Chapter 2 of this report. Environmental grievance mechanisms Till now, we have had no grievances about environmental impacts since all of our facilities maintain environmental compliance. 72 OTHERS Transportation impact management The impacts due to transportation are managed in a number of ways including the following: Daily, weekly and monthly maintenance Engine servicing after running every 3,000 km or 3 months: including washing, engine flashing, changing obil and air ﬁlters, etc. Spark plug checking and replacing Engine valve (inlet and exhaust) clearance checking and adjusting Greasing moveable parts to avoid friction uel ﬁlter cleaning and replacing Battery water level checking and recharging Gear box and axle gear oil level checking and replacing Avoid air draft using windshield/air reflector Motivating drivers to minimize fuel consumption, avoiding over speed, etc. ENVIRONMENTAL PRACTICES 73 Chapter 6 SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT “Human Development is the base for Sustainable Development.” Wasif Gaws Creative Director Grey Shack Limited Mekelle University, Ethiopia Grey Shack, a communications and consultancy company which provides support to development organizations, multi-nationals, large corporations, SMEs, NGOs, institutions and individuals in all aspects of Communication Solutions, ICT Solutions and Strategic Business Consultancy. We provide special assistance in social awareness raising, behavior change communication, advocacy campaign, information education and communication, visibility and branding. By creating an end to end communication strategy and carefully planned implementation, Grey Shack helps to empower all its stakeholders understand the project goals and to contribute actively to the decision-making processes of development as a whole. COMPLIANCE The starting point of any business would be compliance: if the basic requirements are not Compliance audit procedure fulﬁlled, adaptability to changes will not be inherent. s an e ample, if the minimum wages and rights are not provided to workers Opening meeting and employees, the uestion of living wages and women empowerment will go unfulﬁlled. Floor visit In order to ensure the national and international laws, as well as those of buyers Worker interview through their codes of conduct , are maintained, roup s ompliance department Document review is divided into two wings: social and environmental. Closing meeting The social team oversees issues such as timely and proper payment of wages and salaries, employee welfare, ﬁre safety, electriContinuous interaction with other departcal and building safety, and occupational ments is maintained for making corrective health and safety (OHS) while the Environactions based on the audits and preparation mental Management System (EMS) team for future audits. The most recent informalooks after environmental affairs such as tion on laws and regulations are collected waste management, resource efﬁciency, periodically from the different government carbon emissions, etc. recautionary authorities and buyers and the same is approaches are taken by educating workers updated and implemented. ny notiﬁcation about national laws, buyers codes of issued by the government authority or our conduct, health and safety issues, human buyers is immediately communicated by the rights, etc. The policies and compliance Compliance department to all concerned levels of roup are reviewed through departments for updating and implementainternal auditors as well as by our buyers and tion. their recognized third party inspection companies. Suppliers of are also assessed for labor practices, human rights, as well as societal Our EMS team also facilitates the different impacts. The ompliance team environmental sustainability projects in conducts supplier assessment through order to assess and reduce environmental speciﬁc standards uestionnaire on social risks. The Head of the Compliance departand environmental areas based on the ment reports all the activities of the team to ode of onduct. efore making a business the oard of irectors. relationship with a supplier, it is compulsory that the supplier abides by our Code. 76 T T ST S T T T S S Organization Specific standards onvention 1 orking ours onventions 2 and 105 orced and onded abour onvention 7 oung ersons ight ork onvention 7 reedom of ssociation onvention ight to ollective argaining International Labour onventions 100 and 111 ual emuneration for Organization (ILO) Male and Female Workers for Work of Equal Value; Discrimination) onvention 135 orkers epresentatives onventions 13 and 1 2 inimum orking ge onvention 155 and ecommendation 16 ccu pational Safety and Health) onvention 15 ocational ehabilitation and Employment / Disabled Persons) onvention 177 ome ork onvention 1 1 rivate mployment gencies onvention 1 2 orst orms of hild abour etter ork angladesh along with Universal eclaration of uman ights United Nations (UN) onvention on the ights of hild onvention to liminate all orms of iscrimination against Women usiness Social ompliance nitiative S orldwide esponsible ccredit roduction (WRAP) Social ccountability 000 S 000 uidance ocument for Social ccountability 000 nternational uality uidelines for uditing om Others panies in the Framework for SA8000 Accreditation thical Trading nitiative T nternational rgani ation for Standardi ation S 9001 nternational rgani ation for Standardi ation S 14001 Social ccountability nternational S uideline (150.1 – 150.8) ccupational ealth and Safety dvisory Services (OHSAS) 18001 erformance Standards SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 77 Employee distribution Gender Age group 30 to 50 Above 50 Female 22.51% 0.08% 9,179 37% Total employees Below 30 77.41% 24,500 Male FEMALE 15,321 69% 30 to 50 Above 50 All employees are full-time 32.13% 1.08% Below 30 RATIO OF BASIC SALARY 66.79% Female : Male MALE 1:1 Religion 0.16% FEMALE 96.02% 3.75% 0.07% 0.19% MALE 97.11% 2.71% 0 Islam Hinduism Christianity Buddhist & others New hires Employee turnover 0.3% 0.2% 22.4% 14.6% Age Below 30 group 30 to 50 Above 50 77.3% 75.1% 38.6% 39.0% Gendar 61.4% 61.0% Male Female 78 T ifferent trainings are provided to employees every month which consist of both generali ed and speciﬁc trainings. The generali ed training topics include induction, working hours, overtime and calculation of wages, the buyers codes of conducts, personal protective e uipment , occupational health and safety, ﬁre safety, anti harassment and grievance procedure, material safety data sheet S S and chemical handling procedure and so on. The speciﬁc trainings target mid level management, workers, chemical handlers and spot removers, loaders, uality inspectors, ﬁrst aiders, ﬁre ﬁghters, evacuators and rescuers, cleaners, etc. n 2015 16, the total training hours spent amounted to 61,71 , with female and male employees receiving 22,655 hours and 3 ,063 and hours respectively. The average training hours per female employee was 3.10 and male employees was 3.07; the overall average per employee was 3.08. SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 79 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE At DBL, we train our Welfare Ofﬁcers to exercise grievance procedures very professionally and encourage employees to express their concerns without hesitation through the complaint management system. Workers feel comfortable sharing any concern that they might have with the Welfare Ofﬁcers. We process grievances both formally and informally. These include: The Suggestion/Grievance Box: Workers can 1 put in their issues in written form and drop them in the boxes. Multiple boxes are placed on each floor: these are checked every week by designated people and the grievances are recorded in a register. 2 The Bandhan Newsletter: Similar to the Suggestion/Grievance Boxes, workers can place their complaints using the monthly published newsletter and drop them off conﬁdentially in the boxes. Verbal conplaint: Workers can verbally inform 3 Ofﬁcers from the Welfare, Compliance, Human Resource (HR), and/or Admin departments or to their Supervisor or Line Chief. During the Workers Participation Committee 4 (WPC) meetings: A concerned worker can express themselves through a WPC member who will put forward the complaint during the meetings. Grievances of all employees regarding any topic are taken into account by the management. This includes violations of rights of indigenous people. In 2015-16, there were no incidents reported where the rights of such people were violated either through formal grievance mechanisms or through informal ones. DBL Group’s grievance procedure addresses labor practice issues as well as human rights and societal topics. In overall, 2015-16 recorded 143 grievances of which all were addressed and 142 resolved. 3 grievances of 2014-15 were addressed and resolved in this year. Signiﬁcant operational changes, such as restructuring, outsourcing of operations, expansions, etc., are communicated with the concerned employees a minimum of 3 months prior to the change in order to keep everyone updated. This also gives sufﬁcient time in order to prepare them accordingly. 80 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (OHS) roup aims on creating a healthy, enviillness such as cough or cold, headaches, ronment-friendly and safe workplace and back pains, allergies, neck pain, as well as also educating the workforce regarding sinusitis. Most of these diseases can be health and safety issues. A good work envicured or even prevented through the proper ronment not only has direct impact on the use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). employees health but also plays a vital role on the productivity level. Our Health and A dedicated medical centre is present in the Safety Management policy and procedure factory complex which manages and treats encompass all national and international all kinds of occupational diseases. In addistandards. Dedicated teams are present to tion, the centre also deals with non occupaoversee the availability and status of the ﬁrst tional but common diseases such as fever, aid supplies, medical facilities, hygiene facilimeasles, tooth pain, and so on. ties, temperature levels, uality of water and food and so on. urthermore, in order to aware employees and workers regarding various health issues, ll instances of accidents, in uries, and occuawareness programs, meetings, trainings, pational diseases are kept in record in . and workshops are conducted on a regular Each record of an occurrence is categorized basis. The topics of these sessions also deal into multiple types in order to analyze the with issues such as personal hygiene, for speciﬁc type of in ury and disease. e ample washing hands, thereby dealing with a preventive measure for various Occupational diseases are prevalent in the diseases. Health and safety committees are workplace due to the existing surroundings. present in each of the factory complexes: The presence of dust, heat, chemicals, work who comprise of 3.43% of the total workstress, posture of working, etc. make rise to force. SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 81 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (OHS) Fire safety is one of the most important issues regarding occupational safety. The Compliance department performs audits to ensure unobstructed evacuation paths, properly designed evacuation maps and lighting present in required areas. To tackle the events of ﬁre, four teams – the ﬁre ﬁghters, the rescue team, the cordon party and the ﬁrst aiders – are involved. In 2015-16, a total of 152 non-fatal accidents and injuries were reported while the employees were at work: 116 of them were males and the rest 36 were females. 53 occupational diseases were reported for the male workforce and none for the females. A total of 3,394 lost days were recorded: of them were 1,493 males and 1,901 females. Risk management Given the nature of our business, the raw materials and products that we handle and the scale of our operations, our risk management systems are designed to ensure that all our assets are safeguarded and protected against any kind of loss including mankind and property. In regards to the safety of workers, speciﬁc risk analyses are done based on their workplaces. These workplaces include a wide variety of areas within the factories such as the chemical store rooms and the ETP, as well as the zones containing different machines such as the compacting machine and the generator. Pregnant women are also considered under risk management: in order to avoid the risk to the fetuses, they are to be seated when working, allowed leaving early during the lunch breaks and not allowed to work overtime. Each type of analysis includes the description and consequence of the hazard, the person at risk and the control or preventive measures that can be taken. In addition, hazards are given ratings, calculated by using the frequencies of occurrence and the severity, thereby effectively identifying the risks or hazards to prioritize on. OHSAS 18001:2007 standard The Occupational Health and Safety Advisory Services (OHSAS) is an international management system speciﬁcation for occupational health and safety. Implemented by GIZ, one of DBL Group’s dyeing units acquired this certiﬁcation in April 2016. OHSAS was chosen in order to further reduce illness and incidents through continual improvement, increase awareness about health and safety and establish a health and safety management system within the factory. The multi-department committee formed has enabled multiple beneﬁts including increased hazard awareness, safety culture and reduced risk behavior. DBL is already planning to replicate the standard to other units. 82 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (OHS) Fire safety Fire extinguishers Fire beaters Fire blankets Fire hooks Stretchers Gong bells Smoke detectors Lock cutters Sprinklers Emergency lights Fire hose cabinet boxes Safety equipment such Water drums and buckets as gloves, helmets, gas masks and gumboots Electrical safety Top quality cabling and accessories Trained technicians for maintenance International safety features for equipment Maintenance and risk analysis records Wasif Gaws Creative Director Grey Shack Limited Grey Shack, a communications and consultancy company which provides support to development organizations, multi-nationals, large corporations, SMEs, NGOs, institutions and individuals in all aspects of Communication Solutions, ICT Solutions and Strategic Business Consultancy. We provide special assistance in social awareness raising, behavior change communication, advocacy campaign, information education and communication, visibility and branding. By creating an end to end communication strategy and carefully planned implementation, Grey Shack helps to empower all its stakeholders understand the project goals and to contribute actively to the decision-making processes of development as a whole. Building safety Structural assessments Bangladesh National Building Code (BNBC) during construction Certification with Architectural and Structural Design Standard Scaled as-built drawings Chemical safety Careful assessment of chemicals Chemical usage policy Material safety data sheet (MSDS) Regular trainings SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 83 HUMAN RIGHTS Investment Signiﬁcant investment agreements include participation in training, creation and implementation of a new policy or procedure, and other activities that DBL Group undertakes in order to promote labor practices, human rights, societal and environmental concerns, as well as any sustainability issue. DBL has dealt with multiple activities that promote human rights. These are summarized below. DBL Group has made investment in various training sessions. Two of such programs are the Women in Factories Initiative (WiFI) and Nirapod: Saving Women from unwanted Pregnancy and Unsafe MR. The former program is funded by Walmart and implemented by CARE. The latter program is Phulki’s approach in partnership with the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Further details of these and other programs have been explained under Chapter 2 of this report. Forced labor DBL does not use involuntary or forced labor. The Code of Conduct emphasizes that all employees should be working at factory voluntarily and no means should be adopted as a measure which may indirectly result in an employee working forcibly. The freedom of movement of employees is not restricted except for the protection of property and security of factory personnel. Additionally, no employees are recruited on contract basis and an employee may resign from the company by giving one month’s notice. Security practices All security personnel in DBL are of our own: there are none from third party organizations. Human rights topics are communicated to all security personnel via trainings that take place every month. Child labor DBL is not engaged with any form of child labor. At the time of hiring, psychological interviews are done in order to determine the age of the potential employee. In addition, documents as proofs of age are collected from all potential employees and the authenticity of age documents is veriﬁed. In the absence of age documents, the potential employee is to be veriﬁed and conﬁrmed by the registered doctor available at the factory. 84 U TS Non-discrimination employs, pays, promotes and terminates workers on the basis of their ability to do the ob, rather than on the basis of personal characteristics or beliefs. Discrimination on any ground is not allowed. ue to the strength of the practice, there have been no cases of discrimination. Freedom of association and collective bargaining recogni es and respects the right of employees to e ercise their lawful rights of freedom of association and collective bargaining. No discrimination is done against employees who form or participate in lawful associations or collective bargaining. The presence of the Worker Participation Committee (WPC) allows the workers to freely communicate regarding any issue. n order to ensure these rights are e ercised, monthly audits from the ompliance team take place, noting the composition of the committee members, fre uency of meetings, topics discussed and so on. management has been able to form a according to the guidelines which is very effective for conveying information to both labor and management and resolving any grievances if present. SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 85 SOCIETY Local communities To minimize the impact on communities, the industries of DBL are situated in remote locations. In addition, DBL is continuously striving to reduce the impacts on the local community. These include the following: Biological Effluent Treatment Plants (ETPs) for improved wastewater quality Programs such as Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) to further improve the wastewater quality Significant water savings to make water available for the community: 1.2 billion liters of water has been saved in 2015 alone which can serve over 14,000 families 86 SOCIETY Anti-corruption has no conﬁrmed incidents of corruption and has not made any ﬁnancial and in kind political contributions. n addition, there have been no legal actions for anti competitive behaviors, anti trust and monopoly practices. n always compliant organi ation, did not incur any ﬁnes or been involved in non monetary sanctions for non compliance with laws and regulations. The reputation of roup for lawful and responsible business behavior is of prime importance and is one of its greatest assets. roup is committed to the prevention, deterrence and detention of corrupt business practices, fraudulent activities and bribery. roup has ero tolerance toward any unethical business practice. t has strictly enforced policies on anti corruption, anti fraud and bribery which apply to all business within the roup. The management seeks to promote the adoption of regulations consistent with the principles set out in the different company policies on anti-corruption. It is required that all personnel Act honestly and with integrity at all times and to safeguard the company resources for which they are responsible espect roup customers, suppliers and other parties with whom interaction is made to achieve the ob ectives by conducting business in an ethical, lawful and professional manner t , we have an effective compliance program which includes, but is not limited to, the following components: Communication of a code of conduct to employees; eporting and investigation of allegation of fraud, bribery and other corrupt practices Appropriate disciplinary procedures for employees who are found to have engaged in such practices; and Monitoring of the effectiveness of such controls roup and each of its business take the appropriate steps to ensure all its employees and those acting on its behalf: Meet all legal and regulatory requirements governing the lawful and ethical conduct of business Make all employees aware of their personal responsibilities and adhere strictly and at all times to this policy Provide information to all employees and further guidance if they have any question or uncertainity regarding these requirements. SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 87 Customer health, safety, and privacy Created according to brands’ Specifications Restrictions on use of certain substances and methods Pool testing for button to avoid choking hazard Wasif Gaws Creative Director Grey Shack Limited Fusing using process for Grey Shack, a communications and consultancy company which provides support to development organizations, multi-nationals, large corporations, SMEs, NGOs, institutions and individuals in all aspects of Communication Solutions, ICT Solutions and Strategic Business Consultancy. We provide special assistance in social awareness raising, behavior change communication, advocacy campaign, information education and communication, visibility and branding. By creating an end to end communication strategy and carefully planned implementation, Grey Shack helps to empower all its stakeholders understand the project goals and to contribute actively to the decision-making processes of development as a whole. embroidery to safeguard human skin DBL respects the privacy of customers and henceforth there has been no complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. DBL does not engage itself into incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling. Additionally, there were no incidents of non-compliance with any regulations or codes that deal with marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Furthermore, DBL incurred no ﬁnes for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 88 EMPLOYEE WELFARE variety of activities are present in for the welfare of the employees including aving a fair price shop, andhan, which allows employees to have ero cash transactions and also get to buy on credit with zero interest: the cost is simply adjusted with the monthly salaries of employees In-house day care center with trained professionals In-house medical center with a wide range of tests and even providing outdoor medical services n house pharmacy providing medicines at fair price even for employees family members Participating in external sports tournaments such as Corporate Cricket Leagues Organizing in-house sports tournaments such as football and volleyball Promoting culture through the encouragement of music and art competition Special recognition and sponsorship for employee children for excellent academic performance in ational oard aminations roviding career path counselling to workers children and sponsoring up to two children of each worker Worker-Management Relationship program where personal issues and needs discussed every month through Workers Participation Committee (WPC) meetings orker istening Session, a uality department training to aware present responsibility to trainees and also covers policies and ﬁre safety issues SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 89 Chapter 7 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT “A good head and a good heart are always a formidable combination.” Nelson Mandela STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PROCESS At DBL Group stakeholder satisfaction is of very high concern to the company values and the matter is taken very sincerely. Our stakeholders include those who are associated directly or indirectly to our businesses. The approach and the frequency of engagement with the stakeholders differ on the basis of the category of the stakeholder. DBL Group reserves special interest in identifying all applicable stakeholders and understanding their expectations to remain sustainable in the long run. DBL Group is growing sustainably and we believe that a fully sustainable company will have all its stakeholders engaged in the key processes of the business. ll organi ations and entities that have signiﬁcant influence on roup and those that are directly or indirectly affected by the Group’s operations are considered as stakeholders. We identify potential stakeholders through the following process. Stakeholder Consultation Prioritization Collaboration Reporting Identification There is no particular frequency of engagement with the stakeholders. However, there are annual events like vendor meetings for suppliers, annual general meeting for investors and shareholders, exhibition for customers and others. In addition, respective departments engage with their speciﬁc stakeholder groups upon re uirement. Key stakeholders Internal Suppliers Stakeholders NGOs External Community Media Stakeholders Board Members Employees Shareholders Customers (Buyers) Investors Knowledge Partners Service Providers Government/Public Sector Industry Associations 92 COMMITTING TO INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS DBL Group’s major stakeholder group and a principal asset is the workforce. Hence, DBL reserves a special importance in creating the proper work environment for all employees. Similar attention is also given to their families. To maintain a fully energized workforce, we maintain a number of initiatives to strengthen employer-employee bonding. Some are discussed below. Workers Participation Committee (WPC) Collective bargaining is not prohibited in DBL Group. To make a trustworthy relationship between the workers and the company, DBL Group has formed Workers Participation Committees. These committees constitute of representatives of both the employers and the workers. Workers are encouraged highly in forming of this committee, 50% of each committee comprises of workers. To promote mutual trust, understanding and cooperation between the employers and the workers in order to fulﬁll production target, reduce production cost and improve the uality of products, the committees meet once every month. They are working to effectively establish privileges as well as to improve welfare services for the workers and their families. Through the WPC, workers can freely contact the committees to discuss any issue. DBL Group makes an effort to encourage good relations between workers and managers, by hosting trainings that cover topics, such as labor standards, leave days, working hours, wages, personal protective equipment, health and safety, environmental issues, welfare, and so on. Currently, the committees’ members are representatives of employees and top management selected by each group respectively. However, the selection criterion is being replaced through election procedure. ssues discussed include wages, beneﬁts, working conditions, complaints, productivity, quality and even health issues. Effective communication procedures DBL Group has established different channels to communicate with its workers: these include: Meetings Poster boards Suggestion boxes Open door policy STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 93 COMMITTING TO INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS Grievance mechanisms Apart from formal grievance procedures which are set up as per local laws, DBL Group has informal ways to resolve any sort of disputes quickly and effectively. The top management has an open-door policy and grievance boxes are provided to assist employees maintain conﬁdentiality. DBL Group has established several channels for workers to ﬁle complaints, including anonymous complaints. These include suggestion box and an open-door policy. The Welfare Ofﬁcers are responsible for handling complaints. The suggestion boxes are checked every Saturday and the grievances are recorded. Appropriate action is taken and results are reported back to the employees. Welfare Officers The Welfare Ofﬁcers stationed at the factory complexes oversee workers’ concerns and problems and communicate with the Human Resource and other concerned departments as required. These Ofﬁcers are involved with a number of tasks as shown below. Workers feel very comfortable expressing themselves to the Ofﬁcers. They handle every single case with great care and efﬁciency and maintain conﬁdentiality depending on the sensitivity. Proper measures are taken immediately to resolve any concern over workplace or even workers’ personal issues. Roles of Welfare Ofﬁcers include: Informing workers of any changes in policies Dealing with complaints from workers Registering and providing extra care to pregnant employees Ensuring washroom hygiene Coordinating and conducting trainings Maintaining ﬁrst aid boxes and checklists Facilitating meetings 94 COMMITTING TO INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS The Kaizen Suggestion Box DBL Group appreciates ideas from all of its employees. Besides the Suggestion/Grievance Boxes, an additional box has been included with the aim of taking in suggestions from workers that relate to improving production efﬁciency. This method provides a way to involve workers in the decision-making process which makes workers feel important about themselves and they highly appreciate the management for such initiative. These boxes are referred to as “Kaizen Suggestion Boxes” and are present in all units. These boxes are green in color in order to help users easily identify and distinguish them. Users submit their ideas in the boxes including their names in order to be identiﬁed for recognition. Employee of the Month and Employee of the Year In addition to the Kaizen Suggestion system, efforts of our employees are also recognized through another monthly recognition system: the “Employee of the Month”. In 2016, a new recognition system, “Employee of the Year” was included as well. The program was inaugurated in the knitting section and has been replicated for the others units too. These ideas are compiled under DBL Group Idea Club Sustainability program. A huge advantage of having an employee of the month incentive is the motivation it encourages the employees to work at their highest potential and move them towards empowerment. This is in terms of work performance as well as punctuality and attendance on the job. It promotes employees to work at their full potential. The Employee of the Month program is open for all employees and it gives them a feeling of fairness as every employee has an equal opportunity at obtaining this reward. The evaluation system also encompasses suggestions provided by employees that would improve working procedures. The winners are provided certiﬁcates of achievements in addition to cash incentives. Moreover, their names and photos are displayed on the notice boards of the respective units in order to further motivate them to grow in their careers and for improving the company. CONNECTING WITH EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS DBL Merchandising Communication Foreign representatives department Local representatives Facility visits National Buyers Other departments Exhibitions International Standards DBL management visits Guidelines Union Councils Meetings Surveys Community Planting trees Developing infrastructure Monitor ground Accommodate request water level Quality of waste Community engagement water discharged Wasif Gaws BGMEA Creative Director Grey Shack Limited Grey Shack, a communications and consultancy company which provides support to development organizations, multi-nationals, large corporations, SMEs, NGOs, institutions and individuals in all aspects of Communication Solutions, ICT Solutions and Strategic Business Consultancy. We provide special assistance in social awareness raising, behavior change communication, advocacy campaign, information education and communication, visibility and branding. By creating an end to end communication strategy and carefully planned implementation, Grey Shack helps to empower all its stakeholders understand the project goals and to contribute actively to the decision-making processes of development as a whole. EXTERNAL Industry Associations STAKEHOLDER BKMEA ENGAGEMENT BTMA FBCCI DCCI Board members BGCCI Industry associations Government JBCCI Overseas embassies Others Overseas ministries Press conferences Communication team Industry associations Media Press releases Securities and Exchange Press brieﬁngs Commission 96 Coordinating interviews Examining DBL’s parameters Internal Relations team Sustainability Stratagic management Investors Continual interaction Report to top management Sustainability events Accept responsibilities Finance Communication Corporate values Marketing Risks Compliance Opportunities Policy coverage National Workplace practices International Public disclosure Manegement and measurement Exhibitions By DBL One-to-one meetings Self assessments Suppliers Audits DBL Sourcing department Update management info@dbl-group.com Communicate with vendors Community education Industry best practices development Trader information Women empowerment Raw material suppliers NGOs Women health Environment DBL Group is committed to generating positive relations with external stakeholders through Others various initiatives which the organization subscribes and endorses. A constant communication is vital in order to ensure business sustainability. DBL recognizes and acts on this principle. The map shows the various external stakeholders that DBL is currently involved with and how interaction is being made. 97 CONNECTING WITH EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS Community development A wide variety of activities are integrated within DBL’s sustainability that promotes societal development. These activities include the following: Surveys: To identify and address needs Educational support: Infrastructure and ﬁnancial support Cultural program with NGOs Knowledge exchange programs Health programs Community engagement In-house agriculture ﬁelds: For growing crops to meet community needs Financial and infrastructure assistance to various hospitals in the country MoU Between DBL Group and Marie Stopes DBL Group has signed MoU with Marie Stopes Bangladesh on 29 June, 2016 in order to work for health improvement of DBL’s workers as well as the community it is operating within. A Family Planning Corner has been set up within DBL Group factory premises. This facilitates employees in addressing sexual and reproductive health and family planning issues. In addition, to support the provision of healthcare services responsive to individual and the community people, a Referral Clinic will be established in Sardagonj, Kashimpur, Gazipur. From Marie Stopes, Dr. Mohammad Hussain Chowdhury, Director-Program and Dr. Reena Yasmin, Senior Director signed the MoU. From DBL Group, Abdul Wahed, Chairman and M.A. Quader, Deputy Managing Director signed the MoU. DBL’s Managing Director, M.A. Jabbar and Vice Chairman, M.A. Rahim were also present during the MoU signing ceremony. 98 CONNECTING WITH EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS MoU Between DBL Group and UNICEF DBL Group and UNICEF signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to promote and improve breastfeeding practices in the workplace through the “Breast Feeding in the Workplace Initiative (BFWI)”. The MoU was signed on 5 December 2015 between Mr. Edouard Beigbeder, Country Representative, UNICEF Bangladesh and Mr. M. A. Quader, Deputy Managing Director, DBL Group, in presence of Dr. Md. Moudud Hossain, Deputy Director, DGHS & Program Manager National Nutrition Services, Institute of Public Health Nutrition, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare; Mr. Hassan Imam, Director, DBL Group; Mr. M. Shabbir Ali, Executive Director, Group HR, DBL Group; Ms. Anuradha Narayan, Chief, Nutrition Division at UNICEF Bangladesh and her team; and employees of DBL Group. The project is being implemented at the selected garment factory sites of DBL Group. In the course of 3 years of program implementation, the collaboration with DBL Group will reach about: 4,767 female workers 340 pregnant and lactating women at least 340 infants and young children The initiative is funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. 99 VISITORS Dr. Lale Akgün, Head of the Government’s office for sustainable procurement of the State of NorthRhine Westphalia Students from University of Gothenburg, Sweden visited to get insight of sustainability in the textile industy of Bangladesh 100 VISITORS Mr. Qimiao Fan, Country Director of The World Bank for Bangladesh, Bhutan & Nepal and Ms. Wendy Jo Werner, Country Manager, IFC for Bangladesh, Bhutan & Nepal Wasif Gaws Creative Director Grey Shack Limited Grey Shack, a communications and consultancy company which provides support to development organizations, multi-nationals, large corporations, SMEs, NGOs, institutions and individuals in all aspects of Communication Solutions, ICT Solutions and Strategic Business Consultancy. We provide special assistance in social awareness raising, behavior change communication, advocacy campaign, information education and communication, visibility and branding. By creating an end to end communication strategy and carefully planned implementation, Grey Shack helps to empower all its stakeholders understand the project goals and to contribute actively to the decision-making processes of development as a whole. Executive Directors from the World Bank visited during the EDs’ Group Travel to India, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 101 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES This report has been prepared ‘in accordance’ with the Core option of the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. General General Standard Page External Standard Page External Disclosures Number Assurance Disclosures Number Assurance STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-1 04-07 No G4-24 90,94-95 No G4-25 90 No ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-26 90-95 No G4-27 90-95 No G4-3 05 No G4-4 25-27 No REPORT PROFILE G4-5 24 No G4-6 24 No G4-28 13 No G4-7 49 No G4-29 13 No G4-8 27 No G4-30 13 No G4-9 05-07,26,54 No G4-31 13 No G4-10 76 No G4-32 13 No G4-11 83,91 No G4-33 13 No G4-12 26 No G4-13 78 No GOVERNANCE G4-14 48 No G4-15 75 No G4-34 44-49 No G4-16 44,90,94-95 No ETHICS AND INTEGRITY IDENTIFIED MATEIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-56 74,85 No G4-17 55 No G4-18 10-13 No G4-19 10-12 No G4-20 10-12 No G4-21 10-12 No G4-22 13 No G4-23 13 No 102 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and Page External DMA and Page External Indicators Number Assurance Indicators Number Assurance CATEGORY: ECONOMIC Aspect: Products and Services Aspect: Economic Performance G4-DMA 72 No G4-EN27 72 No G4-DMA 52-55 No G4-EC1 55 No Aspect: Compliance G4-EC4 55 No G4-DMA 88 No Aspect: Market Presence G4-EN29 88 No G4-DMA 56 No Aspect: Transport G4-EC5 56 No G4-DMA 73 No Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts G4-EN30 73 No G4-DMA 52-56 No Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EC7 55 No G4-DMA 76 No Aspect: Procurement Practices G4-EN32 76 No G4-DMA 56 No Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms G4-EC9 56 No G4-DMA 72 No G4-EN34 72 No CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENT Aspect: Materials CATEGORY: SOCIAL G4-DMA 64 No LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK G4-EN1 64 No Aspect: Employment Aspect: Energy G4-DMA 78 No G4-LA1 78 No G4-DMA 66-67 No G4-EN3 66-67 No Aspect: Labor/Management Relations Aspect: Water G4-DMA 78 No G4-LA4 78 No G4-DMA 65 No G4-EN8 65 No Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Aspect: Biodiversity G4-DMA 81-83 No G4-LA5 81 NO G4-DMA 69 No G4EN14 G4-LA6 81-83 No 69 No Aspect: Training and Education Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA 79 No G4-DMA 68 No G4-LA9 79 No G4-EN15 68 No Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-DMA 78 No G4-DMA 69-71 No G4-LA12 78 No G4-EN23 69-71 No 103 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and Page External DMA and Page External Indicators Number Assurance Indicators Number Assurance Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and SOCIETY Men Aspect: Local Communities G4-DMA 78 No G4-LA13 78 No G4-DMA 86 No G4-SO2 86 No Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-DMA 76 No G4-LA14 76 No G4-DMA 87 No G4-SO5 87 No Aspect: Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms Aspect: Public Policy G4-DMA 80 No G4-LA16 80 No G4-DMA 87 No G4-SO6 87 No HUMAN RIGHTS Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior Aspect: Investment G4-DMA 87 No G4-SO7 87 No G4-DMA 84 No G4-HR1 84 No Aspect: Compliance Aspect: Non-discrimination G4-DMA 87 No G4-SO8 87 No G4-DMA 85 No G4-HR3 85 No Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-DMA 76 No G4-SO9 76 No G4-DMA 85 No G4-HR4 85 No Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society Aspect: Child Labor G4-DMA 80 No G4-DMA 84 No G4-SO11 80 No G4-HR5 84 No PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor Aspect: Customer Health and Safety G4-DMA 84 No G4-HR6 84 No G4-DMA 88 No G4-PR1 88 No Aspect: Security Practices Aspect: Product and Service Labeling G4-DMA 84 No G4-HR7 84 No G4-DMA 88 No G4-PR4 88 No Aspect: Indigenous Rights Aspect: Marketing Communications G4-DMA 80 No G4-HR8 80 No G4-DMA 88 No G4-PR7 88 No Aspect: Assessment Aspect: Customer Privacy G4-DMA 76 No G4-HR9 76 No G4-DMA 88 No G4-PR8 88 No Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA 76 No G4-HR10 76 No G4-DMA 88 No G4-PR9 88 No Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA 80 No G4-HR12 80 No 104 Concept & design by www.greyshack.com CORPORATE OFFICE: +880-2-8140367 BGMEA Complex (12 Floor), th +880-2-8140214 23/1 Panthapath Link Road, info@dbl-group.com Karwan Bazar, Dhaka1215, /dblgroupbd Bangladesh www.dbl-group.com
