COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Crédit Agricole Srbija 2016 TABLE OF CONTENTS Message from the CEO Credit Agricole Group Credit Agricole Srbija Economic responsibility Social responsibility Civic and Environmental responsibility 1 Our Bank's strategy is aimed at ensuring our business remains resilient in the face of the constant changes in the market. In 2016 we continued to provide support to our clients with the emphasis on agro clients and their particular needs and continued with our L’Esprit de Service project of new sales approach with the aim of long-term increase in client satisfaction as well as increase in competency and personal satisfaction of our colleagues working in the branch network. In 2016 we have broadened the scope of training to SBE and shared our significant successess by naming our Champions! We have established our main goals in relation to the digital development of the Bank and our Digital Ambassadors have been busy promoting these ideas in the network throughout the year. Our award winning employee engagement program “Good Fairy Dobrila’s Team” contained excellent actions in the past year—we have helped children in 8 schools to have a nicer enviroment, and we have engaged with their teachers to deliver Good Fairy Dobrila packages to each and every pupil. Also, we became a part of a much bigger humanitarian family through Solidaires Days CA Group solidarity program which we joined. Last but not least, we have chosen our Champions—the best teams, the best colleagues, the best support, the best ideas and many more. It was a truly Crédit Agricole Srbija marked its tenth business anniversary in 2016 and we can exceptional year where we all felt the energy and enthusiasm of sharing the same proudly say it was in a sense, the Year of our Champions. goal. We have confirmed our firm commitment to CSR as the integral part of our We are proud to be a responsible bank that embraces ambition in an ethical business model and this past year we have developed further, we have grown manner equally towards our clients, our employees, our society and our and we have embraced the path of digitization. The banking landscape changed environment and we are determined to stay this course and strive to serving all during 2016 with a greater focus on clients using online services and mobile our clients and stakeholders in a 100% digital, but 100% human way. technology. By fostering dialogue with our stakeholders and clients and improving our understanding of these trends, we become more responsive to changes in society and to our client’s needs. Sustainable development means creating long-term economic value with a forward-thinking approach to corporate governance, environmental stewardship and social responsibility. This is fundamental to our daily business Crédit Agricole Srbija as we have to deliver our promises to our clients not only today, but in the years to come. 2 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE GROUP CRÉDIT AGRICOLE GROUP 3 3 4 5 6 7 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SRBIJA CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SRBIJA 8 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SRBIJA Crédit Agricole Srbija is a universal bank, a member Tailor-made offer of products adjusted to clients’ This trend reinforces a strong commitment of CA of the Crédit Agricole, French banking group which needs in line with the highest financial standards, Srbija Bank for further growth and development owing to over 125 years of experience has is what each of 260.000 customers in 74 branches on Serbian market. This year we have celebrated of Crédit Agricole bank receive in all parts in ten years as Crédit Agricole Sbija. positioned itself as one of the a leading full-service Serbia. retail banks in Europe. Strategic orientation of Crédit Agricole bank Srbija Commitment to the development of long-term is to support the local economy, businesses and As the market leader in Retail Banking in France, relationships with clients, their financial needs and citizens through specialized products, participation Crédit Agricole is the leading financial partner of requirements has had a direct impact on business in subsidized loans and special credit lines. of Crédit Agricole Srbija since it records better the French economy and one of the largest banks results every year. Almost 900 banking professionals whose main goal in Retail Banking in Europe. The Group employs is long-term protection of the interests of clients more than 140.000 people and successfully meets Growth in the number of clients, as well as the and fulfilling of all their financial needs, work on the needs of 52 million customers worldwide. level of deposits entrusted to Crédit Agricole bank these tasks daily and that is why Crédit Agricole in Serbia, are the best indicators of the level of bank Srbija is The Whole Bank Just for You. credibility and trust that customers have in CAS. 9 OUR CSR VISION These commitments call for a stronger OUR ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITIES engagement by all business lines to achieve the development goals set in 2016 and reflected in the increased levels of attention being given to sustaibability in our economic, social, civic and Listening to our clients is a prerequisite for environmental gaols. understanding their true needs and designing responsible products accordingly. Being responsible for Credit Agricole Srbija means addressing the issues and expectations of a society in flux while ensuring our company’s future. Our economic responsibilities are equally relevant to all four business lines: That’s why we need to understand the aspirations and expectations of our clients and our employees, as well as those of public authorities while  Retail treasuring our most preccios asset—the trust our  SBE clients, employees, partners and public authorities  Corporate place in us.  Agro Each business line is aware of the following: By committing to Global Compact we at Credit Agricole Srbija transparently acknowledge, support and promote the United Nations values Our primary vocation is to serve our clients and policies of all 10 principles. and long-term financing for the economy is of utmost importance. CAS goes a step further in promoting and supporting Children’s rights as part of the sustainable development policy of Crédit Agricole Ethics in our everyday business is the driver towards Bank Srbija for the eigth year now. strengthened confidence in our products and services. Corporate social responsibility is taken very Each business line accomplishes this through their seriously at Crédit Agricole Srbija (CAS) and all our specific range of products and services. However, responsibilities and commitments are enhanced by our corporate values: client in focus, responsibility behind each product or service there is a committed and ethics. employee who is motivated and engaged to fulfil this task in a responsible and ethical manner. 10 OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES OUR CIVIC RESPONSIBILITIES OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITIES “One is a member of a country, a profession, a The Bank has a strong stake in society, through Environmental responsibility for Crédit Agricole Srbija civilization, a religion. One is not just a initiatives and projects which advocate children's means paying particular attention to the impacts on the man.” ~Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, Wartime rights. Whether it be new babies, children with environment that arise from our banking activities. Writings 1939-1944. disabilities or socially vulnerable ones, we work hard towards thier inclusion into the society. It is very important for us to know who our suppliers Crédit Agricole Srbija is a Bank with 74 branch are and how they operate. It is our responsibility to Crédit Agricole Srbija views civic responsibility in offices in four regions: Belgrade, Novi Sad, choose the most suitable ones and it is our light of helping to combat social exclusion and responsibilty to further develop sensitivity and ethical Kragujevac and Niš. Widespread network of branch promoting an inclusive society, respecting diversity, offices means that CAS is also an active participant behaviour toward environmental issues. education and culture. in the local economy and local community where it does business. The Bank has set clear targets for reducing the Crédit Agricole is proud to announce that every environmental impact of its own day-to-day operations, year, its employees take a more active part in Social responsibility means treating the Bank's 900 including reducing paper consumption, fuel projects within the employee engagement consumption and energy consumption. employees in a fair, respectful and honest manner programme “'Good Fairy Dobrila's Team“'. This and treating all our customers with the same care, year our Good Fairy Dobrila was also included into respect and honesty. Environmental responsibility starts with an individual. the Solidaires project of our French colleagues— a Individual responsibility is not given since it is also our Group project in the week of Solidarity in the first responsiblity to develop it and make every employee Employment policy includes fostering diversity, week of June and continued with the eduction prioritising internal promotions and internal job aware of his or her behaviour. When there is project Bank Employee within the UN Global accountability, there is responsibility and awareness. mobility. Compact Serbia. That is our goal. We recognise that we have a particular Our civic engagement is also manifested in the responsibility in training all employees in the Therefore it is our responsibilty to promote safe and support of the work of the French Institute whose secure environment within the Bank and outside the relevant fields in order to stay abreast of the fast initiatives encompass arts and culture which Credit changing world around us, especially the newly Bank within the reach of our limits. Agricole Srbija strongly supports. promoted ones and talents. 11 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY 12 HOUSING MARKET In the market of housing loans, Crédit Agricole Bank Serbija occupies a safe fifth place, behind the Banca Intesa, Societe Generale Bank, Unicredit and Komercijalna Banka, according to the data of the National Corporation for 2016. Compared to 2015 CAS has achieved an increase of 35.21% in 2016. Based on the data from the National Corporation in 2016, CAS market share was 10.34%. 13 AUTO MARKET For Long Chanel Business Sector 2016 was a very In 2016 there was so far the largest growth in reveAt the end of 2016 there was initiated and launched a successful year. nue which amounts to over RSD 320Mil. Which is Quick Win Project of the new digital business model In December 2016 the market share of the Long the percentage growth of 15%. with the use of digital web technology in order to: Channel Business Sector was 51.4%, which is a 10% increase compared to 2015.  Digital connection and integration of the partner ROA profitability growth was 4 times the bank’s and the market average with the traditional stable network into a single digital LC distribution In 2016 there was a production increase of 7% and a network significant increase in the number of active clients of and minimal CoR.  Changes in the sales approach through: Client 8%, while the number of clients with transferred earnings was 17%. All this supports the degree of quality of the engagement, online onboarding and approval with Portfolio of consumer loans was 2.5 times higher at portfolio we work with. one, instead of minimum three client visits to the the end of 2016. bank. On 23rd September 2016 the Contest for the Gold Car 2016 organized by the magazine Auto Bild, Crédit Agricole Bank received the award for Best Car Loan of 2016 for the loan Mojauto FIX . At the award ceremony for the Golden Car in the name of Credit Agricole Bank, the prize for the best car loan in 2016 was received by Vladan Stanisavljević, Head of the Long Channel Banking Crédit Agricole bank. 14 AGRO MARKET In October 2016, Agro Sector of the Corporate and Expertise and commitment characterizes CAS Agro Permanent market presence through the Agro events is Agricultural Division had a market share in Agro something that further strengthens the relationship Team, and a contribution to the second position on business 17.6%, which is 2.3% higher than in between customers and the Bank: the Serbian market also provide products that are  Seminar for farmers at Tara with educational and October 2015. specially designed for agro clients. commercial character Market share of Agri business in October 2016 was  Mini agricultural fairs and local evetns (Stari 12.6%, 1% more than in October 2015. In 2016 only, some rather unique products were Žednik, machinery dealers, summer schools, presented at the Serbian market: Pret a Piloter longThis sector, which now accounts for 25 colleagues, Farmer’s Ball are just some of them) term loan and Agro Grand Prix credit card for interest Agricultural Fair in Novi Sad has accomplished that the Bank is recognized as a reference bank in the agro market, taking second free financing of raw materials. Package account for  Agricultural Fair in Kragujevac place in market share in the agro business. farmers is also improved in order to promote  Dužijanca, Gospojinski poljofest, Kotlić and Hunting digitization among farmers. experience for clients. 15 PI MARKET — NEW AND REMODELLED BRANCH OFFICES New Branch office in Požarevac was officially opened on 19th February 2016 at 8, Tabakovačka čaršija (bazaar) in a much larger space at a great location. Remodeled branch Zemun was officially opened on 8th July 2016. The branch is expanded and totally remodeled so now our clients can carry out their daily business in a modern and spacious environment. On 9th December the atmosphere in the Branch Office Bulevar Zorana Đinđića, former B92 Branch, was quite festive. The Branch office was renovated and most important clients invited to the cocktail to be the first to enjoy the new, modern look of the space and get to know the members of the Management. 16 SBE On 25th March 2016 there was a broadened meeting of the Steering Committee of SBE CAS. The main topic of the meeting was the development of the SBE project which will significantly improve SBE business. SBE project aims to improve certain areas of business in the segment of micro, small and medium enterprises and entrepreneurs, leading to an increase in market share. The most important areas are: improving the credit process and the creation of rating model, SBE School, the establishment of SBE branch offices and improving the CRM and digital business. The SBE School project was launched in June 2016 as an employee development program designed with precision to enhance knowledge and skills of employees of the Bank who have shown initiative and desire to improve themselves within the CAS. This first program of this kind has been successfully completed in December 2016. From 12 participants four of them were given a chance to become SBE RM and one colleague BM. The plan is to organise SBE School annually since it also serves to improve the skills of existing SBE RMs and BMs. SBE School continues in 2017 as well. Colleagues from SBE business line had their SBE Business Day on 1st June 2016. The general opinion is that the day was very useful and productive, and that closer look at SBE Business Line from different angles was more than successful. Other successes are related to establishing the SBE Center responsible for the operation of a Main Branch, the development of additional useful tools and rating model which is in the final, finishing stage and it should be tested in 2017. 17 SME The strategy defined for the SME department was to In 2016 there was an increase in number of exposure It is worth to mention that these results were increase the number of active clients and in clients for 15% and an increase in the number of active achieved without increasing the headcount, which particular an increase in the number of exposure clients by 10%. If we compare the figures from the resulted in an increase in the number of active cliclients. ents per employee by 34% and increase of productivbeginning of 2015 when we defined this strategic goal results are as follows: ity by 29%. During 2015 significant progress has been achieved Although it was not the primary objective last year in this segment which raised the starting point for  Increase in the number of exposure clients by 34% we achieved increase in performing loans outstand2016. (from 189 to 253 clients with exposure) ing by 22%.  The increase in active clients by 24% (from 460 to Good results achieved in the last 2 years only com570 clients) mit us for better achievements in 2017. 18 DIGITAL On 21st April 2016 in Savograd in Belgrade, there was Awakeninig of the digital awareness is the right dia Digital Ambassadors Meeting. rection since it's happening to the employees and clients alike. Also, an indication is the growing numGiven the fact that this team consists of colleagues ber of branches that have been marked as Digital, from the network who have a special interest in fulfilling four of five specified criteria (Log On Users, innovative technologies, their work in this field SMS Packages, Email, Events, Initiative). In March, 21 considerably contributes to the development of CAS in branch offices were branded as Digital, compared to order to promote and recognize the Bank as an January (5) and February (6)“ we learned from Svetinnovative, digitally oriented, efficient and unique in lana Mrkšić, Digital Ambassador of MB Zrenjanin. the market. On 12th October 2016 there was a quarterly meeting of Digital Ambassadors in Savograd in Belgrade. Digital Ambassadors presented their ideas and concepts related to the improvement of commercial activities in the area of Digital for next year and they did it with a lot of enthusiasm and positive energy. The best way to promote the digital within the network is exactly the one done here— people who believe in what they do and do it with pleasure are the best promoters. The first meeting of the Digital Officers was held in June in Belgrade. Colleagues were welcomed by Aleksandra Bubić, Head of HR Division wishing that all who work on projects related to digital technologies gave their contribution by springing new, fresh and creative ideas while looking at the Bank from their own perspective and gave suggestions for further development of digital projects. Main existing digital projects within the Bank were presented by priority levels and each Digital Officer would individually or in teams work on them. 19 Client Satisfaction — KEY RESULTS Based on the GfK final report issued for Credit Agricole Srbija, the Customer Recommendation Index survey results indicate overall CAS improvement. The segments surveyed were: PI, Corporate, AgriAgro and SBE markets. The best results were shown in PI segment and Agri-Agro segment. In PI segment the recommendation is the first reason for choosing CA Srbija as the main Bank. Also, significant improvements were made in the bank attitude towards customers and the staff performance. The Spirit of Service is an approach that involves the client as the central figure of our business. Since 2014, when the concept was created and promoted “The Spirit of Service was been worked on regarding its implementation in the branches, which has shown significant results in 2016. All employees who participated in direct communication with clients have been trained since 2014, starting from the the first impression a client forms when entering the branch, to understanding clients and their needs, and how to provide them satisfaction through a comprehensive and consultative approach. Today we can proudly say that the CAS was champion in 2016 at the level of the Group but also the champion in the local market. The official survey, which was conducted in 2016 showed:  Credit Agricole Srbija was best assessed by clients at the Group level  Credit Agricole Srbija has CRI +40 which represents a significant increase compared to 2013 when it was CRI +28  Credit Agricole Srbija stands out at the local market as a bank that is gladly recommended by clients and the first place is shared with another bank. 20 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 30 STRUCTURE WORK EXPERIENCE EDUCATIONAL STRUCTURE On 31st December 2016 there were 928 employees in BREAKDOWN Crédit Agricole Srbija. Out of that number 305 employees are male and 623 female. Average work experience in Bank for 2016 was 13,5 years. F The level of education of our employees is high, with 60% of population with University or women average work experience was 13,6 years degree or higher. and for men 13,3 years. The rest of educational breakdown structure on 31/12/2016 is shown in the chart below: In 2016. average age of employees was 39,5 years – for men 40 years, and for females 39 years. Employee’s gender ratio in comparison with the type of Labor Contract is given in the following table on 31/12/2016: LABOR CONTRACT/ FeTotal Male GENDER male 31/12/2016 Temporary 10 62 72 Permanent 295 561 856 Total 31/12/2015 305 623 928 22 TAKE CARE PROJECT Besides that, all employees are insured, and in the All employees were entitled to apply, but the All employees in CAS are eligible for one free medical case of accidental death, disability, death and for advantage is given to employees with lower check-up during the year. CAS have contract with priserious diseases / surgery. income. vate clinic in Belgrade, and all employees could make In accordance with Bank’s care about the employees one medical check-up per year in this clinic or if they are and their health condition and in order to improve In 2017 we are going into second phase of living outside Belgrade in clinic on their choice. overall working conditions, Bank provided better the Take Care project. benefits regarding medical care, insurance in case of In addition, all family members have discount of 20% death, accident and disability, as well as insurance in In line with the FRED recommendations the for all medical examinations in this clinic. Also, CAS procase of surgical interventions and serious diseases. vides free ophthalmologic examination to all employees plan is introduction of medical insurance for and each year all employees are entitled for free flu vacall Bank employees with equal coverage. Nevertheless, several years ago CAS introduced solicine. darity assistance that may be provided to an employCurrently we are in process of negations with ees in amount of legal tax free amount, in case of In order to provide more comprehensive medical care, local insurance companies and depending on death of family members, in case of illness, medical Bank provided free dental examination within medical rehabilitation or disability of employee or his/her the offers received we are going to introduce check-up for all its employees. Apart from that, for the family member, as well as in other justified cases. new medical coverage for employees. first time all expecting mothers employed in Bank are eligible for one free ultrasound examination in private hospital in Belgrade. 2 23 TRAINING PROGRAMS Regarding international mobility, we identified employees in our Bank who are potential for exIn 2016 number of internal trainings in CAS was 429, pertise missions within the Group and we subwhile the number of external trainings was 60. mitted their names to International HR; Besides that, in 2016, 17 e-learning trainings were orAlso, we are trying to further develop skills of our ganized. Plan is to increase number of e-learning trainmanagers/leaders by participation in different inings in the future. ternational programs organized by the Group (International Perspective, Leading performance, Bank organized two in-house trainings for managerial EVE...) and different on-the-job trainings in CASA population: or some subsidiary (upon request). Situational Leadership Head of HR Administration organized trainings for Management Skills all employees on managerial positions in the Bank, related to: Labour Law, Personal Data Protection, The goal of those trainings was to improve managerial Mobbing and Law for protection of whistlepotential within managerial population in the Bank. blowers. One of the training sessions that were fully developed Plan is to continue with these trainings in 2017 and at CAS is “Communication Skills” training which started to include more employees. in May 2015. Talent management The goal of training was to create space for better internal and external communication with internal and Career Development process is designed in compliexternal clients, and with co-workers. So far, training ance with Group methodology, aiming to map talwas distributed to 622 employees. ents from all levels of hierarchy. Together with various trainings dedicated to digital Goal was to recognize employees with potential transformation, and digital change management in the for predefined areas (Local Leaders, Digital talents, Bank, we had various internal and in-house trainings Young talents etc.) and to create individual develwith participants from different business lines. opment programs as a preparation for possible future promotions. We tried to recognize potential for transversal movements and to promote this kind of interdivision transfers; also, we are trying to promote inter-functional teambuilding activities. 2 24 LOYALTY PROGRAM RECRUITMENT INTERNAL WHISTLEBLOWING In 2016, females are represented in total recruitment PROCEDURES In 2016 we introduced loyalty programs (jubilee awards, best employee of the year, thank you card with 76%. and Idea box) for our employees. Having in mind that “Rulebook on Internal Whistleblowing ProceAverage age of recruited employees in 2016 was 32 CASA took over management on September 15th, dures” is adopted in December 2015. with 5,1 years of experience in average. 2006 this year we introduce Jubilee awards for those The Rulebook regulates the internal whistleblowwho are 10 and more years’ employees of the Bank. In 2016, CAS HR team is continued the practice of ing procedures within the Bank in accordance with investing in the young generation, and for the sixth the provision of the Law and Labour Rulebook. “Best Employee of the year” and “Best team” are time program CASummership 2016” is implementawards for outstanding contribution in the compaed. Interns, with the help of professional and dediIn 2016, Human Resources organized trainings for ny’s development and performance. Those awards cated mentors, are given the opportunity to get acall employees on managerial positions in the were also introduced this year. quainted with the banking system through active Bank, related to whistleblowing, and all rights and work and learning in modern environment. This proobligations arising from this procedure. “Thank you card” gram includes students in their final years of primary Also, training participants were informed about is a proand master studies at the 4 largest universities in SerLabour Law changes, Personal Data Protection gram for bia. In 2016, 22 (twenty-two) interns were recruited and Mobbing. recogniin various divisions of the Bank. tion and Crédit Agricole Bank in cooperation with National motivation Employment Agency hired 51 candidates through a of the emprogram of professional internship in 2016. ployees. and those with most received “thank you” cards from other employees, were rewarded with The most of candidates are deployed in the network special award – training by choice. of branches, where they were assigned to mentors who took care of their work during the six months of Also, in 2016, Bank organized Idea Box, project that engagement. Young candidates had a chance to be encourages employees to propose ideas which will considered for positions within the Bank and Leasing, help in the further development of the Bank, espein accordance with the indicative results and affinicially in the digital segment. This year 50 new ideas ties after the end of program. were proposed, and best idea was awarded and it will be implemented in 2017. 2 25 GAMES WITHOUT FRONTIERS—CAS SPORTS DAY CAS Sports Day called Games without Frontiers was Mr Carlos de Cordoue, President of the Executive Board Competitions in mini football, volleyball on the sand, filled with tournaments, dynamic games, individual of the CAS wished all a warm welcome and great entertennis, darts, tug-of-war, harpoon baloon, bubble sports and great music was held on 10th September tainment during the day. A relaxed day full of fun refootball and treasure hunt were those where colmained as a great memory with everyone. 2016 at Aqua Park of the S Club in Jakovo. leagues could win medals and cups. 26 CAS NEW YEAR’S PARTY CAS New Year's party for employees was organized on More than 700 colleagues from across the country Also, competitions in dancing, singing and stand-up 10th December 2016 at the restaurant Inter Hollycame to have fun and enjoy good music and program, performance brought the additional type of entertainwood in Belgrade. which this year, was richer for a few moments of festive ment in the evening program. award ceremony . Dancing couple who won the victory measured by The singer who won the longest round of applause Stand up performer who won the longest round of the length of applause were colleagues Zorana was colleague Milica Diković. applause was Miloš Vojvodić. Gnjidić and Nenad Stanković. 27 AWARDED THE BEST AMONG US Our first ten-year CAS anniversary, the management We are particularly pleased The Best Team in the has decided to award all with the fact that almost half Bank got at the New employees of the Bank and CA of employees, 415 of them, Year's Party recognition Leasing Serbia who are 10 fall into one of these for their work. The best years and more in the Bank categories. Dedication to the team in 2016 was Agro and related parties with the company, loyalty and mutual Team. Bank with certificate of partnership have impact to The award was received appreciation and additional our recognition in the market in the name of the team days of annual leave, and and make us stable partners by Mr Aleksandar Simić, those who showed loyalty for for further challenges. Head of Agriculture. more than a quarter century with a wristwatch. The Best Team among the The award for Best The award Volunteering branch offices was the Team Support was given to Champion was given to Futoški put and in their colleague Bosiljka our colleague Vladimir name the award was Španjević, Head of Legal Malović, HR Administrator received by Mr Predrag Entities, Entrepreneurs and Aćimović, Branch Manager. Housing Loans Department. The award for the Best The award „Thank You The award “Thank You Idea was given to Nenad Dear Colleague“ and at Dear Colleague” second Žikić, Cashier from the the same time the fist place was given to colBranch Office Bor. popularity place was league Ilja Provči from given to our colleague Credit Back Office Sector Živorad Milanović, Housing Loans Manager. and the third to colleague Aleksandra Marković, Specialist for Account Maintenance. 28 CIVIC & ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 38 SOLIDAIRES DAYS Traditionally within the CA Group, a week from 30th Credit Agricole Srbija, which has a long tradition of huAll actions were very successful and there were altoMay and 3rd June is dedicated to solidarity while the manitarian actions for children, has accepted the invitagether more than 70 volunteers who participated. key words that marked the projects were Celebration for Solidaires Days and with great pleasure invited Each volunteer proudly promoted Good Fairy Dobrila tion, Commitment and Support of Credit Agricole emall our colleagues who nurture volunteer spirit to apply who this time, from the T-shirts supervised the ployees to societal causes and solidarity. for the program of supporting schools for children with painting of school fences and murals in schools. disabilities in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Niš and Kragujevac. Region School and address Number of Date of action Type of work Town volunteers OŠ “Dušan Dugalić” 3.6.2016. Painting the fence Beograd Đerdapska 19, Beograd 15 Novi Sad OŠ “ Milan Petrović” 1.6.2016. Painting the fence Edukacioni kamp Čenej 20 Međunarodni put 238 Niš OŠ “14. Oktobar” 20 3.6.2016. Painting the mural on the Goce Delčeva 2 wall and garage door Kragujevac OŠ “Vukašin Marković” 15 3.6.2016. Painting the mural and Janka Veselinovića bb fixing garden benches and swings into the concrete 30 GOOD FAIRY DOBRILA DAY Good Fairy Dobrila Day was a fall charity modelled on Volunteers of CAS, once again proved that when it came All four actions were completed in one day, all the spring humanitarian action Solidaires Days which to children, there were no obstacles to get something schools—staff and children grew closer to CAS volundone for them. Although it was the end of September, teers while over 50 volunteers proudly wore the –Temployees of Crédit Agricole bank conducted on 23rd not even the announcement of bad weather could preSeptember 2016 in four schools for children with disavent them to organize themselves, pick each other up shirts of Good Fairy Dobrila. As soon as the T-shirt is bilites in Belgrade, Leskovac and Sombor. for rides, learn to paint rooms in a day and have fun just on, our traditional, CAS postitve attidude goes with it. doing the work together. Region School and address Number of Date of Type of work Town volunteers action OŠ “Stefan Dečanski” 23.9.2016. Painting the school atrium Beograd Svetozara Markovića 85 10 and planting. Beograd Srednja zanatska škola 23.9.2016. Painting the inside staircaise Vukasovićeva 21a 10 railing. Leskovac ŠOSO “11. Oktobar” 10 23.9.2016. Slide installation and Kajmakčalanska 24 assembly of 4 benches. 35m2 of yard to fill with concrete. Sombor ŠOSO “Vuk Karadžić” 20 23.9.2016. Painting the classrooms Radoja Domanovića 98 31 MAGIC BREAKFAST On 7th April 2016, in the presence of the Minister of Our CAS team stood out with the decorations which Youth and Sports of the Republic of Serbia, Vanja at the end of the competition brought to Mr. Carlos Udovičić, Belgrade Mayor Siniša Mali and representaDe Cordoue and Mr. Svetozar Šijačić certificates for tives of the City Secretariat for Education and Child Prothe category of Most Beautiful Muffins. tection, at the METRO Horeca Center was held, for the ninth time in a row, a humanitarian action Magic Breakfast with the aim to collect food for children with disabilities. SIGNED MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING WITH SECRETARIAT FOR EDUCATION Crédit Agricole Srbija, METRO Cash & Carry Srbija and Bambi company, in cooperation with the Secretariat for Education and Child Protection of City of Belgrade and the non-governmental humanitarian organization Food Bank, signed a new Memorandum of Juinor chefs delived the warm lunch to the school Understanding on 31st March 2016 and announced Miloje Pavlović and served the pupils smiling potajoint participation in humanitarian project Magic toes with chicken steaks, salad and of course, chocoBreakfast. Within the charity there was organised a competition late muffins, with a natural juice with every lunch. during which all project participants competed in the During 9 actions, there was 62.534kg food collected decoration of muffins. for children from 35 special schools. 32 CHRISTMAS SHOEBOX Colleagues in Savograd pooled money together to purchase everything needed for Christmas Shoeboxes Christmas Shoebox and theatre play for over 1000 for the children at Oncology Department in Paster socially disadvantaged children was held at the Sava Street and our adopted school Dusan Dugalic . The Congress Hall of the Novi Sad Fair was very festive Center in Belgrade on 10th December 2016, after Carefully selected items were delivered from the Idea on 8th December 2016 awaiting the best audience— which the gifts for the children up to 7 were given Online Store. Since most colleagues were busy, there children. out. was a very small group of them who packed all 35 The employees of four companies: Credit Agricole boxes overfilled with sweets and school supplies for Srbija, METRO Cash & Carry, Novi Sad Fair and Lafarge children. collected 150 boxes for children with disabilities from the school “Milan Petrović”. Christmas shoeboxes The show which was a mini musical “Christmas Magcollected from CA Leasing ic” and the children enjoyed it immensely. for the donation to children in socially vulneralbe positions are shown in the photo. Each box contains a sweet part (chocolate, chocolate banana, Smoki, Munchmallow and gumy bears), toiletries (tootpaste, toothbrush, shampoo and bath) and accessories for More than 1000 children from socially disadvantaged drawing and painting families from 17 Belgrade municipalities were present (coloring book, crayons or at the Sava Center to watch the big New Year perforfelt pens, pencil box with two pencils, eraser, ruler mance, and then received gift packages. and sharpener). In eight years as the project is running, there were 14.500 gift packages given out to the children. 33 ADOPTED SCHOOL “DUŠAN DUGALIĆ” Credit Agricole Bank has a Our longstanding cooperation In 2016, there were 274 very engaged cooperation contributes to the development employees who donated a with the “adopted“ School of partnerships between institutions such as your bank, small monthly amount for children with disabilities from their salaries, so that Dusan Dugalic for four which has a responsible school years. How this attitude towards the the children could have cooperation contributes to community and vulnerable more regular meals at better childhood of children groups. We are lucky you have school. In 2016, there chosen us to care about and were 86 gift packages in school, we found out from our students and parents feel Dragica Nedeljković, School safer and more comfortable in from Santa and Good Fairy Principal. our school because they know Dobrila sent to the school that there's someone besides for the New Year celebraus who thinks about them. tion. 34 “BANK EMPLOYEE” AT HIGH SCHOOL OF “BANK EMPLOYEE“ IN SCHOOL OF “BANK EMPLOYEE“ IN SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS IN SUBOTICA ECONOMICS IN NIŠ ECONOMICS IN UŽICE Živorad On 27th May 2016 Milanović, at the School of Živorad Economics in Užice, Housing Loans Milanović, Manager, there was the last Housing Loans season's lecture of during lectures Manager, during to the students “Bank Employee“ the lecture to the that Živorad of the profile students of the Bank Employee Milanović, Housing profile “Bank Loans Manager at School of Employee” in Economics presented in a very School of interesting way in all On 28th April 2016 at the Schoolof Economics Schools of Economics so far, so in Užice as well. “Bosa Milićević” in Subotica, there was an interactive On 19th May 2016 at the School of Economics in Niš, lecture covering the topic of securities for the there was an interactive lecture on the topic of Teacher Valentina Puzović students of third year who attend the profile Bank Securities, for the third year students who attended followed the lecture on Employee, as part of the Global Compact Serbia the profile „Bank Employee“. Loans for PI with equal project done in cooperation with National Bank of interest as her students. Serbia. School professors explicitly asked that this year as well, our colleague Živorad Milanović gives a lecture covering this interesting field. Thanks to the lecture that would interest even those who know nothing about economics, it was equally enjoyed by both Until next year students and teachers. and new Excellent and generations of very interesting third year of lecture ended secondary with warm Schools of invitation by Jasmina Stevanović, Regional Manager of the Region Economics, the Professor Albina Niš was also present during the lecture. project “Bank Pletikosić for Students in Niš were also the most surprised by the Employee“ another former graphic layout of the paper securities and the also takes a meeting next fact that the most famous artists were hired to make summer year. them higly appealing to the eye. vacation. 35 www.creditagircole.rs
