Corporate Responsibility Performance Report 2017 Chief Executive Officer statement G4 1 As I look back on the 2017 financial year (FY2017), I reflect on the many outstanding Transparency and disclosure with our people. We have introduced a number of innovations outcomes delivered by our people in one of the toughest periods in our history. This supporting employee engagement, effectiveness and customer satisfaction. Our global commitment to performance is what makes me proud and gives me confidence in the engagement surveys are one tool we use to track employee engagement and we have a future of our Company. In FY2017, over 6,800 Group personnel participated in over 350 number of programs in place to support our people. Over the past year, opportunities for our corporate responsibility activities across 22 countries. I would like to outline some of our people to interact with our leaders (and each other) were available and we have embraced achievements: social media and the Yammer platform to further increase the transparency within our business. Page 19 Safety performance. Our safety performance continues to deliver industry leading results. We are one of few companies in our industry that has been able to deliver an Recognition. Our efforts to continuously improve our corporate responsibility performance improved safety performance during this period of disruption. You will read examples of have been recognized through industry awards for: our performance in community social our performance in health, safety and environment (HSE) within this report. Page 48 impact; philanthropy; volunteering; non-financial disclosure; health and safety; and corporate responsibility reporting all showcased throughout this report and our 2017 Annual Report. Diversity performance. During the period WorleyParsons exceeded its FY2020 target for women senior executives with 26% of senior executives being women. We commit to WorleyParsons is committed to making the United Nations Global Compact and its principles realize this target at all levels of the organization. We also measure broader diversity part of our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. It is our intent to continue our across our leadership teams and have seen an improvement this year, although there is engagement in collaborative projects that advance the broader development goals of the still more to do in some parts of the business. Page 49 United Nations and aid the communities in which we work. Volunteering performance. Empowering our people to participate in skilled volunteering has resulted in positive impacts both in the communities where we operate and in our workplace. This financial year, the WorleyParsons Foundation has delivered the largest number of supported projects with opportunities for our people to volunteer their skills. Our people have completed over 115,000 volunteering hours since 2012 and over 15,000 hours in FY2017. This is an admirable achievement and I am proud of all our people who have given their time and skills to help their communities. Page 59 Andrew Wood Environmental performance. This year we exceeded our FY2016 energy target for carbon emissions and continue to report for the Carbon Disclosure Project. We have Chief Executive Officer started working with customers to understand the implications of the Paris Climate WorleyParsons Agreement, including the impact on climate related financial and risk disclosures. For the first time Engineering News Record (ENR) ranked WorleyParsons in the top 200 environmental firms globally. Page 38 2 Contents Page 4 Page 10 Page 15 Page 21 Page 27 Corporate Responsibility Governance, Ethics and About Us Supply Chain Economic Materiality Transparency Page 32 Page 37 Page 46 Page 57 Page 64 GRI 4.0 Content Index Human Rights Environment Our People Community Tables 3 CEO Statement About Us “To be a partner in delivering sustained Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and economic and social Transparency Supply Chain progress, creating opportunities for About us Economic Human Rights individuals, companies Environment and communities to find Our People and realize their own Community GRI 4.0 futures.” Content Index Tables Extract from the WorleyParsons Purpose Statement 4 WorleyParsons in 2017… … and since 2012 22,800 42 11 2,500+ 30+ Employees Countries where Projects achieving between 1 and 22 million Corporate Active WorleyParsons man-hours without a lost time incident responsibility WorleyParsons operates themed activities, Foundation tracked and reported projects $1.7 Million 15,000 10 67 Million 48% 1,000+ Community Volunteer Awards and Worked Carbon emissions Women of contributions by hours by endorsements man-hours reductions (tonnes C02-e) WorleyParsons operations, our people personnel (employees, members and fundraising contractors, joint ventures) 500,000+ 10% 110 $22 Million 115,000 Social media Increase in response Leadership Community Volunteer followers rate to engagement blogs produced contributions by hours by survey operations, our people personnel and fundraising 26% 81 44% Senior Nationalities Leaders with Executives are at least one Women diversity flag Contributions are measured in Australian Dollars 5 About us G4 3 G4 4 Our Values Performance Agility § Industry leadership in health, safety and environmental § Smallest assignment to world-scale developments performance § Comprehensive geographic presence We help our customers meet the world’s changing § Consistent results for our customers, delivering on our § Global expertise delivered locally resources and energy needs. promises § Responsive to customer preferences § People accountable and rewarded for performance § Optimum customized solutions WorleyParsons is a professional services business, a partner § Innovation delivering value for our customers § Advice to action in delivering sustained economic and social progress, § Creating wealth for our shareholders creating opportunities for individuals, companies and communities to find and realize their futures. This report Leadership Relationships covers all WorleyParsons locations as listed on the map of § Energy and excitement offices on page 7 of this report, unless otherwise stated. § Open and respectful § Integrity in all aspects of business § A trusted supplier, partner and customer § Minimum bureaucracy Information on our business focus and financial § Collaborative approach to business § Committed, empowered and technically capable people performance can be found in the 2017 Annual Report. § Enduring customer relationships § Delivering profitable sustainability § Innovation delivering value for our customers The heartland of our heritage is in the resources and energy industries. We are leading players in the hydrocarbons and power, infrastructure, minerals & metals and chemicals sectors 6 About us G4 5 G4 6 G4 7 G4 9 G4 10 WorleyParsonsLimited is listed on the Australian SecuritiesExchange (ASX).It is subject to We are a leading global provider of professionalservices to the resourcesand energy sectorsand Australian disclosure requirements and standards, including the requirements of the complex process industries. WorleyParsonsemploys 22,800 people globally. WorleyParsonshas CorporationsAct 2001 and the ASX Listing Rules. WorleyParsons’corporate headquarters is 106 offices in 42 countries. 14 offices were closed or divested and two offices opened in located in Sydney, Australia. Germany and Azerbaijan in FY2017. WorleyParsons Limited ABN 17 096 090 158 Level 15, 141 Walker Street North Sydney NSW 2060 Australia Phone: +61 2 8923 6866 www.worleyparsons.com 7 About this report G4 28 G4 29 G4 30 G4 32 G4 33 G4 48 This report has been written for our investors, communities, customers and people to Selected corporate responsibility performance data in our 2015 Annual Report and 2015 celebrate the successes of our people and the Company in progressing corporate Corporate Responsibility Performance Report was provided limited assurance by Ernst & responsibility. Young. During the assurance process, a number of recommendations were incorporated to improve the reporting process with embedded controls and other enhancements. The extent We use a variety of channels for corporate responsibility reporting this year (1 July 2016 of this assurance activity is described in the Independent Limited Assurance Report. We to 30 June 2017, unless otherwise stated) including this report, the Corporate continued to apply the reviewed reporting processes for this 2017 report. Responsibility section in the 2017 Annual Report and corporate responsibility information on our Company website. Information in this report is aligned to the United All references in this report to ‘WorleyParsons', 'Group', ‘we’, 'our', ‘us’ or ‘Company’ are Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress and the GRI sustainability reporting references to WorleyParsons Limited and each of its controlled entities. guidelines. Our 2017 Corporate Responsibility Performance Report is prepared in accordance with the GRI 4.0 Framework and the content is rated as ‘Comprehensive’. This report contains all the generic disclosures on management approach and indicators of each identified material aspect. The full GRI 4.0 Content Index is provided from page 64. WorleyParsons releases its sustainability reports annually according to the financial year (1 July to 30 June). Last year’s Corporate Responsibility Performance Report for the period from 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2016 was released in October 2016. References to dollars ($) in this report are Australian dollars. The Corporate Responsibility Performance Report is approved by the CEO. WorleyParsons comprises more than 200 entities. A list of significant entities can be found in the 2017 Annual Report. Lake Turkana Wind Farm, Kenya appears in the background of this image. 8 Commitments, endorsements & memberships G4 15 G4 16 1 2 Corporate responsibility commitments Environment Governance, WorleyParsons is committed to working with our customers and suppliers to achieve results that grow our Ethics and company, reward our shareholders and our people and contribute to our communities. We acknowledge our Transparency Fair Operating responsibilities to the communities in which we operate. Our Corporate Responsibility Policy outlines our Practices and commitments to: Environment, Governance, Ethics and Transparency, Our People, Human Rights, 6 Supply Chain Community and Fair Operating Practices and Supply Chain. Corporate Responsibility Global endorsements and memberships Commitments Our People 3 5th year reporting United Nations Global WorleyParsons supports the 10 principles of the Global Compact (GC) with respect to Compact human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We are committed to making the GC and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations (UN). Community Human Rights 1st year reporting United Nations Sustainable The UN developed 17 Sustainable Development Goals with the aim to eradicate all Development Goals forms of poverty by 2030. This is the first year we see WorleyParsons’ teams align the 5 goals into our customers’ and our own activities, to measure impact. 4 5th year reporting Global Reporting Initiative We align our corporate responsibility reporting process with the internationally(GRI) recognized GRI sustainability reporting framework. Australian Securities Exchange As an Australian incorporated company, WorleyParsons Limited must comply with the (ASX) Corporations Act 2001. In addition, as an entity listed on the ASX, WorleyParsons Limited must comply with the ASX Listing Rules. Those rules require listed entities to publish a corporate governance statement on an annual basis. 8th year reporting Carbon Disclosure Project We have participated in the CDP since 2009. CDP is an international not-for-profit (CDP) organization providing a global system for companies and cities to measure, disclose, manage and share vital environmental information. 5th year reporting Workplace Gender Equality WorleyParsons complies with all mandatory diversity reporting requirements. In Report accordance with the Australian Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012, relevant entities within WorleyParsons have submitted Workplace Gender Equality Reports for the reporting period. These reports are available on our Company website. 9 2nd year reporting Dow Jones Sustainability Index WorleyParsons was listed as a member of the DJSI in 2015 and participated in the (DJSI) Corporate Sustainability Assessment for the first time this year. CEO Statement About Us “We review emerging economic, environmental Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and and social trends and Transparency issues that have the Corporate Supply Chain Economic potential to become . significant in the medium responsibility Human Rights Environment term through our corporate responsibility materiality Our People Community GRI 4.0 materiality assessment.” Content Index Tables 10 Corporate responsibility materiality G4 18 G4 19 G4 23 G4 24 G4 25 G4 26 Corporate responsibility materiality definition The materiality assessment covers three major phases: identification, prioritization and validation: Identification Prioritization Validation WorleyParsons has defined corporate responsibility materiality as the process involved in determining relevant (or material) topics for an organization that have a direct or indirect impact on the ability to create, preserve or erode economic, environmental and social value for the organization, its stakeholders, the environment and society at large. Desktop Engagement Analysis Surveys were distributed to 150 All potential business issues selected employees, a dozen Stakeholder Review We developed a corporate responsibility materiality process and materiality matrix in and impacts along the value chain customer relationship managers and The prioritization of issues internal investor representatives. The FY2016 (1 July 2015 to 30 June 2016) to determine corporate responsibility-related are listed from internal and external results represent the level of stakeholder derived from the materiality matrix sources (shareholder and investor material aspects. This process aligns with the GRI reporting framework. reports, employee engagement concern in the materiality matrix. The and the Corporate Responsibility surveys were also distributed to the Performance Report's content surveys, external trends, corporate Global Leadership Team (GLT), structure are validated by senior Corporate responsibility materiality assessment strategy and risk reports). whose results represent the management (i.e. GLT). impact on WorleyParsons. The materiality assessment was conducted to understand the current material issues affecting our stakeholders. A comprehensive analysis was performed with shareholder and investor reports, employee engagement surveys and corporate strategy and risk reports. Three main stakeholder engagement groups were identified: our people, Top 5 Material Issues (2016) Since last year’s assessment, insights 1 customer representatives and investor representatives. Customer that would likely influence the Satisfaction materiality results, were identified as Applying a materiality assessment to determine what economic, environmental and Financial being: social issues are most important to our business and stakeholders, enables us to: § inform where sustainability strategy and operational programs are to develop 2 Performance § employee engagement, deriving Workplace from the headcount changes 3 targeted programs to improve business sustainability; Health and § identify emerging sustainability trends and issues; across the business in 2017; and Safety § improve internal decision -making with tangible tools to assist prioritization of § environmental reporting, deriving § resources; and respond to expectations of, build trust with, and promote transparency with 4 Challenging Market Conditions from increased interest from investor and society groups in disclosures in 2017. customers, employees and investors. Global Talent Pool 5 11 Corporate responsibility materiality matrix G4 19 G4 27 Low Impact on WorleyParsons High Oilprice Materiality matrix Customer satisfaction High Ethical procurement The identification phase resulted in a consolidated list of 24 economic, environmental Financial performance and social issues. The prioritization phase sought feedback through surveys from our Good business people, customer representatives and investor representatives, which were quantified practices Workplace health and plotted on a materiality matrix. The top issues have been ranked as highly important and safety to both stakeholders and WorleyParsons. Innovation and excellence Knowledge Response Global to demand talent pool Level of StakeholderConcern building The issues are categorized by aspects such as: economic; community; environment; our people and supply chain and procurement. These issues were rated using the results from our stakeholder surveys along the two axes: ‘Impact on WorleyParsons’ (senior leadership feedback) and ‘Level of Stakeholder Concern’ (customer, employee, and investor feedback). Issues located in the top right hand corner of the matrix are of high materiality or importance to our stakeholders and the organization, the middle section of the matrix represents issues with moderate materiality and finally, the bottom left hand corner represents issues of low importance to both stakeholders and the organization. Low KEY Economic Community Environment Our People Supply Chain andProcurement The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals This year, we have taken the results of our FY2016 materiality assessment and assessed its correlation to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s) http://www.globalgoals.org/ We are using this assessment as an input for developing a set of social impact key performance indicators for our projects in line with the SDGs. The assessment on page 13 shows how we are addressing some of the SDGs already by addressing the issues that are important to our stakeholders and WorleyParsons. 12 Mapping corporate responsibility material issues to the Sustainable Development Goals G4 20 G4 21 To align to the GRI framework, WorleyParsons’ boundaries are defined for material aspects both inside and outside the organization. Internal boundaries for each material aspect are RANK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MATERIAL ISSUES UN SDGS determined by the entities which were under our financial and operational control during the reporting period and the employees and contractors engaged by those entities. 1 Customer satisfaction External boundaries for our organization are determined by various factors depending on the extent of our community 2 Financial performance and environmental initiatives. Indirect exposure from our customers’ project work is outside our reporting boundary. 3 Workplace health and safety Outside the organization § Oil price 4 Challenging market conditions 5 Global talent pool to enrich capabilities Inside and outside the organization 6 Ethical procurement and supplier management § Financial performance § Workplace health and safety 7 Good business practices and ethics § Global talent pool § Ethical procurement § Customer satisfaction Inside the organization 8 Response to demand and competitiveness § Good business practices § Innovation and excellence 9 Innovation and excellence § Knowledgebuilding § Response to demand 10 Expertise and knowledge building of our employees The diagram above provides a summary of internal and external boundaries for each material aspect based on the significance to our Company. 13 The WorleyParsons Foundation sponsors candidates to join Fellowship Programs in India. Introductions Nearly 400 million people in India are living in energy poverty, relying on kerosene for lighting. When kerosene burns, it releases carbon monoxide, sulphur dioxide and various nitrogen oxides, all of which can have a detrimental effect on health. Pollinate Energy is working to supply affordable solar-powered lighting systems to those living without electricity. 15 WorleyParsons colleagues, selected and supported by the WorleyParsons Foundation, are helping Pollinate Energy to overcome the challenge of getting renewable energy those living in poverty. We train local people – called Pollinators – to sell solar lights in their neighborhood. WorleyParsons colleagues work with Pollinators, explaining the benefits of solar power. Families can save by not buying kerosene and the new solar lamps mean students can spend 18 per cent more time doing homework. The most common benefits reported by communities in India are the bright light, financial savings, cooking easier after dark, fewer snakes and rats in the home, extended working hours for local businesses and children can study at night. 14 CEO Statement About Us “We recognize that WorleyParsons’ Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, reputation for honesty, Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain integrity and ethical dealings is one of its key ethics and . Economic Human Rights business assets and a critical factor in ensuring transparency Environment Our People the Company’s ongoing Community GRI 4.0 success.” Content Index Tables 15 John Grill, Chairman and Non-Executive Director, WorleyParsons Governance G4 34 G4 35 G4 36 G4 DMA PR G4 SO3 Governance structure “The Company fulfils its corporate responsibilities across all the parts of the world where we do business.” The Board of WorleyParsons Limited (Board) has ultimate authority over the company and regards corporate governance as a critical element in achieving the company's John Grill, Chairman and Non-Executive Director, WorleyParsons objectives. Accordingly, the Board has adopted appropriate charters, codes and policies and established a number of committees to discharge its duties. The Group's governance systems meet the requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 and the ASX Listing Rules. However, the Board delegates authority to identify and manage such impacts, risks and opportunities and receives regular reporting in relation to matters including: health and safety, The CEO reports directly to the Board. The Group Leadership Team (GLT) is the senior diversity and inclusion, unethical practices and other matters. This enables the Board to leadership team for WorleyParsons. The GLT advises the CEO with regard to the effective monitor both management and company performance in relation to those topics. and efficient functioning of the global organization. Material risks and internal controls Delegation of authority WorleyParsons has processes to systematically identify, assess and report on both financial Our process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics and non-financial business risks. Details of the management of business risks can be found in involves a series of written delegations. The Board provides written delegation to the the Corporate Governance Statement. CEO. This authority for economic, environmental and social topics includes authority to manage the company’s operations and to establish and maintain an appropriate A strategic and operational Corporate Risk Management Report is prepared and analyzed by framework for good governance. The CEO has provided the GLT with written delegations both management and the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board twice a year in relation to of authority corresponding to their areas of responsibility. the company’s material business risks. The report addresses impacts, risks and opportunities with respect to health and safety, reputation, business practices and ethics. While the particular scope of authority varies between members of the GLT, all have been delegated authority for managing aspects of economic, environmental and social topics. In addition, the Board’s Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Committee meets at least six For example, the Regional Managing Directors of our services business line have times a year to review health and safety impacts, risks and opportunities. authority to manage social topics such as health and safety, employee training and anticorruption. In turn, the GLT has delegated authority to their direct reports for activities within their areas of responsibility. This section summarizes our approach to governance, ethics and transparency. Further detail regarding our corporate governance Given WorleyParsons’ size and geographic spread, it is not practical for members of the practices are set out in our Corporate Governance Statement 2017. Board to consult directly with our stakeholders or identify and manage economic, environmental and social impacts, risks and opportunities. 16 Ethics G4 56 G4 57 G4 58 G4 DMA LA G4 LA16 G4 HR2 Good business practices and ethics WorleyParsons regards good corporate governance as a critical element in our business Our people are encouraged to seek advice on ethical and lawful behavior and matters related practices and culture. The cornerstone of our OneWay™ integrity framework is ethical, to organization integrity from their manager. However, if the manager is unavailable or sustainable business practices. involved in a breach or potential breach of the Code of Conduct, our people should approach their location people leader for advice. WorleyParsons’ Code of Conduct guides our people, including directors, as to the expected standards of behavior. Our people are obliged to report any breach or potential breaches of the Code of Conduct. Those breaches encompass unethical or unlawful behavior and matters related to The Code of Conduct specifies that the Company expects our people will: organizational integrity. Our people may make those reports to their manager, or if the manager is involved in the breach or potential breach, to their location human resources § strive to achieve the highest ethical conduct, questioning unethical behavior and leader. reporting breaches and potential breaches of the Code of Conduct; § comply with the law and avoiding conflicts of interest; Our Ethics Helpline, an online and telephone breach reporting system, is available to our § act honestly and fairly in all their business dealings; people to enable them to report breaches or potential breaches of the Code of Conduct. The § be open, accurate and professional in all their communications; helpline is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. In addition, our people may also § be economical and responsible in using company and customer resources; contact a member of our Ethics Committee, GLT, management and people teams directly if § respect the confidentiality of any information from or about our customers and they: others; § be reliable and diligent in meeting their responsibilities; and § believe the breach or potential breach is serious; § respect the rights of others and supporting community values. § have concerns about making a report; or § are not satisfied with the response to the report. Expectations around the receiving and giving of gifts is outlined in our Code of Conduct. To ensure transparency, WorleyParsons maintains gift registers. In FY2017, allegations of breaches of the Code of Conduct were reported to our People Group or using the Ethics Helpline. The Ethics Helpline is available across the whole business. The Code of Conduct requires our people to report breaches and potential breaches of the Code of Conduct and sets out a process for that reporting. Our policy provides protection to whistle blowers and encourages reporting of contraventions. The Code of Conduct is available in 16 local languages in addition to English. All our The key mechanisms for the protection of whistle blowers are confidentiality, anonymity, people: protection of employment conditions and appropriate support to prevent any other forms of § receive a copy of the Code of Conduct and training when they start with the retaliation (e.g. loss of opportunities, shunning, ill treatment, harassment, etc.). company and thereafter on an annual basis; and § can access the Code of Conduct from the company’s intranet or request a copy from their local human resources leader. 17 Ethics G4 HR2 G4 SO4 G4 SO5 G4 SO6 G4 SO7 G4 SO8 G4 SO9 Bribery Law and regulation compliance WorleyParsons complies with all applicable prevention of bribery and corruption No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations legislation and extends the requirement of compliance, including the prohibition of were recorded for the reporting period. facilitation payments, to third party providers via our Code of Conduct and Supply Chain Code of Conduct. In addition, no legal action has been taken against WorleyParsons for anti-competitive behavior or anti-trust or monopolistic practices. Our Code of Conduct is aligned with the expectations of international compliance regulations and provides a benchmark for ethical conduct in all aspects of our global Public policy business. WorleyParsons respects the authority of governments in all countries at all levels (national, Our Code of Conduct provides clear guidelines for our people in reporting unlawful and state, local), maintaining open and honest relationships. Although we may perform work for unethical behavior to their immediate manager, an ethics officer, their people manager, government entities, WorleyParsons maintains impartiality with respect to partisan politics. their managing director and the CEO, without the fear of retaliation. WorleyParsons also provides access to the Ethics Helpline, which is accessible online and telephone for all our Anti-competitive behavior people. WorleyParsons supports fair and open competition and believes in competing for business Our Code of Conduct prohibits any activity in relation to bribery and corruption. and using competitive procedures in the supplier selection process. In most countries where we perform work, we are subject to laws that encourage competitive and fair business We provide all relevant employees with training in anti-bribery and anti-corruption via markets. online prevention of bribery training courses. When our customers engage us to conduct procurement activities on their behalf, we comply with WorleyParsons' or our customers’ rules, whichever are the more stringent. Transparency International Various international and domestic developments have put the spotlight on corporate governance, transparency and accountability. Our corporate membership with Transparency International Australia gives WorleyParsons a means of committing publicly to support Transparency International’s work in Australia and the region. Over the past five years of membership, our teams have participated in a number of events organized by Transparency International Australia and coalition partners. We have also contributed to Transparency International on global developments related to our industry 18 sector. We believe we are showing industry leadership in relation to the core principles we uphold and campaign with others to advance. Transparency G4 49 Board communications Transparency and disclosure with our people and the Social media community The Board receive regular reports including: risk; corporate We actively manage social media and have a significant responsibility; health and safety; diversity and inclusion; Effective communication and collaboration assist the following (number of followers): unethical practices and other matters that may affect our organization to deal with change. reputation. In addition, Board members attend site visits aimed at increasing Board members’ understanding of the We use our internal communication website, Yammer and HSE risks faced by the Company and its people and to emails to deliver important messages. In addition, 'townLinkedIn 436,449 further raise the profile of HSE risk management with our hall' sessions are presented by senior management on 'bigpeople on site and, in particular, with site management. picture' issues. Local office information sessions inform our people and location-specific updates. Sessions usually Critical concerns are communicated to the Board through: include a segment where our people are encouraged to voice their concerns and queries. Facebook 12,841 § Internal Audit reports as to the effectiveness of the Company’s management of its material business risks and internal controls; In 2017, WorleyParsons implemented a second independently-managed global employee engagement § the Corporate Risk Management Report; survey. The results were shared with our people and programs have been implemented to manage any Twitter 6,532 § the CEO’s monthly reports; and shortcomings. § other specialist reporting (e.g. in relation to health and as of 30 June 2017 safety, corporate responsibility and diversity and To create a comfortable and motivated work environment, inclusion). senior leadership has been encouraged to cascade key messages on strategy and vision to all employees and The GLT is involved in updating our values, strategies, contractors. policies and goals related to many aspects of our economic, environmental and social topics. WorleyParsons adopts voluntary tax transparency code Our first Tax Contribution Report was released on our Company website in July 2017 for the 2016 reporting period. It followed the recommendations of the Australian Board of Taxation’s Tax Transparency Code. We welcomed the opportunity to provide stakeholders with an outline of our tax activities and our tax contributions across the globe. The report provided information about our approach to tax governance and strategy, details of our international-related party dealings, information about our effective tax rate and an overview of our tax contributions for FY2016. Whilst not required by the Code, we also provided commentary to allow a better understanding of the tax information recently published by the Australian Taxation Office in relation to WorleyParsons Limited’s tax return for the year ended 30 June 2015. We were proud to present this report and are committed to providing transparency of our tax profile and to illustrate that our tax contributions and activities benefit the many countries in which we operate. See page 30 for more details of our indirect contribution to national economies via taxes paid. 19 Supporting expanded accommodation at an HIV/AIDS shelter, India Jeevadaan is a palliative care center providing care and support for HIV/AIDS infected abandoned women and children. Jeevadaan’s aim is to provide medical care and education with the hope that those they have supported will have their own career and be able to look after themselves. Residents are provided with nutritious food, medical expenses, clothing, school fees and books. The WorleyParsons Foundation donated funds to build additional rooms so Jeevadaan can welcome more women and children in similar situations. 20 CEO “Enterprise and supplier Statement About Us development programs are Corporate crucial to the Company’s corporate and social Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency responsibility agenda, Supply Chain which calls for not only active participation in Supply chain . Economic Human Rights addressing socio-economic challenges in South Africa, Environment Our People Community but also much-needed GRI 4.0 Content Index transformation in the engineering sector.” Tables Denver Dreyer, Location Director, WorleyParsons South Africa 21 Supply chain G4 12 G4 DMA EN G4 S011 Supply chain policies Supply chain outcomes Our minimum and preferred requirements for suppliers and contractors are set out in the Our key fair operating practices and supply chain outcomes for this reporting period were: Supply Chain Code of Conduct. The areas covered include corporate governance and § consolidated key corporate procurement contracts into one centrally governed platform; ethics, labor/workplace management, occupational health and safety, environment, suppliers and community engagement. § applied sustainable procurement and contractor management processes to key projects; and WorleyParsons favors suppliers and contractors who share our commitment to: § maintained tools and processes for assessing and selecting suppliers and contractors. § supporting corporate responsibility; Risk management is an integral aspect of our day-to-day business practice and project § supporting human rights and fair employment practices; delivery services. Refer to the Governance, Ethics and Transparency section for what applies to § maintaining and improving the work environment so that it is safe and healthy for our supply chain. all staff and visitors; § conducting their business operations in a way that protects and sustains the environment; Trading surplus supplies § adopting similar principles and practices to those in the code in selecting, monitoring and managing their own suppliers and contractors; and WorleyParsons has launched a digital solution to trade excess surplus equipment and materials, improving the efficiency and environmental performance of its industry § understanding their responsibility to the local communities on which they have an partners. The online trading platform, Requis, enables industrial operators to buy and impact and from which they profit. Our approach is to understand the issues facing sell surplus industrial equipment such as cables, valves, pumps, transformers and the communities in which we operate, and to endeavor to conduct business in a way switchgear. Requis is owned and managed by WorleyParsons Inc. that builds social capital and achieves a positive impact. The platform draws upon the extensive industry experiences gained from successfully All our project procurement and contracting teams operate from the guidance provided in delivering projects across 42 countries of operation, mainly in the energy and our policies and standards for procurement and contracts, by which goods and services resources sectors. are acquired by WorleyParsons. WorleyParsons’ digital capability within WorleyParsons’ Code of Conduct and ethics in practice are described here. its advisory services group Advisian has developed the platform. It reduces storage and handling costs, improves warehousing efficiency and eliminates equipment waste through enhanced visibility and intelligent use/reuse of project surplus equipment. 22 Supply chain Sustainable project delivery Economic development of our supply chain Procurement of equipment, supplies and contractors can have a significant impact on the In order to promote opportunities for local and under-represented groups, we have adapted sustainability of a project. our procurement processes to track, manage and promote the inclusion of local communities. The procurement team can support economic development by: Supporting local suppliers, contractors and workers aids the development of skills and § providing training and delivering supplier information sessions for small local companies capabilities, and provides economic benefits to the local community. that may not have the required experience and skills to work on large engineering, procurement and construction management projects but are interested in opportunities; During the contracting stage, integrating the economic, environmental and social development objectives into tender documents and contracts ensures that contractors § creating small bid packages to allow local firms to bid on work; and suppliers understand all project constraints and goals. These proactive actions § creating a project-specific procurement website for firms to upload their capabilities and minimize the risk of unnecessary schedule delays and change orders as work progresses. learn about opportunities; § allowing for training and skills development to be incorporated into work packages; and We have developed sustainable procurement procedures to support our customers with a wide range of projects including greenfield mine developments, offshore oil platforms, § using a bid scoring system that can help provide employment for the local community. and fabrication shops. The WorleyParsonsCord: supply chain and community contributions The WorleyParsonsCord, based in Western Canada, is a family of companies that collectively deliver the project-management expertise and skilled-trades personnel for fabrication, module assembly and field construction of heavy-industrial projects. The module assembly concept and processes have many social, environmental and economic benefits by introducing greater control and transparency of more of our supply chain, as well as local skills development and employment. Red Deer College, Montana First Nation and WorleyParsonsCord launched The Next Generation Program. The program offers Canadian aboriginal students the opportunity to develop the skills and experience needed for careers in welding. The program is funded in part by the Government of Canada’s Flexibility and Innovation in Apprenticeship Technical Training program and comprises two groups of 25 students. “It’s awesome. Everyday just get up ready, go to class and use the virtual welders. It’s good hands-on skills that it teaches you,” said Eric Crier, a welding student from the Montana First Nation. 23 Supplier selection G4 EC9 G4 LA14 G4 LA15 G4 S010 G4 S011 G4 EN32 G4 EN33 Assessing and selecting suppliers Supplier assessment In 2012, WorleyParsons released a Supply Chain Code of Conduct, No reported impacts from labor practices, human rights, which expanded on our employee Code of Conduct. The Supply community and environment in the supply chain were Chain Code of Conduct includes criteria for minimum standards identified in this reporting period. “I’m a patriot at heart, so which we use during supplier selection processes at both the my thinking is about corporate and individual project level. Supplier grievance mechanisms developing a more inclusive, diverse engineering industry.” Across our industries and operations, there are opportunities to Suppliers are able to lodge grievances direct with their lead suppliers to better ethical, social and environmental procurement contract owner or via WorleyParsons’ Denver Dreyer, Location Director, performance. There are increasing expectations to be transparent website. WorleyParsons South Africa on selection processes, expose breaches and encourage ethical conduct where we have influence within our own and customers’ supply chains. Recently, we have been asked to provide further information on our approach to ethical and sustainable Supply chain: enterprise development in South Africa procurement and respond to the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 (page 35). WorleyParsons South Africa hosted the Supplier Grow Conference, attended by 200 people, providing the opportunity for emerging businesses to play pivotal roles in the successful delivery of large projects. Local content plans are in place in many countries where there are Selected suppliers and locally owned businesses attend monthly meetings where pursuits are tracked and legislative requirements for local content of both suppliers and new opportunities are brought to the table. At the Supplier Grow Conference at WorleyParsons’ offices in employees. Melrose Arch, Johannesburg, suppliers were given an opportunity to interact openly with the procurement executives of blue-chip companies including Glencore, Exxaro, Anglo American Platinum, De Beers and Sometimes, it is our customers who are the contracting party, and South32. we manage or support their purchases and/or subcontracts in circumstances where they do not have their own equivalent Suppliers were given 90 seconds to ‘speed date’, which involved telling their story, selling their services and contract provisions. Where this occurs, WorleyParsons offers its raising their challenges. On offer from the emerging, previously disadvantaged entities were skills in the own Code of Conduct and Supply Chain Code of Conduct and fields of infrastructure, roads, water, construction, health, safety, environment and quality, supplemented associated sustainable procurement processes. by the backing of WorleyParsons. When tenders are daunting, suppliers are helped through the vendor application process and made aware of the commercial risks. Customer organizations have the desire to WorleyParsons assesses suppliers for our operational businesses transform but they cannot compromise on quality, systems and standards, which is where WorleyParsons as well as our project delivery services, often representing our comes in to help them achieve their transformation objectives and at the same time deliver quality projects. customers. Various tools track supplier performance and key metrics, with our supplier portal developed for project delivery 24 services. Corporate procurement and supplier assessment G4 13 Corporate procurement Supplier registration In addition to the billions of dollars of products and services we purchase for our WorleyParsons has a supplier portal, accessed from its Company website, which tracks key customers for their projects and operations, we have over AUD200 million of corporate information (such as supplier performance and key metrics) on our suppliers and contractors, overhead procurement annually, covering over 140+ contracts relating to leasing including some information on their sustainable practices. arrangements, professional services fees and running our offices. Suppliers self-register and provide information on their performance in corporate governance We provide global governance on strategic procurement initiatives and support our and ethics, labor/workplace management, occupational health and safety, environment, internal sourcing needs whilst driving innovation through supplier management and the streamlining of systems and tools to achieve cost efficiencies. suppliers and community engagement. All new suppliers agree to our Supply Chain Code of Conduct, which includes minimum Top 14 Supplier Registrations per country (July 2017): expectations of labor practices, impacts on society and environmental practices. Canada 1,134 Our local participation programs ensure a proportion of spending on local suppliers. United States 1,051 Examples include our Alaskan operations where 100% of local discretion suppliers are locally owned. Australia 642 United Kingdom 500 The key aspects of corporate procurement China 401 are illustrated by the diagram: South Africa 390 India 295 United Arab Emirates 295 Chile 247 Malaysia 154 Italy 153 Saudi Arabia 113 Singapore 103 EOI – Expression of Interest RFI – Request for Information Brazil 100 25 RFP – Request for Proposal RFT – Request for Tender 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 Saving Lipuko Beach, Papua New Guinea A WorleyParsons customer was undertaking several community obligation projects in Lihir, Papua New Guinea. One such project was to seal a road between two villages located near their site operations on the island. WorleyParsons’ site team reconsidered the initial (typical) design for corrosion prevention along a section of road on the coastline and brainstormed a better solution, utilizing concrete and expired mine truck tyres. In further consultation with the local villagers, they also realigned the road in another section to recover access to an historic cemetery that had become inaccessible via the old road. What appeared to be a picturesque Papua New Guinea coastline disappearing to erosion is now an area to be enjoyed by the local community. 26 CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality “We have reshaped the Company during one of Governance, Ethics and Transparency Supply Chain the largest resource industry transitions in Economic . Economic 40 years.” Human Rights Environment Our People Community GRI 4.0 Content Index Tables Andrew Wood, CEO, WorleyParsons 27 Economic sustainability G4 9 G4 DMA EC G4 EC1 G4 EC2 Economic sustainability FY2017 financial results summary “We believe we are in one of the biggest energy and resource industry transitions in 40 Margins improved years. This has required significant adjustments to our Company to ensure we remain a viable and sustainable business and return to growth.” CEO Andrew Wood, 2017 Annual § $500m annualized overhead Report savings delivered § Gross margin improved with WorleyParsons makes an important contribution to local communities and regional economies by delivering solid financial returns to our shareholders, working with local better customer delivery businesses in our supply chain and investing in community organizations. Taxes paid disclosures have increased in FY2017, with the release of The Tax Contribution Report Balance sheet strengthening 2016 and more on page 30. § Cash flow of $79m ($164m in Challenging market conditions second half) § Net debt reduced by $154m in WorleyParsons is on a journey to fully realize the benefits from reshaping and resizing second half the business over the past few years. We have been taking strategic steps to reposition the business for future success, reducing internal costs, improving customer § Gearing 29.1% productivity, optimizing the portfolio of offices and strengthening our balance sheet. To learn more about our strategic priorities and strategic architecture, refer to the Annual Group net profit after tax (NPAT) Backlog increased Report 2017 microsite. § Across all sectors We are a much leaner and more agile Customer satisfaction business able to take advantage of current § Global Sales and Marketing market conditions. We have reshaped our group established WorleyParsons is dedicated to delivering what we promise. Customer satisfaction business to maximise opportunities as they stems from the need to be sensitive to both quantitative performance and our arise while at the same time ensuring we New strategic architecture customer business drivers in addition to building strong relationships at all levels. Our can translate those opportunities into solid margins and returns. implemented focus is to deliver enhanced value for our customers through targeted offerings including asset productivity improvement, supply chain optimization, China sourcing and modularization. 28 Economic sustainability G4 DMA EC G4 EC1 G4 EC7 G4 EC8 Responding to markets Strategic priorities During the year we developed a new strategic architecture. The architecture integrates We have distilled our strategy into a number of priority areas, which will be reviewed on a all the strategic processes at WorleyParsons, describing how they interact over the regular basis as part of the cadence of strategy review. This diagram explains the strategic course of the financial year. It defines how to improve our collective performance, priorities: accelerate our revenue growth and address the dramatic change in our industry in a systematic way. The objective is to balance strategic thinking with a bias for action by translating strategic conversations into real practical actions in the field. This will create a scheduled regular set of actions over the year for both strategic conversations and the review of strategic initiatives. The intent is that this will increase our ability to spot market and customer shifts early and to seize the opportunity or take corrective action in a timely manner. The architecture is built around the following three pillars: 1. Operational excellence ensuring that we always maintain a viable and competitive business; 2. Grow the business in the near term by offering all of our value to all of our customers; and 3. Position the business to grow as a key player in the new world. “The reshaped WorleyParsons is responding to feedback from our markets, investors, our people and community stakeholders. In return, we enjoy a positive reputation for our Social License to Operate. Our teams are genuinely excited to be contributing to our operations and delivering customer projects that are making a significant positive impact on nation building and the communities where we operate. This aligns to our purpose: we are a partner in delivering sustained economic and social progress. This is the collective power of many smart, connected and community-engaged professionals who have a passion about what they do and the positive impact we make.” Marni Oaten, Director Corporate Responsibility, WorleyParsons 29 Tax contributions “Market conditions have had a significant G4 EC8 impact on the type and amount of taxes paid by WorleyParsons. While amounts of corporate income taxes paid have fallen in Indirectly contributing to national economies FY2016 as a result of our decrease in profits, we continue to make significant tax Disclosing our 2016 corporate tax contributions in our first Tax Contribution Report aligns with our Corporate contributions in the areas of employee Responsibility commitments. We are committed to making a positive impact in the communities and environments in related taxes and indirect taxes across the which we operate. countries in which we operate.” With almost $600 million paid in effective tax contributions, there is a significant indirect economic contribution made Tom Honan, Group Managing Director in economies where we operate. As our employees spend their wages locally on diverse goods and services, there is a Finance – Chief Financial Officer, further, indirect economic contribution. We do not measure this indirect economic benefit globally, but it is an WorleyParsons important component of our contribution in the 42 countries where we operate. The table below provides a more detailed analysis of our total tax contribution across the four of our key operating jurisdictions during FY2016: Total tax contribution in four key operating countries in FY2016 Tax type Total AUD$ ‘000 Australia USA Corporate income tax1 23,385 $208 million $184 million Fringe benefit tax2 1,456 Payroll taxes 42,869 Net goods and services tax3 41,962 Employee taxes remitted4 485,470 Total 595,142 UK Canada 1 2 Refers to amounts of corporate income tax paid during FY2016. Refers to the fringe benefit tax liability for the year ended 31 March 2016. $54 million $149 million 3 Refers to the goods and services tax collected on sales by WorleyParsons less goods and services tax paid on business purchases by WorleyParsons. 4 Refers to salary withholding tax collected by WorleyParsons. 30 Making a sustainable difference to the safety and economy of Angolan communities UN estimates cite the number of fatalities in Angola as a result of landmines at over 1,000 while Angolan amputees resulting from landmines are over 70,000. The estimated Angolan landmine count is 10 to 20 million. With support from the WorleyParsons Foundation, land was cleared of suspected mines in Moxico, Angola's worst affected province; returning arable land back to sustainable agriculture and in doing so increased the safety to the community who live among landmines. 31 CEO Statement About Us Corporate “The responsibility to Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency respect human rights is Supply Chain a global standard of expected conduct for all Human rights . Economic Human Rights business enterprises wherever they operate.” Environment Our People Community GRI 4.0 Content Index Tables UN Human Rights Council’s Guiding Principles for Business and 32 Human Rights Human rights G4 DMA HR G4 HR1 G4 HR2 G4 HR8 G4 HR9 Human rights policies Key human rights outcomes WorleyParsons’ Human Rights Policy outlines WorleyParsons’ business principles and Our key human rights outcomes in this reporting period include: confirms our commitment to respect the basic rights of the people we deal with and not § commenced consolidation of the various policies for indigenous people engagement into be complicit or engage in activities that solicit or encourage human rights abuse. The a new draft Group policy; policy applies to all WorleyParsons employees and extends to all our business dealings and transactions in all countries in which we operate. § commenced an assessment of salient human rights issues across our operations, projects, contractors and suppliers; The objectives noted in the Human Rights Policy are to: § continued the practice of conducting corruption risk assessments at several high risk § support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and locations; make sure that we are not complicit with human rights abuses; § implemented project delivery processes that incorporate human rights on key projects; § align with the United Nations Human Rights Council’s Guiding Principles on Business § conducted ethical business practice assessments; and Human Rights and our Supply Chain Code of Conduct; and § reviewed our business exposure and impact of human rights as part of our annual global § demonstrate and acknowledge our commitment to uphold human rights, to our risk assessment; people, stakeholders and communities. § participated in the discussion on the proposed Australian Modern Slavery Act with the WorleyParsons’ Code of Conduct sets out the standards for professional behavior that United Nations Global Compact Network Australia in Melbourne and Sydney; and we expect all of our people and partners to uphold in seeking to ensure that § provided ongoing support to community minority groups via business forums, mentoring WorleyParsons’ reputation is protected. The code has been translated into Arabic, and internship job opportunities. Bulgarian, French, Hindi, Indonesian, Kazakh, Malay, Mandarin, Norwegian, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, Tagalog, Thai and Vietnamese. Indigenous people engagement policy Our Canadian, Australian, South African, Alaskan and other operations have local commitments and long-standing practices to engage our local communities, with specific focus on indigenous people. We are developing a Group policy that refers to our commitment to meaningful engagement with indigenous communities and to support the aspirations of indigenous people. We are committed to understand indigenous peoples’ priorities, build relationships with local communities, engage local resources and support client-community values and commitments. 33 Indigenous student interns: Australia West, Canada West Human rights G4 HR3 G4 HR4 G4 HR5 G4 HR6 G4 HR7 G4 HR8 Non-discrimination Child, forced or compulsory labor WorleyParsons’ Code of Conduct indicates it is vital our workplace is free from all forms WorleyParsons does not engage in nor condone any form of child, forced or compulsory labor. of harassment, discrimination and intimidation. Behaviors, such as sexual advances, WorleyParsons’ Human Rights Policy, Code of Conduct and Supply Chain Code of Conduct bullying, hostility, abusive language, physical violence or the threat of physical violence, each confirm WorleyParsons’ commitment to respect the basic rights of the people we deal are not tolerated within our company. with and not be complicit or engage in activities that solicit or encourage human rights abuse. WorleyParsons’ policies and business practices are compliant with the applicable national and local labor standards of the countries in which we operate. Our People Policy WorleyParsons Code of Conduct clearly states: and Diversity and Inclusion Policy underline our commitment as an equal opportunity “We respect the basic rights of the people we employer and do not discriminate on grounds of race, gender, marital status, creed or deal with and will not engage in activities that disability. encourage human rights abuses. We do not employ or condone forced, bonded or child Some incidents of discrimination and harassment were reported, investigated and labor.” resolved during the reporting period. No confirmed incidents related to child, forced or Freedom of association and collective bargaining compulsory labor were reported during the WorleyParsons’ Code of Conduct and Human Rights Policy state our business principles reporting period. and confirm our commitment to fair working conditions. They acknowledge our businesses operate under freedom of association principles and comply with local Indigenous rights regulations that align with local human resources professional body associations around the world. WorleyParsons is a strong supporter of Indigenous rights and has supported activities No confirmed incidents related to violations of freedom of association and collective such as cultural festivals, art awards, Indigenous bargaining were reported during the reporting period. education sponsorships and community engagement activities in Australia, Canada and Security practices the United States. WorleyParsons’ Ready, Response and Recovery (R3) System is an integrated business resilience and critical incident management tool that includes our approach to crisis, No confirmed incidents related to violations of emergency, business continuity and security management. Indigenous people rights were reported during the reporting period. Our R3 System incorporates security arrangements in accordance with human rights principles for law enforcement and the use of force. It also ensures that the safety of our 34 people is protected when they travel overseas. Human rights in the supply chain G4 HR1 G4 HR10 Human rights in the supply chain Responding to the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015: ethical and sustainable supply chain Progress updates on related programs and Across our industries and operations, WorleyParsons is seeing an opportunity to lead suppliers to better ethical, social and environmental performance of our supply chain is reported performance. There are increasing expectations to be transparent on selection processes, expose breaches and encourage ethical conduct annually on the company website and in this where we have influence within our own and customers’ supply chains. Recently, we were asked to provide further information on our report. Programs include our ethics helpline, gift approach to ethical and sustainable procurement and respond to the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. registers, due diligence processes, training, investigations etc. We aim to operate WorleyParsons is committed to high standards of business ethics, as reflected in our Code of Conduct, and to best practice and responsibly wherever we work in the world and continuous improvement in the broader sustainability performance of our business and projects. We are a signatory to the United Nations commit to engaging with our stakeholders to manage the social, economic and environmental Global Compact, which aligns our practices with the 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, impacts of our activities. environment and anti-corruption. Our minimum and preferred requirements for suppliers and contractors are set out in our Supply Chain Code of Conduct. WorleyParsons Australian legislation is expected to be passed on the Australian Modern Slavery Act in 2018. reserves the right to terminate its trading agreement where a supplier is unable to demonstrate a commitment to this code. Sometimes, it The expectation is that we will be reporting as a is our customers who are the contracting party, and we manage or support their purchases and/or subcontracts in circumstances where minimum on the four criteria including modern they do not have their own equivalent contract provisions. Where this occurs, WorleyParsons offers its own Code of Conduct and Supply slavery risks and due diligence processes. Chain Code of Conduct and associated sustainable procurement processes. Our commitments are aligned to the Ethical Trade Initiative and International Labour Organization Conventions, and requires that: § local laws are respected; § employment is freely chosen; § child labor shall not be used; § illegal labor shall not be used; § appropriate wages are paid; § working hours are not excessive; § freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining are respected; § working conditions are safe and hygienic; § no discrimination is practiced; § no harsh or inhumane treatment is allowed; § businesses operate ethically; § no unauthorized subcontracting is allowed; and § due regard is given to environmental impacts. 35 Developing local people in Africa 365 turbines WorleyParsons was contracted by the Lake Turkana Wind Power installed in 362 consortium to provide overall project management, engineering review days and construction management services for the project. As part of the Company's localization philosophy, 43% of the 33-strong team is from WorleyParsons' South Africa office, 33% from the Nairobi office, and the balance comprises support staff from Kenya. The project contributed skills development and local employment resulting in local economic growth, making a difference to the lives of Kenyans and specifically local tribes. The local workforce had previously not been exposed to the level of health and safety practices seen on this project. 36 CEO Statement About Us Corporate Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and “We help our Transparency Supply Chain customers meet the world’s changing Environment . Economic Human Rights resources and energy Environment needs.” Our People Community GRI 4.0 Content Index Tables 37 Environment G4 DMA EN G4 EN2 Environmental policies Key environmental outcomes Environmental contributions WorleyParsons is committed to our vision of zero harm to Our key environmental outcomes for this reporting period WorleyParsons’ operations and people have contributed to people and assets and zero environmental incidents. Our include: environmental protection programs and local community company-wide HSE Policy highlights our environmental environmental activities including: § assessed and reported that we exceeded our FY2016 commitment to: energy target of a 2.5% reduction of total carbon dioxide § environmental protection, biodiversity and restoration § comply with all applicable laws, regulations and equivalents (tCO2-e) against the base year FY2014; of habitat (Great Barrier Reef Foundation, Great standards and customer requirements and applying Canadian Shoreline and Trail Clean-ups in Canada); § participated voluntarily and on an ongoing basis in the company standards where laws do not exist; CDP, monitoring and measuring our environmental § landmine clearing for reinstating agricultural land in § consult and seek contributions from our people on performance since 2009, with consistent improvement Angola; issues that have the potential to affect the in energy and water management under the CDP; § community education on good environmental behaviors environment and their health and safety; § concluded the process to deregister under the in Brunei; § identify, assess and manage risks that impact HSE prior Australian National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting § climate change mitigation and adaption (World to commencing activities and when circumstances Act 2007 from the sale of Exmouth Power station in July Environment Day, Oman and Singapore); and change; 2015; § energy efficiency, paper and electronic waste recycling § foster a culture that empowers and supports anyone § ensured our suppliers and contractors adhere to our initiatives across many offices. intervening to safeguard people and to protect the minimum and preferred expectations to conduct their environment; business operations in a way that protects and sustains the environment; § require our suppliers and contractors to manage HSE using relevant international standards and practices § reduced the carbon footprint across a number of offices that align with our own; by reducing approximately 65,000sqm of office space § drive continual improvement in HSE performance and encouraging LED lighting, recycling and smart Top 200 Environmental through open reporting, effective assessment; and printing; Firm § continued a global energy reduction program, working § analyze our performance, leadership and engagement with the locations with the largest energy footprint by WorleyParsons was listed at 56 in with our stakeholders. setting targets and selecting high impact changes to the 2017 Top 200 Environmental implement in the next reporting period; and Firms by Engineering News Record: Climate-related financial disclosures http://www.enr.com/toplists/2017§ maintained active ISO 14001 Environmental Management System certification in a number of Top-200-Environmental-Firms-1 We have a continued commitment to environmental sustainability and improving the transparency of our own locations. environment performance via robust reporting and 38 disclosure practices. Climate change G4 EN27 Integration of climate change in business strategy Our teams respond to opportunities from emerging climate change related expectations We are aware of the growing expectations for climate related financial disclosures as a result from our customers, investors and employees and regulation in the geographies in which of the Paris Climate Agreement. we operate. As a result, over the past five years, our energy performance has been tracked by a global energy and greenhouse data collection system using our network of We note that in June 2017 the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related HSE and sustainability professionals to collect and upload the required data. Financial Disclosures released its final recommendations for reporting climate-related financial information. We will be working with industry to review its impact, what disclosures Our business has also recognized that regulatory requirements and technology cost are appropriate and how we can help our customers address climate risk. curves will increase demand for low carbon solutions now and increasingly in the coming years, and have ensured that we remain at the forefront of developments in renewable We will continue to disclose our work on climate related governance strategy, risk energy, carbon capture, energy efficiency and alternative fuels. management and metrics/targets. A focus will be assessing the business opportunities and impacts from climate related scenarios ready for FY2018 and FY2019 reporting by aligning our The resulting short term strategy is influenced by climate related regulation and our Carbon Disclosure Report with the recommendations from the Financial Stability Board’s Task customers. Our customers demand services that cost effectively reduce their emissions. Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. We are working with customers on technologies that are commercially viable today, such as waste heat energy recovery, wind and solar energy, and solutions for the next few Recommendations from the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial years such as solar thermal energy and energy storage. Disclosures Our long term strategy is influenced by how climate change will impact our customers' Governance Strategy Risk management Metrics and targets businesses. We recognize the need for different solutions in the future for mitigation of Disclose the actual and emissions and appropriate risk assessment approaches to ensure that assets being potential impacts of climateDisclose the metrics and developed will be designed to suit likely future market and climatic conditions. Disclose the organization’s related risks and Disclose how the targets used to assess and governance around climateopportunities on the organization identifies, manage relevant climaterelated risks and organization’s businesses, assesses and manages related risks and We have a continued commitment to environmental sustainability and improving the opportunities. strategy, and financial climate-related risks. opportunities where such planning where such transparency of our own environment performance via robust reporting and disclosure information is material. information is material. practices. For the second year in a row, the Australian Council of Superannuation Investors awarded WorleyParsons the rating of “Leading” in corporate responsibility reporting practices (for disclosure of sustainability risks among S&P/ASX 200 companies). 39 Renewable energy G4 EN27 Investing in new energy Projects and services The world is in transition as new technologies and business models § Lake Turkana Wind Power Project in northern Kenya delivered challenge traditional energy sectors. Whilst we expect our core 365 wind turbines with a combined generating capacity of hydrocarbons markets to continue to grow, we are already 300MW. WorleyParsons provided the complete project participating in this new energy market. This includes renewable management and owner’s engineer services. electricity generation, new technology enablers such as battery energy storage, and the rise of data management as a core integration § The soon-to-be-completed Shagaya Renewable Energy Project tool. in Kuwait includes a 50MW concentrated solar power plant with molten salt energy storage, a 10MW photovoltaic solar plant, and Our progress to date shows that we are well placed to leverage our a 10MW wind farm. WorleyParsons and Advisian have combined deep technical expertise in the power and energy markets to support to provide overall precinct project management, as well as our existing and new customers as they embrace new energy. We engineering specialists to ensure the project meets the have developed centers of excellence in Brazil, Spain, Australia and the demanding specification and operational performance required. United States, which in turn support new energy projects across the globe. § Advisian is a consortium partner for the Energy Storage for the Commercial Renewable Integration Project in South Australia. This project aims to prove that large-scale battery storage can “With renewables becoming more assist with the integration of large quantities of renewable affordable and reliable, we are energy into electricity markets. Advisian has provided technical seeing an unstoppable expansion and procurement specialists, and will monitor the asset’s of sustainable energy solutions.” performance post project completion. Tony Frencham, Global § Our teams published The New Energy Future series of thought Director, New Energy, Advisian. leadership white papers with a detailed assessment of electric vehicles and their impact on the energy mix. We are expanding our efforts in new energy as a strategic priority for the Company. Investments will see us broadening our capabilities in response to the markets we seek to address in the global transition. 40 Energy G4 EN5 G4 EN30 Energy inclusions Energy intensity Energy consumption within WorleyParsons involves two categories, being direct energy We benchmark our energy intensity ratios with those of our peers by normalizing our consumption (Scope 1) and indirect energy consumption (Scope 2). Energy consumption data per person (employees and contractors). As a professional services business, it is outside WorleyParsons is captured under other energy consumption (Scope 3). appropriate that our intensity is measured against our most important resource, our people. Additionally, to ensure our energy intensity measurements are meaningful to a Direct energy consumption (Scope 1) is defined as being the consumption from sources range of stakeholders, we provide our energy intensity ratio to revenue. Energy intensity whether non-renewable or renewable that are owned or controlled by the reporting entity. is calculated including both our direct energy consumption (Scope 1) and indirect energy Indirect energy consumption (Scope 2) is purchased energy generated offsite which is consumption (Scope 2). exported to our offices in the form of electricity, steam or fuel. Other energy consumption (Scope 3) is defined as any other energy consumption not captured under Scope 1 or Scope 2. Total of Scope 1 and Scope 2 MWh per employee (full-time equivalent (FTE)) for the last six years are shown below. Energy intensity per employee (including petrol, diesel, LPG, Our Scope 1 energy consumption can be divided into two: stationary consumption from our electricity use etc.) has decreased in the past reporting period. offices and company owned vehicles. For Scope 2, the energy consumption can be divided into direct cooling and heating and electricity consumption from the grid. In the future, we will identify Scope 3 emissions upstream or downstream of our supply chain. Energy intensity (Scope 1 and Scope 2) by employee Each of our global offices consumes fuel for cooling and/or heating purposes and is a focal point for transportation of our employees to project sites and customer offices. 9.00 8.00 7.00 Energy saving efforts: MWh/Employee FTE 6.00 In addition to reducing our office footprint, these examples show how we are 5.00 further implementing energy efficiency programs: 4.00 Norway – removed use of heating oil (Scope 1 emissions) and replaced with 3.00 hydro electric generated grid power with significant cost savings; 2.00 Nigeria – purchased smaller generators to reduce oil consumption in off peak 1.00 usage periods with significant cost savings (524 metric tonnes of emissions as 0.00 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 an estimated saving); Canada – replaced an aged heating system boiler for a more efficient boiler for Energy Intensity 8.38 7.01 7.25 7.18 7.84 5.84 significant energy and cost savings; and Malaysia – moved to a new office that is expected to shift from 60% to 114% 41 occupancy (includes afterhours shift operations). Energy G4 EN3 G4 EN4 G4 EN6 G4 EN19 G4 EN29 Energy performance The Group completed a response for the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) for FY2016 which was reported in June 2017. Energy consumption The Group’s energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions were recorded to assist the Group to measure and reduce its energy consumption and reduce its greenhouse gas emissions. The data collection 350,000 and analysis stimulated energy and carbon reduction measures in the global energy efficiency program in selected offices. The Company also completed a CDP response in respect of its water use for FY2016. 300,000 Refer to the chart on this page for energy consumption trends for the years ended 30 June 2012 through to 250,000 the year ended 30 June 2016. 200,000 MWh The Group is now deregistered under the Australian National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act 2007 as 150,000 the corporate threshold was not exceeded in FY2016 due to the sale of Exmouth Power Station in July 2015. 100,000 Targets 50,000 A new energy target for FY2020 has been set at 5% reduction of total carbon dioxide equivalents (tCO2-e) against base year FY2016. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Scope 2 83,826 92,623 110,656 74,873 61,826 Our energy target for FY2016 was set at 2.5% reduction of total carbon dioxide equivalents (tCO2-e) Scope 1 192,724 195,978 145,082 171,169 81,901 against base year FY2014. As reported in our CDP response in June 2017, an emission reduction of 31% was achieved for FY2016, well above the two year target. Business downsizing and subsequent consolidation of office space have contributed to this reduction. Emissions have reduced 48% since 2012 (scope 1 and scope 2). Environmental compliance The Company did not receive any environmental fines or non-monetary sanctions for this reporting period. 42 Greenhouse gas emissions G4 EN7 G4 EN15 G4 EN16 G4 EN18 Our office footprint Emissions intensity by employee FTE Greenhouse gas emissions 3.00 Reducing our office footprint by Our total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions are derived approximately 65,000sqm has a direct from our location offices (including company owned vehicles) and 2.50 impact on emissions generated. Some fabrication yards in Canada and Norway. Indirect greenhouse gas highlights from the past year include: emissions (resulting from electricity usage and direct cooling and 2.00 § 14 office closures (partially offset by tCo2-e/FTE heating) are included in the emissions calculation. 2 new offices opened); Overall 1.50 § non-renewal of expired leases; § handing back under-utilised space; The total greenhouse gas emissions (tCO -e) are shown in the 1.00 and charts on this page. § subletting unused offices spaces. 0.50 0.00 New standards established for new 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 leases include: Emissions Intensity 2.80 2.36 2.54 2.85 2.68 2.32 § 100% occupancy target; § improved density guideline Total greenhouse gas emissions § new leases set up with flexible 120,000 Emissions intensity by revenue commitments; and § a requirement for all new leases to 18.00 take into consideration the relevant 100,000 16.00 building energy efficiency rating 14.00 tCo2-e/Thousands 80,000 tCO2-e/A$Millions 12.00 60,000 10.00 8.00 40,000 6.00 20,000 4.00 2.00 0.00 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total Emissions* 97,840 96,168 101,08 101,41 84,091 57,534 Emissions Intensity 17.00 13.06 13.25 13.77 11.63 9.63 43 *Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions. Water G4 EN8 G4 EN10 Water As predominantly an office based business, our water consumption is measured either through water bills or average water consumption assumptions. The water is source surface water harvested and distributed by local municipal water suppliers. Water intensity per employee FTE 0.025 Water consumption 800 0.020 ML/Employee FTE 600 0.015 400 0.010 ML 200 0.005 0 0.000 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2106 Water Water Intensity 0.021 0.010 0.011 0.011 0.019 0.018 752 457 444 401 587 448 Water intensity by revenue Water and sanitation efforts: 0.14 These examples show how we are implementing water programs: 0.12 § Saudi Arabia Our office building in Al Khobar has an efficient water system. It collects used water from bathrooms in a septic tank 0.10 ML/A$Millions which connects to a water treatment plant. The treated water from 0.08 that septic tank pumps to the toilet flushing system. This means that we do not use fresh water for toilets. Part of this water is also 0.06 used for the building outdoor water irrigation system; 0.04 § Colombia: Water and sanitation technology education for domestic applications with government and community groups; and 0.02 § Singapore: Water Day support, and pro bono activities in Papua 0.00 New Guinea supporting community sanitation. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2106 44 Water Intensity 0.13 0.06 0.06 0.05 0.03 0.03 Sponsoring community sanitation workshops, Colombia The WorleyParsons Foundation supported the Centre for Affordable Water and Sanitation Technology (CAWST) to deliver water and sanitation themed workshops in Colombia. WorleyParsons Canada has been working with CAWST for many years, teaching people how to access safe drinking water, sanitation and hygiene in their homes using simple, affordable technologies. The workshops demonstrated household water treatment and safe storage with participants from local Colombian civil society organizations, universities, government departments, private companies and community water suppliers. The impact from appropriate water and sanitation solutions will ensure sustainable cities and communities across Colombia. 45 “In one of the biggest CEO Statement About Us Corporate energy and resource Responsibility Materiality industry transitions for Governance, Ethics and 40 years, we are one of the few companies in our Transparency Supply Chain industry that has been Our People people . Economic Human Rights able to deliver improved Environment safety performance Our People during this period of disruption.” Community GRI 4.0 Content Index Tables Marian McLean, Group Managing Director People and Assurance, WorleyParsons 46 Our people G4 EC3 G4 DMA LA G4 LA1 G4 LA2 G4 LA4 People policies Employee benefits Our People Policy outlines commitments to the development, safety and support of our Each location within WorleyParsons has its own locally defined employee benefit schemes. people. Some of our commitments are to: Full benefits are provided to full-time and part-time employees. Support from the Employee Assistance Program and ongoing contributions to retirement funds are provided to our casual § promote a safe and healthy working environment for our people. We provide our employees depending on national regulations. people with access to protective equipment and training to perform their tasks safely; The organization benefits for full-time and part-time employees can vary by location, and § support our people to achieve their choices in work and life balance; include: § provide a work environment that is free of any form of harassment or § insurance (e.g. life, long term disability, accidental death and dismemberment); discrimination, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats; and § salary continuance insurance; § maintaing an open channel for communication where we provide a mechanism for § contributions to retirement fund; hearing, processing and settling grievances for our people. In many locations, our § health and dental coverage; people are provided access to an employee assistance program. § parental leave; and Employment § paid time off for illness. The number of employees who ceased employment during or at the end of parental leave was During the reporting period, our workforce decreased by 1,700 people to 22,800 people, measured for our Australian operations. This is aligned to the reporting requirements for the as of 30 June 2017. WorleyParsons’ voluntary employee turnover rate was 7.4% for this 2017 Workplace Gender Equality Agency report. reporting period, an improvement from 8% for the previous reporting period. Labor and management relations Top 25 most attractive employer WorleyParsons’ locations comply with local employment laws with regards to minimum notice periods. WorleyParsons was recognized as the third most attractive company in our sector and Australia's 24th most attractive employer at this year's 2017 Randstad Employee engagement Awards. Out of the 150 of Australia's largest companies surveyed, WorleyParsons was also one of the leading contenders for offering stimulating and challenging The April 2017 global engagement survey was completed by over 19,000 people across the work. organization providing a platform for our people to outline the key factors that keep them motivated as well as areas for improvement. A number of initiatives resulted, including career development, risk and innovation, and leadership and change management. 47 Health, safety and environment G4 LA5 G4 LA6 G4 PR1 G4 PR2 Workplace health and safety New emergency notification system WorleyParsons’ Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Policy An emergency notification system was implemented articulates our commitment to achieve zero harm to people and during the period which is used to contact our people assets and zero environmental incidents. It expands on during critical incidents. The mass communication WorleyParsons’ HSE values and the control framework that applies to system is designed to contact our people by email, SMS our operations. text or text to speech message on their phone, helping us account for our people and quickly identify who is “This year, we have further analyzed our most significant Safety safe, who is injured or who may need assistance serious injury and fatal risks and a set of associated The Group’s HSE Committee focus areas for FY2018 safeguards to protect personnel from these have been WorleyParsons’ unyielding stand on safety continues to deliver developed. Our HSE strategies are ensuring that our industry leading results. We are one of the few companies in our HSE leadership and dialogue at all levels of the industry that has been able to deliver improved safety performance § employees, contractors, joint venture partners and clients organization; (both in the office and in the field) are working with safety during this period of disruption. This year, for our employees we had few recordable incidents maintaining a low Total Recordable Case § Field risk management practices; at the forefront. In one of the biggest energy and resource Frequency Rate (TRCFR) and Lost Workday Case Frequency Rate § Serious injury and fatal risk safeguards; industry transitions for 40 years, we are one of the few (LWCFR) for this year. companies in our industry that has been able to deliver § Greenhouse gas emissions; and improved safety performance during this period of § OneWay™ framework disruption.” 2014 2015 2016 2017 All levels of leadership continue to drive our safety Marian McLean, Group Managing Director People TRCFR1 0.10 0.12 0.07 0.08 expectations and look for opportunities to redesign our and Assurance, WorleyParsons processes and systems to address human factor risks. LWCFR1 0.03 0.01 0.03 0.02 Employee Assistance Program (EAP) During FY2017, 11 projects achieved between 1 and 22 million hours worked without Lost Time 1 Employees only The Group uses the United States Occupational Safety and Health The EAP is an early intervention initiative that provides Injury. These were projects from energy, mining, Administration reporting requirements for TRCFR and LWCFR professional and confidential counselling. Our EAP is a food and chemicals sectors in China, Canada, For the broader coverage of employees and contractors, we service available to all employees, contractors and their Australia, Singapore and Trinidad & Tobago. demonstrated continued improvement of our TRCFR, reducing from immediate family members in many locations to help 0.17 to 0.14 during the period. them with work and personal difficulties that may arise. 48 Diversity and inclusion Diversity assessment: 96 WorleyParsons leaders (June 2017) G4 EC6 G4 LA12 TARGET: GLT members and direct reports to GLT members 66% of leaders with Covering 18 nationalities: at least one diversity flag by 44% 2020 have at least one diversity flag How we measure diversity Ethnic diversity varies where our people live and work. A few years ago, we set out to 15% define a practical, simple method to track diversity that would resonate with our people. are We have a Diversity Scorecard that includes a range of leading and lagging indicators for females Gender female tracking diversity. One of the key metrics is measuring leadership diversity using diversity flags (refer diagram to right). 16% 24% are aged speak more Tracking diversity using our ‘diversity flags’ is a method we have used for over three Age <40, >60 than one years which has proven to be a useful tool to track our progress across the Group, under 40 included in Board level reporting. Cultural (using or over language proxy measure of languages >1 60 fluently We have been tracking diversity in our leadership teams and the teams that report to a spoken fluently member of the Group Leadership Team (GLT). In FY2017 this represented 96 leaders. We are only now starting to share our method and process to broader audiences as other The diversity flag method of measuring diversity in our leadership teams global organizations seek meaningful methods to measure diversity. A diverse leader will have at least one diversity flag that we have defined as: § gender flag; where diverse is female (or self-identified as female); § age flag; below 40 or above 60 where it is desired to have a mix of ages in our “Every day, we see our organization and leadership teams; and people embrace diversity because of the inherent benefits it brings, not only to us § cultural flag; where we use a proxy measure of more than one language spoken fluently to represent those who come from culturally diverse backgrounds or have and our clients and customers, but to lived and worked across cultures. society as a whole. Diversity, not only of thought, but of the people who bring such We also track the number of nationalities and in-country leaders as part of our Diversity creativity and new ways of thinking, is core Scorecard. to innovation and the growth of our business.” 49 Andrew Wood, CEO, WorleyParsons 2020 targets Diversity and inclusion G4 LA12 WOMEN EMPLOYEES1 1 30% WOMEN SENIOR EXECUTIVES2 Diversity and inclusion highlights The Group undertook various diversity and inclusion activities in FY2017: § continued to implement the Diversity and Inclusion Expectations and support for 2 25% locations to achieve visible traction for local priorities with a leadership statement WOMEN NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS and videos; § continued the global Diversity and Inclusion Working Group champion forums to provide guidance and support for diversity and inclusion initiatives and promote engagement with local networks; 3 1 2 This includes both the Group’s employees and contractors. Senior executives comprise all employees and contractors at the CEO-1, CEO-2, 3 § developed and maintained an internal diversity scorecard to monitor and review CEO-3 levels. progress across the expectations for discussion and action by leaders; § cascaded delivery of ‘Check Yourself, Bias Awareness’ workshops and developedg Global diversity campaign for International Women’s Day 2017 diversity-related training for WorleyParsons Academy informal discussions targeted at middle management across a number of offices; A global campaign was held for International Women’s Day 2017 where our § launched a global ‘Be Bold for Change’ campaign for International Women’s Day people were invited to participate in a local challenge to 'Be Bold for Change'. 2017, which engaged 890 of our people across 20 countries and 40 locations; Participants were invited to submit a photo of their local challenges and initiatives. The competition attracted a large response of inspiring and powerful § addressed gender pay gaps through annual pay reviews and conducted analysis of photos from 28 locations. global gender pay gaps; § supported diversity and Women of WorleyParsons networks across 20 regions, Initiatives included yoga challenges, panel discussions, walking and fitness prompting local activities and progress; and challenges, diversity and inclusion themed events, raising of funds for local § offered, in the context of the UN World Day for Cultural Diversity, practical training causes and other team activities. Over 3,000 people in our organization shared to all employees and managers via CultureWizard, providing feedback across their support for this campaign via internal newsfeeds. cultural contexts. 50 Diversity and inclusion G4 LA12 Women are key to future success of the operations in Saudi Arabia Diversity and equal opportunity policy With strong female designers and engineers being key to the success of our operations in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the location has invested in the capabilities of women. The efforts of the People team in WorleyParsons Saudi Arabia to attract new female talent to the location WorleyParsons believes in the inherent benefits of a diverse and inclusive workplace, to was successful with the arrival of 41 new female engineering designers. The new recruits maximize our business results and attract, recruit, engage and retain a talented started their induction program with the WorleyParsons Academy in November 2016. The workforce. new recruits represent a mix of graduates from Saudi universities such as Prince Mohammad Fahd University in the Eastern province of Saudi Arabia as well as USA, UK and Canadian We are committed to providing an environment free of discrimination and bias, where universities, and cover an even more diverse range of disciplines including computer science, everyone has an opportunity to fully participate in creating business success and where chemical engineering, architecture, interior design as well as CAD. each person is valued, respected and supported for his or her different attributes, skills and experience. 1 Our Malaysian 3 location has our highest participation In FY2017 we of female employees hired 1,283 at 67%. Central Asia women to our has 44% and China has various 41%. locations. 21 female engineers attend their induction at the 2 4 Leadership WorleyParsons Academy in Saudi Arabia. Our % of female teams senior executives increased increased from their 22% to 26% over diversity the last year. flags to 44%. 51 Diversity and inclusion G4 LA12 G4 LA13 Diversity and inclusion expectations Celebrating cultural differences WorleyParsons’ commitment to diversity and inclusion is supported by the Diversity and Inclusion To celebrate the ethnic diversity of our people and our customers, a number Expectations that apply to all our people, in all our locations, contracts and projects. The Diversity and of WorleyParsons’ offices organized cultural celebrations. Inclusion Expectations are: One customer in Los Angeles, was keen to celebrate their Arabian culture § our diverse and inclusive workplace is representative of the countries and communities in which and hosted one of the cultural awareness days providing home cooked we operate; Arabian dishes and a coffee bar, and gave a presentation about their culture § our recruitment and promotion practices are transparent, consistent and fair; as well as demonstrations of local customs. Over 300 people attended the event. § we are committed to equal access to and equivalent remuneration parameters for roles of comparable value at all levels of our organization; In New Zealand, our people volunteered to share their culturally rich history § our workplaces promote flexible work practices to support the needs and responsibilities of our in a series of profile pieces with 10 different countries celebrated over three people; months. § we are all accountable and engaged to create an inclusive work environment where individual difference is understood, respected and fully valued; and In Kazakhstan, WorleyParsons participated in annual Nauryz celebrations with videos of the event shared on Yammer for all our employees. § we are a diversity and inclusion leader in our industry and community. The Diversity and Inclusion Expectations provide the framework for our goal to develop and maintain a These events have provided a channel for relationship building among diverse and inclusive workplace, and the implementation of all diversity-related initiatives and WorleyParsons teams and customers. guidelines within our businesses. All of our leaders are accountable to monitor the effectiveness of the Further cultural awareness events are Diversity and Inclusion Expectations and provide visible leadership for our Diversity and Inclusion scheduled with volunteers from a Policy. diverse range of cultural backgrounds. Closing gender pay gaps “Jwajalapa (Hello) I was born in Kathmandu, Nepal and Over the past two years, our gender brought up in Thailand and New Zealand. My family belongs to the Newar ethnic group of Nepal. The greeting pay gap between male and female above is in Newari which is one of the 123 languages remuneration has reduced spoken in Nepal. I enjoyed being able to celebrate my approximately 10% (varying by office). heritage as part of New Zealand’s Celebrating Cultural A focus on gender analysis in the Diversity Series.” Above: Arabian culture day in Los annual pay review process has Angeles Ijma Pradhan, Structural Engineer, WorleyParsons contributed to the positive result. New Zealand 52 Left: Nauryz celebrations in Kazakhstan Diversity and inclusion G4 10 G4 LA12 Flexible work WorleyParsons is committed to considering, developing and implementing flexible work practices that are practical for both the organization and the individual, supporting employees to balance their work and personal life at different stages of their life. Our Flexible Work Campaign was launched in 2014. We have seen practical, everyday examples from across the globe that demonstrate workplace flexibility to assist our employees balance their study, family and carer responsibilities, as well as other personal interests outside the workplace. Remote working, part-time work arrangements, compressed working weeks and flexible leave arrangements are just some of the formal and informal arrangements in place. Workplace flexibility is valued highly by our employees, as measured in the recent employee engagement survey (April 2017). Note: This data was derived from available data in our Global Business System and represents ~70% of our people. 69% of our employees believe that WorleyParsons provides sufficient flexibility to help them balance the demands of their work and personal life (slightly higher than the Global Professional Services benchmark of 67%). “Flexibility in the WorleyParsons Academy means achieving career Workforce profile by employment status advancement and skills improvement while still balancing worktraining and family. We use technology that enables people from anywhere in the world to participate in the programs through an online portal accessible outside the WorleyParsons’ network. With Full-time, 72% access given to all materials; a mix of readings, videos, questionnaires and online virtual classes.” Heather (USA) WorleyParsons Canada was named in the Forbes top 100 employers in Part-time, 3% “I have moved to a four day working week so I can have a day a week for my Canada for 2017. 8,000 employees of community volunteering commitments.” Canada's largest employers were Susannah (UK) surveyed anonymously to determine Agency Contractor, the rankings. “In consultation with my management, I worked part-time and was able to complete a 11% post-graduate masters of business degree at full-time study speed. The one day a WorleyParsons was also in the top 5 week was leave without pay and the study was at my own expense; but it was a win within its industry, representing yet Direct for me to get it completed quickly and a win for the Company in terms of the further evidence of our commitment Contractor, 7% and support to our people. 53 Casual, 7% knowledge and experiences I brought back with me to the workplace.“ John (Canada) Talent development G4 LA10 G4 LA11 Talent management global talent pool Knowledge building of our employees The intent of the Global Delivery Center (GDC) is to leverage our global talent pool for cost WorleyParsons has a talent management and development program that provides internal effective project delivery services. The resulting transfer of work and activities into the technical and non-technical training resources for our people. We offer a number of blended GDC drives a greater level of standardization in the way we operate by simplifying our learning programs and activities for training and development through the WorleyParsons processes, driving consistent use of standard systems and configurations. It also reflects Academy including instructor-led and virtual options for local in-country talent development the changing attitudes of our customers and their willingness to undertake significant programs. Capabilities are enhanced in leadership, technical, commercial acumen, graduate proportions of their engineering and design work in remote sites. development and WorleyParsons’ expectations related to the Code of Conduct and OneWay™ integrity management framework. Performance reviews Examples of our key talent management and development programs are: WorleyParsons is committed to identifying, developing and retaining our talent. Using our global performance review tool, PeopleSuccess, managers and their teams hold § Graduate Development Program (GDP) The GDP is a holistic approach to building regular discussions throughout the year to establish performance criteria, and give excellence in early-career technical and managerial skills while focusing on professional performance feedback. Key to this tool's success is the discussion of employees’ development. The GDP components focus on our people’s personal strengths and development action plans. professional requirements – tailoring our young professionals to crossregional drivers, cultural factors and other considerations to match their individual expertise and ambitions; and § Transformation Leadership Learning (TLL) Our TLL program has been a well-received addition to our leadership development initiatives. As a staged program involving 360 degree feedback, working groups, networking and mentoring, it focuses on leaders who have a direct impact on improving business performance through effective leadership. Some participants are high performers identified as potential successors to take on influential leadership roles, offering an opportunity to set future leaders up for success. The WorleyParsons Academy in Saudi Arabia was launched in 2017, providing a center for owners, government entities, educational institutions, suppliers and contractors to achieve their skills in project delivery and business management. Each year, the Academy hosts international experts to provide insight for future leaders in the fields of people leadership, delivering value and winning work. 54 Talent development G4 LA9 G4 LA10 Developing local expertise WorleyParsons Academy WorleyParsons is committed to the recruitment, training and development of local The WorleyParsons Academy, a global learning environment with a Houston based campus, professional employees who provide our customers with sustainable, profitable provides learning solutions that develop and enhance our people’s core workplace skills and solutions grown on a foundation of strong local knowledge and infrastructure. capabilities. The Academy is organized into three schools: WorleyParsons’ in-country employment and development programs are based on two § Leading People learning that addresses business management and leadership skills; fundamentals: focused selective recruitment of local people who demonstrate a keen interest in developing their career; and establishment and management of formal § Winning Work learning that supports business development, sales and marketing skills; training programs for local people at all levels throughout the company. and § Delivering Value learning that focuses on the development of capability to more This year’s focus was on developing local expertise in Kazakhstan, Kenya, Oman, Saudi effectively deliver projects with predictable outcomes. Arabia, Australia and Canada. Within each of the schools, our people have access to online learning to information on formal Developing local expertise and indigenous programs: Page 23 and learning courses. In FY2017, over 21,000 employees accessed over 55,800 hours of our online training material in our online academy. page 33 offer some more examples. Global Sales and Marketing (GSM) Future Leaders 141 applicants across 19 locations pitched their talents in the selection process for the Future Leaders program. Each applicant had to submit a short video answering one of the four questions below: § what would you do to wow our customers? § what would you do to frighten our competitors? § what would you do to energize and excite our organization? § what one thing, if we did it today, would be a game changer for our industry? The final shortlisted applicants were assessed on four criteria: § creativity and innovation in problem-solving; § energy and passion; § willingness to challenge and inquire; and § communication and collaboration. 14 successful candidates were selected. Their mission is to inject fresh new thinking to address the goals of the GSM and the rest of the organization in helping drive revenue and growth. 55 Improving beach safety with pro bono project management services, New Zealand Pro bono skilled services were provided in the design and construction of a life guard tower in New Zealand. The design allowed for the tower to remain behind the erosion line but also maintain visibility across the 4km of beach. The local community project was delivered utilizing our HSE management framework, supplier and contractor pre-qualifications and civil engineering design capabilities from outside New Zealand. The life-saving team is now able to better monitor the health and safety of the public using the beach. The tower is built considering the effects of the climate (coastal weather) and the construction was completed with zero impact to the local flora and fauna. The sustainable design and construction materials of the tower mean it has long term benefits and reduced maintenance costs to the local community. 56 CEO Statement About Us “The Company fulfils its Corporate corporate responsibilities across all the parts of the Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency world where we do Supply Chain business. We ensure that our programs are as Community . Economic Human Rights effective and efficient as possible in delivering value Environment Our People Community to the communities we GRI 4.0 Content Index support.” Tables John Grill, Chairman and Non-Executive Director, WorleyParsons 57 Community G4 SO1 Community policy Key community outcomes Our Corporate Responsibility Policy and guidance to our local leadership teams are In addition to supporting our customers on their sustainability programs through our project adopted by committees and champions. Selected corporate responsibility activities are delivery and consulting services, the Group undertook various corporate responsibility expected to align to our company values and beliefs, strategic goals and commitments. It activities across our operations in FY2017, which included: includes guidance in the selection of the type of community projects that the company § participating directly in and reporting over 350 corporate responsibility activities across will pursue. 22 countries, involving over 6,800 Group personnel; In general, the recommended inclusions for the § supporting local communities through the network of corporate responsibility champions selection of community projects are: across 65 offices as well as ongoing participation in the Group’s own programs such as DeltaAfrik Foundation in Nigeria and UnitedWay program in North America; § a direct impact or benefit to the communities where WorleyParsons has a permanent § launching a tool to quickly and easily connect volunteering opportunities with our office or project site; employees; § measurable benefits and results and explicit § reducing carbon emissions across a number of offices through office consolidation, LED timeline of commitment; and lighting replacement, behavioral change programs, encouraging the use of public transport, flexible work options from home, recycling and smart printing; § an opportunity for our people to get involved through volunteered hours or donations. § demonstrating responsible attitudes to water and sanitation including a recognized stewardship program in Singapore and rainwater recycling in South Africa; § participating in and contributing to various workshops and forums on diversity, anticorruption, indigenous issues, ethical supply chain and human rights issues; and § supporting local employment and enterprise development initiatives. Blood Donations in Abu Dhabi Abu Dhabi Blood Bank organized a ceremony honoring their valuable donors, leading establishments and companies on 14 June 2017, World Blood Donor Day. Abu Dhabi Blood Bank acknowledged the efforts of WorleyParsons and during the ceremony WorleyParsons received an award from the blood bank. 58 Our corporate responsibility journey to date G4 SO2 WorleyParsons measures and focuses on those areas that are important to the long term success of its business and are desirable to all of its stakeholders. Contributions by WorleyParsons’ people and operations are measured in terms of Australian dollar contributions and volunteer time contributions. There were no confirmed incidents related to potential or actual negative impacts on local communities for this reporting period. Cumulative contributions and volunteering hours Outstanding Workplace 40,000 53,500 72,500 92,500 121,500 133,000 Campaign hrs $6.5M hrs $10.7M hrs $15.6M hrs $19.5M hrs hrs $22M $23.2M WorleyParsons was awarded with the 2016 United Way Campaign Outstanding Workplace Campaign Award for the Engineering Sector. For this award, we were recognized for 2012 2013 2014 2015 July 2016 2017 our strong management support, December 2012 August 2013 1st year reporting on June increase in employee involvement, Release of the Launch of Group-wide energy 2017 and gender diversity and taking fresh and innovative Supply Chain Code WorleyParsons November 2014 targets and internal Fulfilment of the Group’s 5th year approaches to our United Way of Conduct Foundation Global roll out of diversity targets obligations as a campaign. Through joint collaboration Energy Efficiency signatory to the UN in supporting the local community, 2012 Program 2016 Global Compact our Calgary and Edmonton offices collectively raised over $300,000 for December October July June local agencies and programs. January 2013 November 2011 October Launch of Human Launch of Rights Policy 2013 Corporate Release of July Responsibility Australia 2015 Statement Indigenous Participation Global launch of November 2016 Policies D&I Program with Virtual CR and D&I expectations, active network of leadership videos, 150 champions new training driving local packages activities 59 Social impact G4 SO1 “In my role as an analyst of corporate responsibility data, I review, assess and calculate the contributions and hours we have volunteered towards communities. The numbers by themselves are impressive but delving deeper into the activities you begin to understand the real value in the initiatives that our team of Corporate Responsibility and Diversity Champions In FY2017, over 6,800 Group personnel participated in over 350 contribute internally and externally. An individual event or initiative can involve hundreds, corporate responsibility activities across 22 countries. sometimes thousands, of employees, directly affecting positive engagement and our sense of global unity. Over 90% of our operations have been involved in implementing local community Our leadership teams and volunteer corporate responsibility programs improving engagement of our staff.” champions select and deliver local initiatives. Selection criteria encourages maximizing sustained positive social impact as well as Paul Morris, Corporate Responsibility Manager/Analyst, WorleyParsons business benefits such as employee engagement and skills development.. ” Over 20 years, more than ” Very Special Kids cares for ” The Big Cheese III event is the largest USD$1.5 million has been donated children with life-threatening food packing volunteer event by any directly to the Cystic Fibrosis conditions by providing a children's organization in the US NE area. This event Foundation, enabling multiple hospice and professional family spanned 2 days with 1,000 volunteers to drugs to be developed including support services that helps more assemble 500,000 macaroni and cheese two in the last five years” (USA) than 900 families across Victoria” meals to help fight hunger within our community.” (USA) COMPANY (Australia) SUPPORTED ” When 350 visually impaired children were affected by monsoon rains, INPUTS ACTIVITIES SOCIAL IMPACT (OUTPUT) FY2017 WorleyParsons supported flood relief efforts through their partnership with • Local Corporate Responsibility Champions the Denvar Foundation” (India) • Long term partnerships with not-for-profit • ~15,000 volunteer hours • Local Diversity and Inclusion Champions • Contributions from local operations organisations • ~ $1.6 million contributed • Contributions from personnel • Scholarships, mentoring and educational event • ~450 units of blood donated ” Our employees donated new or ~ 9500 cans of food donated gently used jackets, shoes, sweaters, • Contributions from fund raising activities sponsorships • pants, linens, scarves, gloves, • Targeted financial support from the • Disaster recovery and humanitarian relief • ~10 scholarships supported across 5 undergarments, blankets, and towels WorleyParsons Foundation • Recycling and waste reduction countries to help Star of Hope. On any given day, • Pro bono skilled volunteering time plus more… there are approximately 1,000 • Energy efficiency and emission reductions • • Unpaid volunteering time homeless men, women and children • Paid volunteering time • Water, sanitation and hygiene being helped at their centers. The • Donations of food, clothing, blood, IT equipment, • Building upgrades and refurbishments shelter helps those less advantaged toys and stationary • Enterprise development and ethical supply chain get back out into the working world, and to eventually become • Indigenous and native employment and training rehabilitated and self-sufficient. ” • Health, wellbeing and medical support (USA) • Safety workshops and road safety • Poverty and hunger support ” WorleyParsons and Advisian sponsor a hot meal for the ” Children’s Hospital Los Angeles treats clients of the Calgary Drop in and Rehabilitation centre. over 350,000 children every year. 60 The Centre serves approximately 3500 meals daily, These children require over 2,000 units houses approximately 1000 people per night” (Canada) of blood each month to successfully complete their treatments” (USA) WorleyParsons Foundation G4 SO1 In 2013 WorleyParsons established the WorleyParsons Foundation Council which Pollinate Energy Fellowship provides governance to the WorleyParsons Foundation. The WorleyParsons Foundation Many of our people want to make a social impact. Opportunities for skilled volunteering Council comprises a member from the Group Leadership Team, the business line leaders have been made available with Pollinate Energy, a not-for-profit social business which and a corporate responsibility community champion. The WorleyParsons Foundation through its network of micro distributors, supplies solar powered home lighting Council meets every quarter to assess new WorleyParsons Foundation funding systems to India’s poor living without electricity. The aim of the Pollinate Energy proposals, reviews progress of funded projects and nominates activities for awards. Fellowship is to bring together professionals with diverse skill-sets, ideas and perspectives to resolve challenging hurdles. The WorleyParsons Foundation objectives are to: The program runs in India, delivering sustainable micro-financed renewable energy § support the execution of high impact strategic community projects; solutions. A significant number of applications were received from our passionate § become a vehicle for direct corporate investment, fundraising and volunteering; volunteers across 20 countries of operation in a competitive selection process. The 15 successful candidates have shared their journeys via their photo blogs on our internal § expand opportunities for Group personnel to be directly or indirectly involved in communications channels contributing to broader employee engagement. Foundation activities; and § raise awareness of WorleyParsons’ corporate responsibility credentials with its stakeholders. The WorleyParsons Foundation recognizes and 373 21 acknowledges employees for their personal contribution in individuals countries activities that help promote our key corporate responsibility themes. 153 5th Annual activities Foundation Awards 61 WorleyParsons Foundation G4 SO1 The Foundation continues to grow with nine projects granted funding in FY2017: § expanding accommodation at Jeevadaan HIV/AIDS housing shelter for abandoned women and children, India; § supporting water and sanitation workshops with the Centre of Affordable Waste and Sanitation Technology, Colombia; § collaborating with the Red Cross for disaster recovery and sanitation projects, the Philippines; § sponsoring 15 WorleyParsons employees to attend the Pollinate Energy Fellowship Program, India; School refurbishment before and after as § contributing towards mine clearing activities with the Mines Advisory Group, Angola; part of Project VISHWAS § supporting the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation via the 20th Annual Breath of Life Golf Tournament, Houston; § developing and growing local and indigenous businesses in our Enterprise Development Program, South Africa; Australian Red Cross Community Partner § supporting STEM engagement in high schools through Power of Engineering across Australia and other selected offices; WorleyParsons retained the status of a National Community Partner with § supporting Five Acres children's programs and facilities in the Los Angeles areas, Australian Red Cross. This collaboration demonstrates commitment to USA ; and our communities and support for skilled volunteering. It also showcases § partnering with World Vision and Asia P3 Hub to improve sanitation, Papua New our global reach of knowledge, and should position WorleyParsons as an Guinea. industry leader among our peers in large-scale pro bono services, focusing on disaster recovery. A further two projects continued to progress during FY2017: § selection and provision of Kangaroo Mother Care support chairs for the National Hospital, Timor Leste; and § installation of water facilities and solar power and refurbishment of school facilities across a number of villages, India. 62 Supporting our 63 communities, worldwide. CEO Statement About Us “The value of the Corporate sustainability reporting process is that it ensures Responsibility Materiality Governance, Ethics and Transparency organizations consider their impacts on these GRI 4.0 Content Supply Chain sustainability issues, and . Economic Index Tables Human Rights enables them to be transparent about the Environment Our People Community risks and opportunities GRI 4.0 Content Index they face.“ Tables GRI website – Importance of Trust 64 GRI 4.0 content index GRIIndicators Reporting Level Included, Partially included, Not included, Not applicable DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision Chief Executive Included G4-10 Size of the organization workforce About us Partially G4-21 Report the aspect boundary outside the Mapping corporate Included maker of the organization Officer statement included organization for each material aspect responsibility G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and Annual Report Included Diversity and material issues to opportunities inclusion the S... Corporate G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any restatements Not applicable Governance WGEA Report of information provided in previous reports, Statement G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by Information and the reasons for such restatements collective bargaining agreements unavailable G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting Corporate Included ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-12 Organization supply chain Supply Chain Included periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries responsibility G4-3 Name of the organization About us Included materiality G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting About us Included G4-4 Primary brands, products and/or services About us Included period regarding organization size, STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters About us Included structure, ownership, or its supply chain Annual Report G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Corporate Included organization responsibility G4-6 Number of countries where the About us Included Corporate materiality organization operates, and name of procurement and G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of Corporate Included countries where either the organization has supplier stakeholders responsibility significant operations or that are assessment materiality specifically relevant to the sustainability G4-14 Organization precautionary approach or Corporate Included G4-26 Organization approach to stakeholder Corporate Included topics covered in the report principle Governance engagement, including frequency of responsibility G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form About us Included Statement engagement materiality G4-15 Externally developed economic, Commitments, Included G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been Corporate Included G4-8 Markets served (including geographic Annual Report Included environmental and social charters, endorsements & raise through stakeholder engagement responsibility breakdown, sectors served, and types of principles, or other initiatives to which the memberships materiality matrix customers and beneficiaries) organization subscribes or which it G4-9 Scale of the organization About us Included REPORT PROFILE endorses G4-16 Membership of associations (such as Commitments, Included G4-28 Reporting period (e.g. fiscal/calendar year) About this report Included Economic industry associations) and national or endorsements & for information provided sustainability international advocacy organizations memberships G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) About this report Included IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-30 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial) About this report Included Annual Report G4-17 List of all entities included in the Annual Report Included G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the Keep in touch Included organization’s consolidated financial report or its contents statements or equivalent documents G4-32 Table identifying the table of the Standard About this report Included G4-18 Process for defining report content and the Corporate Included Disclosures in the report aspect boundaries responsibility GRI 4.0 Content materiality Index Tables G4-19 List of all material aspects in the process for Corporate Included G4-33 External assurance for report About this report Included defining report content responsibility materiality matrix G4-20 Report the aspect boundary within the Mapping corporate Included organization for each material aspect responsibility material issues to the S... 65 GRI 4.0 content index GRIIndicators Reporting Level Included, Partially included, Not included, Not applicable DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, including Governance Included G4-44 Processes for evaluation of the highest Corporate Included G4-53 Stakeholders’ views sought and taken into Annual Report Included committees governance body’s performance with respect Governance account regarding remuneration, including the G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, Governance Included to governance of economic, environmental and Statement results of votes on remuneration policies and environmental and social topics from the highest social topics proposals, if applicable governance body to senior executives and other G4-45 Highest governance body’s role in the Corporate Included G4-54 Ratio of annual total compensation for the WGEA Report Partially employees identification and management of Governance organization’s highest-paid individual in each included G4-36 Appointment of executive-level position or Governance Included economic, environmental and social impact, Statement country of significant operations to the median positions with responsibility for economic, risks and opportunities annual total compensation for all employees environmental and social topics and whether post (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the holders report directly to the highest governance G4-46 Highest governance body’s role in Corporate Included reviewing the effectiveness of the Governance same country body G4-37 Consultation process between stakeholders and Governance Included organization’s Statement G4-55 Ratio of percentage increase in annual total Information the highest governance body on economic, risk management processes for compensation for the organization’s highestunavailable environmental and social topics economic, environmental and social paid individual in each country of significant G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and Corporate Included topics operations to the median percentage increase its committees Governance G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s Corporate Included in annual total compensation for all employees Statement review of economic, environmental and Governance (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the social impacts, risks and opportunities Statement same country G4-39 Indicate whether Chair of the highest governance Corporate Included G4-48 Highest committee or position that About this report Included ETHICS AND INTEGRITY body is also an executive officer Governance formally reviews and approves the G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and Ethics Included Statement organization’s sustainability report and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and ensures that all material aspects are codes of ethics G4-40 Nomination and selection process for the highest Corporate Included covered governance body and its committees and the Governance G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns Transparency Included G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking Ethics Included criteria used for nominating and selecting highest Statement to the highest governance body advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and governance body members matters related to organizational integrity, such G4-50 Nature and total number of critical concerns Corporate Partially as helplines or advice lines G4-41 Processes for highest governance body to ensure Corporate Included that were communicated to the highest Governance included conflicts of interest are avoided and managed Governance G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting Ethics Included governance body and the mechanism(s) used to Statement Statement concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, address and resolve them G4-42 Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ Corporate Included and matters related to organizational integrity, roles in the development, approval, and updating of Governance G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest Annual Report Included such as escalation through line management, the organization’s purpose, value or mission Statement governance body and senior executives and whistle blowing mechanisms or hotlines statements, strategies, policies, and goals related performance criteria in the remuneration policy to economic, environmental and social impacts related to the highest governance body’s and G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance the Corporate Included senior executives’ economic, environmental and highest governance body’s collective knowledge of Governance social objectives economic, environmental and social topics Statement G4-52 Process for determining remuneration Annual Report Included 66 GRI 4.0 content index GRIIndicators Reporting Level Included, Partially included, Not included, Not applicable DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL ECONOMIC LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Training and Education Community Our People G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee Talent Partially by gender, and by employee category development included G4-DMA EC Material aspects and how the organization Economic Included G4-DMA LA Material aspects and how the Our people Included manages ‘Economic Performance’ sustainability organization manages Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Ethics G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong Talent Partially Economic Performance learning that support the continued development included Employment G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and Economic Included employability of employees and assist them in distributed sustainability G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires Our people Partially managing career endings and employee turnover by age group, gender, included and region G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular Talent Partially Annual Report performance and career development reviews, development included G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Economic Included G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that Our people Included by gender and by employee category opportunities for the organization's activities sustainability are not provided to temporary or part-time due to climate change employees, by significant locations of operation Diversity and Equal Opportunity Annual Report G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and Diversity and Partially G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates WGEA Report Partially G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit Our people Included breakdown of employees per category according inclusion included after parental leave by gender available plan obligations to gender, age group, minority group G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government Annual Report Included Labor/Management Relations membership, and other indicators of diversity Diversity and G4-LA4 Minimum notice period regarding operational Our people Partially inclusion Market Presence changes including whether these are specified included Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage compared to Information in collective agreements G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by Diversity and Partially local minimum wage at significant locations of unavailable Occupational Health and Safety employee category, by significant locations of inclusion included operation operation G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in Health, safety Included G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from Diversity and Partially the local community at significant locations of inclusion included formal joint management-worker health and and environment Supplier Practices and Labor Practices safety committees that help monitor and advice G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were Supplier selection Included operation on occupational health and safety programs screened using labor practices criteria Indirect Economic Impacts G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational Health, safety Partially G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative Supplier selection Included G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure Information diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total and environment included impacts for labor practices in the supply chain investments and services supported unavailable number of work-related fatalities, by region and and actions taken G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including Tax contributions Included by gender the extent of impacts G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk Information Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms of diseases related to their occupation unavailable G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices Ethics Partially Procurement Practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal included G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in Information G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at Supplier selection Partially grievance mechanisms formal agreements with trade unions unavailable significant locations of operation included 67 GRI 4.0 content index GRIIndicators Reporting Level Included, Partially included, Not included, Not applicable DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL HUMAN RIGHTS Security Practices Local Communities Human Rights G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Human rights Included G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented Community Included organization's policies or procedures concerning local community engagement, impact G4-DMA HR Material aspects and how the organization Human rights Included aspects of human rights that are relevant to assessments, and development programs Social impact manages ‘Human Rights’ operations Investment Indigenous Rights G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual or potential Our corporate Included G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant Human rights Partially negative impacts on local communities responsibility G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving Human rights Included journey to date investment agreements and contracts that included rights of Indigenous people and actions taken include human rights clauses or that underwent Human rights in the Anti-Corruption human rights screening supply chain Assessment G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations Governance Included G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights Human rights Partially G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that Human rights Included assessed for risk related to corruption and the policies or procedures concerning aspects of included have been subject to human rights reviews or significant risks identified human rights that are relevant to operations, Ethics impact assessments G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption Ethics Included including the percentage of employees trained policies and procedures Supplier Human Rights Assessment Non-Discrimination G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were Human rights in Included G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions Ethics Included G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Human rights Included screened using human rights criteria the supply chain taken actions taken Supplier Human Rights Assessment Public Policy Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human Information G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country Ethics Included G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the Human rights Included and recipient/beneficiary rights impacts in the supply chain and actions unavailable right to exercise freedom of association and taken Anti-Competitive Behavior collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for antiEthics Included competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights Confidentiality Child Labor impacts filed, addressed and resolved through constraints practices and their outcomes G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having Human rights Included formal grievance mechanisms Compliance significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective SOCIETY G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total Ethics Included abolition of child labor number of non-monetary sanctions for nonFair Operating Practices and Supply Chain compliance with laws and regulations Forced or Compulsory Labor G4-DMA SO Material aspects and how the organization Supply chain Included manages 'Fair Operating Practices and Supply Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having Human rights Included significant risk for incidents of forced or Chain' G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were Ethics Included compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to screened using criteria for impacts on society the elimination of forced or compulsory labor 68 GRI 4.0 content index GRIIndicators Reporting Level Included, Partially included, Not included, Not applicable DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Water Effluents and Waste G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative Supplier selection Included G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Water Included G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and Information impacts on society in the supply chain and destination unavailable G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by Not applicable actions taken withdrawal of water G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Information Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled Water Partially method unavailable G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society Supplier selection Included and reused included G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Not applicable field, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Biodiversity G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or Information G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in,or Not applicable treated waste deemed hazardous under the unavailable ENVIRONMENTAL adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and Environment biodiversity value outside protected areas VIII, and percentage of transported waste G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, Not applicable shipped internationally G4-DMA EN Material aspects and how the organization Environment Included manages 'Environment' products, and services on biodiversity in protected G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity Information areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside value of water bodies and related habitats unavailable Materials protected areas significantly affected by the reporting G4-EN1 Material used by weight or volume Not applicable organization's discharges of water and runoff G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored Not applicable G4-EN14 Totalnumber ofspecies and national conservation list Not applicable Products and Services G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Environment Partially input materials included species with habitats inareas affected by operations, G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental Climate change Included bylevel ofextinction risk impacts of products and services Energy Renewable G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Greenhouse Gas Included G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Energy Included energy Emissions G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization Energy Included G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Greenhouse Gas Included G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their Not applicable G4-EN5 Energy intensity Energy Included Emissions packaging materials that are reclaimed by G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Energy Included G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Information category (Scope 3) unavailable G4-EN7 Reduction in energy requirements of products Greenhouse gas Included Compliance and services emissions G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Greenhouse Included G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total Energy Included Gas number of non-monetary sanctions for Emissions non-compliance with environmental laws and G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Energy Included regulations G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Not applicable Transport G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Not applicable G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of Energy Partially transporting products and other goods included and materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce 69 GRI 4.0 content index GRIIndicators Reporting Level Included, Partially included, Not included, Not applicable DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL Overall PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Product and Service Labeling G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures Included Not applicable G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Not applicable and investments by type regulations and voluntary codes concerning G4-DMA PR Material aspects and how the organization Governance Partially product and service information and labeling, by G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were Supplier selection Included manages 'Product Responsibility' included type of outcomes screened using environmental criteria Customer Health and Safety G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer Confidentiality G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative Supplier selection Included G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service Health, safety and Partially satisfaction constraints environmental impacts in the supply chain and categories for which health and safety impacts environment included actions taken are assessed for improvement Environmental Grievance Mechanisms Sale of banned or disputed products G4-PR6 Not applicable G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental Confidentiality impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through constraints G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance Health, safety and Partially formal grievance mechanisms with regulations and voluntary codes concerning environment included Total number of incidents of non-compliance Confidentiality the health and safety impacts of products and G4-PR7 with regulations and voluntary codes constraints services during their life cycle, by type of concerning marketing communications, outcomes including advertising, promotion, and Product and Service Labeling sponsorship by type of outcomes G4-PR3 Type of product and service information Not applicable required by the organization’s procedures for G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints Confidentiality product and service information and labeling, regarding breaches of customer privacy and constraints and percentage of significant product and losses of customer data service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for Confidentiality non-compliance with laws and regulations constraints concerning the provision and use of products and services 70 CEO Statement About Us Corporate Keep in touch Responsibility We welcome your feedback and suggestions. Materiality Visit us online Please email Marni Oaten, Corporate Governance, annualreport2017.worleyparsons.com Responsibility Director: Ethics and corporate.responsibility@worleyparsons.com Transparency to view our 2017 results documents and information on our business WorleyParsons Limited Supply Chain operations. Level 12 333 Collins Street Economic Melbourne VIC 3000 Australia www.worleyparsons.com Human Rights Stay up to date Environment w w w.worleyparsons.com www.linkedin.com/company/worleyparsons Our People: Labor Our corporate website has key information about our business, www.facebook.com/worleyparsons/ Practices and operations, investors, media, sustainability, careers and suppliers. Decent Work twitter.com/worleyparsons Community www.youtube.com/user/worleyparsonscareers GRI 4.0 Content Index Tables 71
