Sustainability Report 2016 The Bank in brief Handelsbanken is a full-service bank for both private and corporate customers. The Bank has a nationwide branch network in Sweden, the UK, Denmark, Finland, Norway and the Netherlands. The Bank regards these countries as its home markets. Handelsbanken was founded in 1871 and has operations in more than 20 countries. For a long time, More than 800 Handelsbanken has had much lower loan losses than branches in our six home markets. peer banks. 40 are women. % of managers in the Group 145 years of availability. More satisfied Handelsbanken arranged green customers than the sector average in all of our six bonds for seven players during the year. home markets. Source: SKI/EPSI. Handelsbanken Group 2016 2015 Handelsbanken Group 2016 2015 Average number of employees 11,759 11,819 Profit before loan losses, SEK m 22,325 22,065 in Sweden 7,046 7,263 Net loan losses, SEK m -1,724 -1,597 in other home markets 4,326 4,144 Operating profit, SEK m 20,633 20,475 outside home markets 387 412 Return on equity for total operations 13.1% 13.5% Loan loss ratio 0.09% 0.09% Contents SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The group chief executive’s comments 2 The Bank’s concept and working methods 4 Material sustainability topics 6 The Bank and its customers 8 The Bank’s role in the community 13 The Bank’s indirect impact 20 The Bank as employer 26 The Bank’s business culture 32 of the volume of 31 % mutual funds under the Bank’s own management have special The Bank as an investment SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Our view of sustainability 35 39 Organisation for sustainability 39 sustainability criteria and Stakeholder dialogue 39 are known as Criteria funds. Summary of corporate governance 41 Facts: Financial aspects 41 Facts: Employees 43 Almost two thirds of Facts: Business ethics 44 Facts: Modern Slavery Act Statement 45 the Bank’s own equity Facts: Equator Principles 46 funds report their Facts: Environment Initiatives, awards, surveys and 46 carbon footprint. sustainability indexes 48 Content and restrictions 52 Global Reporting Initiative index 53 Auditor’s report 56 45 years About this report This report describes how Handelsbanken works with its most important sustainability topics. The ﬁrst part of the report follows the structure of Handelsbanken’s most material sustainability topics and describes work and events during the year. Supplementary, in-depth information and speciﬁc data requested by various target groups are provided in the section titled Sustainability management. running with better profitability This is Handelsbanken’s seventh sustainability report based on the than the average of peer banks in Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines for reporting and covers activities and results for 2016 according to G4. The information refers home markets. to the Group unless otherwise stated. Handelsbanken’s reporting meets the “Core” level, which has also been conﬁrmed by the Bank’s external auditors. See the auditor’s report on page 56. A comprehensive index according to GRI principles is shown on pages 53–55. The report constitutes Handelsbanken’s Communication on Rating at LongShortCounterparty risk Progress for the UN Global Compact. 31 December 2016 term term assessment Standard & Poor’s AAA-1+ Fitch AA F1+ Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) Corporate identity number: 502007-7862 Moody’s Aa2 P-1 Aa1 Registered ofﬁce: Stockholm handelsbanken.com DBRS AA (low) This report is also available in Swedish. Every care has been taken in this translation into English. In the event of discrepancies, the Swedish original will supersede the English version. 1 THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S COMMENTS Our model works both locally and digitally My name is Anders Bouvin, and last summer I became President and message is crystal clear: customers want the option of meeting the Bank Group Chief Executive of Handelsbanken. I have worked for the Bank for via digital media as well as at the local branches, depending on what suits 32 years, most recently as Head of Handelsbanken UK. the customer best on each particular occasion. This is my ﬁrst time to comment on the year as Group CEO, so let me Our customers are both local and digital. That is why we are, too. say right from the start that anyone expecting a grand declaration of new, Our decentralised model also serves as a foundation for our proﬁtability. exciting corporate goals, bold strategic shifts and radical changes in our When every person feels involved and takes responsibility, then they make business model may well be a bit disappointed. more of those smart decisions, resulting in lower costs, more satisﬁed cusOur corporate goal stands ﬁrm. That is, we must deliver a better return tomers and higher proﬁtability. And healthy proﬁtability gives us a stable on equity than the average of our competitors’. We will achieve this by ﬁnancial base, which in turn enables us to grow. We do that in part by having lower costs and more satisﬁed customers than the other banks. opening branches in places where we have not had a presence. This hapWe reached this goal yet again in 2016, the 45th year running. pens especially in our newest home markets – the Netherlands and the But times change. Isn’t it about time for some new strategies? First, United Kingdom, where we now have 25 and 206 branches, respectively. allow me to point out that the times have always been changing. Every generation has struggled with its own challenges, its paradigm shifts, its technology leaps. When we established our corporate goals more than four decades ago, our branches had just started installing their ﬁrst computer terminals, and we offered numerous products and services that are “ Our customers are both local and no longer in demand today and so are no longer around. Handelsbanken is changing all the time in step with our customers’ demands. That is why we have advanced so far on the road to digitalisation – because nowadays our customers prefer to do more of their banking digital. That is why we are, too. ” using smartphones or computers. At the same time, we still have our But opening new branches is not the only way we are growing. We also branches, with a strong local presence and a great deal of autonomy – grow when our existing branches win new customers and new business. because now and then our customers still want to meet and do business This is where our solid ﬁnancial base is a comparative advantage: we with someone they recognise and trust, someone who can make decisions. never have to say no to a transaction that we and the customer want to carry through, regardless of the economic climate or business environment. That makes us predictable to our customers. They know that they can “ Our way of working is strictly decentralised: the person working count on us even during periods when others have pulled back. This is how we build strong, long-term relationships with our customers. This is fundamental to the way we want to run our Bank. What we do, we do thoroughly, sustainably and for the long term. closest to the customer and the We must be an asset to the community in which we operate – never a burden. During the most recent ﬁnancial crisis, unlike our competitors we market makes the decisions. ” did not require help from the central banks, taxpayers or our shareholders. Quite the contrary – for many years we have been one of the biggest taxpayers in Sweden. I don’t know if you would call this a strategy – but it’s how our model works. Just about all changes are made based on customer needs that are identiﬁed by our branches, often in face-to-face meetings, in the local market. Our way of working is strictly decentralised: the person working closest to the customer and the market makes the decisions. Our business model and our way of working are based on a fundamen“ When every person feels involved and takes responsibility, then they tally humanistic approach. We are convinced that every human being make more of those smart decisions, wants to do a good job. If employees are allowed to decide on all those matters that they observe in their everyday work, then the decisions they resulting in lower costs, more satisfied make will be much more accurate than decisions made at a head ofﬁce, far from the customer and the business. In addition, our customers appreciate local decision-making, having direct access to the person in the Bank who decides. customers and higher profitability. ” So the Bank we are today is the result of an inﬁnite number of decisions made over the years throughout the organisation. The starting point for all Banks that get into trouble – and thereby become a burden to society – those decisions is our customers: customers’ needs and customers’ often have one thing in common: they take excessive risks. Handelsexpectations. banken takes a very strict approach to risk. We do not modify our credit Listening to our customers has helped us arrive at the right decision in assessments depending on the economic climate; a bad credit risk is a many a tricky situation. As to the existential question of local branches in bad credit risk, even in good times. Loan losses are an ordeal – not just a world where customers increasingly choose to interact digitally with their for the bank, which loses money, but above all for the individuals whose bank, we at Handelsbanken have again listened to our customers. The personal ﬁnances are shattered, or for the company that faces insolvency. H AN DE L SB ANK E N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2016 2 THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S COMMENTS We wish to contribute in various ways to more sustainable development in change, in step with the world around us. We will continue to meet our our world, not only when we grant loans but also in the way we invest our customers’ expectations, requirements and demands on us as a bank customers’ savings. Of course, this should also manifest itself in the way and to work even harder to be even more Handelsbanken, every day, we work and act in our day-to-day tasks, including when our branches everywhere. Exactly as we have done during the past year. Exactly as take – or participate in – various local initiatives. These are issues that we we have always done. work on in a highly structured way. Sustainability has long been a natural part of our fundamental values. Thus, Handelsbanken continues to support wholeheartedly international initiatives for corporate sustainability, such as the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) and UN Global Compact, whose principles for human rights, labour rights, the environment and business ethics are wholly in line with the Bank’s values, work methods and guidelines. “ We will continue to meet our customers’ expectations, requirements and Our work towards gender equality and diversity continues. Personally, demands on us as a bank and to work I feel that we can always do a little better here. These are basic issues for humanity but also crucial for our business. In our Bank, where all employeven harder to be even more Handelsees have – and take – such great responsibility, neither gender, ethnicity nor any other irrelevant factor should be a barrier to recruitment, career advancement or personal development. We cannot afford to waste talent. Handelsbanken’s future success will be based on the resolve and ability banken, every day, everywhere. ” of our skilled staff to continue making all those smart decisions that have made us what we are today. We can do this thanks to all our employees, who day in and day out make That is how we run our Bank, Handelsbanken. all those key business decisions, build relationships and win more and Proﬁt for the past year was SEK 16.2 billion, corresponding to a return more satisﬁed customers. Thus, allow me to express my deep gratitude to on equity of 13.1 per cent. As noted above, this means we have met our all of you for your hard work during the past year. corporate goal for the 45th year in a row, with higher proﬁtability than the Also, many thanks to all of you who have chosen Handelsbanken. average for our competitors. Thank you for your trust. I promise that we will do our utmost to live up to We also have more satisﬁed customers and, according to credit rating – and preferably exceed – your expectations. agencies, more stable ﬁnances than our competitors. We are one of the handful of banks worldwide with the highest credit rating, and no bank in our home markets has a higher rating than we do. So you can surely understand that I will not be implementing any radical changes in our business model. The model is working – and evolving – perfectly. But that does not mean we’re standing still. On the contrary. Stockholm, February 2017 As I noted, our entire business model rests on our ability to continuously Anders Bouvin, President and Group Chief Executive H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2 016 3 THE BANK’S CONCEPT AND WORKING METHODS Our concept and working methods Handelsbanken is a full-service bank with a decentralised way of working and a strong local presence through its nationwide branch networks. We attach great importance to availability and long-term customer relations where personal meetings with our customers are key. A long-term approach Satisfied customers Long-term business relationships, low risk-taking and costPractically all important business decisions are made awareness are cornerstones of Handelsbanken’s business close to our customers, at one of more than 800 local culture. They form the basis of successful banking operabranches in our six home markets. This contributes to tions being run in a responsible, sustainable manner. better decisions and more satisﬁed customers: our Handelsbanken has been conducting banking operacustomers meet the person who will make the decision, tions since 1871 and has the oldest listed share on the not a messenger. This gives a sound basis for successful Stockholm stock exchange. Handelsbanken’s goal is to customer meetings – both at branches and our other have higher proﬁtability than the average of peer banks in meeting places. The customer’s trust is built up over its home markets. This goal is mainly to be achieved by the long term, but is won and nurtured at every meeting. having more satisﬁed customers and lower costs than By winning its customers’ trust, Handelsbanken those of competitors. becomes their natural choice as a provider of ﬁnancial Our idea of how we should run our bank is based on services. trust and respect for individuals. This is why we are decentralised. This approach leads to better, quicker decisions Availability, simplicity and care close to the customer, and creates commitment and the Our customers appreciate the fact that we are local, opportunity for our employees to make an impact and we know them and the local market, and we make our do an even better job. This in turn helps the Bank to gain business decisions there, locally together with the cusmore satisﬁed customers. tomer. But our customers also expect to be able to do their banking when and where they please. This is why “ Practically all important we are continually developing and improving our availability and our digital meeting places in all home markets, business decisions are thus enabling customers to visit their branch on their smartphone, tablet or computer. We like to say that we made close to our cusshould give our customers “all the keys to the Bank”. In several home markets, we also offer our customers tomers, at one of more personal technical support 24 hours a day. In addition, in Sweden our customers can receive personal service than 800 local branches from bank ofﬁcers by phone 24 hours a day, 365 days in our six home markets.” a year. When a customer contacts us, the meeting should be simple and unbureaucratic. Our aim is that the customer The whole of a bank’s business is based on trust. Our should be able to do the same type of business with customers have chosen us because they trust us and the Bank, regardless of the meeting place. That is why have conﬁdence in the way we do banking. In short, our we are constantly working to develop and improve the customers attach great importance to the fact that we Bank’s technical solutions. are available, easy to deal with, and show understanding In everything it does, the Bank aims to create the and care when interacting with them. best possible conditions for successful meetings with Slightly simpliﬁed, the basis of our method of building customers. It is through these meetings that the Bank and running Handelsbanken has several important creates, maintains and develops strong, long-term elements, as follows. customer relationships. Country Group units and Group organisations Branches CUSTOMER staff functions business areas and regional head ofﬁces This is how we are organised Handelsbanken’s way of working is best depicted by an arrow where all operations focus on the customer. The branches are closest to the customer and are responsible for the Bank’s customers in their local market. Each home market has its own national organisation with responsibility for the proﬁtability of the branch operations in that country. For our customer offering to be of the highest quality, we have a number of joint business areas for the Group where product owners design and develop our products and solutions. The central head ofﬁce also has joint units and staff functions with overarching responsibility for various functions at the Bank. H AN DE L SB ANK E N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2016 4 When we meet our customers, it is not just a matter of solving their everyday banking needs in a simple way. We always focus on the customer’s needs, and our aim is for our service to show that we care. The branch is the Bank Handelsbanken is geographically organised so as to create the best possible conditions for relationships with our customers. At Handelsbanken, the local branch always has customer responsibility, regardless of how, where or when the customer contacts the Bank. The business is led by a manager who is responsible for all operations in his or her branch’s local area of operations. The branches’ independence gives them a very strong local presence, leading to long-term customer A full range of products and services relationships. Short decision paths make it possible One condition vital to successful customer meetings to adapt more quickly to changes in local markets is that Handelsbanken offers a full range of products and make the most of new business opportunities. and services to meet all the ﬁnancial needs of its cusSkilled staff tomers. We do not divide customers into different segments or specialise in product or service areas. “When a customer Handelsbanken’s decentralised working methods mean that we give our staff a high degree of responsiThe individual customer’s unique requirements are the governing factor. contacts us, the bility and authority to make decisions in all kinds of matters important to the customer. This high degree of trust Our best advice meeting should is based on a belief in people’s willingness and ability to constantly become more skilled in their work and in The customer’s requirements are the basis for the Bank’s advisory services, and we take into account be simple and their efforts to seek and overcome new challenges. The Bank takes a long-term approach to relations each customer’s overall situation and circumstances. By giving our best advice, we build trusting, long-term unbureaucratic.” with both customers and employees. It sees each relationships with every customer. recruitment as important and long term. Employees We always give the customer our best advice, with long experience and with broad knowledge from without looking at what is the most proﬁtable product the whole Bank make a vital contribution to the Bank for Handelsbanken in the short term. having satisﬁed customers. To retain employees, the right conditions must exist for development in their work and consideration must also be taken of the stage of life that they are in. Profitability before volume Low risk tolerance Our employees who meet customers are not paid variable remuneration, either in the form of Handelsbanken has a low risk tolerance. The Bank’s bonuses or commission, and therefore have no ﬁnancial incentive to convince the customer strict approach to risk means that it deliberately that a certain service or product suits them best. Nor does The Bank have requirements as avoids high-risk transactions, even if the remuneraregards volumes, budgets or centrally determined sales targets. Instead, the Bank measures tion is high at the time. This low risk tolerance is mainits success in terms of customer satisfaction, cost-effectiveness and proﬁtability. tained through a strong risk culture that is sustainable Handelsbanken achieves higher proﬁtability by running the Bank more efﬁciently, and thus in the long term and applies to all areas of the Group. at a lower cost than peer banks on its home markets. Consequently, high proﬁtability does The Bank’s business model focuses on taking not mean that Handelsbanken’s customers pay more. credit risks in the branch operations. The only risks we are prepared to take are credit risks on customers whom we know well and with whom we build longterm relations. The objective is therefore to minimise Organic growth other risks, such as market risk, in order to have a business model that is independent of changes in the For Handelsbanken to retain high proﬁtability business cycle. Position-taking in the Bank’s busiin the long term, growth is necessary. Handelsness operations is only accepted in customer-driven banken primarily grows by opening new transactions, and only within strictly deﬁned limits. branches in locations where the Bank has not previously had operations. In this way, Handelsbanken grows customer by customer, branch by branch. This organic model enables Handelsbanken to achieve growth coupled with low risk and good cost control. This method of working and of achieving growth has proved successful in an increasing number of locations and countries. Handelsbanken has a nationwide branch network in its six home markets: Sweden, the UK, Denmark, Finland, Norway and the Netherlands. Hull Branch | United Kingdom H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2 016 5 MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS Focus on essentials Simple and clear principles apply at What does it involve? Handelsbanken, as we grow customer The Bank and The trust of customers and the general public is a vital its customers asset for Handelsbanken. The Bank must meet and by customer, branch by branch with a preferably exceed expectations on quality and service Material topics focus on the long term and stability in • Satisfied customers through services designed for individual needs. Handelsbanken’s availability must be high, via the branches, teleall our relationships – internal as well • High availability phone and digital services. Lending decisions are always • Responsible lending as external. The result is profitable, • Responsible sales and advisory based on the customer’s financial situation; that is, the Bank will not grant credit to customers who cannot repay services stable growth that creates value for • Integrity and confidentiality their loans. Weak repayment capacity is never accepted, our owners and builds trust in us as an institution in society. What does it involve? The Bank’s role Handelsbanken has a strong presence in the local comHandelsbanken’s goal is to have higher proﬁtability than in the community munity, with a nationwide branch network in the Bank’s six home markets. The Bank’s local presence means that the average of peer banks in its home markets. In our Material topics we can offer our customers financial services based on • Local presence experience, proﬁtability is the result when we focus on valuable knowledge of local market conditions. The Bank • The Bank as a taxpayer the right things by doing what is right by our customers, • The Bank should not be a burden contributes to the community in the countries where it employees and the community. operates, such as by employing people and paying taxes on society and charges. Handelsbanken is – and will continue to be It is vital that we always keep ourselves up-to-date on • Financial stability and profitability – a bank with stable finances, which manages without the needs and wishes that our stakeholders have regarding Handelsbanken. In addition to the thousands of dialogues the Bank is holding continuously with stakeholders, The Bank’s What does it involve? in 2015 and 2016 we also conducted in-depth discusHandelsbanken considers sustainability very important sions with stakeholders in our six home markets as part of indirect impact when granting credits. The Bank’s credit policy states the process of deﬁning the Bank’s most material sustainaMaterial topics that credit risk assessments must take into account bility topics. To clarify the outcomes, both internally and the customer’s approach to human rights, fundamental • Responsible credits principles regarding working conditions, environmental externally, we have grouped the topics into six sub-areas: • Responsible investments concerns and anti-corruption. Sustainability is also • the Bank and its customers a vital component in asset management. In mutual • the Bank’s role in the community fund, asset and pension management, Handelsbanken • the Bank’s indirect impact works to promote sustainable development in financial, • the Bank as an employer • the Bank’s business culture • the Bank as an investment. The Bank as an What does it involve? Handelsbanken will continue to be a secure, attractive Our overall goal of proﬁtability provides Handelsbanken employer employer and a workplace where all employees in the Bank develop, feel good and enjoy good health. We aim with the prerequisites to take a long-term approach, and by Material topics to promote working methods that allow employees to be • Responsible employer taking a long-term approach we ensure proﬁtability. Simiproactive and influence operations. For example, everyone • Working conditions and union rights larly, the sustainability topics that have our highest priority • Employee commitment has the right to join a union or employee organisation. Our align closely with a long-term approach and proﬁtability. aim is for the great majority of employees to be perma• Leadership and development nently employed and for temporary employment to be limHandelsbanken’s return on equity for total operations was • Work environment and health ited. Handelsbanken’s success depends on our ability to 13.1 per cent (13.5). Adjusted for non-recurring items, the • Gender equality and diversity return was 12.2 per cent (13.5). The corresponding ﬁgure for a weighted average of other major Nordic banks was 10.9 The Bank’s What does it involve? per cent (11.3). The corresponding ﬁgure for a weighted Handelsbanken aims to conduct its operations with high average of all peer banks in the home markets is estimated business culture ethical standards. This means, for example, that we at about 10 per cent (10.4). This means that for the 45th Material topics must have a sound remuneration model for employees consecutive year, Handelsbanken met its corporate goal. and executive officers. Long-term commitment, with no • Business culture short-term incentive systems, is fundamental to our oper• Salaries and remuneration ations. For this reason no performanceor volume-based • Anti-corruption and bribery Return on equity 1973–2016 bonuses, or other forms of variable remuneration, are • Counteracting money laundering paid to Handelsbanken’s executive officers or to any % and financing of terrorism other employee who takes decisions on credits or limits. 30 25 20 The Bank as an What does it involve? 15 Handelsbanken is convinced that sustainable long-term 10 investment growth and shareholder value can only be achieved if 5 the Bank simultaneously creates long-term value for Material topics 0 its customers and society as a whole. One of the pur-74 -76 -78 -80 -82 -84 -86 -88 -90 -92 -94 -96 -98 -00 -02 -04 -06 -08 -10 -12 -14 -16 • Creating shareholder value poses of Handelsbanken’s profitability goal is to offer -5 shareholders long-term high growth in value, expressed -10 in increasing earnings per share over a business cycle. Handelsbanken Other Nordic banks* The Bank aims for the ordinary dividend to show long* Only Swedish banks are included for the period until 2002 inclusive. term, stable growth which reflects the value creation. H AN DE L SB ANK E N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2016 6 MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS Outcome 2016 even if the customer is prepared to pay a high interest • Handelsbanken has more satisfied private and corporate customers rate. We must advise customers based on their individual than the average for the banking sector in all of the Bank’s six home needs, without looking at what is the most profitable markets. Thus the Bank continues to enjoy a solid position in terms product for the Bank in the short term. Thus, no bonuses of customer satisfaction. or other forms of variable remuneration are paid to the • For many years, Handelsbanken has had much lower loan losses Bank’s executive officers or to employees who decide on than its peers in the banking sector. In 2016, Handelsbanken’s loan credits. Customer responsibility also includes protecting losses corresponded to 0.09 per cent (0.09) of lending. customers’ banking business, for example from unauthorised access through strict IT security. For more details, see page 8 Outcome 2016 support from the government or central banks, a bank • We have more than 800 local branches in our six home markets. which, regardless of the situation in its environment, is • At year-end, the Bank had a common equity tier 1 ratio of 25.1 per cent. there for its customers. On no occasion during the most The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority calculated Handelsrecent financial crisis did Handelsbanken need to ask for banken’s common equity tier 1 capital requirement at the end of Q3 liquidity support or capital contributions from a central 2016 at an amount corresponding to a common equity tier 1 ratio of bank, the state or the Bank’s shareholders. Handels21.3 per cent. banken’s social responsibility includes taking steps to • For 2016, Handelsbanken’s total taxes and government fees exceeded reduce direct environmental impact, such as from business travel, electronic waste and paper consumption. SEK 8 billion. The Bank is one of the largest payers of corporate tax in Sweden. For more details, see page 13 Outcome 2016 environmental and social terms in the companies in • Handelsbanken adopted the Equator Principles in 2016. which the Bank invests on behalf of customers, as part • Handelsbanken implemented guidelines regarding issues such as of the investment process. business relations with companies active in the extraction of fossil fuels. • Handelsbanken Asset Management now has almost one third of the total assets under management in funds which exclude fossil fuels. • During the year, several of our funds reduced their carbon footprint by more than 50 per cent. • Handelsbanken Liv’s board has adopted a policy for sustainability that establishes the focus of the operations’ sustainability efforts. For more details, see page 20 Outcome 2016 recruit and retain skilled staff. Managers at Handelsbanken • External staff turnover was 4 per cent in the Group. are tasked with identifying, encouraging and developing • The total sickness absence rate for employees in the Bank’s six home new managers at the Bank. Thus we must create condimarkets was 2.6 per cent. tions for a sustainable working life where employees are in • The proportion of managers who are women has increased in the Group. good health and have the energy to enjoy their work and In the UK, we signed the Women in Finance Charter, an initiative from the their leisure time. When recruiting new employees, we aim UK Treasury aimed at working for greater gender balance in the financial to take a broad-based approach so the workforce reflects sector. the society where the Bank operates. Our culture aims to be inclusive and informed by an open attitude to diversity. • Handelsbanken strengthened its co-operation with the European Works Council (EWC) by reviewing its agreements and forms of collaboration. For more details, see page 26 Outcome 2016 Nor does the Bank make any budgets, or have any • During the year, the Bank implemented a code of conduct for major volume or market share targets. The Bank’s employees suppliers in Sweden. The code will be implemented in other home must never be involved in activities that could involve markets during 2017. bribery or corruption, neither in relation to customers • During the autumn, production started of a new training programme nor suppliers nor other stakeholders. The Bank also has aimed at all employees: Ethical standards and sustainability at Handelsa duty, as do all employees, to work actively to prevent banken. The programme will be launched in early 2017. all kinds of criminal activity such as money laundering, financing of terrorism and other financial crime. For more details, see page 32 Outcome 2016 • In every one of the past 20 years, including during the most recent financial crisis, Handelsbanken has paid a dividend to its shareholders. • Handelsbanken was selected as a constituent in the ECPI Euro Ethical Equity and ECPI Global Developed ESG Best in Class Equity indexes. The Bank was already in the Ethibel Sustainability Index, FTSE4Good, OMX GES Sustainability, SIX Sweden SRI Index and STOXX Global ESG Leaders. • During the year, the Bank participated in a survey of sustainable companies conducted by the RobecoSAM research company. Handelsbanken is included in the 2017 edition of The Sustainability Yearbook as a “Sustainability Yearbook Member”. For more details, see page 35 H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2 016 7 The Bank and its customers Handelsbanken always aims for all important business decisions to be taken as close to the customer as possible. This contributes to better meetings with customers, better decisions and more satisfied customers. In everything it does, the Bank aims to create the best possible conditions for successful meetings with customers. By gaining its customers’ trust, Handelsbanken becomes their natural choice. Strandvägen Branch, Stockholm | Sweden THE BANK AND ITS CUSTOMERS “As a result of our focus on satisfied customers, we attach great importance to being available in our digital meeting places – being there for our customers, whenever and wherever they need us.” SATISFIED CUSTOMERS In Sweden, Handelsbanken has more satisﬁed private and For Handelsbanken, the starting point is always meeting corporate customers than the average for the Swedish individual customers’ requirements. In this way we build banking sector. a trusting, long-term relationship with every customer. In the UK, Handelsbanken continued to have the most Handelsbanken always aims for all important business satisﬁed private and corporate customers. The results decisions to be taken as close to the customer as possialso show that customer satisfaction is considerably ble. This contributes to better meetings with customers, higher than the average for the sector. better decisions and more satisﬁed customers. In everyIn Denmark, too, Handelsbanken has the most satisthing it does, the Bank aims to create the best possible ﬁed private and corporate customers and thus retained conditions for successful meetings with customers. By its No.1 position yet another year. gaining its customers’ trust, Handelsbanken becomes Handelsbanken in Finland has more satisﬁed private their natural choice. customers than the average for the sector, and satisfaction among corporate customers is on a par with the Satisﬁed customers in all our home markets sector average. Handelsbanken considers customer satisfaction surveys The results in Norway showed that Handelsbanken very important. Every year, EPSI Rating/SKI (Swedish has more satisﬁed private and corporate customers than Quality Index) carries out independent surveys of custhe average for the Norwegian banking sector. tomer satisfaction. This year’s surveys showed that In the Netherlands, the surveys showed that the Handelsbanken has more satisﬁed private and corporate Bank’s customers are considerably more satisﬁed than customers than the average for the banking sector in all the average for the sector. This applies to both private of the Bank’s six home markets. Thus the Bank enjoys and corporate customers. solid customer satisfaction. This year’s survey also This year’s surveys show that the combination of our shows that customers give the Bank’s digital services personal, local presence and digital solutions is still high marks. important, wholly in line with Handelsbanken’s business This year’s surveys showed Customer satisfaction – Private customers 2016 Customer satisfaction – Corporate customers 2016 that Handelsbanken has Index Index more satisfied private and 90 90 corporate customers than the average for the banking 80 80 sector in all of the Bank’s six home markets. 70 70 60 60 50 50 Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway The Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway The Netherlands Netherlands Handelsbanken Sector average Handelsbanken Sector average Source: SKI/EPSI. Source: SKI/EPSI. H AN DE L SB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PORT 2016 10 model: we are local and digital. Our customers expect to Managing customer complaints be able to do their banking transactions when and where For Handelsbanken, it is important that customers who they please. make complaints are satisﬁed. We attach great imporTo sum up, these independent surveys of customer tance to handling opinions and complaints that come in satisfaction are proof of Handelsbanken’s success in to the Bank in a manner that inspires trust. Thus the Bank working consistently and continuously to nurture longtakes customer complaints very seriously and has wellterm customer relationships. established procedures for handling these cases. Having loyal customers is just as important as having The results from the EPSI and SKI surveys show that the satisﬁed customers. The beneﬁts are numerous. For proportion of complaints at Handelsbanken, for all home Customer meetings example, loyal customers are less likely to get dissatisﬁed markets combined, is below the average for the sector. 24 hours a day and change banks. That lowers costs for the Bank, thus Complaints must be dealt with in the ﬁrst place by When their branch is closed, improving conditions for more competitive prices for custhe responsible branch, with the attention that each our customers in Sweden can tomers. case requires. If the customer wishes to pursue the also receive personal service In EPSI and SKI’s annual surveys, loyalty is a key outmatter, there is a designated complaints ofﬁcer at each from advisors by phone. come associated with customer satisfaction. There is a link regional bank. In addition, there are complaints ofﬁcers at “Meeting our customers by between customer satisfaction and loyalty. Loyalty reﬂects Group level who regularly report to Senior Management, whether customers intend to remain with their bank, in regional banks and product owners. phone at night is an enjoyable what terms they talk about their bank, and whether they Information about complaints management at the and stimulating challenge,” says would recommend their bank to other people. Bank is easily available at handelsbanken.com. Rosanna Bengtsson, one of the In addition to the fact that Handelsbanken’s customadvisors at Customer Support. ers are very satisﬁed, the results for 2016 show that they INCREASE AVAILABILITY At Handelsbanken, the local are also very loyal. In all home markets, loyalty to the As a result of our focus on satisﬁed customers, we attach branch is always available, 24 Bank is considerably stronger than the average for the great importance to being available in our digital meeting hours a day, via the Bank’s digisector. This also applies to markets where Handelsplaces – being there for our customers, whenever and tal meeting places. At night, banken is regarded as a major player, which must be wherever they need us. Our customers appreciate the Customer Support responds to considered unique. fact that we are local, we know them and the local marquestions on everything from ket, and we make our business decisions there, locally account balances to cancelling Good reputation together with the customer. But our customers also lost cards to exchange rates, but According to the TNS Sifo Reputation Index for 2016, expect to be able to do their banking when and where it also provides general advice based on public opinion, Handelsbanken is one of the they please. This is why we are continually enhancing our on various forms of saving. 10 companies in Sweden with the best reputation, availability and our digital meeting places – so customers regardless of the sector surveyed. The Bank’s index can visit their branch on their smartphone, tablet or com“To meet customer needs, score of 54 can be compared with those of the other four puter. All contacts with our customers are between the you have to be flexible and major Swedish banks, which are between 27 and 45. customer and the branch, regardless of how the cusresponsive. At the same time, The survey shows that Handelsbanken is perceived to tomer wishes to meet the Bank. It is the branch that is we want to maintain the high maintain high ethical and moral standards and to be a always responsible for the customer meeting – whenever standard of service expected good workplace. These are important factors inﬂuencing and wherever this takes place. In a number of the Bank’s by the customer, regardless of the Bank’s reputation in terms of sustainability. Handelshome markets, we offer our customers personal technithe meeting place or the time banken receives higher marks than its competitors in cal support 24 hours a day. In addition, in Sweden our of day,” says Rosanna. these areas. customers can receive personal service 24 hours a day H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPO RT 20 16 11 THE BANK AND ITS CUSTOMERS tomer to understand the risk associated with each type Handelsbanken is of ﬁnancial instrument and to have the knowledge and experience required to invest in the product concerned. The information we provide to customers must be clear, local and digital factual and easy to understand, and the terms and conditions for the Bank’s services must be clear and not changed arbitrarily. The regulations for ﬁnancial advisory services and Digitalisation is changing At the same time, digitalisainsurance mediation require that all employees who customer behaviour. tion is increasing what cusprovide customers with advice concerning investments “Now that customers are tomers require and expect and insurance have relevant, up-to-date skills. Handelsbanken has broad expertise in investment advisory serdoing more and more of their of branch advisors. vices and complies with the regulatory requirements from transactions themselves, we “Our customers still want a the EU and local supervisory authorities in all six of the have more time for personal personal meeting, such as Bank’s home markets. In Sweden, the Bank has nearly customer meetings,” says when they are facing a major 3,600 employees who are permitted to provide investment advice. All of these hold a SwedSec licence to proJürgen Smolle, Branch financial decision. That’s why vide advisory services concerning ﬁnancial instruments Manager in Mora, Sweden. our branches and our availaand insurance and they update their knowledge every bility in the local market are year through compulsory professional training. During the year, broad training programmes were carried out to What differentiates Handelsstill important,” says Jürgen. further strengthen staff skills in this area. banken from most other Our advice always prioritises the customer’s interests banks in this digital world are and is professional, observes high ethical standards and is its local branches. executed in compliance with current laws and regulations. The aim of short-term proﬁts for the Bank must take “Most spontaneous cussecond place to what can be considered sustainable in the tomer meetings are about long term. This protects the individual customer from runhelping customers to get ning into ﬁnancial difﬁculties due to excessive indebtedstarted with our digital serness – which also beneﬁts the Bank and society at large. Handelsbanken does not pay performanceor volumevices. More customers are based bonuses or other forms of variable remuneration wanting to do their banking to the Bank’s management or to any other employee when and where it suits them who takes decisions on credits or limits. Nor do we have best,” says Jürgen. Jürgen Smolle volume or market share goals. INFORMATION SECURITY AND IT SECURITY Sensitive information is processed in the Bank’s operafrom bank ofﬁcers by phone if they need help with their tions on an ongoing basis, particularly regarding our cusbanking transactions. Via our personal telephone service, tomers and customer relations. Our work with informawe can meet our customers in several different languages. tion and IT security focuses on availability, integrity, conﬁdentiality and traceability. The information and busiAccessibility – on the customer’s terms ness systems must be available based on the business Good accessibility in our digital meeting places also requirements of the operations. All information must also means that the Bank strives to provide opportunities to be reliable, correct and complete. It should never be disevery customer – regardless of ability – to access the tributed to unauthorised persons and it may only be used information and services that we provide. We work continto the extent required by the work assignment. In addiually to identify and remove obstacles in our digital sertion, it must be possible to determine afterwards who has vices. When we build new services or renew our existing read or changed the information, when it was changed ones, we do it based on market standards. We have also and which changes were made. drawn up our own guidelines that go further than these The work with the Bank’s information security involves standards, with the aim of being accessible for all our cusprotecting customers’ information and transactions and tomers. Accessibility is one of the cornerstones of all our also the Bank’s IT environment. If shortcomings in the development work, and we use external parties to check processing were to arise or the information incorrectly the quality of accessibility in our digital meeting places. spread, this could lead to serious consequences, including weakened conﬁdence in the Bank or ﬁnancial losses. THE CUSTOMER IN FOCUS Information security covers administrative systems, In ﬁnancial advisory services provided when granting such as rules and instructions, as well as technical secucredit and in insurance mediation, the Bank always rity solutions. It is important that the Bank actively works considers the customer’s overall situation and ﬁnancial with IT security to meet possible threats, and that there circumstances. Using this knowledge, we can provide are procedures for managing changes in the IT environguidance on ﬁnancing, payments or investments that is ment so that no breaches occur. Structured work is adapted to each customer’s individual requirements. This under way in the Bank to increase the level of awareness puts the focus on the customer – not individual products among employees and customers concerning the or services. threats and risks in information security, through presenWhen providing investment advice, we adapt the protations, training programmes and information initiatives. posal to the customer’s goals, interests, savings horizon For more details, see page 45. and attitude to risk. We consider it essential for the cusHA ND E LSB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PORT 2016 12 THE BANK’S ROLE IN THE COMMUNITY The Bank’s role in the community Handelsbanken acts in a socially responsible manner and contributes to economic development in the community by running stable, long-term banking operations that focus on customer needs. Handelsbanken is a bank with long-term stability – a bank which, regardless of the situation in the world around us, is there for our cusHandelsbanken in tomers. By being a bank with stable ﬁnances and a stable presence, the local community Handelsbanken aims to fulﬁl its role as a responsible institution in society. At Handelsbanken we are convinced of the Handelsbanken also takes responsibility by managing risks so that as need for local presence, and the basic confew customers as possible have payment difﬁculties. Thus Handelscept of our way of operating is that business banken can continue to be a bank with stable ﬁnances, making a posidecisions are made as close to the customer tive contribution to customers, shareholders and the community. as possible, based on local information. This Accessible local branches is why we have a nationwide branch network in the six countries we categorise as our home The Bank’s local branches must also be accessible to customers with markets. Our decentralised organisation, reduced mobility or sense of direction. Most of the Bank’s branches where the local branch manager is responsiin Sweden meet these requirements, though where they are not met it ble for all the Bank’s business in its local operis usually because of restrictions on alterations to the building exterior ating area, means that Handelsbanken is or street environment. Our nationwide branch network means that if deeply rooted and plays a vital role in the local necessary we can offer customers a nearby branch which is adapted community. to their needs. Het Gooi Branch | The Netherlands Initiatives in the local community An important part of the Bank’s sustainability efforts, in addition to providing banking services, is to play a role in the local community through the branches. Handelsbanken has more than 800 branches in its six home markets, and many are involved in the local community in initiatives and activities carried out by local associations and charities. For example, the branches contribute knowledge about the economy in courses at schools and universities, advise young entrepreneurs and serve in various types of mentor programmes. The branches also participate in activities which promote diversity and integration in the local labour market, for example, by offering trainee positions to newly arrived refugees. Another example is the Het Gooi branch in the Netherlands which is taking part in an educational project at a local school. Two of the aims of the project are to stimulate entrepreneurial spirit and teach final year pupils to apply for jobs and write application letters and CVs, as well as showing them what happens in a recruitment interview. “The pupils appreciate our feedback. For example, we’ve helped them to gain confidence in themselves and to highlight what they’re good at. Helping young people to get onto the labour market makes a contribution to the community at large,” says Branch Manager Lars Vissers. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 20 16 13 THE BANK’S ROLE IN THE COMMUNITY Corporate social Contributions to responsibility economic research Corporate social responsibility at Handelsbanken is manifested in responsible lending and advisory services, as and higher education well as our efforts to have satisﬁed customers and be an Since the early 1960s, Handelsbanken has on a number attractive employer. In our own operations as well as in of occasions awarded grants for economic research, our business relations with suppliers and when investing mainly through allocations to two independent research customers’ funds and lending to companies, we strive to foundations: Tore Browaldhs stiftelse and Jan Wallanders prevent or limit negative impact on human rights and och Tom Hedelius stiftelse. working conditions. Together, these foundations are some of the most A bank can make a major difference in terms of social important sources of funding for economic research in responsibility towards customers, employees and taxSweden. In 2016, 197 grants (169) were awarded for payers. The most recent ﬁnancial crisis showed that a total of SEK 188 million (180). unless a bank acts in a responsible manner, it is not only At the end of 2016, the foundations’ combined capital the bank’s shareholders that run the risk of being totalled some SEK 6,901 million (6,051). adversely affected, but customers, employees and taxHandelsbanken has also funded a professorial chair in payers, too. accounting at the Stockholm School of Economics and contributed to the Institute for Financial Research (SIFR) Low loan losses and Swedish House of Finance (SHoF). Aggressive selling of credits which leads to an unhealthy For several years, Handelsbanken has supported a level of household and corporate debt always hits the project to improve young people’s knowledge of personal customer hardest. At Handelsbanken, we have a very ﬁnance by ﬁnancially supporting information campaigns low risk tolerance, and the Bank’s strict approach to risk and contributing the Bank’s expertise. means that we deliberately avoid high-risk transactions, even if the customer is willing to pay a high interest rate. This low risk tolerance is maintained through a strong risk culture that is sustainable in the long term and applies to all areas of the Group. 13 393 The loan loss ratio provides an indication of how responsibly a bank runs its operations. When banks have 11 337 a negative impact on their environment, the problems are often due to high loan losses, or an expectation that the loan losses will rise signiﬁcantly. Most stakeholders are affected negatively if a bank suffers high loan losses. For many years, Handelsbanken has had much lower loan losses than peer banks. During the 1998–2016 period, the average loan loss ratio at Handelsbanken was 0.05 per cent, as compared to the average of 0.20 per cent tonnes CO2e for the ﬁve other major banks in the Nordic countries: Danske Bank, DnB, Nordea, SEB and Swedbank. 2015 2016 Total carbon dioxide emissions in the Bank’s six home markets have decreased by 15 per cent. Our environmental work Handelsbanken’s direct environmental impact A bank’s direct environmental impact is fairly limited. At Handelsbanken, we aim to minimise the Bank’s impact on the environment. Our direct impact derives mainly from energy consumption, business travel and transport, and use of resources such as paper. We measure our environmental impact in all six home markets. These markets represent more than 96 per cent of the Bank’s total number of employees. We are working to minimise the carbon dioxide emissions generated in our operations. For 2016, total carbon dioxide emissions from Handelsbanken’s operations were 11,337 tonnes, down 15 per cent from the preceding year, mainly attributable to the Bank increasing the proportion of renewable electricity. Since 2012, the Bank has reduced its carbon dioxide emissions by 24 per cent, and total electricity consumption has decreased by 12 per cent. For more details, see page 46. Handelsbanken’s indirect environmental impact Since 2009, Handelsbanken has adhered to the UN Global Compact. This means, for example, that we have undertaken to describe how the Bank works with environmental matters. In addition to the Bank’s own consumption of resources, this mainly concerns the indirect environmental impact via lending, asset management and agreements with suppliers. HA ND E LSB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2016 14 “Corporate social responsibility at Handelsbanken is manifested in responsible lending and advisory services, as well as our efforts to have satisfied customers and be an attractive employer.” Human rights Handelsbanken’s work to safeguard human rights accords well with Several actions were taken in 2016 with the aim of preventing the international agreements. The Bank supports the UN Guiding PrinciBank from being involved, directly or indirectly, in abuse of human ples on Business and Human Rights and, since 2009, has adhered to rights and basic working conditions. A code of conduct was implethe UN Global Compact, cementing the Bank’s expressed support mented for major suppliers that, among other things, focuses on for universal human rights. We support and respect human rights in how these companies manage human rights and working conditions our own operations and work to prevent or restrict any negative and also forbids child labour. Another action is a training programme impact on human rights linked, through business relationships, with on ethics and sustainability which all employees will complete in the the Group’s operations, products or services. ﬁrst part of 2017. Handelsbanken also supports the Children’s Rights and Business In international discussions about human rights, legislation has Principles formulated by UNICEF, Save the Children and the UN increasingly come into focus. For example, the UK has adopted the Global Compact. During the year, we conducted a survey of the Modern Slavery Act, legislation to protect human rights which affects impact of the Bank’s operations with the purpose of ensuring that companies operating in the country. For more details, see page 45. children’s rights are respected and identifying special risk areas with regard to children’s rights in our operations. Counteracting commercial sexual exploitation of children Handelsbanken aims to obstruct and the Bank’s work in corporate social arranged an activity benefitting ECPAT prevent payments linked to the comresponsibility to integrate a preventaon the Bank’s portal for benefits and mercial sexual exploitation of children tive working method into our operaoffers for private customers with cards. and material depicting sexual abuse tions, to support opposition to the comFor a number of years, Handelsof children. Thus Handelsbanken, mercial sexual exploitation of children. banken has also had the NetClean IT together with the Swedish Bankers’ Since 2015, Handelsbanken has application installed on the Bank’s Association, collaborates with ECPAT intensified collaboration with ECPAT computers in Sweden. This application Sweden and is a member of the FinanSweden. Through this, we take responidentifies and blocks images and videos cial Coalition Against Commercial sibility in an area where we can make a of child pornography. Sexual Exploitation of Children. difference in our daily operations. For These co-operative efforts are part of example, in December Handelsbanken H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 20 16 15 THE BANK’S ROLE IN THE COMMUNITY Services for the public good A bank’s fundamental tasks are, on the one hand, to can prove their identity in contacts with various public manage the money of those who wish to postpone their authorities. This is another example of services jointly spending and save their money and, on the other, to lend developed by the major Swedish banks for the public money to companies and households that wish to spend good. and invest today. Together, banks must also maintain an In the Swedish market, our customers can use a efﬁcient, functioning payment system, as well as managlarge number of ATMs operated by Bankomat AB, in ing risk. The payment systems which Handelsbanken which Handelsbanken is a shareholder. The ATMs are and other banks have developed together are technically available in about 500 towns around Sweden. Most of advanced and are characterised by a high degree of them are accessible to people in wheelchairs and also efﬁciency and security. Payments are effected quickly, have a sound function for the visually impaired. The ATMs securely and at low cost. Increased use of digital paycan provide instructions in Swedish and seven other ment solutions, such as card payments and mobile paylanguages. ments, makes everyday life easier for our customers Our private customers can also, using certain cards, while reducing our direct environmental impact. access deposit services via Bankomat AB at ATMs in In 2016, Handelsbanken in Denmark signed a distribusome 200 towns around Sweden. tion agreement with Mobile Pay whereby our customers During the year, Handelsbanken also expanded sercan easily make payments using their smartphones in vices aimed at people who have disabilities or live in shops, e-commerce stores, apps and between users. sparsely populated areas, such as ordering banknotes Swish is an example of a service for the public good – online, by phone or at branches – which the customer that Handelsbanken helped to develop in collaboration can pick up at a postal service point. with other Swedish banks. By using Swish, all the Bank’s customers in Sweden can quickly and simply make payments to individuals, companies, associations and organisations that are linked to the service. BankID is electronic identiﬁcation that allows public authorities, organisations, companies and banks in Sweden to identify and enter into agreements with private individuals remotely, via a computer or smartphone. Using this electronic identiﬁcation, the person HA ND E LSB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2016 16 THE BANK’S ROLE IN THE COMMUNITY EFN shares financial knowledge EFN.se broadcasts the most important news At Handelsbanken, we believe that customers on personal finance, stock and other finanwho are aware of and understand their financial markets, the business community cial situation are more satisfied customers. including small and large companies, macroThat is why we work continuously to provide economics and international economics. our customers with the best conditions possiProgrammes include: ble for making better financial decisions. Since 2013, Handelsbanken’s subsidiary EFN Börslunch (Stock market lunch) has provided financial news online. EFN.se is Börslunch is broadcast every weekday at an independent source of journalism broad11:45 and focuses on the latest events in casting programmes in three areas: financial financial markets worldwide. Programme news, personal finance and financial markets. hosts and guests analyse the situation. Through news reports, in-depth programmes and features, EFN explains complex subjects, EFN förklarar (EFN explains) relationships and events around the world. The world of economics and finance is EFN.se gives customers the opportunity to full of special terminology: share issue, deepen their knowledge of their own finances spread, Gini coefficient, and more. EFN as well as broader international issues. The makes these terms easy to understand. service is free of charge and available to everyone via a computer, smartphone or tablet. Plånboksnytt (Wallet news) In 2016, EFN.se was voted Sweden’s best finanPlånboksnytt broadcasts brief, up-to-date cial news channel by executive managers in news covering everyday finances: petrol Swedish listed companies, in the annual rankand electricity prices, the housing market, ing of journalists carried out by Hallvarsson & healthcare insurance, and more. Halvarsson. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPO RT 20 16 17 THE BANK’S ROLE IN THE COMMUNITY Economic Handelsbanken’s profitability benefits society at large as well as the Bank’s shareholders. Handelsbanken is one of the few Nordic banks that has not sought financial support from central banks, taxpayers or its shareholders in funding is based on a well-structured balance modern times. sheet in which long-term loans to the Bank’s customers are ﬁnanced with stable funding. THE FOUNDATION OF A BANK’S For this reason, mortgage loans are ﬁnanced OPERATIONS by covered bonds of long maturity issued by The raw material in a bank is money. The money Handelsbanken’s wholly owned mortgage institucomes from the capital that initially consists of the tion, Stadshypotek. By always maintaining a share capital that the owners pay in when a bank balance sheet that is structured to safeguard the is founded, but also from proﬁts generated over Bank’s commitments to customers and investors, time and other funding. The funding consists of Handelsbanken acts responsibly in its role as a deposits and borrowing from the public and major player in the ﬁnancial system. “For Handelsbanken, money that the bank borrows in the capital It is vital that banks have a solid long-term fundmarkets. In the same way as a manufacturer’s ing strategy so they avoid running short of liquidtax is an important process for its raw materials is relevant from a ity, a situation in which they might not be able to sustainability perspective, important factors to fulﬁl their undertakings to customers with money sustainability issue. consider for a bank include how that bank manages its capital and how it works with funding. on deposit and to other providers of funding. We contribute to the VALUE CREATION IN 2016 community in the counCapital It is vital that a bank makes a proﬁt. Not only does To ensure that banks are sufﬁciently resistant to the proﬁt generate tax revenue for the community tries where we operate the risks arising in their operations, but also to and a return for shareholders, but a large proporprotect customers’ assets and interests, the pubtion of the proﬁt is reinvested in the operations. by paying taxes and lic authorities have established capital requirements. These are rules for the minimum amount That means the bank can grow and meet customers’ future needs, such as for loans. charges and by employof capital a bank must have in order to run its Since 1973, in every year but three, Handelsing people.” operations. If a bank wants to meet customers’ banken has allocated part of the Bank’s proﬁts to future loan requirements and be able to do more the employee-owned proﬁt-sharing foundation business, it must have sufﬁcient capital for its curOktogonen. One condition for the allocation is rent business volume and enough capital to conthat Handelsbanken meets its corporate goal. tinue to grow. From the customer’s viewpoint, it is Each employee receives an equal part of the alloparticularly important that the bank has resources cated amount. The Oktogonen proﬁt-sharing available in times of ﬁnancial turmoil, as in the foundation is described in more detail on page 44. early 1990s or following the ﬁnancial crisis of In 2016, Handelsbanken’s proﬁt before taxes 2008. If a bank makes substantial losses, its and government fees was more than SEK 24 shareholders may have to contribute more share billion. This created value was distributed as capital through a new share issue, which may be follows: more than SEK 8 billion in taxes and difﬁcult in such circumstances. government fees, SEK 9.7 billion in proposed One condition for customers putting money in dividends, to be paid to the shareholders in a bank is that they have conﬁdence in the bank. the spring of 2017, and the remaining just over A bank that does not meet its customers’ expecSEK 7 billion reinvested in the operations. tations risks an outﬂow of deposits when the crisis is at its peak. If the outﬂow is large, the bank’s HANDELSBANKEN AS A TAXPAYER survival could be jeopardised. Outﬂows of savings For Handelsbanken, tax is an important sustainathat customers have invested in mutual funds, bility issue. We contribute to the community in the life insurance and other types of saving not used countries where we operate by paying taxes and for the operations’ own funding are not as grave. charges and by employing people. We maintain Nevertheless, they can signiﬁcantly harm the an open dialogue with the tax authorities in the bank’s earnings capacity, perhaps leading to countries where we operate. In the UK, Handelsproblems. banken has adopted the British tax authorities’ code of conduct for banks. Funding in capital markets For many years, Handelsbanken has been one For a large part of deposits, customers can withof the largest payers of corporate tax in Sweden. draw money from their account at any time. But In addition to corporate tax, Handelsbanken pays much bank lending has a long maturity – mortsubstantial amounts in social security contribugage loans, for example. So it is not prudent to tions and other taxes. Historically, it has been the fund all lending with deposits. Funding long-term largest payer to the Swedish Stability Fund (the lending with short-term deposits creates liquidity resolution reserve) for the ﬁnancial system and risks which may cause serious problems in the one of the largest payers to the state deposit ﬁnancial system. Handelsbanken’s approach to guarantee scheme. For 2016, Handelsbanken’s HA ND E LSB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PORT 2016 18 THE BANK’S ROLE IN THE COMMUNITY value creation total taxes and government fees exceeded DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE SEK 8 billion (8). Another signiﬁcant expense During the most recent business cycle, Handelsfor Handelsbanken is value-added tax (VAT). banken paid dividends to its shareholders every Because VAT is not charged on most banking year, while remaining one of the largest payers of products, the Bank’s customers do not pay VAT corporate tax in Sweden. on ﬁnancial services. Hence the Bank cannot recover input VAT that it pays when buying INDIRECT ECONOMIC EFFECTS external services and products. Through its lending to companies in the Bank’s In addition to the taxes relating to the Bank’s six home markets, Handelsbanken helps ﬁnance own operations, the Bank reports and pays growth and increased employment. Handelsin substantial amounts to the tax authorities in banken is the largest player in terms of lending the countries where it operates, on behalf of its to companies in Sweden. customers and employees. By enabling households to ﬁnance home purDistribution of STABLE THROUGH THE FINANCIAL CRISIS chases, the Bank helps them move to locations with, for example, better employment prospects. economic value Throughout the ﬁnancial crisis, Handelsbanken The Handelsbanken Group ﬁnances almost one did not use the Swedish government’s capital quarter of household mortgage loans in Sweden. 40 support or guarantee programme and was the only listed Swedish bank that did not need to ask its shareholders for fresh capital. When the ﬁnancial crisis was at its height in 35 Sweden in 2009, Handelsbanken provided about SEK 100 billion to be at the disposal of the Riksbank, the central bank. A well-run bank, which acts sustainably and 30 responsibly, has a substantial positive impact on the economy in general. This applies not only to direct economic effects such as paying corporate 25 tax, but also to the indirect effects. 20 Kista Branch | Sweden 15 10 5 SEK m 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Reinvested economic value Dividends (refers to the year dividends were paid) Fees for the Swedish Resolution Fund Tax expenses Suppliers Social security costs Provision to profit-sharing foundation including social security costs Salaries H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 6 19 THE BANK’S INDIRECT IMPACT The Bank’s indirect impact Handelsbanken must act responsibly and with a long-term perspective. Through responsible lending and investment, we can influence our customers to respect human rights and working conditions and to pay attention to the environment. Financial advice in conjunction with lending must always include the customer being unable to sell its product or be based on the customer’s overall situation and ﬁnancial the risk that more stringent environmental regulations on position. Using this knowledge, the Bank can provide the customer’s manufacturing process might damage guidance based on the individual needs of each customer. the company’s repayment capacity. This puts the focus on the customer – not individual The branch which is responsible for the customer products or services. assesses the credit risk. Thus, the branch also assesses Handelsbanken does not apply performanceor volumehow factors such as environmental risks or the custombased bonuses, or other forms of variable remuneration er’s approach to human rights will affect the customer’s for employees who decide on credits or limits. Nor does repayment capacity. All this is part of the business the Bank have volume or market share goals. assessment, the Bank’s method for evaluating a customer. The business assessment is an effective method for RESPONSIBLE LENDING branches to identify and assess risks. It also provides Credits to households and companies are Handelsgood documentation for higher levels in the Bank when banken’s core operations. The Bank considers it parathey must evaluate credit risk and monitor that branches mount that lending be based on an assessment of the are taking into account environmental issues, human individual customer’s repayment capacity, so the Bank rights, fundamental principles of working conditions and does not grant credit to customers who cannot repay other such factors when assessing credit risk. For a long their loans. A weak repayment capacity can never be justime, the Bank has taken a restrictive approach to risk. tiﬁed by arguments that the customer is prepared to pay This risk culture and expertise on the part of the staff is a high interest rate or can offer the Bank good collateral. best maintained and developed in day-to-day work and This protects the individual customer from running into learning at the branches. ﬁnancial difﬁculties due to excessive indebtedness – During 2016, work began on expanding the assesswhich also beneﬁts the Bank and society at large. ment and documentation of sustainability aspects in the credit-granting process. Decentralised decisions Decision-making at Handelsbanken is strictly decentralised to the local branch. Each branch has its own area of operations which constitutes the branch’s local market. This gives Handelsbanken a distinct local presence in “ Taking important business all markets where the Bank operates. Taking important business decisions on the spot, in a discussion with the customer, is a sound basis for successful customer decisions on the spot, meetings. This creates close, long-term relationships with our customers. in a discussion with the Rules and principles when granting credits customer, is a sound basis Sustainability aspects are a vital part of the Bank’s credit policy. The policy states that the Bank’s lending must be responsible and meet high demands for sound ethical for successful customer standards. Handelsbanken respects human rights and fundamental principles of working conditions and envimeetings.” ronmental considerations, and supports anti-corruption measures, regardless of where in the world the Bank operates. Handelsbanken supports international initiatives and guidelines with the common aim of encouraging and facilitating corporate sustainability. Thus, in its lending Handelsbanken must assess and evaluate each customer’s stance on these principles and guidelines. Ultimately, this can result in Handelsbanken declining to grant credit to companies that do not apply these principles. Handelsbanken’s credit assessments take into account factors such as how environmental risks affect the customer’s repayment capacity. Such risks might HA ND EL SB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R EPORT 2016 20 THE BANK’S INDIRECT IMPACT Sweden 63.4% Norway 12.5% Loans to the public, UK 9.9% geographical distribution 2016 Finland 6.2% Total: 1,964 bn Denmark 4.9% The Netherlands 1.6% Other countries 1.5% Guidelines for business relations with the armaments and defence industry Handelsbanken’s Guidelines for business relations with the armaments and defence industry state that the Bank must not have business relations with companies that manufacture or trade in weapons that are prohibited under international conventions. This includes biological weapons, chemical weapons, anti-personnel mines and cluster munitions. Handelsbanken cannot have business relations with companies that manufacture or trade in nuclear weapons, or with companies that export weapons to countries under a UN or EU embargo. Private individuals 50.0% Property management 27.5% Guidelines for business relations with companies companies with operations within fossil fuels Loans to the public 2016 Corporates 12.2% During the year, Handelsbanken introduced guidelines Total: 1,964 bn for business relations with companies active in the Housing co-operative 9.5% associations extraction of fossil fuels or energy production based on fossil fuels. According to the guidelines, Handelsbanken Sovereigns and 0.8% must not ﬁnance new mining of coal for combustion or municipalities new coal power plants, nor initiate new business relations with companies operating in coal mining that are not working actively to ensure a transition to renewable energy sources. Equator Principles In 2016, Handelsbanken adopted the Equator Principles. The Principles are a framework that provides guidance to ﬁnancial institutions for assessing social and environmental risks in project ﬁnance. For more details, see page 46. Green bonds Interest in sustainability and green the launch of an innovative bond probonds is growing quickly in the fixed gramme with integrated green terms. income markets. Green bonds enable In addition, the first sustainability bond investors to fund projects for which the in the Nordic region, which includes borrower has sought a second opinion both environmental and social investof the environmental benefits and susments, was launched on behalf of a In addition, for the third year running tainability of the investments from an customer. Handelsbanken Capital Markets organexternal party. Handelsbanken Capital Markets ised a well-attended conference for In 2016, Handelsbanken Capital Marserved as advisor to almost one third of borrowers and investors in Stockholm kets contributed to the development of the Nordic borrowers that issued their on the theme of green bonds and susthis market by serving as an advisor in inaugural green bonds in the past year. tainable capital markets. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 20 16 21 THE BANK’S INDIRECT IMPACT “A long-term approach is essential to Handelsbanken’s corporate culture and is well integrated into our investment philosophy.” RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT AT Financial, social and environmental sustainability are HANDELSBANKEN LIV taken into account in the assessment and selection of Through its subsidiary Handelsbanken Liv, Handelswhich mutual funds to offer. Investments in mutual funds banken offers pension solutions and other insurance and in investment products are preceded by an assesssolutions for private and corporate customers. ment of the suppliers as well as their individual products. For During the year, Handelsbanken Liv’s board adopted a example, each fund management company must have polipolicy for sustainability that sets the direction for sustaincies or principles for systematic work for sustainability and ability in its operations. The company offers sustainable must periodically perform analyses of their mutual funds. insurance products in savings, pensions and security, for Monitoring of all the funds on offer is carried out regularly example, and ensures that sustainability is integral to the in order to identify companies that systematically violate investments offered customers. international standards for the environment, human rights, For some time, Handelsbanken Liv has had a policy labour law, anti-corruption, controversial weapons, etc. If for responsible investment based on the Global Compact the evaluation of a mutual fund indicates non-compliance and PRI. When selecting and assessing asset managers, with these standards, a dialogue is initiated with the fund mutual funds and fund management companies, Handelsmanager with the aim of inﬂuencing the manager to review banken Liv factors in how well they meet the sustainability the fund’s holdings. Handelsbanken Liv also examines requirements adopted. the fund management company’s capacity to integrate sustainability in its own operations. If the dialogue with the Review of mutual funds asset manager does not lead to a change, the mutual fund In 2016, Handelsbanken Liv reﬁned and quality assured may be excluded from the offering as a result. Handelsits processes for selecting and evaluating the sustainable banken Liv’s fund selection committee compiles such investments it offers customers. During an implementareviews and prepares supporting documentation to detertion phase, the current range of mutual funds is being mine which mutual funds will be included in or excluded reviewed to determine which funds and fund managefrom its range of funds. Decisions are made by the subsidment companies satisfy the stricter criteria for sustainaiary’s Chief Executive. bility established by Handelsbanken Liv in 2016. If this Handelsbanken Liv strives to exclude funds that invest review indicates that a fund does not fulﬁl the requirein companies with signiﬁcant operations that mine coal for ments for responsible investment, it may be excluded combustion or generate coal-ﬁred power as well as compafrom the range of funds available. In 2017, restructuring nies involved in the manufacture or distribution of weapons of the range of mutual funds offered will continue, in order that are banned under international law (such as cluster to comply with stricter sustainability criteria. munitions, anti-personnel mines, chemical weapons and H AN DE L SB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PORT 2016 22 THE BANK’S INDIRECT IMPACT biological weapons). Handelsbanken Liv also strives to Kapitalförvaltning for index management. The new strucexclude funds with investments in companies that are inture enables us to make the most of the strengths of each Sustainability profile volved in the production or distribution of nuclear weapons. management model. It also enables us to clarify how we in our range of mutual However, the regulations for index funds allow limited integrate sustainability into different investment methods. funds possibilities for making changes that jeopardise a fund’s Active management is based on the analysis of comability to deliver a return in line with its underlying index. panies and markets, and the investment process aims to During the year, HandelsHandelsbanken Liv works to ensure that index fund manﬁnd and invest in the right companies. Here, sustainability banken made it even easier agers track sustainable indexes. is important in making better investment decisions. Susfor customers to compare its The majority of customers’ pension capital is managed tainability research is done on a regular basis and is an funds and to obtain information by Handelsbanken Asset Management, which was thus integral part of our asset managers’ investment process. about how the funds apply the largest supplier of Handelsbanken Liv’s traditional In our view, an integrated working method, in which sussustainability criteria in their pension management and unit-linked management durtainability topics are part of both company analysis and management through Hållbaring the year. investment decisions, creates the greatest value in porthetsprofilen, a sustainability folios in the long term. As we have a long-term investment declaration for funds (available RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT IN horizon, we have no interest in investing in companies in Swedish). It is easy to access ASSET MANAGEMENT that take short-term shortcuts. The sustainability dimenvia Handelsbanken’s website As an asset manager, Handelsbanken is entrusted by its sion helps identify risks in the companies’ business models customers to manage their savings in the optimum way. and identify investment opportunities. and in the Bank’s apps. The Our goal is to generate strong long-term returns for our One investment approach in active management is profile includes each fund’s customers, which requires that we invest in a sustainathematic investing, a way of identifying external changes sustainability rating, which is ble, responsible manner. We do this by integrating suswith a long-term impact on companies’ proﬁtability. Global based on Morningstar’s Sustaintainability topics in our investment process and offering water supply and energy efﬁciency are two themes where ability Rating and measures a wide range of mutual funds and other savings products we identify companies that contribute efﬁcient solutions how well the companies in that meet customers’ expectations. to the global problems of water shortages and energy which a fund is invested manA long-term approach is essential to Handelsbanken’s consumption. age sustainability compared corporate culture and is well integrated into our investIndex management is a rule-based management with other funds in the same ment philosophy. In mutual fund and asset management, approach with no company analysis. Instead, our index category. as well as pension management, we strive to contribute managers ensure that the funds track the markets to sustainable development in ﬁnancial, social and enviselected by customers in an optimum, cost-effective ronmental terms in the companies in which we invest on manner. Here, sustainability entails tracking the “right” behalf of our customers. We do so based on common index, that is, one not including companies that we wish standards set out in international conventions and guideto avoid. During the year, we worked actively to improve lines. Handelsbanken adheres to the UN Principles for our methods of governance and to develop indexes Responsible Investment (PRI). for responsible investment. This gives more latitude to exclude companies that do not live up to the fund manOne value base – two ways of investing agement company’s fundamental values. All our asset management is based on the same values: Handelsbanken’s corporate culture and a framework Ongoing efforts to reduce our climate impact resting on international standards. At year-end 2015, we During the year, we continued our environmental work in split asset management operations into two companies: asset management, where we work at three levels: inﬂuHandelsbanken Fonder for active management, and Xact ence, exclusion and transparency. Active management for sustainable investments “At Handelsbanken, we help compadevelop technologies to limit global tures glass for solar panels. The pronies with sustainable business models warming and companies that work to duction itself is energy-intensive, but grow. This benefits our unit holders and reduce society’s need for energy. Many that should be weighed against the fact contributes to long-term sustainable companies in this area are in a start-up that the product saves CO2 throughout development for society at large,” says phase, which involves risks as well as its service life,” says Patric. Patric Lindqvist, manager of the Hållopportunities. bar Energi (sustainable energy) fund. “Our analysis is very important here. A standardised screening of compaTo meet the climate goals in the Paris nies may end up rejecting companies Agreement, we must boost investment with high emissions. But we take the in sustainable energy. The sector consustainability analysis one step further tains major growth and investment and examine the entire value chain. opportunities. In the sustainable We put a great deal of effort into meetenergy fund, we actively seek out ing the companies, analysing them investment in sustainable business and understanding them. Take, for models, such as in companies that example, a company that manufacPatric Lindqvist H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 6 23 THE BANK’S INDIRECT IMPACT Equity and credit research At Handelsbanken, we continuWe try to inﬂuence the companies in which we invest ally strive to integrate our susto run their operations in a more “climate-smart” way. tainability efforts in our equity We do that either independently or together with other and credit research. In 2016, the investors. One way of reducing our mutual funds’ carbon footBank published sustainability print is to avoid, in various ways, companies operating in research for our customers coal mining and coal combustion, which we do in all our on two major Scandinavian mutual funds. In our Criteria funds, we go one step further and also exclude oil, gas and other fossil fuels. Combined companies, to scrutinise the with the exclusion of coal companies, the carbon footcompanies from a sustainability print in a number of our funds has decreased more than viewpoint and discuss the chal50 per cent. lenges and opportunities the Almost one third of the total assets under management is now invested in funds which exclude fossil fuels. companies face. The goal of our We also work for improvements in transparency and sustainability research is to better climate reporting. Since 2015, Handelsbanken has examine information in a standadhered to the Montréal Carbon Pledge, a UN initiative ardised way from a sustainabilwhereby asset owners and investment managers have committed to measuring and reporting the carbon footity viewpoint and enable peer print in their portfolios. As a ﬁrst step, we have measured comparisons of companies. and reported the carbon footprint of Handelsbanken’s equity funds. A summary of these funds is published at handelsbanken.se/csreng. Handelsbanken also supports the Carbon Disclosure lyse all our holdings of listed equities and corporate bonds. Project (CDP), an independent international non-proﬁt The purpose is to identify companies that do not comply organisation which works for transparency and a diawith international standards or conventions, so the logue concerning companies’ carbon dioxide emissions screening is “norm-based”. The analysis is based on the and climate strategies. Global Compact’s 10 principles, the International Labour Organization’s core conventions on labour laws, the Corporate governance OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and other In Handelsbanken’s asset management operations, the internationally accepted standards. Bank exercises an ownership role in the companies in If we determine that the companies we invest in do not which its mutual funds own shares on behalf of the fund meet the international standards and conventions that we unit holders. The goal is that the companies show optirespect, we contact these companies – independently or mal value performance in the long term, beneﬁtting our together with other investors. fund savers. This work follows the principles for governIn 2016, we conducted dialogues regarding speciﬁc ance set out in the Swedish Corporate Governance sustainability issues with almost 140 companies. These Code, such as in conjunction with shareholders’ meetdialogues have covered topics such as corruption, enviings and the composition of the companies’ boards. ronmental destruction and labour laws. A list of these Ahead of AGMs (Annual General Meetings) in 2016, we companies is published at handelsbanken.se/csreng. participated in the work of 27 nomination committees, Patience and persistence are vital in these processes and ahead of the 2017 AGMs, we have participated in 30 – up to a point. Divestment or exclusion of companies nomination committees. In the nomination work, we confrom our investments are a last resort if all other alternasider it particularly important to have a more even gender tives have failed. Any decision to undertake a dialogue distribution on the boards of Swedish companies. The to inﬂuence a company or to exclude it is made by the proportion of women on the boards of listed Swedish Responsible Investment Council and is implemented companies has increased in recent years and in 2016 through decisions by the management team in each fund averaged 31 per cent. The proportion of women on the management company. boards where we have been involved in the nomination During the year, we also initiated 10 targeted dialogues committee was on average 37 per cent. intended to proactively inﬂuence how companies work In 2016, Handelsbanken Asset Management voted towards sustainability. In our regular contacts with comat 153 AGMs, 82 of these in Swedish companies. pany management and analysts, we also receive inforMany of the companies we invest in are outside the mation about how the companies work with sustainability. Bank’s home markets, so during the year we began votIn 2016, our asset managers had meetings with almost ing through global representatives. This enables the fund 1,600 companies, in order to monitor their business management companies to exert an active inﬂuence by methods, performance and opportunities. participating in more AGMs and shareholder motions than previously. Exclusion of companies There are companies that do not act in line with the values Dialogue and inﬂuence which we at Handelsbanken stand for. An example of Our sustainability efforts rest on international standards such companies are those involved in nuclear weapons and conventions. In asset management, dialogue is our and other weapons that are banned under international main long-term method for contributing to sustainable law. All actively managed mutual funds at Handelsdevelopment. Twice a year, via an external party we anabanken exclude companies which are involved with HA ND E LSB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E P ORT 2016 24 THE BANK’S INDIRECT IMPACT MORE INFORMATION For more information, please see handelsbanken.se/csreng. There you will ﬁnd policies and documents such as: • Corporate governance policy and policy for responsible investment for Handelsbanken Fonder. • Xact Kapitalförvaltning AB’s policy for responsible investment. • Handelsbanken Liv’s policy for responsible investment and policy for sustainability. • Examples of companies with which we are having discussions • Examples of companies that we exclude • Information brochure about Responsible Investment • List of carbon footprints for Handelsbanken’s equity funds. controversial weapons. These companies are also increased the range of these funds and now offer a total excluded from our index funds, providing it does not of 19 funds with special criteria. The range now consists jeopardise the fund’s ability to track its index. of index funds, actively managed equity funds, ﬁxed We have also decided that our mutual funds must not income funds and an allocation fund with a special invest in companies with signiﬁcant operations in coal investment focus – all under the name of Criteria. At the power or in companies which mine coal for combustion. end of the year, the total assets managed in these funds We do so because combustion of coal accounts for a was SEK 165.8 billion, corresponding to more than 31 high proportion of greenhouse gas emissions. How we per cent of the total fund volume. avoid investments in coal and the list of the companies that have been excluded from Handelsbanken’s mutual Structured products with sustainability focus funds is published at handelsbanken.se/csreng. In 2016, Handelsbanken issued ﬁve equity-linked bonds with a sustainability focus. These are capital-protected Products with special sustainability focus investments that provide exposure to European and Criteria funds global companies with a strong focus on sustainability Handelsbanken also offers funds which observe special or to European and global companies with low climate criteria in their investment strategy, for example, excludimpact. The total value of these products exceeded ing investments in controversial businesses such as SEK 131 million. alcohol, tobacco and fossil fuels. In 2016, we further Collaboration and initiatives for sustainability in asset management SWESIF Sustainable value • Sustainable Stock Exchanges – an Handelsbanken Asset Management is creation initiative to persuade the stock a member of SWESIF, an independent Since 2009, Handelsbanken Asset exchanges of the world to demand network forum for organisations workManagement, together with other greater transparency in sustainability ing for or with sustainable investments major Swedish investors, has taken topics from listed companies. in Sweden. SWESIF aims to increase part in the Sustainable Value Creation PRI knowledge of and interest in sustainproject. The aim of the project is to PRI, the United Nations-backed • Montréal Carbon Pledge – an initiaable investments on the part of instituhighlight the importance of Swedish Principles for Responsible Investment tive for asset managers to undertake tional asset owners and managers. To listed companies working with sustainInitiative, is a network of investors to measure and report their funds’ make it easier for savers to compare ability topics in a structured manner. that work together with the UN to carbon footprints. mutual funds and how sustainability implement principles for responsible is integrated in their management, investment. Handelsbanken Fonder SWESIF has developed a sector-wide has participated in the following PRICDP sustainability proﬁle for mutual funds. related initiatives. CDP is an independent international Since 2015, most of Handelsbanken’s non-proﬁt organisation which works for funds have this type of sustainability • G20 Energy Efﬁciency Investor transparency and dialogue on compaproﬁle. More information about this Statement – an initiative to practise nies’ CO2 emissions and climate stratecan be found at hallbarhetsproﬁlen.se energy efﬁciency in our work with gies. Handelsbanken supports this (Swedish-only site). Since spring 2016, responsible investment. initiative and reports annually to CDP. Handelsbanken Asset Management has served on SWESIF’s board. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 6 25 The Bank as At Handelsbanken, we constantly strive for our corporate culture, with its decentralised working methods and belief in the individual, to be integral to our operations. This applies no matter where in the world Handelsbanken opens new branches. In 2016, Handelsbanken had 11,759 employees, working in more than 20 countries, of whom just over 40 per cent were employed outside Sweden. London | UK employer THE BANK AS EMPLOYER “Above all, working at Handelsbanken is about relationships with other people.” WE RECRUIT PEOPLE WHO SHARE All employees participate in their own unit’s business THE BANK’S BASIC VALUES planning every year. After that, individual competency Handelsbanken’s concept of how to run a successful mapping, planning dialogues and performance reviews full-service bank is based on trust and respect for the are carried out, linking the business operations’ goals individual – both customers and employees. Above all, working at Handelsbanken is about relationships with other people. Without the right staff, it does not matter how good the products or services are. When with each employee’s goals. The result is an individual action plan for each employee which is followed up regularly during the year and then forms the basis of an annual salary dialogue review between employee and 4.0% we recruit new employees, we seek people who share manager. the Bank’s fundamental values. For us, it is very important Handelsbanken’s traditionally good relationships with that our employees are driven by putting the customer ﬁrst, unions are a valuable component of the Bank’s culture. Staff turnover enjoy taking a large amount of individual responsibility, There is an ongoing, close dialogue between union Group and want to take their own initiatives. representatives and managers concerning operations Handelsbanken’s joint Group guidelines for its employ– such as when changes and new services are to be ees are based on the Bank’s corporate culture, working launched – where valuable information is exchanged at methods and fundamental view of people. the very early stages. CONSTANT DEVELOPMENT The Bank’s strength is derived from the combined competency of its employees. When employees develop, the INTERNAL LABOUR MARKET AND MANAGEMENT SUCCESSION Handelsbanken’s strong corporate culture and values 3.1% Bank develops. The most important source of increased are vital to our success. Due to the Bank’s decentralised professionalism is learning in our daily work, where all working methods, employees take a large amount of our employees are responsible for continual development personal responsibility, are given a mandate to take their – their own and that of the operations. Learning on a own decisions, and are driven by putting the customer in Staff turnover Sweden daily basis is supplemented by various training activities, focus. During their period of employment, employees are including training in investment and mortgage advice, given the opportunity to develop within different professustainability and ethics, and actions to counter money sional roles, to work in different areas of operations, and laundering and the ﬁnancing of terrorism. These courses also to work outside their home country. Internal mobility are organised by the Bank’s HR departments as well as contributes to both the working methods and culture central units. It is important that employees have the skills being spread to all parts of the operations. Thus internal they need to help our customers in the best way possible, recruitment and long-term employment are important to to provide advice when needed, and to comply with the us. To retain employees, the right conditions must exist current policies and regulations. for development in their work and consideration must There is a structured, continual relationship between also be taken of the stage of life that they are in. In 2016, the Bank’s operations and the employee’s development. the Bank continued to have low external staff turnover in the Group, totalling 4.0 per cent (3.0), and 3.1 per cent (2.1) in Sweden. The Wheel – the relationship between the Bank’s Managers at Handelsbanken must be exemplary operations and the employee’s development ambassadors for the Bank’s corporate culture, which explains why most managers are recruited internally. Smoothly functioning management succession planning activities are critical to being able to satisfy current and Business plan future needs for competency. In 2016, 99 per cent (100) process of all managers in Sweden were recruited internally. Business planning For the Group as a whole, the corresponding ﬁgure was 93 per cent (93). Salary dialogue PLUS One of the most important tasks for managers at the review CUSTOMER Bank is to identify, encourage and develop new managers in operations. LOCAL COMMITMENT Individual Action It is important that those who work at branches have follow-up planning natural links to, and good knowledge of, the town and local market. In the Bank’s home markets, the majority of managers and employees work and live in the local community where their branch does business. H AN DE L SB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PORT 2016 28 THE BANK AS EMPLOYER Common values create opportunities “I look for employees who share the 2010 he opened the Colchester that we achieve success in our local Bank’s fundamental values, people branch. As branch manager, he is also market,” says Alan. with common sense who provide responsible for recruiting his staff. good service to customers and take In addition to common values, the initiative,” says Alan Barnard, diversity is an important part of Branch Manager in Colchester, UK. Handelsbanken’s recruitment process. Handelsbanken’s decentralised busi“Our employees’ diverse compeness model gives branch managers tencies, experience and ways of a full mandate to make business thinking have a positive impact. I try decisions in their local markets. This to encourage and benefit from every appealed to Alan Barnard, and in single employee’s full potential so Alan Barnard At year-end, the proportion of managers in each home In Sweden we continued our efforts towards gender market’s management team who had been recruited equality and diversity during the year by training memlocally was 89 per cent (86). bers of management teams and employees in human resources. FOR GENDER EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY At Handelsbanken Capital Markets and HandelsGender equality, diversity and an inclusive corporate banken International, activities were carried out to stimuculture are part of our fundamental values and must be late discussion in working groups about values related a natural and integral part of our daily work. This entails to gender equality and diversity. making the most of the employees’ combined potential, Ongoing dialogue is necessary for our strong corporate and of broadening the recruitment base to become, to an culture to continue developing, and as a condition for this even greater extent, a bank that reﬂects the community we promote a healthy atmosphere in the workplace and in which we operate. Diversity encompasses various an inclusive culture where differences are valued and individuals’ different skills and work experience, different beneﬁted from. All types of discrimination and harassways of thinking and solving problems. ment are totally unacceptable, which is also stated in the Initiatives are being taken in several parts of the Group Groupwide guidelines for employees. to further increase knowledge and awareness of gender Incidents of discrimination concerning Handelsequality and diversity. banken’s employees are normally managed through In the UK, we signed the Women in Finance Charter, the Bank’s HR units, but cases reported to the national an initiative from HM Treasury, which means a commitdiscrimination ombudsman or a corresponding ofﬁcial ment to work for more gender balance in the ﬁnancial body are followed up at Group level. No such cases sector and to set our own goals and follow up on prowere reported in 2016. gress towards their fulﬁlment. AN EVEN MORE EQUAL HANDELSBANKEN Handelsbanken’s gender equality goal is to be a company where women and men have the same opportunities and conditions to shape the Bank and their own career. In all countries where we operate, a gender equality plan must be formulated to support the Group’s equality goal. The plan must be based on Handelsbanken’s fundamental values and take into account the laws and guidelines that apply in the country. One aim of this is to create as even a gender distribution as possible within different professional roles, working groups and units. In the Group as a whole, 40 per cent (39) of managers were women; the corresponding ﬁgure for the total number of employees in the Group was 50 per cent (50). In Sweden 48 per cent (47) of the Bank’s managers were women at year-end; the corresponding ﬁgure for the total number of employees in Sweden was 53 per cent (53). Our work with gender equality is continuing, with various measures aimed at making Handelsbanken an even more gender-equal company. Training is carried out within the organisation to increase awareness of how social and cultural norms affect attitudes and behaviour in everyday life. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 6 29 THE BANK AS EMPLOYER GENDER-EQUAL SALARIES AT HANDELSBANKEN In connection with crisis situations, there are well-developed The Bank is working to rectify unwarranted pay differenprocedures, including a support programme with the help tials between women and men. In Sweden this work has of external partners. advanced for several years in co-operation with the union organisations, so it is now an integral part of ordinary CULTURE AND ACTIVITIES business operations. The Bank and the union organisaHandelsbanken offers a large number of subsidised healthtions work together to safeguard the results achieved promotion activities. and to closely monitor trends in gender-equal salaries There is a rich variety of activities as well as a long within the Bank. Managers at the Bank have a mandate tradition of clubs, societies and the like. A sports and leisure and the tools to correct any differentials that are identiassociation dating back to 1919 has almost 4,400 members ﬁed, and every year all salaries are mapped by the Bank and is one of the largest of its kind in Sweden. Finland and to act on any differentials that have arisen. Denmark have corresponding associations. There is also an Art Association with more than 3,700 WORK ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH members. The Association is divided into two sections: Handelsbanken’s overall goal for the work environment one for art and one for crafts and design. Handelsbanken is that employees should be able to enjoy good health, also has its Historical Association, whose aim is to spread develop on a personal level and function in an optimal knowledge about and preserve the Bank’s cultural heritage. way. This is a long-term goal that includes factors such as clear and honest communication, having the skills and competence and the right conditions to perform tasks and deal with work-related situations, having pride and conﬁdence in one’s work, respecting others, and being respected oneself. All employees are responsible for their own health and for contributing to the creation of a positive work environment. Together with their staff and employee representatives, managers must develop a safe, health-promoting workplace for a sustainable working life. Each manager is responsible for performing regular work environment surveys with their employees. This includes topics relating to the physical and psychosocial The staff magazine Remissan work environment, gender equality, diversity and an STAFF MAGAZINE started in 1948 and is a publicainclusive corporate culture. In a dialogue with their staff, The staff magazine Remissan started in 1948 and is a tion for, about and by the they identify what works well and what could be better. publication for, about and by the employees of Handelsemployees of Handelsbanken. This results in a work environment plan with activities to banken. Remissan’s task is to create a sense of community, maintain and develop a positive, health-promoting work belonging and commitment among the employees and to environment. The plan is then integrated with the unit’s reﬂect the culture throughout the Group. The magazine is business plan and in this way becomes a natural part of published in Swedish and English and is distributed to all how the operation develops. employees in the Group. The plans are regularly followed up in order to evaluate and continuously improve the Bank’s efforts for the work COLLABORATIONS WITH YOUNG PEOPLE environment and health. Trends in the sickness absence Handelsbanken has a number of collaborations with rate and reported incidents are also monitored. schools, universities and colleges that are an important Student Programme Handelsbanken’s Student Programme workplace with an atmosphere where a university degree in business adminstarted in Sweden in 2011. Since then, every employee’s drive to develop the istration. This is a great combination 140 young people have combined Bank is made the most of. Together for the future,” says Iqra. their higher education studies with a with her supervisor, Iqra has designed job at a bank branch or the Bank’s IT an individual development plan, and department. her goal is to be a trained advisor by “I immediately felt that I was welthe end of the Programme. Iqra likes come to pitch in with my ideas and meeting people and being a leader. drive to create business opportuniSo a managerial position at Handelsties,” says Iqra Sahi, a participant in banken is part of her plans for the the Student Programme. future. “Thanks to the Student Programme, Iqra felt at home from her very first day I have the opportunity to get the best at the Jönköping branch. She found a managerial training while completing Iqra Sahi H AN DE L SB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E P ORT 2016 30 THE BANK AS EMPLOYER “ Handelsbanken has a number of collaborations with schools, universities and colleges that are an important part of its long-term employer branding work.” part of its long-term employer branding work. For example, we participate in training courses, contribute our competency and experience, and offer opportunities for internships that give students experience and contact Oktogonen Foundation with workplaces. Each summer, many students work One condition for achieving the profit-sharing scheme is long-term, at the Bank as temporary staff, which contributes to Handelsbanken’s development and that of the students. Bank’s corporate goal of better profitas payments cannot be made until Student degree thesis projects are another valuable ability than the average of peer the age of 60. Of the Group’s employway of exchanging knowledge. Several of our managers banks in its home markets is that the ees, 98 per cent are now covered by and employees are active in various external mentor programmes and networks in order to contribute to work Bank’s employees outperform their Oktogonen. with integration and diversity. peers in the rest of the sector. In For many years, the profit-sharing every year but three since 1973, foundation has been one of the Handelsbanken’s Student Programme Handelsbanken has allocated part of Bank’s largest shareholders, and Handelsbanken in Sweden has a Student Programme aimed at young people who are about to start a university the Bank’s profits to a profit-sharing Oktogonen nominates two reprecourse. The students participate in the Bank’s programme scheme for its employees. The funds sentatives for election to the in parallel with their studies. The aim of the programme are managed by the Oktogonen Board of Handelsbanken. Since is to attract and recruit young employees as part of Foundation. Oktogonen’s board is made up of Handelsbanken’s future management succession, and to promote gender equality and diversity. The proAllocations are subject to Handelsrepresentatives from the employee gramme includes the student working at the Bank during banken achieving its corporate goal. organisations, employees have their student years, having their own action plan and All employees receive an equal part the opportunity to influence the receiving the relevant training to be able to develop at of the allocated amount, regardless election of Handelsbanken’s Board. Handelsbanken. A total of 140 students are participating or have participated in the Student Programme since its of their position or work tasks. The inception in 2011. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 20 16 31 THE BANK’S BUSINESS CULTURE The Bank’s business culture Handelsbanken’s success depends on the trust of our customers and the business world. This trust is based upon us acting according to high ethical standards and taking responsibility for sustainable development in the long term. Corporate philosophy Handelsbanken manages large amounts of money, and it is important we do it properly. Conﬁdence in the Bank and our operations is based on ethical actions and high moral standards in everything we do. Each employee’s actions are important for the success of the Bank. The Bank demonstrates great conﬁdence in and respect for all employees. When we recruit new employees, we seek people who share the Bank’s fundamental values. This means that we behave with care, sound judgement and common sense – we quite simply do things we can stand by. We make tough demands on good administrative order in the Bank. By doing things the right way the ﬁrst time, we reduce the risk and cost of correcting things later. Instead, we can devote time and emphasis on making our customers even more satisﬁed, and increasing our income. Of course, to maintain good administrative order our employees must follow the regulations and legislation that govern the Bank’s operations and we must have reliable work processes and follow-up. In this way we can uphold the trust which customers, owners and Piteå Branch | Sweden other stakeholders have put in us. Handelsbanken’s policy Policy for ethical standards on ethical standards covers: at Handelsbanken Handelsbanken’s policy document for ethical standards has been adopted by the Bank’s Board and formulates the basic guidelines for every employee’s actions. • High ethical standards • Conduct of employees Banks’ operations are regulated by legislation and are governed • Laws, regulations and guid• Reporting by employees by extensive laws and regulations. If a bank does not comply with ing principles who suspect internal fraud the laws and regulations, the responsible supervisory authority can • The UN Global Compact or other irregularities impose ﬁnes and, in the worst case, revoke the banking licence. A self-evident rule is that Handelsbanken and the Bank’s employ• Counteracting financial crime • Confidentiality ees must comply with the laws and regulations that govern the • Customer relations • External contractors Bank’s operations. If the individual has poorer protection from local • Counteracting conflicts laws and regulations than Swedish laws, regulations and principles, of interest Handelsbanken applies the latter. Policy for sustainability Handelsbanken’s policy for sustainability was adopted integrate ﬁnancial, social and environmental sustainability by the Board in March 2016. The policy establishes the into all its business operations. focus of sustainability activities in the Group, in terms of Handelsbanken’s success depends on the conﬁdence Handelsbanken’s approach to material topics regarding of customers, employees, owners, public authorities and customer relations, the Group as an employer and instiother stakeholders that the Group is acting in a responsitution in society, and also its relationship with owners ble manner. In order for this conﬁdence to be maintained, and investors. The policy covers the following areas: there must be transparency in the Group’s sustainability environment, human rights and working conditions, activities. money laundering and taxes. Handelsbanken aims to H AN DE L SB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E P ORT 2016 32 THE BANK’S BUSINESS CULTURE Action against money laundering and financConduct of employees ing of terrorism Handelsbanken’s employees: Money laundering and ﬁnancing of terrorism are international problems. The ﬁnancial system can be protected • must not be in a position • are not permitted to process through prevention, identiﬁcation and investigation of where they may be suspected transactions in which they, or suspicious behaviour and transactions, but only with the of taking improper advantage persons closely associated active participation of all participants in the ﬁnancial system. Handelsbanken regards work to prevent money of knowledge about the finanwith them, have a personal laundering and the ﬁnancing of terrorism as a fundamencial markets which they obtain interest. This also applies to tal principle for secure and sound bank operations. in the course of their work. companies to which these One prerequisite for the regulations against money laundering and ﬁnancing of terrorism is that banks must employees or persons closely • must be familiar with legislaassociated with them have a have good knowledge of their customers and document customer due diligence. Handelsbanken’s decentralised tion concerning trading in commitment. working methods and strong local presence in the comfinancial instruments and munity create a solid basis for close, long-term customer observe the Bank’s rules for • must notify compliance or relations. This means that our staff know their customers internal audit if they suspect employees’ private securities and understand their business and requirements. All our customer relations begin at one of our branches. and currency transactions. irregularities at the Bank. Our customers also meet Handelsbanken 24 hours a day Handelsbanken’s separate sysin our digital meeting places, via online banking or their • must, in their work at the Bank tem for whistleblowing may be smartphones. This means that Handelsbanken needs to and in their private affairs, used as well as these reporting stay informed of how our customers are using our prodrefrain from business transacchannels. ucts, services and channels. This enables us to understand customer needs and behaviour, and also to work tions that violate the Bank’s effectively through actions against money laundering and rules or current legislation. • must notify the Bank of assignthe ﬁnancing of terrorism. ments outside the Bank and All employees and managers participate in mandatory • must refrain from transactions obtain approval. These rules training in this area at least once a year and have ongoing or other commitments that also apply to secondary occuresponsibility to be attentive and take action within the scope of their function. could seriously jeopardise their pations and certain posts in Efforts against money laundering and ﬁnancing of terpersonal financial position. clubs, societies and the like. rorism demand the skills and awareness of all employees of the Bank, customised processes and IT solutions. To reinforce Handelsbanken’s work in this area, the Bank invested extensively in expertise and new technology in 2016. The Bank’s anti-money-laundering organisation has been strengthened with more employees. Additionally, governance documents which describe responsibilities, “Handelsbanken regards processes and procedures in the area have been developed and clariﬁed. This has led to risk assessments work to prevent money that more sharply highlight the risk of money laundering, more sophisticated procedures for customer due dililaundering and the gence, increased training efforts and the development of IT systems. financing of terrorism as a fundamental principle for secure and sound bank operations.” H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 6 33 THE BANK’S BUSINESS CULTURE Conflicts of interest, or supplier, or have improper inﬂuence on a customer or supplier. Each year all unit heads must review the regulations corruption, bribery and applying to bribery and improper inﬂuence with their employimproper influence ees. The Bank’s employees must not participate in actions that may involve bribery or any other improper inﬂuence, either Conﬂicts of interest occur daily in society, and the ﬁnancial within the Bank’s operations, or when they perform other sector is no exception. All employees of Handelsbanken, assignments outside the Bank. There are also procedures regardless of where they work in the Group, are obliged to for how employees are to report a suspected breach of these follow the Bank’s regulations concerning conﬂicts of interest. regulations. Employees must identify conﬂicts of interest whenever they The regulations must be followed in all contexts, such as arise and, as far as possible, ensure that they are avoided. gifts, corporate hospitality and other events. For example, Handelsbanken has established procedures for managing employees’ business travel must always be paid for by the conﬂicts of interest with the purpose of preventing customers’ Bank. interests from being negatively affected. The Bank’s regulaEach year, operational risk analyses are performed which tions contain requirements for transparency, whereby the cusinclude the area of corruption. Security reviews are also pertomer must be informed when a conﬂict of interest has been formed every year and these contain a training and information identiﬁed which might affect the customer. In 2016, Handelssection on corruption. banken’s Board revised the Bank’s policy for managing conHandelsbanken’s anti-corruption policy states that all Bank ﬂicts of interest in order to further clarify the Bank’s work in this employees must complete a course on corruption, bribery and area, for example, through enhanced reporting of conﬂicts of improper inﬂuence each year. This course will be launched in interest. The policy includes details on the procedure for identiearly 2017, and its implementation will be documented. The fying and managing conﬂicts of interest. policy also applies to members of Handelsbanken’s Central In banking operations, there is a risk that staff will be Board and boards of subsidiaries who must complete speciﬁc exposed to situations that can be linked to attempts at bribery, parts of the course. Service providers and representatives which in turn may lead to a position of dependence. It is thereof the Bank must also be informed of the Bank’s rules on fore important that the Bank’s employees comply with laws bribery, improper inﬂuence and corruption, and they are and the Bank’s regulations regarding bribery and improper subject to these rules when they perform assignments on inﬂuence so that they avoid being dependent on a customer behalf of the Bank. The Bank as a customer and our suppliers Ethical considerations are just as important for the Bank in its role as customer as when it supplies products and services. We have a regular dialogue with suppliers and when making purchasing decisions, we check that they have collective bargaining agreements, a work environment policy and a policy against giving and accepting bribes. Environmental considerations are also taken in purchasing decisions. A checklist helps ensure quality in the Bank’s purchases. In 2016, Handelsbanken implemented a code of conduct for major suppliers in Sweden. Results have been good, and many of the Bank’s major suppliers have signed the code. In 2017, the code will also be introduced to the Bank’s other home markets; it is already being implemented in some of these. We see a positive link between the code of conduct and our relationships with suppliers as well as their direct impact on our sustainability. The code of conduct deﬁnes the expectations we have on our suppliers and their sub-contractors. Most of the requirements are based on internationally accepted standards, with the UN Global Compact as the starting point. This means that the Bank expects suppliers to comply with the code of conduct or corresponding standards. The supplier is also obliged to ensure that their employees and sub-contractors in turn meet the expectations in the code. H AN DE L SB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PORT 2016 34 THE BANK AS AN INVESTMENT “ Each year, operational risk analyses are performed which include the area of corruption.” Sustainable value creation Long-term and responsible business decisions that focus on In 2016, Handelsbanken’s share price rose 12 per cent. During the same period, the Swedish stock market customer needs foster the conditions for sustainable value advanced 5 per cent, the Stockholm stock exchange’s creation. Handelsbanken’s policy for sustainability declares bank index increased by 11 per cent, and the Euro STOXX that “responsible actions are essential to long-term value Bank index declined 5 per cent. creation in Handelsbanken”. The general public can benefit A BUSINESS MODEL THAT CREATES from this value creation because the Bank’s shares are SHAREHOLDER VALUE traded in the open market. In Handelsbanken’s decentralised organisation, our customers’ needs are at the centre. The Bank works on Sustainable value creation consists of two parts: creating the basis of a well-tested business model that has not shareholder value and working to minimise the possible changed since the early 1970s. As a result of this decennegative impact of the company’s business operations tralisation, practically all important business decisions are on their surroundings. The former is easier to measure made close to our customers, at the local branch in the than the latter. The past 10 years have been a challengcommunity where the customer is active. This business ing time for many of the worlds’ banks. Handelsbanken is model has enabled the Bank to report proﬁtability at one of the few publicly traded banks in Europe that has very stable levels over a long period, and the Bank has generated a positive total return for its shareholders since achieved its ﬁnancial goal, to have better proﬁtability than the ﬁnancial crisis that began in the summer of 2007. the average of peer banks in its home markets, every Thus Handelsbanken is one of the few banks in Europe year since 1972. that fulﬁls a basic criterion for sustainable value creation – actually creating value. Proﬁtability The Bank’s structured working method for achieving Proﬁtability is a keyword at Handelsbanken, and for more long-term stable funding means that Handelsbanken is than four decades the objective has been to generate one of the few banks that has never needed to seek supshareholder value – but not at any cost. Value creation port from the government, taxpayers or central banks in must be sustainable. In addition to Handelsbanken’s modern times. ﬁnancial goals, the Bank aims to act as a responsible institution in society. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 6 35 THE BANK AS AN INVESTMENT Amager Branch | Denmark In the banking sector, there is often a strong connection Customer satisfaction between ﬁnancial and social sustainability. When ﬁnanYet another key phrase for Handelsbanken is “customer cial sustainability falters, there are often negative social satisfaction”. The Bank is convinced that there is a strong repercussions – and vice versa. This became obvious connection between sustainable long-term proﬁtability during the most recent ﬁnancial crisis, when weaker profand customers being satisﬁed with the service they itability in all too many banks – often a result of irresponsireceive and the products and services the Bank offers. ble lending – had a negative impact on society, for example in the form of lay-offs, customers forced to leave their Low risk tolerance homes, deterioration of the supply of services and prodA bank that takes a long-term approach and focuses on ucts for the public, and lower tax revenue for society as customer satisfaction with the aim of achieving proﬁtabila whole. Instead of contributing positively, many banks ity naturally has low risk tolerance. A large part of a became a ﬁnancial burden for their communities when bank’s business operations is based on managing risk. politicians were forced to use taxpayers’ money to save Handelsbanken’s business model focuses on taking debt-ridden banks considered too big to fail. credit risks in the branch operations and works to miniIt is vital that a bank makes a proﬁt. Not only does the mise other risks. The Bank deliberately avoids doing proﬁt generate a return for shareholders and tax revenue business with high risk, even if the customer is willing to for the community, but a large proportion of the proﬁt is pay a high interest rate. Handelsbanken has no targets in reinvested in operations. That allows the bank to meet terms of sales volumes or market share. Aggressive sellcustomers’ future loan requirements and generate ing of credits which leads to an unhealthy level of housegrowth in the future. hold and corporate debt always hits the customer hardest. The Bank’s stated goal is that no credit will result in A long-term approach losses. This promotes long-term value creation for the Another key concept that aptly describes HandelsBank’s shareholders, too. banken’s actions is “long-term”. The Bank takes a longterm view of its business operations and its relations with PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY customers. Handelsbanken views every recruitment of a Handelsbanken is a Swedish public limited company, new employee as important and long term. External staff which means that the public can invest in the Bank by turnover is low, and all members of Handelsbanken’s buying and selling shares in the open market. HandelsSenior Management were recruited internally, most havbanken’s shares are traded on several different market ing spent their entire working life in the Bank. Handelsplaces. Turnover is largest on Nasdaq Stockholm (the banken favours long-term investors as shareholders. Stockholm stock exchange), but for many years, the These approaches intersect in Handelsbanken’s shares have also been traded on other venues, such as proﬁt-sharing scheme Oktogonen, which is the direct BATS Chi-X. Handelsbanken has more than 100,000 opposite of a short-term bonus system. Handelsshareholders. banken’s proﬁt-sharing scheme is long-term, as disbursements cannot be made until an employee has DIVIDEND turned 60. In the meantime, the funds are invested in One of the purposes of Handelsbanken’s proﬁtability goal Handelsbanken shares. Consequently, the employees is to offer shareholders long-term high growth in value, take the same long-term view of the Bank’s business expressed in increasing earnings per share over a busioperations as other long-term shareholders do. ness cycle. The Bank aims for the ordinary dividend to HA ND E LSB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E P ORT 2016 36 THE BANK AS AN INVESTMENT SUSTAINABILITY INDEX COMPILED BY ECPI ECPI Ethibel Sustainability Index Forum Ethibel FTSE4Good FTSE OMX GES Sustainability Nasdaq OMX/GES SIX Sweden SRI Index SIX Finance Information STOXX Global ESG Leaders STOXX show long-term, stable growth which reﬂects the value Yearbook member”, which means that Handelsbanken creation. But the dividend level must not lead to the scored in the top 15 per cent of all the banks in the world. Member 2016/2017 authorities’ capital requirements not being met. Around 30 investment banks have research analysts In every one of the past 20 years, including during the who regularly monitor Handelsbanken and its shares. most recent ﬁnancial crisis, Handelsbanken has paid a In recent years, several of these investment banks have dividend to its shareholders. supplemented the traditional company research by also evaluating the Bank from a sustainability perspective. HANDELSBANKEN’S SHARE During the year, Handelsbanken has also been in con– A SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT tact with sustainability analysts from some 10 independent Research analysts who specialise in sustainability often research ﬁrms. These contacts often occur when research draw attention to Handelsbanken as a solid investment, ﬁrms ask the Bank to answer questionnaires consisting and the share is included in multiple sustainability indexes, of a number of standard questions. In recent years, such as Ethibel Sustainability Index, FTSE4Good, OMX Handelsbanken has taken the initiative to increase these GES Sustainability, SIX Sweden SRI Index and ECPI contacts by having an ongoing dialogue with each Global Developed ESG Best in Class Equity. research analyst. During the year, Handelsbanken participated in a During the past ﬁve years – since 31 December 2011 survey of sustainable companies conducted by the – Handelsbanken has generated positive shareholder RobecoSAM research company. This resulted in value of SEK 179 billion. Market capitalisation has grown Handelsbanken being included – for the ﬁrst time – in by SEK 133 billion, while the Bank has paid out SEK 46 the Sustainability Yearbook for 2017 as a “Sustainability billion in dividends to shareholders. A sustainable share “Many stakeholders track and evaluate When these research companies Europe that in the past 10 years has fulour share from a sustainability persum up their evaluation of the Bank’s filled one of the two basic criteria for susspective. Our share is included in sevsustainability work in their reports, tainable value creation – actually createral sustainability indexes and many of they often point to our financial stabiling value,” says Lars Kenneth. our institutional shareholders include ity, our view of business relations with sustainability aspects in their investcontroversial sectors, our focus on ment decisions. In addition to the large satisfied customers, our risk manageinvestment banks, we are in contact ment and the Bank as an employer as with a couple of independent research Handelsbanken’s strengths. companies with special focus on “Investors often tell us how they analysing companies from a sustainaappreciate our long-term approach and bility perspective,” says Lars Kenneth that responsible action is a natural part Dahlqvist from the Bank’s investor of the Bank’s business model. Handelsrelations unit. banken is also one of the few banks in Lars Kenneth Dahlqvist H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2016 37 Sustainability management CONTENTS OUR VIEW OF SUSTAINABILITY 39 FACTS: BUSINESS ETHICS 44 ORGANISATION FOR Policy on ethical standards 44 SUSTAINABILITY 39 Guidelines for managing taxes 44 Responsible Investment Council 39 Policy for sustainability 44 STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE 39 Anti-money-laundering activities 44 Our stakeholders 39 Conﬂicts of interest, corruption, bribery and improper inﬂuence 44 Materiality analysis 40 Integrity and conﬁdentiality Agenda 2030 and Handelsbanken 40 – Information security and IT security 45 SUMMARY OF CORPORATE FACTS: MODERN SLAVERY ACT GOVERNANCE 41 STATEMENT 45 Principles for corporate governance Policies, guidelines and actions taken at Handelsbanken 41 during the 2016 ﬁnancial year 45 Recruitment and diversity-related work by the Board 41 FACTS: EQUATOR PRINCIPLES 46 Internal control 41 FACTS: ENVIRONMENT 46 FACTS: FINANCIAL ASPECTS 41 Systematic environmental work 46 Lower loan losses 41 Energy and carbon dioxide 46 Capital 42 Method description for environmental data 47 Political independence 42 INITIATIVES, AWARDS, SURVEYS Taxes and allocated economic value 42 AND SUSTAINABILITY INDEXES 48 FACTS: EMPLOYEES 43 CONTENT AND RESTRICTIONS 52 Staff turnover 43 GLOBAL REPORTING Sickness absence 43 INITIATIVE INDEX 53 Remuneration and beneﬁts 43 AUDITOR’S REPORT 56 Relations with unions 44 38 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Our view of sustainability customer expectations, for example, expectations on the Bank’s products and services. By being responsive to customers’ requests and Sustainability is well integrated in Handelsbanken’s working methods, and there are questions, we can provide answers and meet customers’ expectations in product development several central bodies to co-ordinate the work at Group level and in the subsidiaries. and availability. Various processes, such as materiality analysis, also exist to support the development When the Bank’s corporate customers procure of sustainability. Handelsbanken appreciates that some stakeholders seek in-depth banking services, they increasingly wish to discuss information in particular areas that is more detailed than the information desired by our approach to sustainability, focusing on the broader audiences that we also wish to reach with our sustainability reporting. This Bank’s direct and indirect impact. Private custompart of the report, which deals with sustainability management, presents information ers also attach great importance to the fact that a in more detail. bank acts responsibly. In addition to direct discussions with our cusbanken maintains a continuous dialogue with tomers, Handelsbanken also closely monitors the Organisation for other stakeholder groups, such as: customer satisfaction surveys that are carried out sustainability • equity research analysts • sector organisations by independent research companies. The most comprehensive studies of customer satisfaction Handelsbanken’s sustainability work is decentral• union organisations in our six home markets are the annual surveys ised and is done where the Bank’s business • sustainability analysts conducted by the EPSI Rating Group, which and operational decisions are made. Activities • non-proﬁt organisations includes SKI (Swedish Quality Index). embrace the entire Group’s operations and are • international organisations co-ordinated by a Groupwide specialist function • special interest organisations Employees and by the Bank’s Sustainability Committee, • municipal and county councils All of the Bank’s employees participate in their which was formed in 2010. Handelsbanken’s • consumer organisations own unit’s business planning every year. After Chief Sustainability Ofﬁcer chairs the Committee • suppliers that, individual competency mapping, planning and is a member of Senior Management. The • potential shareholders and investors in dialogues and performance reviews are carried Committee consists of representatives from varithe Group’s bonds out, linking the business operations’ goals with ous operating areas throughout the Bank and • prospective customers each employee’s goals. The result is an individual has met regularly during the year, a total of eight • press and media action plan for each employee which is followed times. • students, schools and universities. up regularly during the year and then forms the basis of an annual salary dialogue review between RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT COUNCIL Regular dialogue with our stakeholders employee and manager. Matters of principle relating to sustainability in It is vital that we keep ourselves up-to-date on the asset management are the responsibility of needs and wishes that stakeholders have regardShareholders Handelsbanken’s Responsible Investment ing Handelsbanken. That is why we have, and Handelsbanken’s shareholders are those who Council. The Council is represented by Handelshave long had, an ongoing dialogue with our cusultimately decide about the Bank’s governance. banken’s two fund management companies: tomers, staff, shareholders and investors, as well The shareholders exercise their right to decide on Handelsbanken Fonder and Xact Kapitalförvaltas with the community at large, such as authorimatters concerning the company at shareholdning. The Council’s task is to actively monitor ties and other public organisations, in the markets ers’ meetings. At the meetings, individual sharetrends in responsible investing, to contribute to where the Bank operates. holders have the opportunity to put questions to the continuing improvement of Handelsbanken’s Customers the Bank’s Board and senior management. work in this area and to set and track relevant The most important dialogue occurs at the thouShareholders show keen interest in Handelsobjectives. For example, the Council decides on sands of meetings with customers that take place banken’s annual general meetings. In the past matters such as what actions to take when the daily, by phone and e-mail, or during visits to our ﬁve years, shareholders representing more than Bank sees signs of sustainability risk in the invest800-plus branches around the world. By main50 per cent (50) of the votes in the Bank have ments made on behalf of customers. taining close, long-term relations with our cusparticipated. tomers, the Bank gains a better understanding of The Bank provides investors, analysts, rating agencies and other capital market players with Stakeholder dialogue Stakeholder model information regarding Handelsbanken’s operaListening closely to stakeholders’ expectations tions and ﬁnancial performance. During the year, is a vital aspect of being a responsible bank. At the Group Chief Executive, CFO and Investor CU Handelsbanken, we work systematically through TY ST Relations Department held more than 500 meetdialogue with stakeholders to gain insights. IE C S ings with equity and ﬁxed income investors. SO ER M O Attendance at AGMs 2012–2016 OUR STAKEHOLDERS Many private individuals, organisations and comNo. % panies are affected by how Handelsbanken acts 2 000 100 in various matters. For Handelsbanken, corporate social responsibility means living up to the reaOWN 1 600 80 ES sonable expectations of these stakeholders and ER YE S/N acting so as to maintain their trust in the Bank. O 1 200 60 I VE ST PL Handelsbanken’s principal stakeholders are OR S EM our customers, employees, shareholders and 800 40 bond investors, as well as the community at large. All stakeholders have expectations of Handels400 20 The Bank’s four main stakeholder groups have banken. What they have in common is that they all been identiﬁed based on the fact that Handelswish the Bank to be stable and responsive to their 0 0 banken’s operations materially affect them or are wishes. How well the Bank manages to live up to 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 materially affected by them – or both. In addition these expectations has an impact on the continNo. of shareholders Proportion of votes to these four main stakeholder groups, Handelsued success of Handelsbanken. present/represented H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 6 39 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Society the expectations we make on our suppliers and stakeholder groups, and very small variations Handelsbanken has a continuous dialogue with their sub-contractors. Most of the requirements among the Bank’s home markets. In addition to supervisory authorities, central banks and reguare based on internationally accepted standards, the detailed dialogue with these main stakeholdlatory bodies as well as with governments and with the UN Global Compact as the starting point. ers, Handelsbanken also conducted dialogues parliaments, in Sweden, the EU and the rest of Heightened awareness of sustainability has with representatives of other stakeholder groups, the world. Increasingly, sustainability is highresulted in the termination of agreements with using various methods and channels. For examlighted in dialogue between public authorities suppliers who fall short in their sustainability manple, we have had discussions with a number of and the Bank. agement. In 2017, the code will also be intronon-proﬁt organisations and a selection of the The Bank is also in continuous contact with duced to the Bank’s other home markets; it is Bank’s suppliers. non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and duralready being implemented in some of these. The results of the materiality analysis are preing the year had several discussions with these. sented on pages 6–7. The presentation describes MATERIALITY ANALYSIS the signiﬁcance of these questions to HandelsUnion organisations A materiality analysis provides data that assists in banken and the risks and opportunities with which For a long time, Handelsbanken has had excelsetting priorities and is one of the processes that they are associated. lent relations with the union organisations, an support the advancement of sustainability at important part of the Bank’s business culture. Handelsbanken. As part of a process of updating AGENDA 2030 AND HANDELSBANKEN There is an ongoing dialogue between union the materiality analysis, during the year HandelsIn September 2015, the UN General Assembly representatives and managers concerning banken sought out stakeholders’ views on the adopted Agenda 2030. It contains 17 sustainable operations – such as when changes are to be Bank’s most important sustainability topics. development goals and 169 targets aimed at made – where valuable information is exchanged achieving long-term sustainable economic, social at the very early stages. For many years, the Bank Detailed dialogue with stakeholders and environmental development in order to eradihas worked with trade unions in Sweden to In addition to the dialogues that Handelsbanken cate extreme poverty, to reduce inequality and correct unwarranted pay differentials between regularly conducts with stakeholders, during injustice in the world, and to ﬁght climate change. women and men. Together with union represent2015–2016 the Bank also carried out a more The Agenda is not only a matter for governments. atives, the Bank has also carried out a separate detailed dialogue with representatives from the On the contrary, to achieve the goals it is vital that survey of salaries, to identify and correct any Bank’s main stakeholder groups. The dialogue all parts of society get involved. Thus the busiremaining differentials. Managers have also was conducted with stakeholders in the Bank’s ness community also has a vital role to play in the received support and training so that they can home markets. The purpose was partly to conﬁrm long-term fulﬁlment of the goals, as stated in the independently decide on salary adjustments. that the sustainability topics previously identiﬁed implementation plan produced by the UN. by the Bank as being the most material still correAs a bank, we are an important part of society, Sustainability analysts spond to stakeholders’ views, and partly to better through our strong local presence and other Around 30 investment banks have research anaunderstand what these external parties expect ways that we contribute to the community. That lysts who regularly monitor Handelsbanken and from the Bank in terms of sustainability. includes paying taxes and charges, employing its shares. In recent years, several of these investThis dialogue was a key step in updating the personnel, granting credit, offering payment solument banks have supplemented the traditional materiality analysis during the year. The analysis tions and providing investment services as well as company research by also evaluating the Bank was based on a broad spectrum of questions that other banking services. Through the Bank’s operfrom a sustainability perspective. are particularly relevant to Handelsbanken – partly ations, we can contribute long-term to the overDuring the year, Handelsbanken has also been based on the Bank’s own experience, partly on riding goals. in contact with sustainability analysts from about questions the Bank receives from external stakeDuring the year, Handelsbanken’s Sustainabil10 independent research ﬁrms. These contacts holders – but also generally relevant for a bank. ity Committee analysed the 17 goals and their often occur when research ﬁrms ask the Bank to To clarify the outcomes for Handelsbanken’s 169 targets to determine which ones the operaanswer questionnaires consisting of a number of material topics, internally and externally, we have tions would focus on and how we can integrate standard questions. In recent years, Handelsgrouped them into six sub-areas: them in our operations within the framework of banken has taken the initiative to increase these • the Bank and its customers the sub-areas in the Bank’s material topics contacts by having an ongoing dialogue with • the Bank’s role in the community described above. The analysis was based on the each research analyst. • the Bank’s indirect impact degree of inﬂuence, both indirect and direct, iden• the Bank as an employer tiﬁed risks and opportunities, and the Bank’s Suppliers • the Bank’s business culture most material sustainability topics. As a result of Handelsbanken purchases goods and services • the Bank as an investment. the analysis, in the next few years we will focus on from many suppliers. The Group’s purchases can the following six goals: roughly be divided into the following categories: The different sub-areas indicate where the mate• gender equality property and premises, external IT costs, comrial topics have the greatest impact on the Bank’s • decent work and economic growth munications, travel and marketing, purchased operations, internally and externally. • industry, innovation and infrastructure services, procurement of materials, and other To decide which areas are deemed most mate• sustainable cities and communities expenses. External IT costs and communications rial, a selection process was conducted that • climate action are purchased centrally, chieﬂy from suppliers resulted in a number of topics for stakeholders to • peace, justice and strong institutions. which operate internationally, while other categogive their opinion on. ries are usually purchased mainly from local suppliers. We work to co-ordinate purchases in order Handelsbanken’s view of sustainability is conto take into account both cost effects and enviﬁrmed by the detailed stakeholder dialogue ronmental impact. In the Swedish operations, The 2016 stakeholder dialogue largely conﬁrms roughly 70 of the Bank’s several thousand supplithe view that the Bank has had of sustainability for ers account for two thirds of all purchases. many years and paints the same picture overall The Bank has an ongoing dialogue with its key as the 2015 stakeholder dialogue. Responsible suppliers in which sustainability ﬁgures promiinvestments had slightly higher priority than in nently. One result of these dialogues is to prothe previous year. mote and improve our environmental work. DurThe results show that stakeholders deem all ing 2016, the Bank in Sweden implemented a questions important and are very consistent, with code of conduct for major suppliers that deﬁnes no major differences among the various main H AN DE L SB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PORT 2016 40 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT For all the selected goals, Handelsbanken can Handelsbanken’s Corporate Governance Report contribute through its own operations and is based on a shareholder perspective. However, More information through business relations. Gender equality, there are also other stakeholders with an interest For more information, please see the decent work conditions and children’s rights are in Handelsbanken’s corporate governance upon Bank’s full Corporate Governance a natural part of our own operations, and we are whose conﬁdence the Bank depends. These Report, which can be found on pages 47–63 of eager to help accelerate their progress in the include customers, employees and bond investhe Annual Report. More information about Handelsbanken’s communities where we are active and the comtors, as well as the community at large. corporate governance is available at handelspanies with which we do business. banken.se/ireng. The site includes the followWith signiﬁcant lending to the property sector, PRINCIPLES FOR CORPORATE ing information: we have particular responsibility in terms of susGOVERNANCE AT HANDELSBANKEN • previous corporate governance reports tainable cities, and in our corporate lending we Handelsbanken’s shareholders elect the Board, from 2006 onwards want to contribute by reducing our indirect impact and the Board appoints the CEO. One way in • the articles of association on the climate and by ﬁnancing future champions which the Board exercises its governance of the • information about the nomination committee in the conversion to a more sustainable economy. Bank is by issuing policies and instructions. It is • minutes of shareholders’ meetings from The goal of peace, justice and strong institupartly through the issued policies that the Board 2008 onwards. tions comprises substantially reducing illicit ﬁnantakes decisions regarding Handelsbanken’s overcial ﬂows and signiﬁcantly reducing all forms of all risk tolerance and ensures the Bank’s ﬁnancial These are integral with the principles, strategies, corruption and bribery, an area where banks play stability. Through these, the Board also decides limits and targets described in policy documents a crucial role. on the Bank’s approach in a number of central and instructions. sustainability issues regarding measures against money laundering and ﬁnancing of terrorism, the Summary of environment, remuneration, ethics and corrupRECRUITMENT AND DIVERSITY-RELATED WORK BY THE BOARD tion. The CEO also exercises governance by issucorporate governance ing various governance documents. The CEO Handelsbanken’s Board has adopted a policy to promote diversity in the Board. The policy states Handelsbanken’s entire Corporate Governance issues instructions for the managers who report that to promote independent opinions and critical Report can be found in the Bank’s Annual Report. directly to him and issues guidelines, some of questioning, it is desirable that the Board should The following is a summary of the information which provide more detailed directions to combe characterised by sufﬁcient diversity in terms of considered most material for the sustainability plement and clarify the Board’s policies. These age, gender, geographical origin, and educational report. documents are revised every year but can be and professional background. The proportion of Corporate governance concerns how the ownadjusted more often when necessary. women on the Board of the Bank is 50 per cent, ers directly or indirectly control the Bank, and how However, the foundation of functioning corpoand the proportion of members of a nationality rights and obligations are allocated among the rate governance is not only formal documents but other than the country where Handelsbanken is Bank’s bodies, in accordance with prevailing laws also the Bank’s corporate culture, corporate goal, domiciled is 40 per cent. and regulations. working methods and remuneration system. INTERNAL CONTROL All managers at all levels in the Bank have a responsibility for internal control and the Bank’s SELECTION OF POLICY DOCUMENTS • Guidelines for the Handelsbanken Group’s Sustainability Committee compliance. Consequently ﬁt-for-purpose ESTABLISHED BY THE BOARD: • Credit policy • Guidelines regarding business relations in instructions and procedures for the operation • Policy for operational risk forestry and farming must be in place, and compliance with the • Capital policy • Guidelines for managing taxes procedures is monitored regularly. • Financial policy The Compliance function, besides being POLICY DOCUMENTS THAT THE • Policy for financial risks BOARDS OF HANDELSBANKEN’S responsible for compliance, provides advice and • Information policy • Policy for sustainability SUBSIDIARIES HAVE DECIDED ON: support in regulatory matters. Internal control • Policy on ethical standards • Corporate governance policy for Handelsbanken and compliance work are subject to internal and • Policy against corruption Fonder external risk-based auditing. • Policy for managing conflicts of interest • Policy for responsible investment for Handelsbanken has an established system for • Policy for remuneration, pensions and Handelsbanken Fonder • Policy for responsible investment at whistleblowing, which means that an employee suitability assessment • Policy for independent risk control Xact Kapitalförvaltning who suspects internal fraud or other irregularities • Policy for compliance • Policy for responsible investment at can report these to a unit outside the employee’s • Policy on measures against money laundering Handelsbanken Liv own unit. Anonymous reports are also acted upon. and financing of terrorism and the observance • Policy for sustainability at Handelsbanken Liv of international sanctions SELECTION OF CODES OF CONDUCT • Policy for handling customer complaints IN THE HR AREA: Facts: Financial A summary of these policies can be found in the Bank’s Corporate Governance Report and • Guidelines for employees • Guidelines for alcoholand drug-related matters aspects at handelsbanken.com • Guidelines for handling suspected addiction to Handelsbanken’s Annual Report contains a gambling SELECTION OF GUIDELINES ESTABcomplete account of the ﬁnancial aspects of the • Guidelines for the prevention of victimisation LISHED BY THE BANK’S CEO: at work operations, but the most important key ﬁgures • Guidelines for Handelsbanken’s environmental • Guidelines for the prevention of sexual connected with ﬁnancial aspects and sustainability activities harassment are reported below. • Guidelines for business relations with the • Guidelines regarding bribery and improper armaments and defence industry influence LOWER LOAN LOSSES • Guidelines for information security in the • Guidelines on presence on social media Handelsbanken Group Handelsbanken has a low risk tolerance. This • Guidelines regarding business relations with means that the quality of credits must never be companies with operations within fossil fuels neglected in favour of achieving higher volume or a higher margin. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 6 41 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Outcome Bank pays and reports tax based on local regulaCorporate tax and charges 2016 Loan losses were SEK 1,724 million (-1,597). tions in the countries where it operates. HandelsAs a proportion of lending, loan losses equalled banken complies with the OECD Transfer Pricing Corporate tax 62% Social security costs 23% 0.09 per cent (0.09). For the most recent 10-year Guidelines, such that the Group’s earnings are Stability fee 15% period – that is, since 2007 – the Bank’s average taxed where value is created. loan loss ratio has been 0.09 per cent. This can be compared with the average for the other major Nordic banks over the same period: 0.27 per cent. Loan losses as a percentage of lending Geographical information 2016 % Fees for Swedish 1.2 Social Resolution Operating Corporate tax security Fund, deposit No. of 1.0 SEK m Income proﬁt (current tax) costs guarantee, etc. Assets employees 0.8 Sweden 26 212 15 288 -3 807 -1 472 -1 006 2 211 192 7 057* UK 5 027 1 851 -481 -199 -90 296 449 2 069 0.6 Norway 3 624 1 917 -390 -88 -99 261 574 753 0.4 Denmark 2 219 180 -73 -86 -42 124 624 673 Finland 1 981 973 -199 -25 -54 230 654 613 0.2 USA 670 422 -130 -6 289 126 67 The Netherlands 544 179 -46 -19 -8 35 667 218 0.0 Luxembourg 169 25 -22 -7 -1 19 597 57 Germany 109 -3 -5 14 935 45 -0.2 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 China 59 -47 1 0 8 438 73 France 55 8 -2 -6 10 194 16 Handelsbanken Other Nordic banks* Poland 42 -49 0 -3 3 400 41 * For the period until 2000 inclusive, only Swedish Singapore 27 -76 -2 0 13 366 39 banks are included. Estonia 14 -13 -2 1 533 20 Austria 6 -3 -1 330 4 CAPITAL Latvia 4 -8 -1 303 8 Lithuania 1 -9 -1 90 5 The Bank’s goal is that its common equity tier 1 Brazil 0 -2 -1 1 ratio under normal circumstances should exceed Eliminations -893 892 by 1–3 percentage points the common equity tier Group 40 763 20 633 -5 151 -1 922 -1 300 2 627 580 11 759 1 capital requirement communicated to the Bank *Includes 11 employees at the Bank’s representative ofﬁces. by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. The tier 1 ratio and the total capital ratio must The table, which is laid out according to GRI’s principles, shows how the income generated by the Bank’s operations is also be at least 1 percentage point above the allocated over various groups of stakeholders. The data comes from the Group’s income statement and balance sheet. total capital assessment communicated to the Direct economic value generated and distributed (according to GRI) Bank by the Supervisory Authority for the respecEconomic ﬂows to and from various groups of stakeholders tive capital tiers. Additionally, the Bank must SEK bn 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 fulﬁl any other capital requirements set by the DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE CREATED regulators. Customers Outcome Income after loan losses and before fees for Swedish Resolution Fund, deposit guarantee, etc. 37.7 39.8 37.7 36.2 34.9 The common equity tier 1 ratio according to Value created by serving customers 37.7 39.8 37.7 36.2 34.9 CRD IV rose to 25.1 per cent (21.2). The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority calculated ALLOCATED ECONOMIC VALUE Handelsbanken’s common equity tier 1 capital Employees requirement at the end of Q3 2016 at an amount Salaries 8.1 8.0 7.6 7.1 6.9 corresponding to a common equity tier 1 ratio of Provision to proﬁt-sharing foundation (incl. social security costs) 0.9 0.8 1.1 1.0 21.3 per cent. Social security costs and other staff costs 4.4 3.7 3.4 3.2 3.3 Cost of employees 12.5 12.6 11.8 11.4 11.2 Common equity tier 1 ratio, CRD IV Public authorities and society at large % Suppliers* 5.9 5.7 5.6 5.7 5.5 25 Tax costs** 4.4 4.3 4.1 3.9 3.0 20 Fees for Swedish Resolution Fund, deposit guarantee, etc. 1.3 1.1 1.2 1.1 1.1 Government bank support received 15 Participation in government guarantee programmes 10 To society 11.6 11.1 10.9 10.7 9.6 5 Shareholders 0 Dividends (refers to the year dividends were paid) 11.4 11.1 10.5 6.8 6.1 2013 2014 2015 2016 New share issue Transactions with the shareholders 11.4 11.1 10.5 6.8 6.1 POLITICAL INDEPENDENCE Reinvested economic value (“remaining in the Bank”) 2.2 5.0 4.5 7.3 8.0 Handelsbanken is not allied to any political par* Refers to Other administrative expenses and depreciation. ties. In modern times, the Bank has not provided ** Refers to Tax costs according to the income statement. any ﬁnancial support to any political party, nor has The table of created and delivered direct economic value shows how the income generated by Handelsbanken’s it made any other type of political donations. operations during the year was allocated among various stakeholders. The calculation is based on the figures in the income statement and in accordance with the GRI guidelines. The items allocated in the table are based on broader TAXES AND ALLOCATED ECONOMIC VALUE value created where salaries, depreciation/amortisation and other administrative costs (suppliers) are added to the Handelsbanken wishes to provide transparent operating profit. The purpose is to show in a basic way how Handelsbanken creates value for its stakeholders and in the economic system in which the organisation works. The table provides an overview of the direct measurable ﬁnancial reporting on how the economic value monetary value contributed by Handelsbanken to its stakeholders, and thus to social development. generated by the operations is allocated. The HA ND E LSB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E P ORT 2016 42 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS Proportion of women as managers 2016 Facts: Employees Handelsbanken aims to be an attractive employer % In a decentralised operation focusing on customand offers competitive terms of employment, for 60 ers, it is crucial that every employee works accordboth permanent and temporary employees. In 55 ing to clear common goals and values. A variety of addition to the beneﬁts stipulated by law, regula50 key ﬁgures tells whether the organisation is healthy tions, collective bargaining agreements and other 45 and employees are satisﬁed in their work. local agreements, we offer beneﬁts that promote 40 our view of long-term employment, gender equal35 STAFF TURNOVER ity and participation in Handelsbanken’s proﬁt. 30 The Bank takes a long-term approach to relations 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 with both customers and employees. It sees each An attractive employer Percentage of women in the Group recruitment as important and long term. EmployHandelsbanken wishes to be an attractive Percentage of managers in the Group who are women ees with long experience and with broad knowlemployer which meets its employees’ needs at Percentage of women in Sweden Percentage of managers in Sweden who are women edge from the whole Bank make a vital contribuvarious phases of their life in a ﬂexible way. Coltion to the Bank having satisﬁed customers. lective bargaining agreements are the foundation Employees by form Men Women of the conditions the Bank offers to both tempoof employment 2016 Number % % % Outcome rary and permanent employees. At HandelsRegular employment External staff turnover for the six home markets banken, we have individual salaries which are Full-time 10 175 83 54 46 was low, at 3.9 per cent (2.8) and 3.1 per cent decided in the salary dialogue review conducted Part-time 1 526 12 16 84 (2.1) for Sweden. For the Group, it was 4.0 per every year between managers and employees. Temporary cent (3.0). Conditions and beneﬁts differ within the Group employment 571 5 45 55 and are adapted to the market where the Bank Group total 12 272 Staff turnover 2016* operates and to the collective agreements which % have been entered into. Average number Men Women 8 Employees’ total remuneration should help to of employees 2016 Number % % % 7 6 develop the Handelsbanken Group’s competitiveSweden 7 046 60 47 53 5 ness and proﬁtability by attracting, retaining and UK 2 069 18 59 41 4 developing skilled staff and ensuring the Bank’s Denmark 673 6 51 49 3 management succession. This is stated in the Finland 613 5 41 59 2 Bank’s policy on remuneration, determined by the Norway 753 6 54 46 1 0 Bank’s Board. The Board is responsible for the The Netherlands 218 2 69 31 Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway The Netherlands policy being applied and takes decisions to follow Other countries 387 3 45 55 up on it. Once a year the Bank’s remuneration comGroup total 11 759 49.7 50.3 * Percentage of the number of employees in each home market. mittee must make an assessment of the policy and Proportion of employees who have left the Bank (excluding retirements and deaths) relative to the number of employees. the remuneration system and report it to the Board. 2016 New employees Staff turnover* by home market, by home market, age group and age group and SICKNESS ABSENCE Beneﬁts and pensions gender gender Handelsbanken aims for all its employees to enjoy Handelsbanken offers various types of competiNumber %** Number %** good health, develop on a personal level and tive beneﬁts, for both permanent and temporary Sweden 195 2.8 215 3.1 function in an optimal way. This is a long-term goal employees of the Group; these differ between the UK 216 10.2 94 4.4 that includes factors such as clear and honest countries. In 2016, the proportion of permanent Denmark 38 5.6 50 7.4 communication, having the skills and compeemployees was 95 per cent (96). Finland 31 5.2 42 7.0 Handelsbanken aims to make it easier for Norway 22 2.9 21 2.8 tence and the right conditions to perform tasks The Netherlands 51 19.6 16 6.2 and deal with work-related situations, having women and men to combine employment with Total number 553 4.9 438 3.9 pride and conﬁdence in one’s work, respecting parenthood. The Bank subsidises home and fammen < 30 yrs old 90 41 others, and being respected oneself. ily services for employees in Sweden who have 30–50 yrs 182 140 children under the age of 12. In addition to current > 50 yrs 40 50 Outcome social insurance regulations for parental leave, in women < 30 yrs 82 38 most of its home markets Handelsbanken pro30–50 yrs 125 126 Absence due to sickness for staff in the Bank’s six > 50 yrs 34 43 home markets was 2.6 per cent (2.5). For staff in vides remuneration in accordance with local regulations. This means that parents receive 80 to 100 * Staff turnover refers to the number who leave the Bank Sweden, the rate was 3.2 per cent (3.0), of which (excluding retirements and deaths) as a proportion of all 1.3 percentage points (1.2) referred to those on per cent of their salaries over a limited period. employees. long-term sick leave. Employees who take parental leave have the ** Percentage of the number of employees in each home market. same right to salary dialogue reviews as other Age and gender distribution 2016 Sickness absence by staff. Of those who have taken parental leave in home market 2016 2016 in the Bank’s home markets, 64 per cent Age % Men Women Total (66) were women and 36 per cent (34) men. 65– Almost all of these employees returned to work. 60–64 Sweden 2.0 4.2 3.2 In the Bank’s home markets, employees are 55–59 UK 0.8 1.4 1.0 offered credits on special terms. These credits are 50–54 Denmark 0.8 1.8 1.3 mainly granted for housing purposes. The terms 45–49 Finland 1.3 2.2 1.9 and conditions differ between countries depend40–44 Norway 2.1 4.4 3.1 35–39 The Netherlands* 2.9 ing on local circumstances, and in some coun30–34 Total sickness absence 1.7 3.6 2.6 tries they are a taxable beneﬁt. 25–29 of which long-term Health and health promotion are vital to ensurabsence 0.5 1.5 1.0 20–24 ing our employees enjoy good health, develop on –19 * National legislation does not permit the reporting of a personal level and function in an optimal way. sickness absence broken down by gender. The Bank encourages this by granting subsidies 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 Sickness absence is stated as a percentage of total normal for various health promotion activities. Number of employees Women Men working hours. Long-term absence is a period of absence of 60 days or more. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 6 43 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Other forms of beneﬁts offered include insurance employees to join a trade union or employee has co-ordinated management, governance and and company cars. organisation. All employees in Denmark, Finland, follow-up of tax-related issues. It continually Pensions are part of the total remuneration to Luxembourg, Norway, Sweden and Germany – monitors developments in the area of taxation in employees of Handelsbanken. The pension terms comprising 78 per cent (80) of the Bank’s employSweden and internationally, particularly with referin the countries where the Bank pursues its operees – are covered by collective bargaining agreeence to transparency and tax ethics. ations must be competitive and adapted to legisments. In these countries, employees who are not At Handelsbanken, high ethical standards lation and regulations, in accordance with the members of a union are also covered by the terms must be observed, as regulated in policy docuconditions prevailing in each country. of the collective agreement. In addition to collecments from the Board. The Bank must not particiAn occupational pension plan can include a tive agreements, there are also agreements with pate in transactions or provide products that may retirement pension, disability pension and survivlocal employees’ organisations, such as works be called into question in the light of prevailing tax ing family member protection. The pension solucouncils in the United Kingdom and the Netherlegislation. In case of doubt, Handelsbanken tions which can be offered to employees are lands. In Sweden, matters such as organisational must not participate. deﬁned beneﬁt, deﬁned contribution or a combichanges are regulated in Handelsbanken’s conation of the two. determination agreement with the Financial POLICY FOR SUSTAINABILITY Sector Union of Sweden’s local bodies and in the During the year, Handelsbanken’s Board adopted Convertibles aimed at the Bank’s employees collective agreement between the Employers’ a policy for sustainability that sets the direction for On several occasions, Handelsbanken has Association of the Swedish Banking Institutions the Bank’s work and clearly sets out the Bank’s offered its employees the opportunity to subscribe and the Swedish Association of Graduates in view of sustainability. The policy applies throughfor convertible bonds. The convertible bond proBusiness Administration and Economics, the out the Handelsbanken Group and encompasses grammes offer new employees, as well as those Swedish Association of Graduate Engineers and all activities in relation to customers, suppliers and who have been with the Bank a long time, a furJusek, which are afﬁliated to the Swedish Confedother business partners. The policy is available in ther opportunity to beneﬁt from the value created eration of Professional Associations. its entirety at handelsbanken.se/ireng. jointly by the staff and to participate in the Bank’s There is an ongoing, close dialogue between future development. Subscription for convertibles union representatives and managers concerning ANTI-MONEY-LAUNDERING ACTIVITIES is entirely on market terms with no subsidy; the operations – such as when changes and new serAt least once a year, Handelsbanken’s Board and rate of participation in the Bank’s convertible provices are to be launched – where valuable informaGroup Chief Executive establish a Groupwide grammes has been high. More than 65 per cent tion is exchanged at the very early stages. In 2016, policy and guidelines that serve as the framework participated in the most recent convertible bond the Bank updated the process for major operafor the Bank’s measures against money launderprogramme, in 2014. In Sweden, the participation tional and organisational changes in the Group. As ing and ﬁnancing of terrorism. rate was more than 75 per cent. well as matters which are dealt with in a dialogue The function responsibility for working with with the union organisations and other types of measures against money laundering and ﬁnancOktogonen – the Bank’s proﬁt-sharing scheme employee organisations in each country, there is ing of terrorism is held by a central department One condition for achieving the Bank’s corporate also Handelsbanken’s European Works Council which must ensure that there is competency in goal of better proﬁtability than the average of peer (EWC), which serves as a forum for joint and crossand awareness of these areas throughout the banks in its home markets is that the Bank’s border questions in the countries in Europe where Group. In addition, there are regional ofﬁcers for employees outperform their peers in the rest of the the Group has operations. The EWC consists of this area in the countries where the Bank consector. Every year but three since 1973, the Board employee representatives from nine countries: ducts banking operations. has decided to allocate part of the Bank’s proﬁts to Denmark, Finland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, a proﬁt-sharing scheme for employees. The funds Norway, Poland, the UK, Sweden and Germany. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, CORRUPTION, are managed by the Oktogonen Foundation. BRIBERY AND IMPROPER INFLUENCE Allocations are subject to Handelsbanken Handelsbanken has established procedures for achieving its corporate goal. If this is satisﬁed, one Facts: Business ethics managing conﬂicts of interest with the purpose of third of the extra proﬁts can be allocated to the Handelsbanken safeguards good business ethics preventing customers’ interests from being negaemployees. However, the maximum allocation and works systematically to take into account tively affected. In 2016, Handelsbanken’s Board allowed is 10 per cent of the ordinary dividend to new requirements and expectations as well as to revised the Bank’s policy for managing conﬂicts shareholders. If the Bank reduces the dividend integrate new regulations in daily operations. of interest in order to further clarify the Bank’s paid to its shareholders, no allocation can be Handelsbanken has a number of policies that work in this area, for example through enhanced made to the foundation. All employees receive an describe the Bank’s common view and approach reporting of conﬂicts of interest. The policy includes equal part of the allocated amount, regardless of to a variety of these issues. The Bank’s website details on the procedure for identifying and mantheir position or work tasks. The proﬁt-sharing also has the full texts of the policy for ethical aging conﬂicts of interest. scheme is long-term, as payments cannot be made standards, policy for management of conﬂicts Each year all unit heads must review the reguuntil the age of 60. Of the Group’s employees, of interest and policy against corruption as well lations applying to bribery and improper inﬂuence 98 per cent are now covered by Oktogonen. as condensed versions of other policies in the with their employees. One of the fundamental concepts in managing Handelsbanken Group. In addition all guidelines The regulations must be followed in all conthe foundation is that the funds are invested in adopted by Handelsbanken’s Group Chief Executexts, such as gifts, corporate hospitality and shares in Handelsbanken. tive are available on the Bank’s website. other events. For many years, the proﬁt-sharing foundation Each year, operational risk analyses are perhas been one of the Bank’s largest shareholders, POLICY ON ETHICAL STANDARDS formed which include the area of corruption. and Oktogonen nominates two representatives The policy document regarding ethical standards Security reviews are also performed every year for election to the Board of Handelsbanken. Since is reviewed every year by the Board. The starting and these contain a training and information secOktogonen’s board is made up of representatives point here is any changes to the relevant legislation on corruption. from the employee organisations, the employees tion as well as changes in external expectations, No veriﬁed corruption incidents were reported have the opportunity to inﬂuence the election of the Bank’s experience of regular internal work, in 2016. Handelsbanken’s Board. and observations from the Bank’s comprehensive Handelsbanken’s anti-corruption policy internal control. states that all Bank employees must complete RELATIONS WITH UNIONS a course on corruption, bribery and improper Handelsbanken’s traditionally good relationships GUIDELINES FOR MANAGING TAXES inﬂuence each year. This course will be launched with unions are a valuable component of the Handelsbanken’s actions regarding taxes aim to in early 2017, and its implementation will be Bank’s culture. The Bank supports the right of all be responsible, correct and transparent. The Bank documented. The policy also applies to members H AN DE L SB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E P ORT 2016 44 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT of Handelsbanken’s Central Board and boards that they have taken to ensure that modern slavSuppliers of subsidiaries who must complete speciﬁc parts ery and human trafﬁcking do not occur in their Handelsbanken purchases goods and services of the course. supply chains or in their operations. Handelsfrom many different suppliers. The Group’s purbanken’s success depends on the conﬁdence of chases can be roughly divided into the following INTEGRITY AND CONFIDENTIALITY – customers, employees, owners, public authorities categories: property and premises, external IT INFORMATION SECURITY AND IT SECURITY and other stakeholders that the Group is acting in costs, travel and marketing, purchased services, The Group Chief Executive establishes guidelines a responsible manner. This conﬁdence is based procurement of material, and other expenses. for information security at Handelsbanken. All on ethical conduct and taking responsibility for External IT and telecommunications are puremployees in the Bank are responsible for compliﬁnancial, social and environmental development chased centrally, while in the other categories ance with the rules for protection of information, that is sustainable in the long term. For this conﬁpurchases are mainly local. The Bank maintains a and all managers are responsible for compliance dence to be maintained, there must be transparregular dialogue with suppliers, in which sustainawith the rules in their own area of responsibility. ency in the Group’s sustainability activities. Our bility is a key factor. Among other things, we look Information security work is pursued in accordwork to prevent the occurrence of modern slavery into the supplier’s approach to collective agreeance with the ISO 27001 international standard. and human trafﬁcking in our supply chains and ments, work environment, anti-corruption and This means that any risks are identiﬁed on a reguour Group is part of the Bank’s broader efforts environmental impact. lar basis and that internal rules are produced so related to sustainability. This statement is part of In 2016, the Bank introduced a code of conthat the information is protected over time. Handelsbanken’s Sustainability Report. duct for major suppliers. The code deﬁnes the The Bank’s work with information and IT secuexpectations we have on our suppliers and their rity as well as its management of sensitive informaPOLICIES, GUIDELINES AND ACTIONS sub-contractors. Most of the requirements are tion is also governed by international and national TAKEN DURING THE 2016 FINANCIAL YEAR based on internationally accepted standards, legislation. The processing of personal data is Handelsbanken supports international initiatives with the UN Global Compact as the starting point. subject to the provisions of the Swedish Personal and guidelines that aim to encourage and faciliAmong other things, the Bank’s code of conduct Data Act and corresponding international legislatate sustainable corporate management, for requires that suppliers eliminate and combat all tion. The rules mean that private individuals are example, the UN Global Compact, the OECD forms of human trafﬁcking, modern slavery and protected against their personal integrity being Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the UN compulsory labour, that they are not involved violated when personal data is processed. The Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP whatsoever in any form of child labour, and that regulations regarding bank conﬁdentiality, FI), the UN Principles for Responsible Investment they ensure that they do not violate human rights. whereby information about individuals’ relations (PRI), and the International Labour Organization’s Results have been good, and many of the Bank’s with the Bank must not be disclosed, are stated in core conventions. In 2016, Handelsbanken’s major suppliers have signed the code. We see a the Swedish Banking and Financing Business Act Board of Directors adopted a policy for sustainapositive link between the code of conduct and and corresponding legislation in other countries. bility that applies throughout the Handelsbanken our relationships with suppliers as well as their In 2016, 11 complaints relating to customer Group and encompasses all activities in relation direct impact on our sustainability. integrity or poor management of customer data to customers, suppliers and other business partwere reported, and all cases were managed with ners. The purpose of this policy is to establish the Principles when granting credit the parties involved. focus for Handelsbanken’s work in the area of Sustainability aspects are a vital part of the Bank’s The Bank’s information security regulations are sustainability. It concerns Handelsbanken’s credit policy. The policy states that the Bank’s based on the Standard of Good Practice develapproach to material topics, such as human lending must be responsible and meet high oped by Information Security Forum (ISF), an rights and working conditions. demands for sound ethical standards. When organisation where most of the largest compagranting credit, Handelsbanken must assess and nies in the world are members. The work with Human rights and working conditions evaluate the customer’s approach to the princiinformation and IT security is pursued systematiThe Group’s work to protect human rights and ples and agreements supported by the Bank. cally, and we apply a process where risk analysis employees’ rights is based on international guideUltimately, this can result in Handelsbanken plays a central role. The risk analyses are perlines. Handelsbanken supports the UN Guiding declining to grant credit to companies that do not formed using the IRAM method (ISF’s Information Principles on Business and Human Rights. Strucapply these principles. Risk Analysis Methodology). tured work to protect human rights is a natural part The conditions for IT security are constantly of the Group’s operations, and Handelsbanken Training changing. Thus Handelsbanken needs to continalways strives for improvement in this area. In 2016, an internal training programme in ethical uously evaluate and take a stand on new potential At Handelsbanken, we work to prevent and standards and sustainability was developed, threats in this area. By continuously following up limit negative effects on human rights in our own including a section on modern slavery and human events which occur both within and outside our operations, and we take action if such effects trafﬁcking. The training course will be rolled out operations, it is easier to take the right action at arise. In 2016, Handelsbanken continued to work for all employees in the Group in 2017. the right time. To this end, the Bank participates to promote diversity and gender equality, to preand collaborates in international forums. In 2015, vent discrimination, and to ensure good working Procedures Handelsbanken was the ﬁrst Nordic bank to conditions. Handelsbanken aims to continue to Internal instructions and procedures are in place, become a member of the Forum of Incident be a secure, attractive employer and a workplace so that employees understand how they are to Response and Security Teams (FIRST). Handelswhere all employees enjoy good health and act if they are faced with or suspect a case of banken also participates in FIDI-Finans, a forum develop. modern slavery or human trafﬁcking. for sharing information between the government, the business community and other relevant Recruitment organisations in Sweden regarding information Internal recruitment and long-term employment security in the ﬁnancial sector. The forum is led by are important to Handelsbanken, since our strong the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency. corporate culture and values are vital to our success. When Handelsbanken recruits new employees, we seek people who share the Bank’s basic Facts: Modern Slavery values. We aim to make the most of the employees’ combined competency, and to broaden the Act Statement recruitment base, in order to become, to an even The UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 requires that greater extent, a Bank that reﬂects the commucertain organisations annually state the actions nity in which we operate. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 6 45 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Report pursuant to Equator Principles 2016 * Facts: Equator Project Project-related Project ﬁnance ﬁnance corporate loans advisory services Principles As of mid-2016, Handelsbanken reports new proCategory A B C A B C ject ﬁnance commitments pursuant to the Equator Principles. The Principles are a framework that proSector vides guidance to ﬁnancial institutions for assessing Mining social and environmental risks in project ﬁnance. Infrastructure Oil and gas The Principles are speciﬁcally adapted to project Energy ﬁnance but are also applicable to ﬁnancial advisory Other services in connection with projects, bridging loans Total and other project-related corporate credits. Each project is categorised based on an Region assessment of the potential social or environmenNorth and South America Europe, Middle East and Africa tal risks inherent in that particular project. Based Asia and Oceania on this, the framework provides guidance about Total which actions the ﬁnancier should take to move forward with a decision to ﬁnance the project. Designated country Possible actions might include a report of the proDesignated country ject’s impact and planned activities or actions to Non-designated country Total counteract the negative environmental or social impact, systematic stakeholder dialogue, estabIndependent review lishing a grievance mechanism or obtaining indeYes pendent assessments. No Total * No project financing commitments have been carried out since joining. Facts: Environment Systematic environmental work is under way at Handelsbanken to continually reduce the environport, and use of resources such as paper. We communications to customers in Sweden by 10 mental impact of the Bank’s operations. This is measure our material environmental impact in our per cent. Work to further reduce the number of monitored using an array of key ﬁgures that show six home markets. These markets represent more paper communications will continue in 2017. how the work is progressing. than 96 per cent of the Bank’s total number of employees. Measures to reduce the Bank’s environmental SYSTEMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL WORK We are working to minimise the carbon dioxide impact To promote long-term sustainable development, emissions generated in our operations. For 2016, To reduce the Bank’s environmental impact, the Handelsbanken works to minimise the Bank’s total carbon dioxide emissions from Handelsfollowing initiatives are planned over the next few direct and indirect impact on the environment. banken’s operations were 11,337 tonnes, down years: At Handelsbanken we take responsibility 15 per cent from 2015, mainly because the Bank • Further increase the level of awareness interfor how our operations affect the environment. increased the proportion of renewable electricity. nally by means of information and training We minimise our direct impact and strive to miniSince 2012, the Bank has reduced its carbon regarding measures to reduce the Bank’s mise our indirect impact, for example, through the dioxide emissions by 24 per cent. direct climate impact. The aim of this is that granting of credits, purchasing and the investThe Bank’s electricity consumption decreased all parts of the organisation should be able ments we make on behalf of our customers. We by 3 per cent in 2016 compared with 2015. The to contribute effectively to reducing energy will achieve this by: proportion of renewable electricity is 100 per cent consumption, for example. • Taking long-term sustainable business decifor Nordic operations and 96 per cent for all home • Increase the amount of recycled refuse. sions in which environmental factors are taken markets. • Reduce the amount of energy used. into consideration. • Reduce the amount of business travel by facili• Setting environmental requirements in all cenMore efﬁcient equipment and utilisation of tating the use of video conferences and intertral procurements and ensuring that these are resources nal meetings via Skype. complied with. Throughout the Bank, changes are constantly • Further develop the Group’s digital services for • Encouraging environmental awareness and being made which, together, are reducing envicustomers, via computers, smart phones and environmental competence among employees. ronmental and climate impact. tablet devices, and for branches and internal • Constantly developing our environmental activi• A green collaboration agreement with the units in order to reduce paper consumption. ties, so that the Bank’s environmental impact is Bank’s landlords means that one of the Bank’s • Continued system development to be able to continuously minimised. largest ofﬁce buildings has now been certiﬁed measure more exactly our use of resources • Monitoring and measuring the Bank’s impact according to the Swedish Green Building and direct environmental impact. on the environment. standard – Silver category. • In 2016, the number of video conferences that Climate compensation Handelsbanken has signed and complies with a can replace business travel was up by 50 per Handelsbanken compensates for carbon dioxide number of voluntary agreements, such as the ICC cent from 2015. emissions currently related to business travel in Guidelines for Sustainable Development, the UN • An energy survey was carried out by the busithe Bank’s six home markets. The Bank compenEnvironment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP ness operations during the year with the pursates through CDM projects (Clean Development FI), the UN Global Compact, and the UN Principles pose of identifying measures to reduce energy Mechanism), which are UN-registered projects for Responsible Investment (PRI). consumption. The results of this survey are with veriﬁed climate beneﬁts. The projects are expected in 2017 and will serve as the foundacertiﬁed according to the Gold Standard, which ENERGY AND CARBON DIOXIDE tion for activities to enhance energy efﬁciency. is endorsed by more than 80 NGOs and which The Bank’s direct impact derives mainly from • By improving processes in the Bank’s digital platensures that the projects contribute to long-term energy consumption, business travel and transforms, we have reduced the number of paper sustainable development. H AN DE L SB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PORT 2016 46 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Total CO2e emissions CO2e emissions from energy consumption Handelsbanken’s indirect environmental Tonnes Tonnes CO2e/employee Tonnes MWh/employee impact 20,000 2.0 15,000 6 By joining the UN Global Compact, Handels12,500 5 banken has undertaken to describe how the 16,000 1.6 4 Bank works in areas such as the environment. 10,000 12,000 1.2 In addition to the Bank’s own consumption of 7,500 3 8,000 0.8 resources, this mainly concerns the indirect envi5,000 2 ronmental impact via lending, asset management 4,000 0.4 2,500 1 and agreements with suppliers. 0 0.0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Emissions from energy CO2e/employee Emissions from heating and cooling Electricity Emissions from business travel Emissions from electricity consumptiong/ employee Other emissions METHOD DESCRIPTION FOR Data for speciﬁc units has been used to calculate sources such as national energy agencies, sector ENVIRONMENTAL DATA emissions from energy use. When speciﬁc data is organisations and energy companies. Within the The climate calculations were done according to missing, usage is estimated using numbers from framework of Scope 3, emissions linked with Greenhouse Gas Protocol – A Corporate Accountadjacent units or energy statistics. The sources business travel, transport and use of paper are ing and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition). for emission factors are generally accepted reported. ENVIRONMENTAL DATA General information Unit 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Number of branches reporting 809 827 815 791 742 Total ofﬁce space reported m2 457 017 455 176 459 422 458 071 451 199 No. of employees covered by environmental data persons 11 373 11 407 11 271 11 070 10 629 Proportion of total number of employees % 97 97 96 96 96 Emissions of greenhouse gases (CO2e) 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Emissions Scope 11 tonnes 51 27 28 47 41 Emissions Scope 2 2 tonnes 7 299 9 300 11 134 13 415 10 507 Emissions Scope 2 without GO electricity tonnes 25 352 23 872 25 564 34 197 21 555 Emissions Scope 3 3 tonnes 3 988 4 065 4 570 4 795 4 324 Total emissions tonnes 11 337 13 393 15 731 18 257 14 872 Total emissions per employee tonnes/employee 1.00 1.17 1.40 1.65 1.40 Emissions of greenhouse gases by source (CO2e) 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Emissions from energy use (in buildings) tonnes 7 342 9 321 11 155 13 458 10 544 Emissions from business travel tonnes 3 371 3 263 3 485 3 577 3 179 Emissions from other sources tonnes 623 809 1 091 1 222 1 149 Emissions by country (CO2e) 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Sweden tonnes 4 646 4 632 5 709 7 791 7 043 UK tonnes 3 615 5 686 5 641 4 923 3 838 Denmark tonnes 676 719 988 1 948 1 459 Finland tonnes 671 689 1 380 1 714 1 349 Norway tonnes 1 157 1 182 1 635 1 564 1 281 The Netherlands tonnes 572 485 461 396 0 Energy consumption 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Total energy consumption (in buildings) MWh 105 877 107 221 111 912 121 690 119 897 Electricity consumption MWh 48 070 49 574 52 646 56 470 54 630 Change in electricity consumption from preceding year % -3.0 -5.8 -7.0 3.0 Proportion renewable electricity 4 % 96 87 73 73 77 Total electricity consumption per employee 5 MWh/employee 4.2 4.3 4.7 5.1 5.1 Use of heating and cooling MWh 57 806 57 647 59 266 65 220 64 117 Business travel 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Total business travel km 27 887 052 28 491 679 29 382 275 29 871 914 28 623 525 Business travel per employee km/employee 2 452 2 498 2 607 2 698 2 693 Travel by air km 18 202 419 17 652 882 17 972 447 18 758 302 17 917 599 Travel by car km 7 080 995 7 163 074 7 452 892 7 203 086 7 038 075 Travel by train km 2 603 638 3 675 722 3 956 936 3 910 526 3 667 851 Resource efﬁciency 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Paper use tonnes 1 661 1 479 1 454 1 615 1 515 Paper use per employee tonnes/employee 0.15 0.13 0.13 0.15 0.14 1 Scope 1 – Direct emissions from stationary combustion of diesel, city gas and Eo1. 2 Scope 2 – Indirect emissions from purchased electricity, heating and cooling. 3 Scope 3 – Other indirect emissions from business travel, transport and use of paper. 4 Refers to electricity from wind power and hydroelectric power. 5 Number of employees according to the definition reported in the annual report/no. of full-time employees. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 6 47 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Initiatives, awards, surveys and sustainability indexes As an institution in the business world, Handelsbanken participates in numerous initiatives in order to demonstrate our commitment and contribute through various efforts in line with our operations as well as for the important exchange with representatives from different spheres of society. INITIATIVES Global Compact CDP Financial Coalition against Commercial In 2009, Handelsbanken signed CDP is an independent Sexual Exploitation of Children the UN Global Compact, an initiainternational non-proﬁt Handelsbanken has been tive aimed at companies which organisation which works a member of the Swedish advocates 10 principles based for transparency and dialogue on companies’ Financial Coalition against on international conventions. environmental impacts and to make such inforCommercial Sexual Exploitation of Children (the These principles, established in 2000, include mation available to investors. More than 5,600 Financial Coalition) since 2009. The Financial human rights, labour laws, the environment and organisations in more than 90 countries all over Coalition works to obstruct and prevent trade with anti-corruption. the world measure and report their environmental images of sexual abuse of children, based on the impacts through CDP. overall crime-prevention goal of stopping child ICC CDP acts on behalf of more than 800 institusexual abuse. With the intention of preventing this The International tional investors, of which Handelsbanken has trade from being conducted through the ﬁnancial Chamber of Combeen one since 2015. systems, a unique co-operation has been develmerce (ICC) has oped between public authorities, the private developed guidelines for sustainable developEquator Principles sector and the non-proﬁt sector. The fact that the ment. The purpose is to provide companies In 2016, HandelsFinancial Coalition’s members impede opportuniworldwide with a framework and tools to move banken adopted the ties to use ﬁnancial systems for this kind of crime, forward with sustainability. The guidelines are Equator Principles. helps to complicate and limit its spread. based on national and international sustainability The Principles are a framework that provides standards. Handelsbanken has complied with the guidance to ﬁnancial institutions for assessing Global Child Forum ICC guidelines since the 1990s. social and environmental risks in project ﬁnance. Since 2013, Handelsbanken The Equator Principles were formally launched in has taken part in Global Child PRI 2003, but over the years they have been updated Forum, a non-proﬁt foundaUN PRI (United to better support members in identifying, assesstion which functions as an Nations-backed ing and managing environmental and social risks independent forum to exchange best practices Principles for when ﬁnancing projects. and provoke discussions about children’s rights. Responsible Investment Initiatives) was launched The initiative is run by a secretariat of more The forum brings together leaders from the busiin 2006. It is a network of investors and service than 80 members representing ﬁnancial instituness community, civil society, academia and govproviders that work together with the UN to tions from 36 countries. The members undertake ernment in order to spur action for social change implement principles for responsible investment. to implement the principles in their internal guidearound children’s rights. Its aim is to promote responsible actions among lines, processes and procedures for project institutional investors and to work for increased ﬁnance, and to report annually on projects which Sustainable value creation openness and awareness of environmental, have been assessed or ﬁnanced based on the Since 2009, social and corporate governance issues in the framework. Handelsbanken companies in which these players invest. Asset Management, Handelsbanken became a signatory to the princiECPAT together with other major Swedish investors, has ples in 2009. In total, some 1,450 capital owners, In 2009, Handelsbanken, together taken part in the Sustainable Value Creation proasset managers and other stakeholders – manwith the Swedish Bankers’ Associaject. The aim of the project is to highlight the aging almost USD 70 billion in all – have become tion, started co-operating with ECPAT importance of Swedish listed companies working signatories. Sweden. Since 2015, the Bank has with sustainability topics in a structured manner. intensiﬁed its collaboration with To encourage, support and follow up on the comUNEP FI ECPAT. The overall objective is to prevent exploipanies’ sustainability efforts, Sustainable Value UN Environment Programme has tation of children by obstructing and preventing Creation conducts surveys and organises semia special organisation that works on monetary transactions that are linked to the comnars and round-table discussions. how the capital markets can promercial sexual exploitation of children. As part In its capacity as one of the 100 largest listed mote the adoption of best practices of Handelsbanken’s work with corporate social Swedish companies, Handelsbanken has itself for the environment and sustainabilresponsibility, we integrate a preventative working responded to the surveys on its sustainability ity. Some 200 ﬁnancial institutions method into our operations, in order to contribute activities. which support the initiative contribute to research to our stance against commercial sexual exploitainto and knowledge of how sustainability aspects tion of children. can be integrated into ﬁnancial decisions. ECPAT Sweden is a part of ECPAT InternaHandelsbanken has been a member of UNEP FI tional, which has member organisations in more since the mid-1990s. than 80 countries. ECPAT is working to prevent and stop all forms of commercial sexual exploitation of children: child sexual abuse material, travelling offenders (child sex tourism) and trafﬁcking of children for sexual purposes. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2016 48 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Economic research and education Personal ﬁnances for young people Handelsbanken’s Student Programme Since the early 1960s, Handelsbanken has on a Handelsbanken in Sweden offers students from number of occasions awarded grants for ecoupper secondary school who plan to study at uniHandelsbanken supports initiatives that improve nomic research, mainly through allocations to versity the opportunity to participate in the Bank’s young people’s knowledge of personal ﬁnance by two independent research foundations: Tore Student Programme alongside their studies. The supporting information campaigns and contributBrowaldhs stiftelse and Jan Wallanders och Tom programme comprises working at the Bank during know-how. Ung Privatekonomi (“Young PerHedelius stiftelse. ing their studies, their own action plan and relesonal Finances”) is a schools information project Together, these foundations are some of the vant studies for development at Handelsbanken. that teaches Swedish upper secondary school most important sources of funding for economic The purpose is to attract, recruit and develop students and teachers about personal ﬁnances research in Sweden. In 2016, 197 grants (169) young employees as part of the Bank’s future and savings. were awarded for a total of SEK 188 million (180). management succession, and to promote gender At the end of 2016, the foundations’ combined equality and diversity. Collaboration with universities and colleges capital totalled some SEK 6,901 million (6,051). Handelsbanken has a number of collaborations Handelsbanken has also funded a professorial Women in Finance Charter with schools, universities and colleges that are an chair in accounting at the Stockholm School of As part of its efforts towards gender important part of its long-term employer branding Economics and contributed to the Institute for equality, Handelsbanken in the UK work. For example, we participate in training Financial Research (SIFR) and Swedish House of signed the Women in Finance Charter, courses, contribute our competency and experiFinance (SHoF). an initiative from HM Treasury, which ence, and offer opportunities for internships that Handelsbanken also supports a research promeans the Bank is committed to work for more give students experience and contact with workject at the Stockholm School of Economics where gender balance in the ﬁnancial sector. places. Through these, Handelsbanken estabstudies and analyses are performed on the most lishes contact with target groups that are imporimportant factors in creating customer satisfactant in terms of recruitment. This is based on tion and also in monitoring the link between loyco-operation with and commitment from HR alty and proﬁtability. departments, as well as employees and managers from branches and internal units. AWARDS Best Private Bank – Financial Times and International Banker Sweden’s Small Enterprise Bank 2016 Investors Chronicle Wealth Management In 2016, Handelsbanken was acclaimed “Best For the ﬁfth consecutive Awards Customer Service Provider of the Year Western year, Handelsbanken Handelsbanken in the UK has been named “Best Europe” by International Banker magazine for the was acclaimed Small Enterprise Bank of the Year Private Bank” by Financial Times and Investors second consecutive year. When announcing the in Sweden by companies with between one and Chronicle Wealth Management Awards for the award, International Banker highlighted Handelsnine employees in Finansbarometern’s annual fourth time in ﬁve years. One of Handelsbanken’s banken’s decentralised business model, the consurvey. In the survey, the Bank achieved the highsuccess factors highlighted by the voting of magatinuing strength of our proﬁts, and our focus on est rating in the categories of customer satisfaczine readers and the jury was the way in which it customer service. International Banker is one of the tion, service and customer treatment, range of focuses on its customers. most renowned international periodicals in the products and services and quality of advisory ﬁelds of economics, banking and ﬁnance. Internaservices. Handelsbanken received the award for Britain’s most admired companies 2016 tional Banker presents its awards to banks all over sticking to its model of having a local presence, In the UK, Handelsbanken was the the world – banks that are at the very forefront of something which is appreciated by customers. most admired company in 2016 in the sector. the “Banking” category, according Business Bank of the Year 2016 to a survey by Management Today ServiceScore 2016 For the sixth year running, magazine. The survey involved comFor the ﬁfth year in succession, Handelsbanken Handelsbanken was panies rating the various characteristics of their has been awarded the prize for best service among voted Business Bank of the Year by nearly 1,000 of competitors, including the quality of administrabanks in Sweden, according to the ServiceScore Sweden’s largest companies in the annual Finanstion, ﬁnancial position and inspirational leadersurvey. In 2016, Handelsbanken also received a barometern survey. Eastbrook – the research comship. Handelsbanken’s decentralised and cusprize for best service in the ﬁnancial services catepany that conducts the survey – noted: “It is clear tomer-focused business model was highlighted gory. ServiceScore is based on the opinions of that Handelsbanken’s unique method of meeting its as being the key to the Bank’s success. more than 3,400 people, where 178 Swedish comcustomers still works well. Companies appreciate panies, public authorities and organisations are the local presence and the personal relationships Best for Private Banking 2016 – Privata affärer assessed in terms of the level of service that custhat Handelsbanken offers at its branches.” Handelsbanken in Sweden was ranked No.1 in the tomers consider they receive, based on their annual review of private banking offerings conexpectations. ducted by Privata affärer magazine. The review involved a number of test persons making 135 visits to the banks being evaluated. One of the reasons why Handelsbanken received the award was that test persons perceived the meetings with the Bank to be of high quality. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2016 49 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SURVEYS Business Banking Insight Survey Satisﬁed customers TNS Sifo Reputation Index 2016 For the second year In 2016, Handelsbanken Handelsrunning, Handelshad more satisﬁed private banken is banken was rated and corporate customers among the 10 companies in Sweden with the the best bank in the UK for small and mediumthan the average for the best reputation according to the 2016 survey by sized companies. This was the result of a survey banking sector in all of the TNS Sifo, which every year asks the Swedish carried out by The British Chambers of ComBank’s six home markets. Thus the Bank enjoys public how much conﬁdence they have in various merce and The Federation of Small Businesses. solid customer satisfaction. SKI (Swedish Quality companies. Around 4,500 people aged 18–79 Handelsbanken earned excellent marks in all Index) compiles, analyses and distributes infortook part in the survey. They answered questions 12 categories in the survey and earned the highmation about customers’ expectations, perceived about their expectations of various companies est score, 10 out of a possible 10, for the Bank’s quality and evaluation of goods and services. SKI and how well the companies meet these. personal service. is related to the Swedish Institute for Quality (SIQ) The overall results showed that Handelsand the international organisation EPSI Rating Universum banken’s customers were signiﬁcantly more likely Group (European Performance Satisfaction Business students to recommend their bank compared to other Index), which conducts comparable surveys in According to Corporate banks. More than seven of 10 companies surEurope. Research and development related to Barometer 2016 – a veyed were very willing to recommend HandelsEPSI’s quality surveys is conducted together with survey carried out by banken to others, putting the Bank in a class by SIQ and the Stockholm School of Economics. Universum, an employer itself: among customers of the bank ranked secbranding consultancy – Handelsbanken was the ond, fewer than half were willing to recommend Sustainable Brand Index top bank and ﬁfth overall among a total of 200 their bank. The 2016 results of companies. The survey’s participants – business Scandinavia’s largest students in Sweden – responded to questions on European Bank Quality Ratings annual brand study ideal employers, and graded these according to According to the focusing on sustainability – Sustainable Brand the following criteria: reputation and image; job “European Bank Index™ – shows that Handelsbanken enjoys a top characteristics; people and corporate culture; Quality Ratings” report, published by the Lafferty position among banks in Sweden. In this study, remuneration and opportunities to advance. Group research company at the beginning of 30,000 consumers assess the sustainability of a December 2016, Handelsbanken has the best brand. Young professionals culture and business strategy for sustainable Based on the setting, the human and the In Universum’s 2016 commercial success. In its comparison of 100 brand, the study seeks to understand why a Career Barometer surEuropean banks, no other bank received a higher brand is perceived in a certain way. vey, Sweden’s young rating than Handelsbanken. The Lafferty Group professionals named has 30 years of experience in delivering informaThe Sustainability Yearbook 2017 their ideal employers. “Young professionals” refers tion and business intelligence to international Handelsbanken is one of the most sustainable to people under 40 with an academic background banks and aims to identify the key factors contribanks in the world, according to the RobecoSAM and one to eight years’ experience of working life. buting to a bank’s long-term success. research company. In every year since 2004, the Among professionals working in business, sustainability analysts at RobecoSAM have listed Handelsbanken was the best bank and 23rd out Global Finance the companies they consider to be the most susof a total of 188 companies. Handelsbanken is the world’s fourth safest comtainable in the Sustainability Yearbook. HandelsAmong professional IT graduates, Handelsmercial bank, according to the annual survey from banken is included in this year’s edition as a “Susbanken placed 65th in a total of 120 companies. Global Finance, an international periodical. The tainability Yearbook Member”, which means that In this survey, too, participants answered quessurvey was partly based on an evaluation of the Handelsbanken scored in the top 15 per cent of tions about what is a good employer based on the bank ratings from the international credit rating all banks in the world. The evaluations of the following criteria: reputation and image; job charagencies Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch. research analysts are based on an array of susacteristics; people and corporate culture; remutainability criteria with economic, environmental neration and opportunities to advance. and social dimensions. Each company receives a total sustainability score between 0 and 100, resulting in a ranking of all companies in each sector. Handelsbanken received a total score of 85. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2016 50 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY INDEXES Handelsbanken is scrutinised and FTSE4Good cepts of sustainability and responsibility are in assessed by both customers and finanHandelsbanken has been focus. SRI screening is also applied to other cial market players. The outcome, and selected for the international indexes, such as the SIX30 SRI Index and SIX60 the assessment of the Bank as a result FTSE4Good Index 2016. The SRI Index, both of which include the Handelsof this, shows how well Handelsbanken index is independent and is banken share. SIX Financial Information is the based on analyses of companies’ work with envithird largest supplier of ﬁnancial information in lives up to their expectations. ronmental, social and governance practices Europe and a leading index calculator on the (ESG). Handelsbanken has been part of the Nordic market. ISS-Ethix is an analysis-based ECPI index since 2001. advisor for institutional investors in Sweden, other Since the end of Nordic countries, Europe and the US. the 1990s, ECPI has provided OMX GES Sustainability Together with the GES STOXX Global ESG Leaders ﬁnancial markets with various sustainability Investment Services Member 2016/2017 Handelsbanken is indexes. Handelsbanken has been selected for research company, the included in the STOXX the ECPI Euro Ethical Equity and ECPI Global Nasdaq Stockholm stock Global ESG Leaders Developed ESG Best in Class Equity indexes. exchange has launched a index. The companies number of sustainability included in the index were selected in an analysis Ethibel Sustainability Index indexes that provide investors with a universe of process based on environmental factors, social The Brussels-based companies that fulﬁl sustainability requirements. responsibility and corporate governance issues. organisation Ethibel proHandelsbanken has qualiﬁed for the OMX GES The Index consists of three underlying indexes: vides the ﬁnancial market Sustainability Sweden index as well as the OMX STOXX Global ESG Environmental Leaders, with information on variGES Sustainability Nordic index. STOXX Global ESG Social Leaders and STOXX ous companies and their sustainability activities. Its Global ESG Governance Leaders. Handelsanalyses are carried out by the Vigeo research banken is included in all three of these indexes. company, and based on these results, Ethibel creSIX Sweden SRI Index ates a universe that forms a platform for sustainaSix Sweden SRI Index is a collaboration between bility products and responsible investments. The SIX Financial Information and ISS-Ethix, and conSvenska Handelsbanken class A share has been sists of companies listed on the Stockholm stock included in the Ethibel Excellence Investment Regexchange that meet ISS-Ethix’s sustainability criister since 2004 and is also included in the ESI teria comprising a modern standard for social, Excellence index, which is based on this universe. environmental and ethical criteria, where the conH AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2016 51 CONTENT AND RESTRICTIONS Content and restrictions Since 2009, Handelsbanken has reported releduring the year the Bank also carried out a more vant ﬁgures regarding its work with sustainability detailed dialogue with representatives from the in accordance with guidelines from the Global Bank’s main stakeholder groups. The purpose Reporting Initiative (GRI). The aim of the report is was partly to conﬁrm that the sustainability topics for our stakeholders to be able to ﬁnd out about previously identiﬁed by the Bank as being the our work in a simple manner, gaining a good most material still correspond to stakeholders’ understanding of the Bank’s performance. views, and partly to better understand what these external parties expect from the Bank in terms of DATA COLLECTION AND LIMITATIONS sustainability. The Sustainability Report contains information The analysis was based on a broad spectrum relating to the Group unless otherwise stated. of questions that are particularly relevant to The information presented in the report covers Handelsbanken – partly based on the Bank’s own the largest and most important parts of the operexperience, partly on questions the Bank receives ations, with the focus on banking operations. from external stakeholders – but also generally The Report has certain limitations regarding relevant for a bank. labour practices and environmental data (LA and This year, the dialogue was carried out with EN). Some HR information refers to the Swedish stakeholders in the Bank’s home markets outside operations only or the Bank’s home markets, Sweden. The dialogue again conﬁrmed the view while other information is for the Group as a that Handelsbanken has had of sustainability for whole. Environmental data refers to operations many years. in the Bank’s home markets. Any limitations are The topics that the groups considered most shown in the report. No major corrections or important comprise Handelsbanken’s material amendments to previous information provided in sustainability topics which we describe in detail in previous years’ sustainability reports have been this report. To be able to report what is relevant made in this report. and material, Handelsbanken applies the GRI Financial Services Sector Supplement (FSSS). THE WORK OF DEFINING CONTENT We provide information on aspects additional to In 2016, Handelsbanken reviewed the materiality the most material topics, because the Bank is analysis that had resulted from the process of aware that there is general interest in a variety of deﬁning the Bank’s most material sustainability sustainability issues. topics. Read more about the materiality analysis on In addition to the dialogues that Handelspage 40. The results of the materiality analysis are banken constantly maintains with stakeholders, presented on pages 6–7. Standard disclosures Governance and indicators: Governance and indicators: Governance and indicators: Economic performance Environmental performance Social performance (EC) (EN) (LA, HR, SO, PR) Sector supplement: FINANCIAL SERVICE SECTOR SUPPLEMENT (FSSS) H AN DE L SB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E P ORT 2016 52 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX Index according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Handelsbanken reports its sustainability activities seventh in accordance with the GRI and relates to CONTACT in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative the 2016 calendar year. The previous report was For questions or comments on this report, or on (GRI) G4 guidelines. The Sustainability Report submitted in February 2016 and related to the the Bank’s sustainability activities, please e-mail meets the information requirements of the “Core” 2015 calendar year. The table below contains the Handelsbanken’s Head of Sustainability at level and this has been conﬁrmed by the Bank’s indicators deemed relevant to Handelsbanken’s sustainability@handelsbanken.se. external auditors. Handelsbanken reports the operations including indicators from the GRI Group’s sustainability activities annually. This Financial Services Sector Supplement (FSSS). year’s Sustainability Report is Handelsbanken’s EXTERNAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE SR1 PAGE AR2 ASSURANCE Strategy and analysis G4–1 Comments from the Group Chief Executive 2–3 4–5 y Organisational proﬁle G4–3 Name of the organisation 1 3 y G4–4 Primary brands, products and services Inside Inside cover y G4–5 Location of headquarter Back cover 208 y G4–6 Countries of operation Inside 210–217 y G4–7 Ownership and legal form 36 42–43 y G4–8 Markets served Inside 28–41 y G4–9 Scale of the organisation Inside, 1 24 y G4–10 Total number of employees Inside, 43 110 y Percentage of total employees covered by collective G4–11 bargaining agreements 44 y G4–12 Supply chain 40, 45 173 y G4–13 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period 2–3, 52 y G4–14 Implementation of the precautionary principle Handelsbanken applies the precautionary principle in accordance with Global Compact and Swedish legislation y G4–15 External charters, principles or initiatives 1, 3, 7, 14–15, 21, 23–25, 32, 40, 45–46, 48–49 y G4–16 Membership of associations 48–49 y Identiﬁed material aspects and boundaries G4–17 Entities included or alternatively excluded 52 145 y G4–18 Process for deﬁning report content 6, 40, 52 y G4–19 Identiﬁed material aspects 6–7, 40 y G4–20 Aspect boundary within the organisation 6, 40 y G4–21 Aspect boundary outside the organisation 6, 40 y Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information G4–22 provided in earlier reports 52 y G4–23 Signiﬁcant changes of scope or boundaries compared with previous annual reports 52 y Stakeholder engagement G4–24 Stakeholder groups 39–40 y G4–25 Identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders 39 y G4–26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 39–40 y G4–27 Key topics raised through stakeholder dialogue and how the organisation has responded 6–7, 39–40 y Report proﬁle G4–28 Reporting period 53 y G4–29 Most recent previous report 53 y G4–30 Reporting cycle 53 y G4–31 Contact point for the report 53 y G4–32 “In accordance” option, GRI Content Index, External Assurance Report 53–55 y G4–33 Policy and practice for external assurance 1, 56 y Governance G4–34 Governance structure 32, 34, 41 48–50 y Ethics and integrity G4–56 Values, principles, standards, codes of conduct or ethics 15, 21, 32–33, 41, 44 55–57 y 1 SR Refers to the Sustainability Report 2016. 2 AR Refers to the Annual Report 2016. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 6 53 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DISCLOSURE OF MANAGEMENT OMISSIONS/ EXTERNAL MATERIAL ASPECTS APPROACH AND INDICATORS PAGE SR1 PAGE AR2 COMMENTS ASSURANCE Financial aspects ECONOMIC RESULTS G4–DMA Management of material aspects 4–5, 6–7, 18–19, 20, 35–37, 41–42 10–11 y Handelsbanken’s material topics: G4–EC1 Direct economic value generated and • Financial stability and proﬁtability distributed 19, 42 y • Creating shareholder value Coverage of the deﬁned beneﬁt plan • The Bank should not be a burden on society G4–EC3 obligations 191 y • Salaries and remuneration • The Bank as a taxpayer G4–EC4 Financial assistance received from government 6–7, 18–19 y MARKET PRESENCE G4–DMA Management of material aspects 4–5, 6–7, 41 y G4–EC6 Proportion of senior management hired Handelsbanken’s material topics: from the local community 28–29 y • Local presence INDIRECT ECONOMIC EFFECTS G4–DMA Management of material aspects 4–5, 6–7, 13 y G4–EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure Handelsbanken’s material topics: investments and services supported 14, 16, 17 y • Local presence G4–EC8 Signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 18–19, 42 y Environment EMISSIONS* G4–DMA Management of material aspects 6–7, 14, 20–25, 40, 46–47 y G4–EN3 Direct and indirect energy use by primary energy source 46–47 y G4–EN15 Total amount of direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) 47 y G4–EN16 Total amount of indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) 47 y G4–EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) 47 y Social Labour practices and decent work EMPLOYMENT G4–DMA Management of material aspects 4–5, 6–7, 27–31, 39, 43–44 y Handelsbanken’s material topics: G4–LA1 New employees and employee turnover, • Salaries and remuneration by age group, gender and region 43 y • Responsible employer G4–LA2 Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees Handelsbanken does not that are not provided to temporary or consider it relevant to part-time employees 43–44 report the situation in the y different countries, as only 5 per cent of the Bank’s employees are temporarily employed. LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS G4–DMA Management of material aspects 4–5, 6–7, 44 y G4–LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operaAll collective bargaining Handelsbanken’s material topics: tional changes and whether these are agreements regulate notice • Working conditions and union rights speciﬁed in collective agreements periods, though these dif• Employee commitment 44 y fer depending on the agreement and market. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4–DMA Management of material aspects 4–5, 6–7, 30, 43–44 y G4–LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented Handelsbanken’s material topics: in formal joint management-worker health • Work environment and health and safety committees 30, 44 y G4–LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 30, 44 y TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4–DMA Management of material aspects 6–7, 28, 31 y G4–LA10 Programmes for skills management and Handelsbanken’s material topics: lifelong learning that support the continued • Responsible employer employability of employees and assist • Leadership and development them in managing career endings 28 y • Employee commitment G4–LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 28 y GENDER EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY G4–DMA Management of material aspects 6–7, 29–31, 39–40, 41, 43, 45 y Handelsbanken’s material topics: G4–LA12 Composition of governance bodies and • Gender equality and diversity breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other Handelsbanken currently indicators of diversity 29, 43 60–63 reports by gender and age. y * The materiality analysis did not identify environmental impact among Handelsbanken’s most material sustainability topics, but with regard to the importance of climate issues both locally and globally, we have opted to include in the GRI Index a selected number of indicators showing our performance within this area. 1 SR Refers to the Sustainability Report 2016. 2 AR Refers to the Annual Report 2016. HA ND E LSB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PORT 2016 54 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX DISCLOSURE OF MANAGEMENT OMISSIONS/ EXTERNAL MATERIAL ASPECTS APPROACH AND INDICATORS PAGE SR1 PAGE AR2 COMMENTS ASSURANCE Human rights INVESTMENT G4–DMA Management of material aspects 4–5, 6–7, 20–25, 45, 46 y Handelsbanken’s material topics: G4–HR1 Number and percentage of signiﬁcant investment • Responsible credits agreements that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening 20–21, 46 y NON-DISCRIMINATION G4–DMA Sustainability management of material aspects 6–7, 28–30, 45 y G4–HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and 29 y Handelsbanken’s material topics: actions taken • Satisﬁed customers • Gender equality and diversity Society LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4–DMA Management of material aspects 4–5, 6–7, 10–13, 16–17 y G4–SO1 Operations with implemented local community Handelsbanken’s material topics: engagement, impact assessments, and • High availability development programmes 11–12, 13, 16 y • Local presence FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas 11–13 y FS14 Initiatives to improve access to ﬁnancial services for disadvantaged people 13 y ANTI-CORRUPTION G4–DMA Management of material aspects 6–7, 32–34, 41, 44–45 y G4–SO3 Number and percentage of operations assessed Handelsbanken’s material topics: for risks related to corruption 34, 44 y • Business culture • Anti-corruption and bribery G4–SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption • Counteract crime policies and procedures 34, 44 y G4–SO5 Conﬁrmed incidents of corruption and actions No conﬁrmed incitaken dents of corruption occurred in 2016 y COMPLIANCE G4–DMA Management of material aspects 6–7, 32–34, 41, 44–45 y G4–SO8 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total No signiﬁcant Handelsbanken’s material topics: number of non-monetary sanctions for incidents in 2016 • Counteract crime non-compliance with current laws and regulations y Product responsibility PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELLING G4–DMA Management of material aspects 6–7, 12, 20, 23, 25, 33 y G4–PR3 Type of product information required by proceHandelsbanken’s material topics: dures for product and service information and • Satisﬁed customers labelling, and percentage of products subject to • Responsible sales and advisory such information requirements 12 y services G4–PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with No signiﬁcant regulations and voluntary codes concerning incidents in 2016 product and service information and labelling y G4–PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 10–11, 49–50 y CUSTOMER PRIVACY G4–DMA Management of material aspects 6–7, 12, 32–33, 41, 45 y G4–PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regardHandelsbanken’s material topics: ing breaches of customer privacy and losses of • Integrity and conﬁdentiality customer data 45 y COMPLIANCE G4–DMA Sustainability management of material aspects 6–7, 12, 20 y G4–PR9 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes for non-compliance No signiﬁcant Handelsbanken’s material topics: with laws and regulations concerning the provision incidents in 2016 • Responsible sales and advisory services and use of products and services y PRODUCT PORTFOLIO G4–DMA Management of material aspects 6–7, 20–25, 45, 46 y FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by Handelsbanken’s material topics: speciﬁc region, size and by sector 21 y • Responsible credits • Responsible investments FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a speciﬁc environmental beneﬁt 21, 25 y MONITORING CREDITS AND G4–DMA Management of material aspects 6–7, 20–25, 45–46 y INVESTMENTS (FS) (FS) Handelsbanken’s material topics: • Responsible credits • Responsible investments ACTIVE OWNERSHIP G4–DMA Management of material aspects 6–7, 22–25 y FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the Handelsbanken’s material topics: institution’s portfolio with which the reporting • Responsible investments organisation has interacted on environmental or social issues 24 y FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening 1, 23–25 y 1 SR Refers to the Sustainability Report 2016. 2 AR Refers to the Annual Report 2016. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 6 55 EXAMINERS' REPORT Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) Sustainability Report This is the translation of the auditor’s report in Swedish. To Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) INTRODUCTION We conducted our limited assurance engageCONCLUSION We have been engaged by the executive manment in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Based on the limited assurance procedures we agement of Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) Sustainability Reports issued by FAR. A limited have performed, nothing has come to our attention to undertake a limited assurance engagement assurance engagement consists of making that causes us to believe that the Sustainability of Handelsbanken’s Sustainability Report for the inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the Report is not prepared, in all material respects, in year 2016. preparation of the Sustainability Report, and accordance with the criteria deﬁned by the Board applying analytical and other limited assurance of Directors and Executive Management. procedures. The procedures performed in a limRESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD ited assurance engagement vary in nature from, OF DIRECTORS AND THE EXECUTIVE and are less in scope than for, a reasonable MANAGEMENT FOR THE SUSTAINABILITY assurance engagement conducted in accordREPORT ance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and The Board of Directors and the Executive Manother generally accepted auditing standards. The agement are responsible for the preparation of ﬁrm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on the Sustainability Report in accordance with the Quality Control) and accordingly maintains a comapplicable criteria, as explained on page 1 in the prehensive system of quality control including Sustainability Report, that are the parts of the documented policies and procedures regarding Stockholm, 16 February 2017 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (published compliance with ethical requirements, profesby The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)) that are sional standards and applicable legal and regulaKPMG AB applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well as tory requirements. Consequently, the procedures Anders Bäckström Torbjörn Westman the accounting and calculation principles that the performed do not enable us to obtain assurance Authorised Public Expert Member of FAR Company has developed. This responsibility that we would become aware of all signiﬁcant Accountant also includes the internal control relevant to the matters that might be identiﬁed in a reasonable preparation of a Sustainability Report that is free assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not from material misstatements, whether due to express a reasonable assurance conclusion. fraud or error. Our procedures are based on the criteria deﬁned by the Board of Directors and the ExecuRESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDITOR tive Management as described above. We conOur responsibility is to express a conclusion on sider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Report based on the limited the Sustainability Report. assurance procedures we have performed. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufﬁcient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion below. HA ND E LSB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PORT 2016 56 handelsbanken.com | +46 (0)8 701 10 00 | SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden
