Saita (Pakistan) Pte Ltd United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress for the Year 2016 Contents S.No Description Page 1 Message from CEO 3 2 Principle 1 (Human Rights) 4 3 Principle 2 (Human Rights) 8 4 Principle 3 (Labour) 11 5 Principle 4 (Labour) 13 6 Principle 5 (Labour) 17 7 Principle 6 (Environment) 20 8 Principle 7 (Environment) 25 9 Principle 8 (Environment) 29 10 Principle 9 (Environment) 32 11 Principle 10 (Environment) 35 Principle-1 (Human Rights) Saita Pakistan Pte Ltd (SPPL) supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and is not complicit in any human rights abuses. Our employees support the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in their day-to-day business life.  SPPL ensure our employees a safe and healthy working environment.  Human right is one of the most important agenda when SPPL do business with other organizations.  SPPL ensures, by proper investigation, that it does not use labour from agencies or firms involved in trafficking, debt bondage, or kidnapping.  A financial contribution to the UN Global Compact has been made in May 2017.  All equipment being used in the company are safe and third party certified.  All workers are allowed to leave SPPL premises at the end of their shifts.  SPPL has a procedure or process for receiving and responding to health and safety complaints, such as designating a health and safety representative or committee.  SPPL provides its staff with competitive remuneration packages according to the national policies and procedures.  Trainings such as defensive driving, firefighting, first aider, medivac and job specific trainings are conducted on regular basis.  SPPL ensures that employment contracts are fair, transparent, and understood by the workers.  Risk assessments, fire drills and mock drills are conducted on regular basis.  Workers and managers are trained to respond to workplace emergencies and first aid kits are readily available.  SPPL pays a living wage and does not compel workers to engage in a cycle of salary advancements in order to meet living expenses.  Implemented SA-8000 and other related international third party certifications.  The code of ethics document is signed by all employees.  SPPL adheres to International rules and declarations for employee’s betterment. Outcome after such dedicated effort  SPPL has led to be an attractive employer in the job market.  Employees have become more motivated, leading to increased productivity and higher retention rates  Maintaining a diverse workforce has made SPPL better equipped to compete in the global economy.  SPPL has become more attractive as a client for contractors, suppliers and other business partners. External measures taken  SPPL support several good citizenship projects that help the local communities in which SPPL operates, on an ongoing basis. E.g.  Providing fresh drinking water to the local communities.  Purchasing commodities from the local communities.  Hiring labor from the local communities.  Preventing force able displacement of Individuals, group and communities.  Compliances with the international guidelines and standards while using security services for site operations.  Protecting economic livelihoods of local communities. Principle-2 (Human Rights) SPPL eliminates all forms of forced and compulsory labour, the effective abolition of child labour and the elimination of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation. SPPL firmly dissociates itself from and will not do business with any organization which upholds forced labour or child labour.  SPPL’s human rights policy distributes a prevention policy on workplace violence and harassment, which notifies employees of their obligations to refrain from violent, threatening or abusive conduct toward others.  SPPL acknowledges the right of every permanent employee to form free association or not to do so for collective bargaining.  when there is sufficient evidence that an employee has engaged in an act of violence, SPPL reports the individual to the appropriate government authority.  The code of ethics is reviewed and signed by all employees on yearly basis.  SPPL promptly addresses stress and tensions (such as racial tensions) in the workplace which can later lead to abusive, violent or harassing conduct.  Human rights assessments are carried out.  Explicit policy is available for security arrangements to make sure human rights are not violated.  Managers are trained to use appropriate management techniques, including proper disciplinary measures, and instructed to refrain from harassing, violent, threatening and abusive conduct.  Monitoring system is available to make sure human rights policies are implemented.  SPPL has a mechanism to receive reports of workplace violence, harassment and threats, which is specifically designed to competently address all types of workplace misconduct, including sexual harassment.  Records show that SPPL systematically and objectively reviews any complaints filed and implements corrective action if necessary.  Human right policies are available for the protection of workers.  SPPL pursues the highest standards in ethics, morals and values. . External Measures: Actions:  Internal audits are conducted on regular basis according to the standard operating procedures of human rights abuse.  SPPL encourage our associates and business partners to comply with the ISO-9001, ISO14001, OHSAS-18001 and the SA-8000 certifications. Principle-3 (Labour) Freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Actions  SPPL recognizes and respects the rights of employees to exercise their lawful rights of free association and collective bargaining.  SPPL does not discriminate against employees who form or participate in lawful associations and/or collective bargaining. Forms of discrimination include, but are not limited to:  Wage penalties  Suspension  Termination  SPPL does not illegally discriminate against employees who choose not to join any association or bargain collectively.  SPPL does not discriminate against applicants who have previously exercised their lawful rights of free association and/or collective bargaining.  SPPL does not discriminate or take adverse actions against employees in retaliation for exercising employee rights, participating in union activities, or reporting suspected legal violations.  SPPL provides reasonable notice of impending changes in operations that will affect employment at SPPL, such as anticipated mergers and layoffs.  SPPL recognizes workers organizations for collective bargaining purposes.  SPPL allows worker representatives reasonable access to the SPPL documentation needed to fulfill their duties; negotiate with the SPPL, and ascertain the performance of the SPPL regarding relevant matters.  SPPL believes in the freedom of opinion and expression of all stakeholders within the organization.  SPPL takes efforts to protect employees from union-related harassment by other workers.  SPPL does not use military actors to discourage strikes, intimidate workers, or interfere with the exercise of employee rights.  SPPL engages in collective bargaining and holds regular consultations with authorized workers’ representatives concerning working conditions, remuneration, dispute resolution, internal relations and matters of mutual concern.  Management meets regularly with employee representatives to discuss work-related problems and any grievances employees may wish to raise. Principle-4 (Labour) Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Workplace Actions  SPPL does not use involuntary or forced labor – indentured, bonded or otherwise nor does it support the use of forced or compulsory labor in any form including bonded, forced, and/or compulsory prison labor.  SPPL does not do business with vendors/suppliers found to be using forced labor in any form.  SPPL prohibits all relevant individuals from coercing employees in any way or unnecessarily limiting employees’ freedom of movement.  SPPL does not require employees to submit original documents at the time of employment or during the period a person is employed.  SPPL has a policy prohibiting forced labour in its various forms, such as debt bondage, compelled involuntary overtime, forced prison labour and trafficked labour.  Forced labor and child labor is prohibited within the sphere of our influence.  All workers are allowed to leave the employ of the SPPL after reasonable notice.  SPPL records demonstrate that SPPL immediately grants letters of release whenever the letter is needed for an employee to retain a job elsewhere.  Exit interviews are taken for feedback and necessary action are taken accordingly.  All workers are allowed to leave the employ of the SPPL after reasonable notice.  SPPL does not withhold wages or threaten to withhold wages to compel overtime, but makes payments on a regular basis, and in a timely manner.  Providing employment contracts to all employees in various languages stating the terms and conditions of service, the voluntary nature of employment and the freedom to leave.  SPPL provides a clear policy of national standards against forced labor.  Ensures all SPPL officials have a full understanding of forced labor.  Prohibiting policies and procedures where workers launch financial deposits while being hired.  Either party can terminate employment contracts within the notice period.  SPPL strongly prohibits forced labour, compelled overtime, human trafficking or debt bondage.  Closely monitoring supply chain and sub contracting arrangements.  SPPL does not require workers to lodge money deposits with SPPL. Community of operations Actions:  All associates and business partners are internally audited according to the International policies of forced labour.  Awareness program are conducted regarding all forms of Forced labour. Principle-5 (Labour) Businesses should uphold the affective abolition of child labour. Workplace Actions  SPPL discourages child labor at all levels in the society and uses following steps to show its resentment. o Discontinuation of business, with suppliers, who fail to address child labor.  Immediate termination of contractor, if found employing child labor.  Hiring managers are aware of the forms of identification forgery commonly used in the country of operation and they are able to spot such forgeries.  SPPL does not hire any person under the age of 18 to perform work that interferes with their education.  SPPL does not hire or contract workers under the age of 18 to perform work that exposes them to psychological, emotional or sexual abuse. (II 3(a), International Labour Organization Recommendation 190)  Internal audits are done regularly in order to comply with the International child labour policies.  Workers are subject to medical examinations to ensure their fitness for the form of employment they are to undertake.  SPPL does not hire or contract workers under the age of 18 to work underground, under water, at dangerous heights or in confined spaces.” (II 3 (b), International Labour Organization Recommendation 190)  Influencing measures are taken with sub-contractors, suppliers and another business affiliates to combat child labor.  SPPL does not hire or contract workers under the age of 18 to work with dangerous machinery, equipment and tools, or to manhandle or transport heavy loads. (II 3(c), International Labour Organization Recommendation 190).  SPPL requires candidates to provide copies of birth certificates or other official forms of identification to verify their age before being hired.  Using adequate and verifiable mechanism for age verification in recruitment procedures.  SPPL is in compliance with SA-8000.  Policies and procedures are followed according to International standards abiding to child labor.  To tackle with fake documents (birth certificates) the SPPL has a procedure for estimating the age of employment for young candidates, such as average height or knowledge of historic events. Community of operation Actions:  Awareness programs of international child labour are conducted regularly within the sphere of our influence.  Constructing schools to help educated the village children. Principle-6 (Labour) Equal Employment Opportunity: Actions:  SPPL is an equal opportunity employer and believes in equal opportunity for all based on merit and ability to carry out the given responsibilities. It believes in equal pay for similar jobs and provision of equal opportunity to all employees to enable them to grow with Saita.  Equal employment opportunity applies to all aspects of employment practices including, recruiting, hiring, placement, promotion, demotion, transfer, training, compensation, benefits and termination. Company ensures that all the employees whether employed directly or indirectly are employed merely on the basis of merit and no discrimination is made on the basis of race, religion and gender.  SPPL does not discriminate against anyone when hiring, promoting, paying, job rotation, selecting people for training, at the time of termination of employment or retirement on the basis of religion, race, national origin, disability, gender, any association or political affiliation.  SPPL has a method for ensuring that SPPL benefits and services, such as sick leave, holiday, housing, health care, transportation etc. are provided in a nondiscriminatory manner.  In cases where the potential candidate is physically disabled but his/ her disability does not affect the nature of job for which he/she is seeking employment, SPPL does not discourages these employees and provide them equal opportunity to seek employment on merit.  SPPL ensures that to the extent possible any vacant position is advertised either through newspaper or any other appropriate means.  SPPL has policies in place to ensure that hiring, placement, remuneration, advancement, training, discipline, retirement and termination decisions within the SPPL are based only on objective factors, and are not connected to the gender, age, nationality, ethnicity, race, colour, creed, caste, language, mental or physical disability, organizational membership, opinion, health status (including HIV/AIDS), marital status, sexual orientation, birth, or civic, social, or political characteristics of the worker.  SPPL provides equal opportunities for employment and discourages all forms of employee discrimination.  SPPL does not ask applicants questions regarding their marital status, intent to have children, or number of dependents, which is sometimes used as a method to avoid hiring women because of fear that their duties at home will interfere with their dedication to work.  Non discriminatory policies and procedures are available with workers.  Women are given equal opportunities within the organization at all levels.  Employment advertisements do not reference irrelevant characteristics, such as race, unless listed as part of an equal opportunities promotion.  All employees are given special holidays in accordance with their religious customs.  Hiring and promotions are done on merit and performance basis.  Employee evaluations are done on quarterly basis and are provided professional trainings accordingly.  SPPL policies and procedures provide equal employment practices.  Job descriptions are clearly defined, utilized by all hiring managers, and frequently updated to ensure that employees are hired and granted promotions by SPPL only on the basis of the skills, qualifications and experience required for the position.  Keeping up-to-date records on recruitment, training and promotion that provide a transparent view of opportunities for employees and their progression within the organization.  SPPL has a training program in place, where instruction is made available,  without discrimination, to help workers achieve the qualifications necessary to acquire positions at all levels within SPPL.  In cases where an employee feels that he/she is treated with discriminatory behavior, he/she is encouraged to report such events.  Providing staff training on ‘non-discrimination policies and practices’ including disability awareness.  Establishing programs to promote access to skills development training and to particular occupations.  SPPL does not require applicants or employees to take pregnancy tests, get abortions, or sign agreements not to become pregnant.  Hiring managers receive training regarding SPPL’s non-discrimination policies.  SPPL has a method for ensuring that pay is based on objective factors and is implemented in a non-discriminatory way.  SPPL makes reasonable accommodations to allow disabled workers job opportunities with SPPL.  Developing Grievance procedures to identify discrimination and in order to address complaints handle appeals and provide recourse for employees. . External Measures: Actions:   Developing occupational development programs such as adult education programs, health programs and child care services.  Accommodating cultural traditions by working with representatives of workers and governmental authorities to ensure equal access to employment by women and minorities. Principle-7 ( Environment ) Health, Safety and Environment: Actions:  SPPL utilizes all available resources to provide a Healthy and Safe working environment for all its workers and to eliminate all potential hazards that are capable of causing work related accidents.  SPPL provides all necessary personal protective equipment’s and implements controls to ensure the safety of the workers and their health.  SPPL conducts regular trainings on HSE according to the international standards.  Regular HSE inspections are conducted within SPPL premises and site operations.  SPPL has achieved ISO 14001 certification and is in compliance with OHSAS 18001.  Ensuring adequate number of fire fighters and first aiders on SPPL premises and at site operations.  The management commitment to HSE policy is prominent in SPPL premises showing its commitment to health and safety of all its employees, contractors and visitors and ensuring conservation within SPPL’s operations and sphere of influence.  Prohibiting uncertain activities effecting the environment and taking proactive measures for its safeguard.  Management site visits are made quarterly to show management commitment to HSE policies and procedures and in order to encourage the dedicated workforce.  SPPL policy has detailed emergency procedures, prevention plans, and training  programs to protect against dangers and handle emergencies.  Developing a code of conduct for its operations and products that confirms commitment to care for health and the environment.  Internal HSE audits are conducted regularly to strengthen the HSE culture within the organization.  Creating a managerial committee that oversees the SPPL application of precautions, in particular risk management in sensitive issue areas.  Establishing a two way communication with stake holders in a proactive and transparent manner to ensure effective communication of information about uncertainties and potential risk and action measures to deal with related enquires and complains.  Join industry-wide collaborated efforts to share knowledge and deal with issues in particular production processes and products around with high-level of uncertainty, potential harm and sensitivity exist.  SPPL has a clearly audible/visible alarm system that warns nearby communities of potential emergencies, if necessary.  Sound pollutions and gas emissions are monitored regularly through internal auditors and third-party certification regulatory bodies. External Measures: Actions:  SPPL provides HSE trainings to all external contacts before and during the execution of projects.  Monthly environmental monitoring is carried out through external certifying bodies.  SPPL has developed emergency community evacuation plans with the appropriate local, regional, and national authorities, if necessary. Community residents are clearly informed about these plans and familiar with the evacuation procedures contained therein.  Incidental spills are handled by trained staff with the help of spill control kits to safeguard the environment.  If the site is located far away from a hospital, SPPL has adequate medical resources and competent staff to provide preliminary relief and treatment to people who might suffer the consequences of an industrial accident.  Records show that SPPL systematically and objectively reviews any complaints filed and implements corrective action if necessary.  SPPL encourage local communities, suppliers, contractors, government agencies, and other organizations to comply with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 policies and regulations. Principle-8 ( Environment ) Environmental Responsibilities: Actions:  Policies are implemented to preserve and protect the environment according to international standards.  Performing monthly environmental checks, audits and trainings throughout the entire business in order to comply with the policies and procedures.  Creating vision, policies and strategies in-line with economic prosperity, environmental quality and social equity in order to achieve sustainable development.  Establishing a sustainable production and consumption program with clear performance objectives to take the organization beyond compliance in the long run.  Working with suppliers to improve environmental performance, extending responsibility up the product chain and down the supply chain.  Our policies promote conservation of resources, waste management and minimization of the release of chemicals and gases in the environment.  SPPL’s emergency response procedures comply with the highest level of industry standard, or exceed the standard when necessary.  Ensure transparency and unbiased dialog with stakeholders.  Environmental friendly training programs are conducted on regular basis.  SPPL has achieved ISO 14001 certification (Environmental Management System) in order to develop an environmental friendly culture within the organization.  Emission aspects are identified and environment management plan is developed accordingly. External Measures: Actions:  Encouraging business partners to comply with EST (environmentally sound technologies) in their business processes.  Conducting the third-party audit on ISO 14001 certification within the organization.  Promoting a paperless filing system and electronic communication for official use.  Tree-plantation campaigns are undertaken at all sites operated by the SPPL in order to off-set emissions and improve environmental ambiance. Principle-9 ( Environment ) Environment-Friendly Technologies: Actions:  SPPL work closely and corporately with local communities, suppliers and contractors, Government agencies and other organizations engaged in improving the environment.  Improved environmental technology can be achieved by changing the process or manufacturing techniques, further changing input materials and by reusing materials on site.  All products used are environmental friendly and certified under the environmental Law of the country.  Making information available for stakeholders that illustrates the environmental performance and benefits of using such technologies.  Refocusing research and development towards ‘designed for sustainability ’.  Use of life cycle assessment in the development of new technologies and products.  Use of natural sun-light at day time to reduce electricity consumption for lighting.  Employing environmental technologies assessments.  Establishing a corporate or individual SPPL policy on the use of environmentally sound technologies.  SPPL has achieved ISO 14001 certification (Environmental Management System) and implements all its policies and procedures.  Examining investment criteria and the sourcing policy for suppliers and contractors to ensure that tenders estipulate the minimum environmental criteria.  Implementation of Energy Efficient Projects  Co-operating with the industry partners to ensure that best available technology is available to other organization. External Measures: Actions:  SPPL encourage the use of EST (environmentally sound technologies) by including them in our tendering process.  SPPL encourage local communities, suppliers, contractors, government agencies and other organizations to implement environment friendly technologies and waste management and emission control systems.  SPPL also encourage the use of ESTs in our sphere of influence. Principle-10 ( Environment ) Actions: Code of Ethics  SPPL has a written policy against unjustly influencing and bribing public officials, or engaging in any other methods that subvert the representative process of government and/or the judiciary.  Saita has zero-tolerance for all forms of corruption, bribery or extortion.  All employees are forbidden to give or receive gifts or bribes in order to compromise on fare business decisions and developing relationship with the SPPL.  Confidentiality, honesty and accuracy of information in the course of business are required by the all employees of the SPPL.  All employees are required to declare their assets while joining and on yearly basis.  SPPL is transparent about facilitation payments and actively works to eliminate them.  SPPL has guidelines instructing employees in how to deal with bribery and  corruption issues and these are made available to all employees, particularly those who are involved in legal matters relating to SPPL business.  SPPL sends two or more people to meetings with government officials in order to discourage practices of bribery and corruption.  All employees are required to sign the ‘statement of ethics of business practices’ at the time of joining and it is to be renewed every year. Corporate Governance:  Regular checks by internal audit department are carried out to ensure implementation of procedures in compliance with SPPL policies.  Comply with regulations of security and Exchange Commission of Pakistan.  SPPL uses internationally acceptable accounting standards to maintain transparency.  All funds, assets, receipts and disbursement properly recorded in the books of the SPPL.  Promotes fare business practices and ensures compliance with regulatory legal requirements. External Measures: Actions:  Board of directors meetings held quarterly.  Media / press briefings and interviews are given on demand.  All financial reports are properly audited by external auditors.  Quarterly briefings on financial statements are given to management.  Quarterly briefing for security analysis is conducted.  SPPL ensures timely payment of taxes.
