Communication on Progress 2016-2017 Statement of continued support by the chief executive officer To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Atelier 2000 Uniforms-skrædderi A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. During the 2016-2017 period, Atelier 2000’s focus has been on management of material use, manufacturing, chemical use as well as the social impacts associated to the all the life cycle stages of production. Internally, we continued to work with diversity and non-discrimination at the work place and integration of local refugees in our company. In the coming year, we will continue to work with the Global compact ten principles throughout our daily operations and thereby continue to contribute to the UN Sustainable development goals. Sincerely yours Heidi Moisen Adm. Director Human rights and Labour Principles: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals Atelier 2000’s CSR policy confirms the Global Compact human rights principles and supports The Universal Declaration of Human Rights as well as the ILO and other internationally accepted standards. Atelier 2000 will not trade with companies that do not comply with these principles and standards. Assessment of the risks within our operational value chain occurs through the use of our code of conduct and the requirement that all our suppliers must follow this code. We have filled-in questionnaires from all our suppliers showing their commitment to Human Rights and Atelier 2000’s code of conduct. Atelier 2000 respects the employees’ right to representation, including the right to join industry associations. We do not tolerate harassment and we are committed to providing equal opportunities in employment and avoiding unlawful discrimination. The well-being of our employees, both physically and psychologically, is one of our priorities and our aim is to keep improving our working conditions and working environment to ensure this priority. Implementation and Measurement of Outcomes Atelier 2000 has in place procedures regarding human rights and labour issues covering our internal operations and we make sure that all new employees are informed about their rights, our policies and procedures upon commencement of work at Atelier 2000. Each new employee receives a contract that covers amongst other things, human rights issues. We continue working with our yearly work environment assessment, as well as the 2-3 evaluation meetings we are holding each year to determine whether our solutions and actions have been successful. In this connection, we also go through employee/management input and examine any new applicable laws and regulations on work environment issues. In 2015-2016 period, we have made an effort to integrate local refugees in our organisation, which resulted in several internships and the regular employment of a Syrian tailor. Non-discrimination and diversity at the workplace are very important to us, and we are a well-functioning international team at Atelier 2000. Regarding our supply chain, we communicate our stand and the 10 principles regarding human rights, Labour, Environmental and anti-corruption to our supply chain. We have clear policies regarding human rights and labour issues concerning our suppliers and we are undertaking due diligence as a way of managing these issues. As a result of our work with third party standards and certification, our most important supplier in Pakistan could show an official certificate concerning child labour after an independent audit. We will continue working on getting similar certificates from our other suppliers in “high risk” countries. Environment Principles: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals Our aim is to reduce environmental impacts throughout our operations and uphold applicable laws and regulations. We expect that our business partners as a minimum uphold the laws and regulations that are applicable to their business. We encourage our suppliers to work with environmental issues by using third party official certification schemes and standards. Implementation and Measurement of Outcomes During the previous reporting period, we made an evaluation of our activities and decided to focus on selected products and the environmental and social related impacts related to these during their life cycle. In order to address these impacts, we decided to start an application procedure for the Nordic Ecolabel “The Swan”. In doing so we will require documentation to fulfil the criteria that cover: 1. Environmental requirements: These requirements are set to reduce environmental impacts, reduce/restrict emissions, water and energy use as well as chemicals and substances that are harmful to both the environment and to humans throughout the production stages. The requirements cover the production stages as follows:  Fibre production regarding the pesticides content, The COD discharged to surface waters as well as the heavy metal levels in zippers, buttons etc.  Spinning/weaving/finishing regarding chemical use including substances on the REACH candidate list, forbidden substances, biocides and antibacterial substances, chlorinated substances, biodegradability of detergents, additives, fabric softeners and bleaching agents  Dyeing regarding CLP hazard classification, Impurities od dyes and pigments, chrome, metal complex and AZO dyes, VOC, COD emissions, Energy and water consumption  Packaging, storage and transportation regarding chlorinated plastics. 2. Quality and functionality requirements: These requirements cover formaldehyde use, dimensional changes and colour fastness to all kinds of conditions and pilling 3. Ethical requirements: These requirements cover working conditions 4. Quality and regulatory requirements: These cover laws and regulations and Licence requirements. The Nordic Ecolabel is an ISO type 1 Ecolabel and as such is a transparent, credible certification scheme and compliance to the above requirements is verified and controlled by experts through tests performed by accredited laboratories, declarations provided by chemical suppliers and others as well as with regular control visits. For us this work will provide a status of where we stand regarding the above strict requirements and this in turn will form the framework of our action plan to tackle the areas of non-compliance. This work requires time, resources a and a good deal of understanding from our suppliers and subsuppliers. Several of our suppliers in high risk countries such as Pakistan, China and Slovakia have implemented an ISO 14001 environmental management system, audit by a third party as well as Oekotex certifications. We will continue our dialogue and cooperation with our suppliers regarding CSR issues. Anti-Corruption Principles: Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Atelier 2000 makes it clear in our code of conduct that we do not tolerate corruption in all its forms. In addition to this, we have been re-drafting our anti-corruption policy, which we expect to be ready in 2017, so it can be communicated to our supply-chain. Implementation and Measurement of Outcome We have formulated and are communicating our anti-corruption policy. There have been no anti-corruption violations against Atelier 2000
