OUR RESPONSIBILITY – OUR COMMITMENT Sustainability Report of the tesa Group 2016 Cover: tesa SE has supported the “mint:pink” program operated by the Hamburg-based “Initiative Naturwissenschaft & Technik” (Science & Technology Initiative) since 2014 as part of its social commitment. The program encourages girls to explore STEM fields. About this report This sustainability report offers our stakeholders and the general public The tesa Group follows a sustainable approach geared toward both coninsight into our worldwide commitment and involvement and the ecotinuity and ongoing further development and evolution. To live up to this nomic, ecological, and social impacts of our corporate activities in 2016. standard, we implement a large number of projects at our 51 affiliates The report presents an overview of key measures, results, and indicators worldwide, year after year. The report is limited to a representative selecacross four fields: tion of current initiatives. • Corporate management This document is available in German and English. Like all of the ver­­• Employees sions published in previous years, it is available online at www.tesa.de/ • Environmental protection tesa.com. • Social commitment For further information on the subjects of products, the environment, This report also meets our obligation under the United Nations Global employees, and society, please also visit the “Responsibility” section of Compact to provide information on the advances we have made in these our website at www.tesa.com/about-tesa/responsibility. fields every year. As a member of the Global Compact, tesa is committed to upholding ten universal principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and anti-corruption. tesa Sustainability Report 2 CONTENTS About this report 2 Foreword 4 The tesa business model 5 1 Responsible corporate management Key action fields 7 Organizational structure 7 The UN Global Compact 8 Good Governance 8 Code of Conduct 8 Purchasing Charter 9 Compliance 9 Diversity in supervisory and management bodies 10 2 Multifaceted approach to supporting employees Culture of feedback and dialogue 11 Personnel planning and management 12 Development, support, training 12 Health 13 Occupational safety 14 3 Consistent environmental protection Development to date 16 Focus on energy efficiency and CO2 reduction 17 Focus on resource efficiency and ecological footprint 18 Focus on ecofriendly products 19 Milestones, key indicators, and successes 20 4 Social commitment tesa connects 21 tesa helps: Fostering community ties 22 tesa donates: For uncomplicated help 23 tesa supports: With opportunities for education 24 tesa protects: Working to protect the environment 25 tesa Sustainability Report 3 FOREWORD “Taking responsibility has a longstanding tradition at tesa: It is seen as an important investment for the future.” Dr. Robert Gereke, CEO of tesa SE Dear Reader, As one of the world’s leading adhesive technology compaCapable, happy employees are the key to both our innonies, tesa owes its outstanding brand reputation to ongoing vative products and our ability to do business sustainably. high innovative drive and product quality. But to us, the With this in mind, tesa continued to cultivate a corporate crucial thing isn’t just what we produce – it’s also how we culture of feedback and dialogue in 2016, in addition to produce it. Socially and ecologically responsible actions offering a number of training and qualification measures. along the entire value chain are traditionally among the Our employees are not only excellent specialists, but basic principles of how tesa does business. Both the brand also regularly commit to social projects, demonstrating and the group name are emblematic of this approach. their passion and enthusiasm beyond their job-related We have been actively committed to supporting the enduties. Under the “tesa connects” motto, numerous vironment, employees, and society at large for many years. colleagues were involved in activities in four areas – help, tesa underscored this voluntary commitment to doing busidonate, support, protect – worldwide in 2016, as in previness sustainably in 2006 by joining the United Nations ous years. Global Compact. We align our business strategy toward We remain firm in our belief that acting with good busithe Global Compact as a compass guiding us in our efforts ness sense and living up to ecological and social responsito uphold the very highest social and environmental standbility are not a contradiction in terms, but instead form ards and strive to achieve continuous improvement along equally important factors in a sustainable understanding of the way. quality and benefit to the customer. We will continue to At all tesa production sites, for example, we work to align tesa’s development with this core conviction into the make our processes even more ecofriendly, from using future. renewable and recycled raw materials to solvent-free production methods, conserving energy, and generating our own electricity. tesa has high standards in terms of safety, too, as shown by our accident figures, which are low for our Dr. Robert Gereke industry. CEO of tesa SE tesa Sustainability Report 4  THE tesa BUSINESS MODEL in over 100 countries over 2200 employees in Germany operating with 51 affiliates R&D centers in Germany, the U.S., and Asia over 4150 • • employees • worldwide The tesa Group is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of self-adhesive products and system solutions for industrial customers and consumers. The tesa Group is part of the Beiersdorf Group. It employs approximately 4,150 people and operates in more than 100 countries. tesa SE is a wholly owned subsidiary of Beiersdorf AG and the direct or indirect parent company of the 51 tesa affiliates. Regions and major locations Industrial business tesa operates worldwide, with the main focus concentrated tesa earns about three-quarters of its sales with products on Europe, followed by the business regions of Africa/Asia/ for industrial and commercial customers. In the industrial Australia and the Americas. In addition to tesa SE, the segment, tesa offers system solutions for customers in the affiliates in China, the United States, Italy, and Singapore electronics, printing and paper, building and construction, are among the largest single companies in the tesa Group. and automotive industries in particular. The company’s straOur production facilities are located in Europe (Ger­­ tegic focus is especially on developing and expanding profmany and Italy), North America (United States), and Asia itable lines of business in technologically advanced fields (China). of application. Products from tesa are used to optimize and tesa Sustainability Report 5  enhance the efficiency of production processes, as customtesa brand day after day. Living up to that trust in everything ized protection and packaging systems, and as fastening we do is our responsibility – a responsibility we uphold with solutions in construction-related applications. This includes dependable quality, excellent service, robust innovative special product ranges for roll offset and flexo printing power, and the use of superior technologies. But to us, and for mounting electronic components in smartphones, demonstrating responsibility means even more than that. tablets, digital cameras, and LCD screens. Forgery-proof We are also committed to working within our sphere of inlaser-printed labels and systems for bundling and affixing fluence to ensure that we pass down a livable world to fucables or mounting emblems and decorative elements are ture generations. That’s why one integral element of our among the products used in the automotive industry. tesa concept of quality and innovation is offering our customers also offers innovative solutions with flexible uses to protect products that are not only highly functional, but also susproducts from tampering and counterfeiting. One promistainable – products that have as little environmental impact ing new market that tesa is developing for the future is as possible over their entire lifecycle. Developing eco­ being handled by tesa Labtec GmbH. This tesa affiliate friendly, solvent-free production methods and using renewdevelops and manufactures medicated patches, termed able and recycled raw materials where possible are just as “transdermal therapeutic systems”, and rapidly dissolving much a part of our strategy as conserving resources and oral films for the pharmaceuticals industry. In the industrial preventing waste during the production process. retail business, tesa supplies technical retailers with statePeople are at the heart of everything we do. That means of-the-art product ranges. both our customers, for whom tesa develops effective solutions to problems, and our employees, whose passion and experience ensure tesa’s success each and every day. Our Consumer & craftsmen business goal is to earn these people’s loyalty to our company and our brand for as long as possible through healthy, fair, and tesa earns about one-fourth of its total sales in the consumattractive working conditions and to continue to recruit outer business, which is focused on Europe and Latin America. standing employees for all areas of the company now and In this area, tesa markets innovative product solutions into the future. We also strive to ensure that the same workintended for various applications, including for daily use ing conditions apply to our suppliers. We take a holistic in offices and in the home and garden. Under the tesa umview of social responsibility and are involved worldwide at brella brand, DIY stores and superstores as well as paper various levels to support social causes in the form of donagoods and stationery shops offer end consumers a broad tions, supporting memberships and sponsorships as well assortment of more than 300 products. The product range as through employee volunteering. includes both handy products for office use, such as the classic tesafilm® transparent adhesive tape, and tailored solutions for specific applications such as energy conservation, renovation, repairs, packaging, and temporary or permanent bonding. Proven products include tesamoll® foam for sealing windows and doors; the bonding solution tesa Powerstrips®, which are reliable and yet can be removed without a trace afterward; mounting tapes for indoor and outdoor use; the versatile line of fabric tapes; a wide array of masking tapes and tesa Easy Cover® for clean, professional painting and finishing work; and, last but not least, fly screens for various uses. In the craftsmen business segment, tesa concentrates on customized product ranges and marketing concepts for professional craftsmen, such as painters and finishers. Strategy and responsibility Our success is founded on the high levels of trust and confidence our customers place in tesa as a company and the tesa Sustainability Report 6  1 RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE MANAGEMENT tesa sees the economic further development of the company and living up to responsibility for employees, the environment, and society at large as two sides of the same coin. This means doing business sustainably is an integral part of the tesa corporate philosophy. Key action fields Organizational structure Supporting and maintaining a livable environment is among The critical basis for our activities is a holistic view of all the major guiding principles of our actions. Areas of em­ business processes that are necessary to fulfill individual phasis include conserving ecological resources and tasks and goals of the company. These processes and the social commitment. We focus on four action fields: structure of the Group are mapped out in the tesa integratemployees, the environment, products, and society. All of ed management system (IMS), which is divided into four them are integral parts of our strategy and management main fields: Innovation, Marketing, Supply Chain, and Cusprac­tices. tomer Management. The IMS integrates not only the retesa Sustainability Report 7  quirements of a modern system of quality management geared toward international standards, but also key topics in social responsibility as well as comprehensive environmental protection and occupational safety and health. The UN Global Compact We underscore our commitment to meeting the very highAt tesa, the ten principles of the Global Compact are the est social and environmental standards through our memstarting point for internal codes of conduct and regulations, bership in the UN Global Compact. Companies from about most especially the Code of Conduct , Purchasing Char170 countries, international employees’ associations, civil ter , and Environmental Guidelines . The sections that society groups, governments and UN organizations have follow describe these documents in further detail. joined the Global Compact. With its ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and anti-corruption, the pact serves to provide Good governance overarching guidance for tesa’s actions as well as those of others. Our activities revolve around people all over the world – and that means our employees as well as our customers and suppliers. This is why upholding and supporting international human rights is among our guiding principles, along with impeccable labor standards and sustainable, Principle 1: Businesses should support and legally compliant business models. respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Code of Conduct Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. To secure the high level of trust and confidence that conPrinciple 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom sumers, customers, investors, and employees place in tesa, of association and the effective recogniwe set high standards for responsibility, both for the comtion of the right to collective bargaining; pany as a whole and for each and every one of us as individuals. The tesa Code of Conduct (CoC) sets out these Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced standards – derived from the ten principles of the UN Globand compulsory labor; al Compact – on a binding basis for the entire organization Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and is applicable worldwide. With its fundamental rules and and criteria, the tesa CoC offers clear guidance for the entire Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in staff and helps employees to observe and uphold our comrespect of employment and occupation. pany’s key principles and values in their day-to-day work, to share these principles and values with others, and gear all Principle 7: Businesses should support a pre­ cautionary approach to environmental of their business conduct toward them. challenges; As in previous years, we continued to communicate and reinforce this content within the company in 2016 through Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater regular communication and training measures and through environmental responsibility; and extensive advising. At the start of the year, for example, we Principle 9: encourage the development and again familiarized more than 650 managers with the CoC in diffusion of environmentally friendly this context. technologies. A CoC Manager has also been available to all em­ Principle 10: Businesses should work against ployees for some time now. Employees are encouraged to corruption in all its forms, including contact the CoC Manager anytime in the case of violations extortion and bribery. of the rules. As part of the further development of this internal reporting system, we introduced the international CoC tesa Sustainability Report 8  quirements that apply to our suppliers. The Purchasing Charter is part of our defined global procurement processes, which makes it a key requirement for all tesa suppliers. Suppliers undertake a signed written obligation to comply with the requirements set out in the charter. At the same time, they also affirm that they will apply the same standards when selecting their own suppliers. tesa performs supplier audits when embarking on new business relationships and throughout them. The objective of these audits is to assess a specific supplier’s performance capacity, including with an eye to compliance with the basic principles of the Global Compact. Irregularities are noted in visit or audit reports. Where discrepancies occur, tesa works with the supplier to develop and follow up on plans of action. If a supplier is unable to meet the requirements set out in the Purchasing Charter despite these measures, tesa will terminate the business relationship and turn to alternative suppliers instead. This scenario did not materialize a single time in 2016, however. In all, 31 audits were performed during this reporting period. Internally, we monitor and document compliance with the purchasing standards that apply worldwide through “Purchase to Pay” audits performed by bodies such as the Group internal audit department. Compliance tesa has long been committed to values that guarantee free markets and fair competition. We reject any and all forms of corruption, bribery, and other unlawful conduct. We view compliance with applicable laws and internal guidelines as a major basis of our activities and a key factor contributing network in 2016. The CoC Manager, who works at tesa to our long-term, sustainable business success. The tesa headquarters, is now supported within this network by six Code of Conduct lays out our compliance system, which is CoC Representatives in the regions. These representatives geared toward these principles, on a binding global basis. are also available to employees as additional points of The guidelines and processes that build on this system ofcontact at the regional level in the event of suspected viofer more concrete detail and assist with implementing the lations or failure to follow the rules. principles that have been described, giving our employees the best possible guidance for their actions. Purchasing Charter Based on a risk analysis of the key compliance fields that are relevant to tesa, the existing compliance programs At tesa, we firmly believe that responsible corporate govare continuously adapted in response to new challenges. In ernance over the long term requires looking beyond their addition, regular training activities raise awareness of all boundaries of the company itself. The tesa Purchasing compliance-related topics among employees and managCharter (from April 2017 „Code of Conduct for Suppliers alike, while a wide range of advising options help to ers“), adopted by our strategic purchasing division in 2008, establish and reinforce compliance within the overall plays a key role in ensuring that our minimum international organization on a lasting basis and reduce the risk of violastandards in the fields of human rights, labor and employtions. ment standards, environmental guidelines, and anti-corruptesa also offers a compliance theme platform on its intion are upheld. This document sets out the minimum retranet. Employees all over the world can use the platform to tesa Sustainability Report 9  learn about legally compliant behavior in their day-to-day business dealings or find competent points of contact for further advice. Our staff also receives regular multilingual intranet news items on relevant compliance-related developments and decisions by courts and other government agencies. tesa takes reports of potential compliance violations, evaluates them with an eye to their relevance to the system, and determines what sanctions to impose in strict compliance with the principle of proportionality. Employees have various reporting channels available to them for communicating about possible compliance violations: the internal whistleblower system (CoC Manager and international compliance network), their line supervisors, internal points of contact, and internal and external experts in the relevant compliance fields. Diversity in supervisory and management bodies tesa strives to ensure equal participation among women and men within the staff and in the company management wherever possible. As a company with a heavy technological focus, we set stringent requirements for subject-specific expertise, professional and industry experience, and leadership skills when filling available positions. Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board of tesa SE has six members. Two positions are filled by the works council of tesa SE. In this body, as elsewhere, the company strives to ensure the long-term inclusion of women, with as much continuity within positions as possible. In 2016 there was no change in supervisory board mandates with regard to genders. Executive Board The four-member Executive Board of tesa SE is also subject to the long-term goal of achieving equality in staffing between men and women. High continuity is a priority here as well, in light of the company’s business model. Two new members of the Executive Board were appointed this reporting period. One is a longstanding employee of the company, while the other (who has been with tesa since January 1, 2017) was recruited from a different company in our industry after a careful search process. There were no equally qualified female candidates available for either position. tesa Sustainability Report 1 0  2 M  ULTIFACETED APPROACH TO SUPPORTING EMPLOYEES With the goal of boosting motivation and enhancing employees’ loyalty to the company, we make ongoing investments in measures to ensure that working at tesa remains highly attractive: training and continuing education, support for employees’ health, a thriving culture of feedback and dialogue, and occupational safety are all important elements of our personnel development policies, which are geared toward the future. Culture of feedback and dialogue surveys is designed to capture information on employee engagement, measuring not only respondents’ satisfacFeedback and the related dialogue between employees tion, but also their motivation, dedication, and loyalty to the and managers form the basis for the professional as well company. Compared to other companies in Germany, we as personal development. With this in mind, we continued achieved excellent results, placing in the top quarter of to develop our culture of feedback in 2016, as in past companies. On this basis, we have developed company-­ years. wide measures to maintain and expand on this high Regular employee surveys are a key part of this policy. engagement among employees. Management teams and We conducted one such survey again at the tesa headquaremployees from all functions met during about 30 workters in Norderstedt in 2016. The methodology used for the shops to agree on specific further improvements. We will tesa Sustainability Report 1 1  gauge how effective these measures have been when the next employee survey is conducted. 2016 was the first year that tesa conducted an employee survey in the tesa Western Europe region. It followed the same systematic approach as the employee surveys taken at tesa headquarters and in the Eastern Europe and Latin America regions. Employees in Western Europe were highly interested in participating, as shown by the fact that the response rate was over 90 percent. Here as well, the engagement index was in the upper zone. The management team for this region has also initiated optimization measures in selected areas with an eye to achieving even better results the next time a survey is taken. Personnel planning and management One element of our strategy is to fill key management positions from within wherever possible in order to retain valuable experience and market knowledge and be able to leverage these capabilities optimally for our long-term success as a company. With the goal of developing successors for key positions in good time and systematically at an international level, tesa intensified its strategic personnel development activities in 2016. The competency-based employee performance appraisal process, which was first introduced in 2015 for the management segment, was expanded to include other groups this reporting year. This standardized international format is modeled on the tesa Key Competencies, which determine the actions of people at tesa – individually, in their dealings with one another, and in their communications with customers and/or suppliers. Human resources employees trained in using this tool worldwide participated gion in 2017. The tesa plant in Hamburg also continued to in training and workshops to accompany the introduction of work in 2016 on targeted personnel development, with performance appraisals in the specific units and functions. 26 managers participating in HR roundtables on various To supplement these efforts, tesa developed a broadtopics of focus, including coaching during processes of based Development Kit encompassing tips for day-to-day change. work, training offerings, and recommended readings. This kit is intended to help supervisors and employees identify and choose appropriate learning and improvement measDevelopment, support, training ures. In 2016, the company prepared 16 new junior managers Ongoing investments in targeted employee qualification in Germany for their roles as supervisors and for future and training activities are also part of the tesa strategy. We challenges as part of the proven tesa Intensive Leadership continued the Sales and Marketing Qualification Program Program. International tesa managers in the Eastern Euin 2016 and trained about 480 participants over 60 training rope, Western Europe, and Asia/Pacific regions also comsessions with a total duration of 1,670 days. Beyond giving pleted a six-day modular employee management training new employees the basic skills they need, the training conprogram in which they developed skills in communication, cept also includes specific formats tailored to the requireconducting discussions, and motivating employees. The ments of individual business fields – such as a combination program is slated to be expanded to the Latin America reof technical training and selling skills for sales reps. We also tesa Sustainability Report 1 2  The tesa plant in Hamburg expanded its range of formal vocational training programs. In addition to the programs for apprentice machine and system operators, this reporting year saw the advent of industrial mechanic, chemical technician, and mechatronics technician apprenticeship programs. Starting in 2017, the site will also begin offering an apprenticeship program for trainees to become qualified as an electronics technician for operating technology. Health To promote health and performance capacity, we offer an occupational health management program for our em­ ployees. Since the move to the new headquarters, the management has initiated a broad range of options for employees who work there. An interdisciplinary occupational offer a separate training program for tesa R&D employees health management team consisting of representatives that covers topics such as patents and quality managefrom HR, the works council, the health promotion team, the ment. In 2016, 150 employees participated in this program tesa sport club, the social advising service, the body repreon 24 training days. senting disabled employees, the occupational health serWe also responded this year to the growing trend tovice, and the occupational safety team is actively working ward digital learning. For example, the tesa Supply Network to integrate as broad a range of measures as possible undevoted great efforts in 2016 to developing tailored der the “It’s for you” umbrella brand. e-learning, with a training format comprising several modThe in-house tesa sport club, for example, offers topules as the result. The first part has already been introduced quality endurance and strength training equipment and a at tesa’s headquarters in Norderstedt, where 217 employrange of courses like spinning, yoga and “back power”, ees were invited to participate. The remaining training sesalong with individual fitness checks. This gives employees sions are scheduled for 2017. These courses deepen ema way to stay in shape at the tesa SE fitness facilities, with ployees’ understanding of processes and connections low membership fees and expert assistance and instrucwithin the logistics, production, and materials management tion. segments. tesa employees are also still welcome to make use of In addition to specialized and function-specific continuthe options offered by the occupational health promotion ing and professional education opportunities, tesa also ofservice at the parent company, Beiersdorf, which include fers an open course program covering various subjects. autogenic training, progressive muscle relaxation, and Roughly 20 employees participated in these courses durworkshops on back health and relaxation techniques. Aning the past reporting year over 50 days of training on subother key aspect of the company’s efforts to promote health jects such as presentation techniques and project manageis its extensive range of preventive health checks. ment. This represented a continuation of the positive trend In 2016, the occupational health management team from previous years. Language classes in different formats also began working on an important project focusing on (25 class offerings, 130 participants) and IT training classes psychological risk assessments, something every compa(13 classes, 20 participants) have also become firmly estabny is required to work on under the German Occupational lished at the new site. Safety and Health Act. In this program, employees are Additional courses were set up as part of the “Treffasked on an individual basis what stressful situations or punkt Weiterbildung” program in connection with the stress factors they experience on the job and whether they move from Hamburg to the neighboring town of Norderhave positive or negative effects. The basic principle is that stedt. This diverse program, which was originally created positive aspects should be maintained (but not necessarily many years ago by our parent company, Beiersdorf, allows intensified) and negative ones prevented. employees to complete training in their spare time. About We are also concerned for the health of those whose 30 people participated in eight different training sessions day-to-day work takes place in the offices, where all workat the new headquarters in 2016. stations have height-adjustable desks to minimize back tesa Sustainability Report 1 3  strain. All employees receive information and tips about choice through the company and have their monthly installmaintaining good posture, both sitting and standing, from ment payments paid out of their gross pay through deferred the company’s in-house ergonomics team. Members of the compensation. tesa also supports this leasing arrangement occupational health management team (occupational by contributing a monthly sum. health service, works council, occupational safety, and HR) At the tesa plant in Hamburg, the Health Working Group conduct site inspections of all areas of the new headquaradopted the motto “Healthy from Head to Toe” for its activters to identify possible issues and stresses at workstations ities in 2016. The annual program of events involved a and map out improvement measures. range of courses held in the plant’s own fitness room and Healthy eating is another key aspect of occupational team events such as group participation in organized runs. health management. The company restaurant at the new A running course for beginners and advanced runners ofheadquarters offers a varied menu of healthy meals made fered motivation and tips for daily physical activity. from freshly prepared local ingredients. Employees are also welcome to participate in cooking classes in cooperation with the company’s health promotion team. Occupational health and safety tesa also supports athletic activity on the way to work or on the way home, with the “tesa Bike” program as a parProtecting the safety and health of employees is a top priticular highlight. Employees can lease a bicycle of their ority at tesa. The Occupational Safety Guidelines apply throughout the company, all over the world. We apply high standards and use targeted measures to help prevent occupational accidents, work-related illnesses and occupational diseases. Our results have been positive: The accident rate at tesa in 2016 was 4.6 per 1,000 employees, once again significantly below the industry average of 14.7 as tracked by the employers’ liability association. This shows that with our high safety standards, investments in technical safety, occupational health and safety measures and training programs, we are on the right track in terms of achieving our long-term goal of zero reportable accidents. We hold national and international meetings of safety specialists every year to discuss key occupational safety and health risks and map out specific measures and protective processes to put in place. One key factor in helping to ensure workplace safety is our risk assessments. They are based on a combination of systematic identification and evaluation of risks, personal responsibility on the part of employees, and a continuous improvement process that includes all parties involved. The risk analysis and the process of finding appropriate solutions follow the “STOP” principle, which outlines four categories: substituting, technical, organizational and personal. We implement safety measures on an ongoing basis at all tesa locations. These include providing detailed operating instructions for all production equipment and systems, targeted training in the use of machines, and a range of educational and training courses on topics such as proper conduct for safety and health, explosion and fire prevention and fire extinguisher usage. We deliberately raise employees’ awareness through practical training on site. Local safety officers address the risks in the workplace directly and talk with the interested parties about safe betesa Sustainability Report 1 4  havior. As one example, our Hamburg and Offenburg plants launched an occupational safety campaign in 2016 focusing on the risks associated with forklifts. To ensure that our stringent requirements for occupational health and safety measures undergo rigorous further development and implementation, we factor in occupational health and safety considerations right from the start when planning new plant and equipment projects. The focus of these activities is on early identification and elimination of potential risks. As part of this approach, our safety standards are already incorporated into the drafting of specifications. The entire design, construction and manufacturing process is accompanied by regular status checks. Even before a new plant or unit is delivered, we check all of the important details right on site with a “Factory Acceptance Test”. After that, a final “Site Acceptance Test” is performed before the plant or unit actually enters production operation. This test involves additional checks of all safety-related functions, with optimization measures taken where necessary. We successfully implemented this same process for the project planning of a new production unit at our plant in Sparta, Michigan, in 2016. At our Group headquarters, we introduced a new online training tool featuring relevant questions in 2016 to teach employees about general safety rules. Employees are not allowed to enter areas that are of particular concern in terms of occupational safety until they have completed this training. tesa Sustainability Report 1 5  3 C  ONSISTENT ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION tesa’s goal is to conserve ecological resources and leave an intact environment for subsequent generations. We have defined our positions in binding environmental guidelines that apply worldwide. These guidelines set the standards for the actions of all employees, with the goal of further enhancing environmental awareness. Ongoing monitoring of key indicators and regular audits of the individual production sites according to harmonized standards help us consistently live up to our environmental pledges. Development to date (VOCs) by a whopping 90 percent. In addition, significant reductions have been made in our solvent use, CO2 emistesa has been consistently advancing the cause of continusions, and volume of non-recyclable waste. The company ous improvement in its environmental management system employs its own environmental experts at all production since 2001. Our advanced technologies and worldwide sites, who are familiar with both tesa’s global environmental production sites have been key factors in ensuring that tesa guidelines and the local circumstances, and tesa encouraghas been able to not only meet, but also exceed, its ambies international dialogue among them. In the course of our tious environmental targets in the past. For example, we external certification and monitoring audits, we also check have reduced our emissions of volatile organic compounds all locations that are certified under the international ISO tesa Sustainability Report 1 6  14001 environmental standard on a regular basis as part of various factors, including the environmental footprint of a matrix audit structure. This involves group certification selected products, and analyze the products’ environmenbased on spot checks as required by a standardized mantal impact over their entire lifecycle. We advance our ecoagement system. logical commitment at the product level with the tesa tesa takes environmental risks into account in overarchecoLogo® sub-brand. ing assessments and as primary factors within the scope of materiality analyses of the ecological aspects of individual production sites. We document climate-related risks in parFocus on energy efficiency and ticular as part of the CDP supply chain program (CDP = forCO2 reduction merly Carbon Disclosure Project). We harness state-of-the-art technologies to reduce the Our goal is to further improve process efficiency and utilize negative environmental impacts of our activities; one part low-carbon and renewable energy sources to achieve furof our strategy, for example, is the development of propriether reductions in our CO2 emissions during the period from tary solvent-free production methods. 2016 to 2020. In keeping with these aims, we are focusing In the interests of climate protection and resource conon a climate-friendly energy supply and efficient energy servation, tesa also regularly reviews whether there are management. more environmentally friendly alternatives to the raw matesa’s top priority in this field is systematically reducing terials currently employed. To determine this, we consider energy consumption, since conservation is always the best alternative from both an ecological and an economic standpoint. To cover the remaining need for energy, we are stepping up efforts to generate our own energy through cogeneration (CHP, combined heat and power) and obtaining electricity from renewable sources. The reduction in energy consumption achieved at our production sites from 2001 to 2015 brought CO2 emissions down by 19 percent during this period. Our goal is to reduce specific CO2 emissions by another ten percent by 2020, with 2015 as the baseline. tesa has made excellent progress toward this goal in just the first year, comfortably achieving the interim target of minus 2.0 percent. The tesa plant in Offenburg commissioned a trigeneration (CCHP, combined cooling, heat and power) system in 2014, enabling environmentally friendly power generation on-site. A cogeneration (CHP) plant followed at the Hamburg site in 2016. These advanced methods make it possible to generate both electricity and heat simultaneously via a single power plant. While the primary energy generated, mechanical energy, is converted directly to electricity, the heat generated during the process can also be used for heating or production processes. Thanks to these high-efficiency systems at our two largest production sites worldwide, we were able to serve about 39 percent of our worldwide electricity needs on a CO2-optimized basis in 2016. We also realized substantial savings on energy costs at the tesa plant in Offenburg. tesa has increasingly turned to ecofriendly power sources to meet the energy needs not covered by cogeneration. We use purchased electricity from renewable sources at five European sites for this. This alone was enough to cover about 31 percent of the company’s global demand for electricity in 2016. tesa Sustainability Report 1 7  During the year under review, the tesa production sites in Hamburg and Offenburg additionally focused their efforts on the further development of their respective energy management systems, and both of them were successfully recertified under the international ISO 50001 standard in 2016, the second time they have accomplished this aim. The new tesa headquarters in Norderstedt also achieved ISO 50001 certification in 2016. This was associated with the development of internal systems and processes to improve energy performance. Modern energy monitoring systems are in place to track energy consumption and optimize energy efficiency. These systems undergo a continuous process of expansion and improvement. In addition to the ecofriendly methods and other approaches with which tesa gears its efforts toward the latest technologies, raising employee awareness is also part of our commitment to the environment. After all, employees are familiar with ongoing operations, and they use their knowledge and ideas on a continuous basis to help us conserve energy, thereby not only reducing CO2 emissions, but lowering costs as well. During our annual “energy hunts”, for example, staff members pitch in to identify and leverage potential for savings. This initiative has yielded many small measures that together add up to a big impact. Focus on resource efficiency and ecological footprint For the period from 2016 to 2020, tesa has pledged to further optimize its responsible use of resources and its environmental footprint. The company plans to use a continuous improvement process (CIP) to achieve this. This reporting year, we exceeded the interim target – a Management of waste and resources reduction of 0.4 percent per year – through numerous campaigns (including one at the tesa plant in Offenburg that All production of goods involves the generation of waste. In highlighted the need for creative solutions) and projects. order to reduce waste on a lasting basis and to protect the Our unique, patented ACX technology also helped noticeaenvironment and conserve resources, we provide regular bly reduce our solvent waste once again. training courses for our employees all over the world. This ensures that everyone involved is aware of the need to Lifecycle analysis avoid unnecessary waste and to recycle appropriately. Recycling and reusing raw materials, auxiliary materiA great deal of the harmful environmental impact caused by als, and fuels has been business as usual at our plants for the manufacturing of products occurs outside the manufacyears. From 2001 to 2015 (when the target period ended), turing company itself, so we are increasingly scrutinizing the recycling rate rose to more than 90 percent as a result the entire product lifecycle, from production or extraction of these efforts. of raw materials to the materials used, production and Our employees at all locations are also involved in waste transportation, and all the way through to disposal after the reduction, with great success. We now aim to reduce our products are used. We rely on the lifecycle analysis method generation of specific waste by another two percent from to determine key parameters that affect the ecological footthe 2015 baseline by 2020. print of selected products over their entire lifecycle. In 2016, tesa Sustainability Report 1 8  for example, we brought in professional outside help to determine the product carbon footprint (PCF) for the tesa® ecoLogo® glue stick. With this climate-friendly product alternative, tesa was able to reduce CO2 emissions for the glue stick product range by 25 to 32 percent. We are also regularly involved on a voluntary basis in the supply chain program run by the nonprofit organization CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project). This program evaluates various factors, such as how production companies can affect their environmental footprint. tesa’s positive CDP 2016 Climate Score was well above the average for all program participants, putting the company in the top onethird within our comparison group, “Automobiles & Components”. Ongoing modernization of our production sites also helps to reduce environmental impacts. For example, tesa began building a new production unit for ecofriendly adhesive tape production in Sparta, Michigan, in 2016. Focus on ecofriendly products In addition to its other activities, tesa has been working to uphold its commitment to the environment at the product level for some time now. We offer various environmen­tally friendly solutions for consumers, including the tesa ecoLogo® product range. Products in this ever-growing range have received multiple awards in recent years. Their key advantages are solvent-free adhesives and the fact that the products themselves and the product packaging are made primarily from biologically based or recycled materials. One good example is the tesa Easy Cut® Desk dispenser SMART, which boasts a compact design and is made from 100% recycled plastic using material-minimizing methods. In addition, all glue sticks were shifted to the ecoLogo® format in 2015, so tesa no longer offers any conventionally produced glue sticks at all. The company’s “green” range of ecoLogo® products, including painter’s, repair, and packing tapes, has been sold in hardware, DIY and other stores for several years now. Consumers can also visit these retailers to find products to help save energy, such as tesamoll® for sealing gaps around windows and doors and the tesa® ISO SYSTEM for easy interior roof insulation. tesa Sustainability Report 1 9  Milestones, key indicators, and successes 2002 The tesa plant in Offenburg commissions an 2013 tesa introduces an energy management ecofriendly production system for the system at its German production sites to solvent-free manufacturing of masking tape. sustainably reduce energy consumption Today, over 60 percent of the plant’s entire and CO2 emissions even further. The production takes place without solvents. “Green Car Policy” is also launched this year, with the goal of having low-emission 2005 tesa receives the B.A.U.M. environmental cars reduce the CO2 emissions of the entire prize and the “Responsible Care Prize” for fleet from an average of 161 to 140 grams the consistent and successful development per kilometer. of a holistic environmental management system. 2014 tesa’s Offenburg plant begins operating a CCHP (combined cooling, heat and 2006 Five years after launching its environmental power) system for environmentally friendly program, tesa posts positive results: Targets in-house power generation. The German for reducing the amount of energy and production sites in Hamburg and Offenburg solvents consumed have been exceeded. are each implementing an ultra-modern energy monitoring system as part of their 2007 A second environmental program, this one energy management activities. to run until 2012, is adopted. Its focus is on reduced emissions of volatile organic 2015 The energy management systems in place compounds (VOCs). at the production sites in Hamburg and Offenburg, Germany, earn certification 2007 An innovative system for heat recovery at under the international ISO 50001 standard. the tesa plant in Offenburg considerably reduces energy consumption. 2016 A CHP (combined heat and power) plant begins operating at the tesa site in Ham2009 tesa reports significant advances in the burg for ecofriendly in-house power generemission of volatile organic compounds. ation. The tesa headquarters in Norderstedt VOC emissions are down 50 percent earn certification under the international compared to 2001. One year later, the figure ISO 50001 energy management standard. already stands at minus 58 percent. 2010 The tesa plant in Hamburg installs a new, state-of-the-art ventilation system. During the same year, the technology center at tesa’s headquarters in Hamburg receives funding from the Hamburg Authority for Urban Development and Environmental Affairs to modernize the technology in the ventilation system and its control unit. The first tesa ecoLogo® products also begin conquering the office supply market. 2011 tesa makes a technological breakthrough at the plant in Hamburg. The company’s unique, patented ACX technology enables the ecofriendly production of double-sided acrylic adhesive tapes for high-strength permanent adhesive bonds. tesa Sustainability Report 2 0  4 SOCIAL COMMITMENT Assuming social responsibility is part of tesa’s corporate philosophy. We firmly believe that all sides win when companies are good citizens, so we give back at several levels worldwide – in the form of donations, supporting memberships and sponsorships as well as through employee volunteering. It is a strategy with regional facets. tesa connects In all four areas, tesa’s efforts have had demonstrable results. Overall, the company participated in about 85 proHelp, donate, support, protect – these are the four pillars of jects in 2016, providing volunteer assistance, services, and the “tesa connects” corporate citizenship program. The both donations in kind and monetary donations valued at goal of this approach is to make it easy for employees 187,000 euros. worldwide to get involved for the good of society in a meaningful way. At the same time, the program creates a bridge to the core tesa competencies and the company’s strengths – its inventiveness and spirit of ingenuity, solution-oriented tesa connects approach, focus on practical assistance and team spirit. tesa Sustainability Report 2 1  tesa helps: Fostering community ties Neighbors helping neighbors in the immediate vicinity of our sites – that’s the principle behind “tesa helps”. All over the world, local tesa teams pitch in to help with projects and support their communities. Involvement in Germany The tesa headquarters continued its partnership with the “tatkräftig – Hände für Hamburg” nonprofit organization in 2016. With “1 day, 1 team, 1 goal” as its motto, the organization connects volunteer helpers with over 150 institutions in the Hamburg area that need support in the form of manpower. In the year under review, more than 65 employees from the headquarters, working in teams, volunteered to help with charitable projects including gardening at refugee homes, renovations at children’s and youth facilities, assisting with clothing donations, and Christmas arts and crafts with socially disadvantaged children. This involvement was a valuable experience for employees, boosting teamwork off the job as well. A “tesa helps” project with “tatkräftig” has now become an integral part of the first year of apprenticeship at the tesa plant in Hamburg. The tesa plant in Offenburg (tWO) also participated in a number of activities in support of good causes in 2016. Employees organized a soccer break for a team at the nearby refugee camp and provided the players with shoes, balls, and jerseys. The plant also supported refugee centers by supplying office trailers equipped with computers with language learning software. Global involvement The affiliates also provided active aid in their vicinities in for the foundation “Deti slovenska” (Children of Slovakia), 2016. The social commitment of tesa employees is a tradidoing craft projects with children who have hemophilia. tion in France, Spain, Italy, the Netherlands, Belgium, the UK, Turkey, Mexico, Colombia, Japan, India, China and many other countries. A few examples: Employees from the site in Brussels, Belgium, actively supported “De Ark”, a facility that works with disabled children and youth and those from socially disadvantaged circumstances. The tesa employees made it possible for the children to spend a day at a theme park, provided refreshments, and helped the group leaders with the field trip. Eleven colleagues from the Czech Republic spent a creative afternoon with children suffering from leukemia at the tesa helps Motol University Hospital Transplant Center in Prague. The tesa employees came up with what they called a “forensic scene investigation game” revolving around the “golden tape”. Colleagues from Slovakia organized a similar activity tesa Sustainability Report 2 2  tesa donates: For uncomplicated help Fast, effective assistance is needed when natural disasters strike and in many other situations. We make targeted monetary and product donations to support people in affected areas and the day-to-day work of selected institutions. Activities in Germany The Hamburg and Norderstedt tesa locations continued their “leftover change donation” program in 2016, in line with the slogan “small gesture, big impact”. The concept is simple, so participation is easy: Employees donate the cents amount of their net monthly pay (i.e. 0.01 to 0.99 euro) to nonprofit organizations in their communities. The money collected, amounting to a maximum of 11.88 euros per employee per year, is credited to a separate tesa donation acInternational activities count. The three tesa locations in northern Germany collected a total of 2,992.92 euros by the end of the year in Collecting and providing donations is also an established 2016. The management matched the funds for a total of tradition at our affiliates. The worldwide tesa sites outside 5,985.84 euros, which was then donated to the project Germany donated about 102,000 euros to various causes “Zeit für Zukunft – Mentoren für Kinder e.V.”. This initiative in 2016. Initiated by tesa Colombia, Argentina, and Guatematches socially disadvantaged children and teens ranging mala, a large individual sum of about 9,000 euros out of the in age from six to 16 years with an adult mentor who meets total went to the regional Red Cross to aid the victims of with them two to four times a month for at least one year to the disastrous earthquake in Ecuador. The Japanese affiliboost their self-confidence and support their personal deate donated 3,000 euros to aid the victims of the Kumamovelopment. to earthquake. Because not every child is fortunate enough to receive gifts at Christmas, tesa organized a Christmas gift campaign in 2016. New gifts were collected during the holiday season from tesa colleagues, who were encouraged to place them under the tesa Christmas tree. Employees of ToysCompany, a nonprofit partner organization, then distributed the presents to socially disadvantaged families in time for the holiday. Instead of giving Christmas gifts to customers, we supported the Hamburg-based nonprofit “Chancen für Kinder e.V.” again in 2016, this time with a donation of 20,000 euros. The money goes toward three projects. First, we have been sponsoring children from poor families in Yeleswaram, India, for several years now, giving the children a chance to go to school instead of toiling in the quarries. Second, we have also traditionally supported the Escuela Popular de Artes music school in Achupallas, Chile, which gives street children a musical education, and thus a connection with a structured lifestyle. The third part of the donation for 2016 tesa donates went to the newly founded initiative “Klinik-Clowns Hamburg e.V.”, which is dedicated to cheering up severely ill children at hospitals in Hamburg, thereby strengthening their will to live. tesa Sustainability Report 2 3  tesa supports: With opportunities for education This area encompasses educational projects with which we aim to unlock prospective futures for kids and teens. Our focus here is on science and technology. These areas are not only important prerequisites in terms of sustaining human life and securing social progress, but are also crucial to tesa as a technology firm when it comes to recruiting the next generation of employees. Specific projects are associated with these efforts in Germany and at many international tesa affiliates. Getting young people excited about STEM jobs tesa SE in Germany has been partnering with Initiative elementary school education. The program has provided Naturwissenschaft & Technik (Science & Technology Inititesa Sunshine Scholarships to 526 children so far. In late ative – abbreviated NAT) since 2014. In Hamburg and the November 2016, the management personally presented surrounding metropolitan area, NAT connects schools with the scholarships to 54 students at a special ceremony. After universities, colleges and technology-driven companies. that, the colleagues visited a robot museum with the boys The objective is to give young people a variety of insights and girls to spark their interest in technology. into various occupational fields. tesa, for example, offers the “90 Minutes of STEM” program (STEM = science, techSupport for educational initiatives nology, engineering, and mathematics). In this program, tesa employees take a little less than two teaching hours to Other tesa affiliates have an established practice of contribgive groups of 12 to 15 school students real-life insights into uting funding to educational initiatives. In Turkey, tesa suptheir working lives. In addition, tesa once again opened its ports the organization “Educational Volunteers Foundalabs to female 9th graders in November 2016 as part of the tion of Turkey”, which offers extracurricular educational “mint:pink” program. During the event, product developand enrichment programs for children; in Mexico, the rement employees shared their own enthusiasm for science gional office provides funding to the “Fundación para la with the girls and gave them a wide range of insights into Protección de la Niñez” (Foundation for the Protection of the basic principles behind adhesive technology. In addiChildren), which awards scholarships for English as a section to practical projects and excursions like this, tesa supond language; the Guatemalan affiliate finances a partial ports the NAT initiative financially as a supporting member. scholarship for a student otherwise unable to afford higher education; and tesa India donates to the “Nanhi Kali” orgaAdhesive technology outreach in Japan nization, which offers primary school education opportunities to disadvantaged young girls. In September 2015, tesa tesa’s Japanese affiliate was again active in the “Tsukuba tape North America began sponsoring a four-year study Science Festival” in 2016. Held in Tsukuba, the famous program concentrating on automotive technology. The “City of Science”, the event is aimed at introducing young EcoCAR program is devoted to the development of an expeople to the world of science through fun experiments tremely energy-efficient high-performance vehicle. and games. The potential scientists of tomorrow were able to experience fascinating aspects of bonding technology at the tesa stand. Elementary school scholarships in China The tesa plant in Suzhou, China, initiated its “tesa Sunshine Education Assistance” program nine years ago to help tesa supports children from families of migrant laborers get a better tesa Sustainability Report 2 4  tesa protects: Working to protect the environment Environmental protection and sustainable management of natural resources are part of the tesa business strategy. Our engagement on the production and product level is complemented by specific projects for preserving nature and improving quality of life in the region. Since 2011 we have been working to preserve the sensitive ecosystem of the UNESCO Biosphere Reserve “Nie­ dersächsische Elbtalaue”, not far from Hamburg. These activities focus on measures that serve to conserve or restore the original landscapes of this area and thus preserve species and biodiversity. Through the active efforts of employees and financial support alike, a host of trees typical of the region were planted as part of three reforestation projects up to 2015. They now offer new habitats for native species of birds and insects. In addition, funding was provided for nearly 20,000 plants for reforestation measures in various “nature dynamics” areas – protected habitat zones inside the biosphere reserve where nature is left to take its own course. In 2016, after the elimination of spruce monocultures not typical of the landscape, oak trees were planted over a one-hectare area, which was then fenced in with a neighboring area where planting had taken place in 2015. In this way, tesa has helped to ensure that 10.3 hectares of coniferous forest has been converted to deciduous forest. tesa protects tesa Sustainability Report 2 5  tesa SE Hugo-Kirchberg-Straße 1 22848 Norderstedt Germany Phone: +49 40 88899-6597 Fax: +49 40 888 99-186597 responsibility@tesa.com tesa.com/about-tesa/responsibility tesa.com
