PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2016 Front page: Colleagues enjoying the shaded outdoor environment at our crafting facility in Lamphun, Northern Thailand CONTENTS 2 A GREENER FUTURE 22 PRODUCT 3 About PANDORA 24 Product in brief 25 Design 4 PEOPLE 25 Responsible supplier programme 6 People in brief 26 Supplier audits 7 Code of Ethics 27 Case: Rings in the water 7 Training 28 Core materials 7 Diversity 8 Human and labour rights 30 PARTNERSHIPS 9 Case: Team PANDORA 32 Creating shared values 10 Focus on Thailand 32 Strategic partners 13 Case: A holistic approach 32 Building brand equity 32 Internal governance 14 PLANET 1 6 Planet in brief 17 Precious metals 18 Man-made stones 18 Crafting 19 Case: Green buildings 20 Logistics 2 0 Stores FTSE Russell confirms that Pandora A/S has 21 Gold & silver facts been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series. PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2016 1 CEO STATEMENT ABOUT PANDOR A BUILDING FOR These improvements were carried out to gear the company for the opportunities that lie ahead of us, while staying loyal >122 A GREENER FUTURE to our pledge to run a healthy business that focuses on respect M ILLION for our people, the integrity of our products and minimising our impact on the planet. P IECES O F JEWELLERY 2016 was exciting for PANDORA. CRAFT ED It was another record-breaking This is our seventh annual Ethics Report showcasing the year, with 122 million pieces of aspirations, efforts and results we have achieved as part of jewellery crafted and revenue PANDORA’s ongoing journey towards becoming a more exceeding DKK 20 billion. resilient and sustainable company. We are proud of the We opened our 17th eSTORE, progress we made in 2016, and we are equally proud of the our 2000th concept store and shared value we have been part of creating through partner­ welcomed more than 4,800 new ships, such as the United Nations Global Compact and the colleagues to the PANDORA pride. Responsible Jewellery Council. Here, we assume a leading role It was also a year of building for the future, underlining our among peers, industry experts and civil society organisations in defining the ethical standards for the entire jewellery 12,400 +8,100 commitment to nurturing and safeguarding our environment, industry. Last but not least, we are also proud of the increased CRAFT SP EO P LE POINTS OF SALE both within our company and in the world around us. transparency and assurances that we can offer our consumers, IN T HAILAND The improvements we made in 2016 have left us well placed who trust us to ensure that their jewellery is produced 2,100 of these are to push on towards our goal of becoming the world’s most according to the highest ethical standards. bringing their skills, PANDORA concept stores loved jewellery brand. their vision and their hearts and minds to work each day Our many achievements in 2016 would not have been Internally, we reorganised ourselves in order to sharpen our possible without the dedicated people that make up our focus on collaborations across our integrated value chain. company. It has been extremely inspiring to see how As part of this process, we established three strong regions: our colleagues have reacted and embraced the changes The Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific. Finally, we inaugurated by living out our core values of pride, passion and two LEED-certified (Leadership in Energy and Environmental performance. Design) entities: new Global Office by the harbour in Copenhagen and a new green crafting facility near Chiang Mai in Northern Thailand. We also commenced the Anders Colding Friis, construction of another LEED-certified building at our crafting President & Chief Executive Officer facilities in Bangkok. D KK 20 OUR OWN BI LLI O N CRAFT ING FACILIT IES IN R EVENUE +21,500 IN T HAILAND 21% up ensures our ability to maintain and from last year P EO P LE GLO BALLY develop high ethical standards 2 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2016 3 Craftspeople working at our facility in Lamphun PEOPLE PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2016 PANDOR A PEOPLE PROVIDING sales people develop their skills and knowledge, both in our own stores and the 8,100+ points of sale operated by our PROPER WORKING partners. Our extensive training programmes span face-toIN BRIEF face training, coaching and e-learning. CONDITIONS FOR The scope is broad and entails training in PANDORA’s OUR PEOPLE values, ethics, identity and history, jewellery and material expertise, crafting processes, and professional sales skills and techniques. Face-to-face training is supported by our comprehensive e-learning programme, which is available in 22 languages. In 2016, the number of online training sessions completed amounted to more than 600,000. This means CODE OF ETHICS that our people completed one online training session every In 2015, PANDORA launched a new Code of Ethics, minute of every hour in 2016. stipulating our ethical aspirations as a company and our 5,000 600,000 ethical expectations to the behavior of our people. DIVERSITY The code covers areas such as human rights, working BOOKS AVAI L ABL E E-LEARNING SESSIONS conditions, environmental footprint, anti-corruption and Employment and promotions at PANDORA must always be C O MP L E T E D in the employee library in Bangkok. supplier relations. Building on our ethics policies (available based on merit. We are deeply committed to working against Most popular books: Percy Jackson That is more than one on www.pandoragroup.com/csr), the code offers our any form of discrimination and remain especially committed series and English proficiency every minute of every hour employees one common point of reference for ethical to ensuring gender diversity in our management positions. dilemmas backed by training modules spanning hiring To this end, we have set a number of management diversity procedures, workplace ethics and anti-harassment to fraud, objectives, and progress is reviewed once a year by our gift giving and misuse of company assets. In 2016, we Executive Management and Board of Directors. 3.3% continued the implementation of our Code of Ethics to all staff and directors, and initiated a major review process to • By 2020, the percentage of women in senior EM P LOYEE TU RN OVE R 4,800 ensure that the Code of Ethics remains relevant vis-á-vis the management positions (members of the Management IN THA I L AN D development of the company and the world around us. Board, general managers and vice presidents) should N E W J O B S AT PA N D O R A WO R L DW I D E A new code and training program is expected to be rolled be at least 40%. At the end of 2016, 37% of senior out in 2017. management were women, compared to 33% in 2015, 34% in 2014 and 24% in 2013. To support the Code of Ethics, our employees are encouraged to raise ethical concerns or ideas for ethical improvements • The gender composition of the Group’s leadership with local management, HR, Legal or Ethics departments. programmes should mirror the gender composition of Should employees perceive that concerns are not properly staff in vice president and director positions. Since we 19,000 addressed, or if they are not comfortable with raising their concerns through these channels, they can chose to use started our leadership programmes in 2012, the gender split has on aggregate been close to 50/50. In 2016, Thai colleagues including their family PANDORA’s externally administered multilingual Ethics women accounted for 56% of this management group, members went to a local fun park at Hotline. In 2016, less than 10 cases were raised through the and made up 60% of the enrolment in our leadership the yearly company outing Ethics Hotline. We see this as a positive indication of our programmes. employee's trust in our internal structures. • By 2018, at least 35% of Board members elected at the Annual General Meeting must be women. At the end of TRAINING 2016, women made up 30% of a Board members (3 out +18,000 The main contact between PANDORA and our consumers of 10), compared to 22% in 2016 (2 out of 9). As such, VISIT S TO O U R EDUTAINM E N T CE N TRE 14.2 S P E CIA L is established and nurtured by over 35,000 people, who are passionate about selling our jewellery in more than 100 we are well above the average 16% for Danish listed companies, but still below the 35% target. The Board HO UR S B E NE F IT S countries around the world. We are dedicated to helping will continue to consider gender composition when appointing new members. at our Thai crafting facilities with free access to PCs, library services of class room training given to every F O R P R E G NA N T and training facilities crafting colleague on average E MP L OY E E S 6 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2016 7 Elizabeth is one of our colleagues from the succesfull Pitt Street store in Australia AGE SPLIT, GROUP G E N D E R S P L I T, M A NAG E M E N T TEAM PANDORA Male Female We estimate that more than 35,000 sales associates <18 38 acts as PANDORA’s ambassadors on the front line of 18-25 6941 Board 70% 30% 26-35 12050 Senior Management (MB, VP + GMs) 63% 37% retail; fountains of knowledge that consumers can 36-45 1881 Directors and managers 42% 58% lean on for advice and inspiration when looking for 46+ 963 Store managers 8% 92% a perfect gift or a personal jewellery treat. Headcount Total management 28% 72% December 31st 21873 Working in sales at PANDORA is both a memory game and so much more. Sales associates have to Find more detailed data on people on pandoragroup.com/csr take on an enormous amount of information covering the entire PANDORA jewellery universe. Therefore, it is crucial that they receive best-in-class training. PANDORA’s training resources are designed to develop each person’s skills and they can be tailored to make learning personal. PANDORA’s team in Australia exemplifies this H UM AN AN D LA BOUR RIGHT S approach. Along with face-to-face sessions and At PANDORA, we recognise our duty to respect human Overtime at PANDORA is always voluntary, compliant interactive PANDORA e-learning modules, several rights. To ensure this, PANDORA is certified according to with Thai law and remunerated at premium rates. In order initiatives have been rolled out in Australia. “We the Responsible Jewellery Council's Code of practices. The to mitigate this and ensure our capacity for future growth, have a huge focus on consumer experience training RJC’s code has been developed in cooperation with peers, we hired 1,250 additional employees in 2016, worked to and making sure that our sales associates have the independent experts and non-governmental organisations introduce new crafting techniques, opened a new stateskills to personalise the experience for each consumer (NGOs) to assess, identify and mitigate human rights risks of-the-art facility in northern Thailand (described under who walks in their store,” says Penny Bjorkmann, in the jewellery supply chain. Moreover we regularly assess PLANET) and started the construction of a new crafting National Training Manager, Australia. She adds: potential human rights as well as environmental risks in our facility in Bangkok. “Classroom-style training focusing on experiential own value chain. These assessments – either carried out learning, using storytelling as a sales tool, plus a internally or in cooperation with external experts and peers PANDORA´s Human Rights Policy is published on our micro-learning gamification tool for the Christmas – tend to reach the same conclusion: that the main human corporate site (www.pandoragroup.com/csr). It stipulates 2016 campaign are two recent successes.” and labour rights risks are to be found among our suppliers. our commitment to the United Nations Guiding Principles By sourcing our core jewellery materials from certified on Business and Human Rights, and the core conventions The Australian team also uses a structured mystery responsible suppliers, and by enrolling all suppliers in of the International Labour Organisation (ILO). The policy shopping guide, where all team members visit and PANDORA’s Responsible Supplier Programme (described further instructs us to advance human rights within our rate the customer experience in another retailer – under PRODUCT), we seek to lower the risks of causing or sphere of influence (described under PARTNERSHIPS). greatly improving awareness and self-reflection. For becoming complicit in human rights infringements. For our statements on the UK Modern Slavery Act and The the Autumn/Winter 2016 campaign, which featured California Transparency in Supply Chains Act, please visit PANDORA Rose jewellery, the team embraced the The responsible foundation on which our Thai crafting www.pandoragroup.com/csr. idea of bringing optimism to any customer scenario. facilities are built, as well as our Code of Ethics supported Everyone received a pair of rose-coloured glasses as by the internal PANDORA Ethics Programme instruct all of a reminder that a positive attitude is always possible. us to prevent – and when necessary mitigate and remedy – negative impacts of our activities. An ongoing challenge The personal approach is certainly working. during our continued growth has been to always keep the Revenue at the Pitt Street store in Sydney (one of the weekly working hours below ILO standards. Due to busiest PANDORA stores in the world), rose 500% exceptional business circumstances caused by our growth, from 2012 to 2016. weekly working hours in some specialised departments in Thailand periodically exceeded 60 hours per week. 8 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2016 A large amount of gypsum is used in our jewellery casting process F OCUS O N THA ILA ND Our modern manufacturing facilities in Thailand provide Health and safety safe, healthy, developing and engaging working conditions At PPT, we operate an effective Safety, Health & Environment for more than 12,400 people. Their skills, commitment, flair (SHE) Committee comprised of senior management for aesthetics, and the way they bring their hearts and minds (16 members) and elected employee representatives to work every day are a major part of the foundation of our (15 members). The 15 employee representatives are offered vision to become the world’s most loved jewellery brand. modern, on-site facilities and receive comprehensive training, In 2016 we initiated a Social Impact Study of our engagement both in-house and externally, enabling them to effectively in Thailand. Results are expected in 2017. contribute in their roles. Together with external experts, the elected representatives assume the responsibility of Training and development checking SHE conditions, while our highly competent SHE PANDORA Production Thailand (PPT) has built its success professionals are responsible for continuously improving on the 4C philosophy of Clarity, Competence, Confidence standards as well as correcting non-compliances. and Commitment; the four key, interdependent pillars essential to long-term development. SHE professionals are involved in all new production set-ups to make safety a priority from the start. In 2016, more than When our people have clarity in their roles and responsibilities, 14,000 people participated in training sessions in general the competence to master their craft and think outside the health & safety and firefighting. SHE communication entails box and, finally, the confidence and channels to express TV and radio spots, engaging events and competitions for their ideas and concerns, the result is the fourth “C”: a deep employees to suggest SHE improvements. commitment to the workplace that manifests itself in PPT’s status as an employer of choice with a very high employee As a result of our ongoing focus on improving safety and retention rate and exceptional performance year after year. health standards, we saw as few as 4 near misses and 2 work-related accidents at PPT (resulting in a total of 8 lost Recognising that access to education is a challenge in working days). With 12,400 people employed at PPT by the Thailand, we have established an Edutainment Centre, which year end, this is a remarkably low accident rate compared features modern e-learning/internet facilities and a library. with any industrial sector in any country. This provides our colleagues with a comfortable and inspiring environment where they can relax and learn. During 2016, Employee Welfare Committee the library in Bangkok had more than 18,000 visits and We have also established an Employee Welfare Committee, more than 5,000 books were available throughout the year; which consists of 15 people elected by their colleagues every the most popular genres being adventure fiction and English second year. New committee elections were held in 2016, proficiency studies. This successful initiative has been with a participation rate of 86%. The committee operates replicated for our new crafting facility in Lamphun. with three sub-committees, responsible for coordinating employee interest in a) Compensation & Benefits, The scope of our training and development programmes goes b) Employee Relations and c) Social Activities. As is the case far beyond technical skills and work processes, and includes for the SHE Committee, the Employee Welfare Committee life skills, safety, health, environmental practices, business draws on modern facilities and extensive training. continuity and leadership. In 2016, we opened a new and ambitious Jewellery Skills Academy, which drives technical PPT employee benefits include affordable and healthy development through specific skills from beginner to expert meals, parental classes, extensive professional and personal levels. Every week, approximately 50 colleagues receive development training, annual outings, scholarships, employeededicated training at the Academy. operated radio and TV channels, and free bus transportation to and from work. 10 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2016 Blue maternity dresses are offered to our pregnant colleagues Communication Fun We want to provide up-to-date and relevant information to Our colleagues’ commitment to PANDORA is also clearly our colleagues so that everyone fully understands the context visible during our social events. What initially started out as A HOLISTIC of their work, has a clear picture of PANDORA’s global a small company outing to the beach twenty something performance and the feedback we get from our consumers. years ago has now evolved into a two-day beach event for APPROACH To this end, we share news updates, departmental news and hundreds of people at the start of 2016. Colleagues opting customer feedback through our in-house PANDORA Radio not to go to the beach received family tickets for the nearby A career at PANDORA Production Thailand (PPT) starts (with employee-elected DJs) and PANDORA Production TV, fun park instead. Including family members more than with a passion for jewellery that takes root in a deep both with daily broadcasting. 20,000 people participated in these events. understanding of the business – and blossoms into both personal and professional opportunities. We focus on In 2015 and 2016, the communication channels were making and keeping our colleagues happy, at work and significantly broadened with the PANDORA self-service app, at home. providing easy access to both news streams and relevant employee data, such as working hours, available holidays PPT has a family feel. With an employee turnover below and the ordering of staff uniforms. Free Internet access on 4%, a position at PPT is often a long lasting one. Our the premises supports the use of the app. 12,400 craftspeople spend many years dedicating their time and skill to PANDORA, and we always like to give Communication is a two-way street and we naturally also back. This is why PPT has a “Happy Workplace” focus. want to listen. Besides training and encouraging our people As happiness is often personal to each person, we have to speak up and our managers to listen on a daily basis, we taken a holistic, nurturing approach with a broad range of also conduct monthly meetings where colleagues are invited initiatives that encourage a happy mind, body and soul. to share their opinions and ideas, and suggest subjects for discussion. Colleagues can use the Edutainment Centre for access to books and magazines of their choosing, use free PCs and Three times a week, our HR Services team sets up mobile Wi-Fi, relax with their colleagues, and take various courses. consultation centres at canteens and locker rooms during Sports classes are available, including football, badminton lunch breaks. This allow employees to ask questions or seek and cycling – and the new yoga classes are especially assistance with issues such as pay, benefits or employee popular. An in-house doctors and nurses station is also relations at a time and place convenient for the employees. available and doctors can be booked via e-mail or phone. In 2016, the HR Services team received more than 13,000 When stress was identified as an issue with some visits. colleagues, we created the “Don’t worry be happy” antistress campaign, with both preventive and mitigating actions, which included generic toolkits and personal counselling. In 2016, we also introduced similar projects to help employees battling drug or mental problems and hired an in-house counseling psychologist. Recognising that credit card debt and loan sharks are common in Thailand, we launched the financial literacy programme, “Happy Money,” in 2011. Initially comprising basic courses in personal finance, Happy Money has P EOP LE – KEY P E R F OR M A N C E I N D I CATOR S since evolved to include confidential financial counselling, monthly visits from the Government Savings Bank, and 2016 2015 2014 2013 an employee-managed PANDORA Cooperative Savings Club. The holistic approach pays off. Our crafting facilities Craftspeople turnover, % 3.2 3.3 5.0 in Thailand are considered a great place to work. This is Global incident rate (OSHA standard) 0.30 0.18 0.17 0.30 why, when looking for new colleagues in June 2016, Employees who would recommend PANDORA as a workplace, % 76 Employees covered by annual personal development reviews, % 100 12,500 people turned up. See how it looked like here: Training hours/craftspeople 14.2 14.5 www.pandoragroup.com/recruitment2016 12 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2016 From the pond at our crafting facility in Lamphun PL ANET PANDOR A PL ANET MINIMISING OUR P R E C I O U S M E TA L S ENVIRONMENTAL The Trucost study revealed that when it comes to silver and IN BRIEF gold, using recycled sources reduces the environmental cost IMPACT with more than 95%. We want to minimise our environmental impact on the planet. As part of our efforts to advance social and environmentally responsible sourcing practices, 86% of all gold grains used in the crafting at our Thai facilities in 2016 originated from recycled sources. The remaining 14% originated from virgin material from certified conflict free refineries. NAT U R A L CA P I TA L 91% At PANDORA, we recognize that mining and processing of When it comes to silver, 91% of the silver grains used in the crafting at our Thai facilities in 2016 originated from recycling. R E C Y C L E D S I LV E R metals and stones are associated with adverse environmental The remaining 9% originated from virgin materials supplied impact. A recent study performed for PANDORA by the by certified members of the RJC. Thus, PANDORA can 86% 100% environmental cost consultancy Trucost, sought to quantify and value the hidden positive and negative externalities of guarantee that the vast majority of our silver is environmentally friendly compared to virgin material. RECYCLED GOLD of our paper bags originate from different materials used in our manufacturing. The study wood from sustainable forestry calculates the financial cost of environmental damage (such as health cost associated with pollution) to society from various materials and crafting methods. The study revealed that using recycled precious metals and man-made stones >95% significantly reduces the environmental cost compared to mined materials due to less environmental damage. less cost to the environment, 86% by using recycled gold RECYCLED WAS TE AT O U R CRAFT ING FACI L I TI E S >95% E N V I R O N M E N TA L I M PAC T C O M PA R I S O N less cost to the environment, by using recycled silver Green House Air Pollutants Land Use Water Land & Water Gases Consumption Pollutants >99% 95% 99% 99% 98% 99% Virgin Gold vs decrease decrease decrease decrease decrease less cost to the environment, Recycled Gold by using man-made cubic zirconia (€/kg) 1,800 98 1,684 16 430 <1 7 <1 96,684 21 100% Virgin Silver vs 95% decrease 99% decrease 99% decrease 98% decrease 99% decrease R E C Y CL ING Recycled Silver (€/kg) all of our gypsum waste 52 <2 53 <1 7 <1 0.090 0.002 812 <1 is used in the construction sector 99% 99% Mined Diamond vs decrease decrease all of our glass waste Cubic Zirconia +40,000 is made into glass tiles (€/kg) 6,295 <1 321 <1 all of our rubber waste ROUND TRI PS is used as fuel Disclaimer: PANDORA’s mission is to provide its customers with affordable luxury, producing high-quality and contemporary jewellery at affordable prices. While diamonds and cubic zirconia are not typically comparable, with one being a precious natural stone and the other being man-made, PANDORA uses both taken by 120 buses driving our Thai all of our wax waste is used by materials to produce jewellery that appeals to its customers whilst also targeting an affordable price point. In this context, PANDORA sought to understand the colleagues to and from work for free figurine manufacturers environmental impacts of both types of stones used in its jewellery to help inform future strategies to grow the business whilst reducing its environmental impacts. 16 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2016 17 Mountain view from the top of our crafting facility in Lamphun M AN M ADE STONES We gain many ethical advantages by predominantly using Our new LEED certified facilities have a clear focus on BUILDING man-made stones in our collections. The origin of man-made water recycling, and we expect to improve our future water stones is fully traceable and the ability to grow stones with consumption and recycling significantly. FOR A GREENER fewer quality variations considerably reduces material waste. In a recent study carried out for PANDORA, the environmental Waste FUTURE cost of man-made cubic zirconia stones compared to mined The crafting of our jewellery generates four main types of diamonds is estimated to be decreased by more than 99% process waste: gypsum, glass, rubber and wax. Gypsum At PANDORA, we constantly strive to minimise our when it comes to greenhouse gas emissions and air pollutants. waste is recycled in the construction sector, glass waste is impacts on the planet, and we have taken great strides recycled into glass tiles, rubber waste is used as fuel by the to ensure we can be environmentally friendly in cement industry and, finally, wax waste is used in the various ways, every day. In 2016, we opened a new, CRAFTIN G highly modernised crafting facility in Lamphun in casting process by a figurine manufacturer. Some categories PANDORA experienced a sharp increase in demand and are sold and others we pay to have recycled, as in the case Northern Thailand. Awarded the Leadership in Energy produced approximately 106 million pieces of jewellery inof gypsum where PANDORA pays for the transportation to and Environmental Design (LEED) certificate, the house in 2016. At the same time, the greater complexity and the vendor. new green building meets the highest demands intricacy of our jewellery designs have made it challenging regarding CSR and sustainability, placing PANDORA to simultaneously reduce our energy and water consumption In 2015, these four main types of waste reached an in a league of its own in the jewellery industry. at our crafting facilities. With the new Leadership in Energy impressive result: 100% reuse or recycling, making the total and Environment (LEED) certified crafting facility in northern reuse or recycling of our crafting waste 83%. In 2016, we The construction process itself aims for high Thailand and another LEED certified crafting facility currently were able to continue the trend with 100% recycling of our sustainable standards. In order to minimise transport under construction in Bangkok, we expect to be able to main types of waste and a total recycling of 86%. emissions, most of the building materials originates significantly improve our environmental performance in the from an area within 800 km from the construction site, years to come. Find more detailed data on waste on 30% of construction materials are made of recycled pandoragroup.com/csr content, and 75% of the construction waste was Energy diverted to recycling facilities. PANDORA Production Thailand (PPT) is by far our most energy-consuming entity. The amount of energy used here The new facility provides an inspiring and healthy increased from 29,472 MWh in 2015 to 35,907 in 2016. working environment for our colleagues. Due to its C R A F T I N G WA S T E many impressive sustainability features, water and The rise in energy consumption reflects the increase in crafting complexity and the number of pieces of jewellery energy usage is lower than ever: A reduction of 45% produced. Besides the state-of-the-art burnout ovens used in water consumption is possible due to a specially 86% Reused/ in the crafting process, the extensive use of chillers to ensure recycled waste designed water management system, and innovative a cool and comfortable working environment throughout air conditioning and ventilation systems help reduce our facilities consumes a considerable amount of energy. ventilation energy losses by up to 80%. At the same Ovens and chillers put together account for approximately time, solar panels on the roof of the main crafting 40% of energy consumption. We expect the LEED-certified facility generates electricity equivalent to 14% of the facilities will significantly optimise the use of energy going total energy consumption of the facility corresponding forward, plus contribute with solar power, and we look to 700 Thai households. forward to the future results. 14% General And it doesn’t stop there. Another sustainable, statewaste Water of-the-art crafting facility is due for completion in As a result of our growth and the increased complexity in 2018 at our site in Bangkok, Thailand. Additionally, our jewellery designs, our water consumption at PPT 0.1% in Copenhagen, Denmark, the new PANDORA increased from 482,500 m3 in 2015 to 584,108 m3 in 2016. Hazardous 0.5% Global Office, which we moved into in 2016, are waste Industrial In 2016, we invested in additional on-site waste water LEED-certified in the gold category. Here, energy waste treatment at our Bangkok facilities, drastically improving the consumption is powered by windmills and onsite quality of waste water. The disposal of waste water is subject solar panels, and recycling stations for all types of to control by both our own SHE team and local authorities, materials have replaced bins on the office floors. and is audited by external experts as a final check. 18 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2016 L OG ISTICS S TOR E S TOTA L A MOUNT OF GOLD A N D S ILVER GLOBALLY PANDORA jewellery is sold in more than 100 countries PANDORA jewellery is presently sold in about 2,100 around the world; hence PANDORA requires logistics PANDORA concept stores around the world, of which more services from a variety of different providers moving our than around 600 are owned and operated by PANDORA. goods through different types of transport – rail, sea, road The remaining stores are operated by our retail partners. and air. In 2014, CO₂ emissions from the transport of our jewellery was identified as a focus area, and we have been Our current store concept “Evolution” was introduced in in close dialogue with our transport providers on how to 2014 and it is environmentally friendly in several ways. The gather reliable data and how to minimise emissions in the concept is designed to be extra durable and it is possible to future. In 2016, the estimated transport emissions for over replace smaller parts over time – stretching the lifetime of 90% of our transport activities amounted to 8,700 tonnes the fixtures and furniture. As part of the development of of CO₂; up from 5,400 in 2015. We consider this rise in Evolution, energy consumption was considerably reduced G O L D & S I LV E R O R I G I N transport emissions to be a result of our growth and by relying on LED lights rather than conventional light bulbs. Gold and silver experts Metalsfocus estimates especially the increased number of concept stores, which is According to our in-house estimates, this change and the Gold and silver are fantastic raw materials, originating that through time 180,000 tonnes of gold and without a doubt the store type with the highest use of point ongoing optimisation of LED light bulbs has enabled us to from exploding stars at the beginning of time. 1,900,000 tonnes of silver have been mined from of sales materials: such as fixtures & furniture, bags & boxes. cut up to 50% off our electricity consumption in an average Earth. Spread out on a football field, it would look something like the above. It is encouraging that dialogue with our transport providers, PANDORA concept store. The reduction is a result of more all global leaders in their industries, clearly shows a efficient lights, which also create less heat – reducing the dedication towards lowering their emissions. In 2017, we need for air conditioning. In 2016, approximately 50% of will continue the dialogue but still concentrate our focus on all concept stores had switched to Evolution. a place where our sphere of influence is stronger: our supply chain and our crafting. Finally, all paper bags are certified by the Forest Steward­ship GOLD A ND Besides their alluring look and fantastic crafting potential, gold and silver also Using recycled precious metals significantly reduces the environmental Bus services Council (FSC). Moreover, we continuously seek to expand our range of certified paper-based and wood-based SILV ER FAC TS have great environmental benefits. Being high-value precious metals, impact compared to the impact of mined metals. We offer our PPT colleagues safe bus transportation to and materials according to international sustainability standards. Originating from a goldsmith’s work obsolete gold and silver objects are not from work, which, in 2016, totalled more than 40,000 round bench, our path to success has been thrown away, but are re-melted and reGold and silver are both finite trips and more than 1,6 million kilometres. By year end, paved with gold and silver; the refined into pure quality gold and silver, materials, but the exact amount of more than 9,700 people regularly made use of this service. foundation of the vast majority of our which can be used time and time again what we have on Earth can only be Bus companies are subject to regular controls by government jewellery today. without their quality being diminished. based on assumptions. agencies and our in-house SHE teams. With 50 passengers per bus and buses in good condition, this option is highly energy efficient compared to other feasible means of transportation. The bus transportation set-up has been replicated at our new facility in Lamphun. MINING RECYCLING GO LD / SILVER 9 % SILVER 9 1 % SILVER SCRAP 1 4 % GO LD 8 6 % GO LD PLA NET – KEY P E R F OR M A N C E I N D I CATOR S of the grains we use of the grains we use at our Thai crafting at our Thai crafting 2016 2015 2014 2013 facilities comes from facilities comes from responsible mining recycling CRAFT ING Water consumption at crafting facilities, m3 584,108 483,000 379,000 292,000 SCRAP Recycled crafting waste, % 86 83 81 57 Energy consumption at crafting facilities, MWh 35,907 29,472 23,243 19,170 Global transport emissions, tonnes CO₂ 8,665 5,435 4,324 Recycled silver/gold, % 91/86 83/96 99/90 M INING REFINING CRAFT ING WEAR ING 20 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2016 21 One of our craftspeople working on a silver charm PRODUC T PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2016 PANDOR A PRODUC T CRAFTING OUR R E S P O N S I B L E S U P P L IER PROGRAMME PRODUCTS All of our suppliers (subcontractors, original equipment IN BRIEF manufacturers, original design manufacturers and material WITH INTEGRITY suppliers) for our Thai crafting facilities, as well as the suppliers providing all store materials, are enrolled in our Responsible Supplier Programme. Suppliers are required to sign and comply with our Suppliers’ Code of Conduct, which is downloadable from www.pandoragroup.com/csr. To support our suppliers in complying with our code of conduct, we have developed a comprehensive supplier DESIGN 2.7 Any PANDORA product starts its journey with our in-house programme. Our Ethics teams, based in Bangkok, Hong Kong and Copenhagen, work extensively with our suppliers B IL L IO N Design team. As a new piece evolves, our designers will all over the world to enable them to fully understand our make choices on which materials to use. Whenever new requirements, and to inspire them to implement sustainable S TO N E S S E T I N TO O U R materials or suppliers are introduced, our Ethics teams are solutions. To this end, we offer our suppliers ongoing J E W E L L E RY consulted in order to discuss potential environmental or dialogue and training in issues such as safety, health and social impacts. Such early interaction helps to ensure that environmental management, national/international worker The vast majority being man-made, PANDORA refrains from using potentially problematic rights and human rights, and we take pride in showcasing often exhibiting the same basic crystal structure as natural stones materials – and it provides Group Ethics and other departments our own best-practice solutions. with valuable knowledge, enabling them to act in due time. Our designers constantly interact with our Thai crafting R E S P O N S I B L E S U P P L IER facilities to ensure that our designs and crafting techniques PROGRAMME R E S P O NS IB LE are a match. At our cutting-edge Innovation Centre in Bangkok, Thailand, we develop innovative processing SUP P LIERS’ CO DE O F CO NDUCT S ILV E R techniques and continuously improve our ability to introduce new products. The Innovation Centre offers our Thai All suppliers must sign our Suppliers’ Code of Conduct PANDORA supports the colleagues the opportunity to work and invent on the SCREENING AND CAT EGO RISING development of new responsible frontline of technical developments within the jewellery Risk assessment silver certification schemes industry, and each colleague acquires top-notch skills within advanced jewellery manufacturing. It is our firm belief that the development projects at PANDORA’s SUP P LIER T RAINING Annual training in selected issues Innovation Centre make an important contribution to 100% maintaining Thailand’s position as a global hub in the jewellery industry. PANDO RA AUDIT S COR R ECTIVE RJC CERTI F I E D BKK, HKG & CPH Ethics teams ACTIONS >85% T HIRDPART Y AUDIT S AS R EQUIR ED Suppliers must SILVER AND G O L D G RAI N remedy identified of our total sourcing value Suppliers are audited on a two-year cycle SUP PL I E RS issues audited by external experts P REFERRED SUP P LIERS Long-term, high-achieving suppliers may be granted status 199 as preferred suppliers. These enjoy preferential terms, 30 focusing on integration and trust over audit and control. PARTICIPANTS F RO M KE Y SUP PL I E RS PA I R S O F H A N D S I S O 9 0 01 Received Ethics training on average contribute to creating Q U A L I T Y MA NAG E ME NT at our crafting facilities one piece of jewellery certification 24 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2016 25 All PANDORA paper bags originate from wood from sustainable forestry S UPPLIER AUDITS In 2016, we reached our target, stipulating that 85% of our worked diligently to achieve high standards as well as LIKE RINGS total sourcing value must come from suppliers who have expertise within both areas. Thus, we seek to transfer our been audited by either our external auditing company or knowledge and expertise to our suppliers helping them IN WATER are certified members of the RJC. This means that they have to raise safety levels, job satisfaction and commitment been audited against the broadest and strictest standards – and thereby also attraction, retention, productivity and Audits, dialogue and close cooperation with our within the jewellery supply chain. The majority of nonprofitability. Further, in 2016, 199 participants from our suppliers make a world of difference when it comes compliance cases identified during the independent supplier key suppliers attended a one day conference at our new to ethical standards. MTG Group, one of our long-time audits involve either health and safety standards or working facility in Lamphun. Here we showcased our state-of-art suppliers of jewellery boxes and bags, are a good conditions. PANDORA’s crafting facilities in Thailand has green solutions. example of this. Both of our businesses have evolved rapidly and ethically since our collaboration began in 2009. Thomas Ahlmann-Liisberg, Director of MTG Group, states: “Many things have happened in our company through the close cooperation with PANDORA. Having external auditors on site makes us all more aware, but it is the ongoing dialogue that has underlined the importance of health and safety, NON-C OMPL I A N C E I S S U E S I D E N T I F I E D good working environments, facilities for staff and their families and even regular social events. This in AT AUDITE D S U P P L I E R S I N 2 0 1 6 turn improves job satisfaction, retention rates and quality levels.” 2 % Disciplinary 2 % Freedom of association A focus on auditing and dialogue has enabled MTG practice Group to plan ahead and implement various initiatives such as certifications. MTG Group now 1 % Discrimination 3 % Insufficient child/forced conduct their own supplier audits to ensure labour procedures compliance with their quality standards and ethical stance. MTG has been certified by the Forest Steward­ship Council (FSC) ensuring that their wood 9 % Environment materials originate from sustainable forestry. Additionally, MTG is in the process of becoming SA8000 certified, regarded as among the highest standard for Social Accountability. While audits and certifications involves extra work 14 % Working hours and cost, MTG Group believes that the resulting learning curve, supply chain developments and 55% Health & safety employee satisfaction make it all worthwhile. “Teaming up with PANDORA, front runners in ethical standards in the jewellery industry, means that we also become front runners,” continues Thomas Ahlmann-Liisberg. “We are a strong, confident company with open doors, we are ahead 15 % Compensation & benefits of legislation and so are our suppliers. Positivity is spreading like rings in water.” 26 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2016 27 CO RE M ATER IA LS The vast majority of PANDORA’s products are made of Man-made stones are also fully traceable and can be supplied silver and/or gold, often decorated with man-made cubic in quantities suitable for large-scale jewellery crafting. zirconia stones and less often with gemstones or diamonds. Finally, they exhibit fewer variations in colour and quality, At PANDORA, we are fully aware that the mining and which considerably reduces material waste. processing of precious metals, gemstones and semiprecious stones can be associated with adverse social and From 2012 to 2016, diamonds were only included as a feature environmental impacts. As a major player within the on special-edition PANDORA Club charms. The diamonds jewellery industry, we recognise our ability as well as our on these charms were all natural diamonds recycled from responsibility to help develop a more responsible supply discontinued PANDORA jewellery. In the sourcing of natural chain for core jewellery materials. diamonds, which we continue to do to support customer demand for existing collections, we only accept suppliers In 2016, all gold grains entering PANDORA’s crafting who are members of the RJC and who can certify compliance facilities were sourced from reputable refining companies, with the System of Warranties, established by the World certified according to the RJC Code of Practices. Furthermore, Diamond Council for diamond sourcing. all gold must be certified conflict free according to the London Bullion Market Association (LBMA) “Good Delivery List” or the RJC Chain-of-Custody Standard for gold. Notably, 86% of gold grains originated from recycling and the remaining 14% from certified responsible sources – including mining. In 2016, 91% of the silver grains entering OR I G I N OF P R E C I OU S M E TA L S PANDORA’s crafting facilities originated from recycling. Moreover, our silver grain suppliers are certified members Origin of gold of the RJC. 100% RJC-certified suppliers 100% certified conflict free Additionally, PANDORA cooperates with a number of highly specialised manufacturers of semi-finished gold and silver parts. In 2016, these partners produced approximately 16 million pieces of jewellery. All such partners must deliver 86% auditable proof that the gold used in their products is sourced Recycled from RJC-/LBMA-certified suppliers. Today, there are no 14% Mined similar certification schemes for silver, but promising initiatives are expected within 2017/18. PANDORA supports these initiatives and is actively participating in the development of these standards. Great customer service in one of our stores Stones Man-made stones, natural gemstones and diamonds are all Origin of silver included in our assortment. While we have made no decision 100% RJC-certified suppliers to remove diamonds and gemstones from our assortment, P R O D U C T – K E Y P E R F O R M A N C E I N D I CATO R S man-made stones are taking on an increasingly important role in our collections. In 2016, we used approximately 2,7 2016 2015 2014 2013 billion stones, the vast majority being man-made cubic 91% zirconia. Man-made stones can be identical to their natural Recycled Suppliers enrolled in PANDORA's Responsible Suppliers Programme, % 100 100 100 gemstone counterparts in almost every way, and will often Total sourcing value audited by external experts, % >85 >80 >80 >75 exhibit the same basic crystal structure as natural stones. Silver and gold grain suppliers certified by Responsible Jewellery Council, % 100 100 100 100 9% Mined However, the risk of contributing to adverse human rights Suppliers trained in ethical business practices at annual PANDORA 199 150 impacts are minimal and the environmental cost is supplier conferences significantly lower (see PLANET). 28 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2016 29 Quality control of one of our glass charms PA R T N E R S H I P S PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2016 Indigenous plants ensures biodiversity at our crafting facility in Lamphun RESPONSIBLE S T R AT E G I C PA RT N E R S BUSINESS PRACTICES Like PANDORA, our strategic partners, such as Disney and Signet, also have strict ethical requirements of their business C R A D L E TO-CRADLE ARE A WORK partners. This means that our crafting facilities in Thailand, as well as relevant suppliers and subcontractors are subject This Ethics Report is a cradle-to-cradle certified product. This means that you IN PROGRESS to audits and approvals by these partners before a final business contract can be signed, and are subject to frequent turn over the pages of a 100% biological decomposable and totally free of any audits hereafter. toxic chemicals and heavy metals report. It also means that in producing this Ethics CREATIN G S HA RED VA LUE B U I L D I N G B R A N D E QU I T Y Report, we have reused the resources of By engaging in external partnerships PANDORA gains Besides loving our jewellery, we want to assure our the earth in a natural circular process, valuable insights into critical factors shaping our business consumers that our jewellery is sourced, crafted and traded leaving no harmful waste materials environment, such as legislation, mining practices, industry in accordance to the highest ethical standards in the industry. poisonous for people or the environment. dynamics, marketing ethics and consumer expectations. We are working on a number of platforms to communicate A true inspiration for our own journey Our engagement spans from active membership of – and this message, primarily through PR activities, social media towards a still more sustainable setup. communication through – the United Nations Global Compact and store staff training. and the Danish Business Network for Human Rights (DBNHR) to community engagement at our Thai crafting facilities, In 2016, we proactively shared our ethical aspirations, support to charitable organisations and dialogue with the efforts and results with fashion and news media, and hosted millions of consumers that has signed up to our social media numerous press visits to our crafting facilities in Thailand. platforms. As members of the steering committees for both The participating media representatives paid special interest the Danish UN Global Compact network and the DBNHR to three subjects in particular – design, craftsmanship and we seek to learn from and influence the ethical performance ethical business practices – and this interest led to a great of other Danish companies. deal of ethics-related PR coverage for PANDORA. In 2017, we will continue the communication of our ethical standards, Perhaps more importantly, PANDORA has since 2010 been through PR and social media primarily. a member of the Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC), and the entire company has been externally certified according I N T E R NA L G OV E R NA N C E to the RJC Responsibility Standards. The RJC is a full member of the ISEAL Alliance – the global membership association For PANDORA, the aim of good corporate governance is to for credible sustainability standards. In 2016 the RJC accounts maximise long-term value creation and ensure transparency to more than 850 dedicated companies from across the and accountability in the way we fulfil our obligations jewellery supply chain. PANDORA is seated in RJC’s towards all key stakeholders. PANDORA intends to exercise Executive Committee and has been elected as chair of the good corporate governance at all times, and we assess our multi stakeholder Standards Committee. Here we facilitate practices according to the recommendations issued by the the cooperation between responsible brands, independent Danish Committee on Corporate Governance (read more at jewellery experts and NGOs. www.pandoragroup.com). PANDORA Ethics is governed by our Ethics Steering Committee, headed by our Vice President, In 2016 the Standards Committee started a review process Group Ethics, and is further made up of the heads of of the RJC standards to ensure that they always reflects the Procurement, Manufacturing, HR, Investor Relations and most ambitious ethical performance. Further, the committee Corporate Communications, with our CFO representing recommended the RJC to expand its scope from gold and executive management. Our progress in advancing responsible diamonds to also include coloured stones and silver. business practices is addressed at least biannually, at PANDORA’s Audit Committee under the Board of Directors. 32 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2016 PANDORA A/S Havneholmen 17-19 DK-1561 Copenhagen V Denmark Phone: +45 3672 0044 CVR nr.: 28505116 www.pandoragroup.com PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2016
