ULSTEIN GROUP 2016 REPORT GLOBAL GOALS FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 17 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS In September 2015, countries adopted a set of goals to end poverty, protect the planet, and ensure prosperity for all as part of a new sustainable development agenda. The goals came into force on 1 January 2016. For the goals to be reached, everyone needs to do their part. Ulstein Group has decided on four goals to be prioritised in our work. QUALITY EDUCATION GENDER EQUALITY Ensure inclusive and equitable education and promote Achieve gender equality and empower all women lifelong learning opportunities for all. and girls • Ulstein will aim to foster skilled and engaged • Ulstein will secure equal career possibilities across employees gender in our companies • We will support lifelong competence building • As of today, we have equal numbers of women and for our employees men in the Group Management and Board of Direc• The combination of experience and formal tors. We will continue to foster female leadership competence is critical for our innovation and busi• For decades, we have aimed to inspire girls to ness activity choose mathematics and science as school subjects • Our work with the Family Life Project in cooperation with SOS Children’s Villages in Angola will secure kindergarten and school attendance for vulnerable children and give self-sustainable communities INDUSTRY, INNOVATION LIFE BELOW WATER AND INFRASTRUCTURE Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and susConserve and use the oceans, seas and marine resourtainable industrialization and foster innovation ces with sustainable development in mind • Ulstein provides efficient, safe and reliable products • Our aim is to design and construct vessels for and services to our customers demanding operations while maintaining a keen eye • Through innovation of future-oriented products and on the environment services we contribute to sustainable development • We allocate resources to innovation and new deve• We have entered new market segments for lopment. This includes new types of vessels or renewable energy solutions that help the customers increase their • We develop fuel-efficient ships to move heavy value, while improving fuel efficiency, reducing goods traffic from the motorway to the seaway emissions and doing less harm to environment • We innovate to develop new solutions for environmentally sound marine and maritime activities UN GLOBAL COMPACT WE ARE COMMITED Ulstein Group’s stakeholders trust on our professional competence and integrity. Ulstein Group is committed to work in accordance with responsible, ethical and sound business principles. Our business principles are based on our visions and values that are set out in our Code of Conduct and our policies regarding compliance and Corporate Social Responsibility. The content of these policies is the foundation for our business and its purpose is to reflect and outline our vision and values and to function as a script to affect the attitudes and the culture within the company. HUMAN RIGHTS Assessment, policy and goals Ulstein Group’s Code of Conduct is a the ethical guidelines. It is the “All members of Ulstein Group have the foundation for our vision and values, responsibility of every manager to same value. No discrimination of any and functions as a script to positively ensure that the Code of Conduct is kind is accepted, for example on the affect the attitudes and the culture communicated to and examined by all grounds of gender, race, religion or within the company. employees. sexual orientation. Ulstein Group aspires to be a corporation that All employees should be familiar with Our statement of Human Value is: develops diversity and equality.” In accordance with the Norwegian committee where ethical dilemmas with children’s rights. Working Environment Act, the may be put up for discussion. In addition, we support activities for company has established Guidelines children and youth in our local for notifications, and an Ethical We support NGOs working communities in Norway. Implementation Measuring outcomes All compliance documentation is Through our collaboration with Monitor the mandatory training in available in our Quality System. SOS Children’s Villages Norway we Compliance and Code of Conduct support families and communities Awareness raising & training of Measurement of notifications to in becoming self-sustainable, so employees towards the Code of Ethical Committee they can provide for their children Conduct. in the future. BI-Annual Reports from SOS Training program for new Children’s Villages: The Family Our latest engagement is the employees. Strengthening Program is providing Family Strengthening program in Lubango, Angola. support for living and education for Dilemma training program to be 121 families, including 542 children. established. LABOUR Assessment, policy and goals In Norway, labour rights and the right to In the current market situation, with the authorities for a joint effort collective bargaining are strongly much uncertainty and temporary and to prevent and reduce sickness regulated by law. The corporate permanent lay-offs, the cooperation absence, encourage return to work, strategy is to work in compliance with with the trade unions is a critical input improve working environments and local legal requirements in the different factor. In these situations, we strive to promote inclusion. countries where we have companies maintain good working conditions for and activities. our employees and run processes in Annual objectives are set out in the compliance with legal rights and fair respective companies to reduce the There is a strong tradition in Ulstein to treatment of people. present sickness absence, employee work for co-determination and to turnover and injuries in the production maintain a good dialogue between Our Personnel Handbook covers (LTI value). management and trade unions. The policies concerning our employees’ company encourages membership of rights, benefits and responsibilities. Ulstein Group has a policy requiring trade unions for its employees. manning suppliers to adhere to the Our Norwegian companies are Labour principles. In Norway, negotiation committees are members of the governmental established to represent the employees agreement regarding an inclusive in yearly wage negotiations. Employees working life (IA Enterprise). are represented in the Boards of our The agreement is based on a protocol Norwegian companies. between employer/ trade unions and Implementation Measuring outcomes In each company with trade unions, The IA-agreement and the follow-up Sickness rate for Ulstein Group a forum is established for collective from staff and management have should not extend 4.5%. bargaining between the resulted in a further decreased rate of H-value in the Shipbuilding area management and the trade unions. sickness absence and LTI. should be less than 9. A Corporate Committee, equally Feedback and improvement system The voluntary employee turnover represented by management and and increased focus on reporting should not exceed 7 %. union members, will have 4 of unwanted incidents are implemeetings per year to discuss mented. Implemented feedback system in all cooperation and common issues. companies. The company has an Occupational A Salary policy is established, and Health Service in compliance with Increase feedback on unwanted there is a flexible working Norwegian Environment Act. incidents and HSE observations. arrangement for our employees. Avoid legal cases in restructuring In each business area, an HSE annual All employees are entitled to report and an action plan are estabprocesses. medical insurance. lished and followed up. The Code of Conduct applies to all employees, temporary personnel and board members of Ulstein Group and subsidiaries . Ulstein also has a separate Code of Conduct applicable to its business partners including suppliers, distributors, agents and joint venture partners. It is the responsibility of every manager to ensure that Ulstein’s Code of Conduct is communicated to all employees and to promote and monitor compliance. References to Ulstein, Ulstein Group or the Company should be understood as Ulstein Group ASA and its direct and indirect subsidiaries. ENVIRONMENT Assessment, policy and goals Our goal for HSE: Ensure 100 % statutory rules and regulations are less harm to the environment. compliance with HSE-related adhered to. Ulstein must be a We seek to challenge conventional procedures and requirements. responsible company with regards to wisdom and deploy both proven and how it affects the environment.” new technologies in alternate ways, From HSE Policy in Ulstein Group: Ulstein will take gradual, measurable with a keen eye on the environment. “Ulstein will strive for all activities and steps towards making its products, Examples are the X-BOW® and products to have the lowest possible processes and operations more X-STERN® hull design elements and negative effect on the environment.” sustainable. Under the direction of the hybrid propulsion systems. Code of Conduct, each organisational We are active in the renewables unit, whether fully or partly owned, will Important project drivers in our segment, and deliver designs and take necessary actions to ensure innovation processes are solutions for the whole lifecycle of energy efficiency in its operations and development of environmentally offshore wind farms. secure proper recycling of materials. sound products focused on reducing environmental footprints, From Code of Conduct: “The We aim to develop vessels that help developing safer operations and Corporation must have an internal the customers to increase their value, increasing the operational windows control system that ensures that all while reducing emissions and doing for the vessels. Implementation Measuring outcomes We design and build vessels with low power and high efficiency Measurement of electrical on-board waste management solutions. All efforts are neatly and energy consumption in our systems, ballast water treatment holistically designed into complete buildings and production facilities. and further onshore handling of ship systems. waste. Efficiency and fuel consumption Our ships are equipped to reduce measurements are conducted on Use of environmentally friendly hazards to the crew, the vessel and built vessels to verify the theomaterials in the product the environment. This includes retical calculation analyses done innovation and production. collision and grounding avoidance, in the design stages. fire and flooding countermeasures, These measurements are used to Awareness of energy consumption reduced pollution risk in the event improve the next generation of in our buildings and production of damage, Ballast Water Treatment vessel designs. facilities. System, Inventory of Hazardous Ulstein is also conducting field Improvement of our records of Materials and HSE-focused designs. studies on board Ulstein designed substances on products used in We use modern ship systems vessels in operation to improve the production. featuring low power consumption performance and operability for and less use of cabling. Extensive the new generation of vessels. We aim to minimize the footprint use of analogue cabling is of our vessel designs. One of the The Environmental aspect is an substituted by use of modern digital main drivers is minimizing integrated part in Project solutions. emissions to air and water Charters for Innovation projects. through novel system designs. We Ulstein Ship Emission Index system develop and build vessels with is used to assist customers in taking Percentage of vessels delivered solutions for alternative energy better decisions to reduce footprint. with CLEAN and CLEAN DESIGN sources and new methods of classification. storing and transferring energy Our vessels are developed to satisfy through modern battery and international environmental and capacitor technologies. We use safety standards and regulations. ANTI CORRUPTION Assessment, policy and goals Commitment to comply with all From Code of Conduct: and each individual at great risk.” relevant laws. ”Ulstein Group disapproves of all forms of corruption. Guidelines, in connection with Principles for Corporate Corruption undermines all kinds of the exposure of economical Governance approved by Ulstein business undertakings and destroys disloyalty, and routines, in Group Board of Directors. free competition. connection with misconduct and It is destructive for the reputation of irregularities, are a part of the the company and puts the company digital Personnel Handbook. Implementation. Measuring outcomes Policy on anti-corruption towards Reported notifications to the Ethical Digital dilemma training system. suppliers and customers. committee. Risk assessment procedures for Registration of gifts and relation high-risk areas of corruption. activities. Training Managers and new employees. NOTE FROM THE CEO Ulstein Group ASA supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and operation of our company. With this COP we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. Gunvor Ulstein CEO Ulstein Group ASA
