Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Your Excellency Secretary General, I am pleased to confirm that the Emirates Telecommunications Group Company PJSC “Etisalat” reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in its effort to fight for human rights, its defense of labour and the environment, and its efforts to combat corruption. These principles have always been part of our corporate culture, and since signing with the UNGC we have reinforced their application across our footprint building a structure that will have a sustainable impact for years to come. In our latest Communication on Progress, we describe the results of initiatives already in place as well as the proactive actions taken since making our initial pledge. We have already engaged in a variety of initiatives in support of the strategy we laid out when signing with the UNGC. I would also like to take this time to reconfirm our commitment to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Etisalat will continue to value the guidance and leadership of the UNGC, and looks forward to vigorously pursuing action in support of the organisation’s goals and values. Yours sincerely, Eng. Saleh Al Abdooli CEO Etisalat Group --The progress of Etisalat Group’s CSR initiatives is assessed and reported on yearly in Etisalat Group’s Annual Report. This report compiles all the efforts by Etisalat at the Group level as well as the execution of various initiatives by OpCos across our 17 markets. (For a link to the latest report, please refer to the end of this document) The following are some highlights of Etisalat Group’s work in the areas of CSR, Human Rights, HR, Labour, and the Environment. Corporate Social Responsibility and Human Rights As a signatory of the Global Compact, Etisalat Group is committed to using its influence to ensure compliance with generally accepted human rights articles within our value chain. Maroc Telecom, part of Etisalat Group, is also a signatory of the Global Compact (submitting its latest COP in November 2016). Etisalat Group is, therefore, proud to follow a zero-tolerance policy with regards to abuses of human rights within its value chain. Etisalat Group reserves the right to terminate business with a supplier with serious breaches of the Standards contained in this Policy and where the supplier consistently fails to take corrective action within an agreed timescale. Etisalat’s strategy continues to be inspired by international benchmarks set by the International Standards Organisation (ISO 26000) and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Additionally, Etisalat is a signatory of the GSMA Humanitarian Charter, which is an industry-led initiative to support communities impacted by natural disasters. CSR in 2016 Technology is a force for social good, driving up access to vital services, such as education and health that can uplift communities. Through technology people can be more informed about the world around them and receive services that previously were denied to them. Mobile technologies also have a beneficial environmental impact in reducing energy consumption and carbon emissions. And the impact will only increase as technology becomes more efficient, more connected and more present in our lives. Etisalat remains committed to being a responsible corporate citizen. With technology as an enabler of progress, we have a role to play in supporting and empowering local communities, and are humbled by every request we receive to assist. Across our international footprint, we work with a great variety of partners to pursue projects and initiatives, which are relevant in the countries where we operate. Etisalat is proud to be a partner and honoured to be invited to participate in such projects, which help transform peoples’ lives. As technology is a driver for progress, a central pillar of Etisalat’s strategy is how we can use our technical expertise for good. The focus of our CSR activity is in three main areas: Education, Health and the Environment. A prime example of how our approach comes together is the Drones 4 Good initiative, which was the recipient of a prestigious Global Mobile Award (GLOMO) in 2016. Etisalat is using the latest technology and expertise to countries exposed to polio, an infectious disease that particularly affects young children. Every child must be vaccinated against polio, including those living in the most remote and isolated places in the world. The vaccinations have to be kept frozen, so getting them to such remote places is a significant challenge. In Nigeria, Pakistan, and Afghanistan, Etisalat has deployed special purpose drones designed to transport polio vaccine to the most remote locations, recharging cold boxes and drone batteries at the GSM Base Stations while ensuring temperature control and flight route management through GSM and Satellite networks. By expertly aggregating all the data from both the drones and the immunization teams, Etisalat maps polio risk areas and tracks routes covered by the immunisation teams. Geo-mapping has helped achieve the successful immunisation of at least 85 percent of the child population in the mapped risk areas with multiple immunisation teams trained and deployed. The service has been introduced in close cooperation with the Sheikh Zayed Military Hospital, UN Afghanistan, Saudi Aramco, Shell Nigeria, UNICEF and WHO. Across its international footprint, Etisalat’s operating companies undertake a variety of CSR initiatives, appropriate to local cultural and social circumstances. In the UAE in 2016, Etisalat supported a number of projects focused on health and education. As part of our support for the Thalassemia Centre at Latifa Hospital (which is the only centre in the Arabian Gulf to treat such diseases), Etisalat provided free of cost ‘life time’ E-life connection to entertain patients while they await their treatments. Through our partnership with Sharjah Media Foundation, Etisalat supported patients in need of special treatment as part of the ‘Pain and Hope’ programme. In the UAE Etisalat has also supported efforts to tackle cancer. We work with the cancer patient society – ‘Rahma’ – to support patients and their families and developed cancer awareness videos in collaboration with Abu Dhabi Health Authority and Al Jalila Foundation, which were posted on Etisalat’s social media channels. Etisalat UAE was equally active in supporting education initiative in 2016. In the UAE 2016 was declared the ‘Year of Reading’ and Etisalat supported this through the distribution of books, toys and school kits to a variety of schools across the country, participated in books fairs (both in the UAE and internationally) and was the sponsor of the ‘Etisalat Awards for Arabic Children’s Literature’. Etisalat also supported the UAE’s ‘Reading Nation’, which aimed to distribute 5 million books to refugee and underprivileged children. As part of its support, Etisalat sent out 25 million push and pulls SMSs, as well as hosting an auction of special mobile phone numbers. In partnership with ‘Dubai Cares’, Etisalat sent SMS to 2 million customers to raise awareness for the annual walk for education. Etisalat also collaborated with E-SAFE, a UAE based non-profit organisation, on a video to promote responsible internet use and to protect children from online risks. 2016 was also a special year for people with disabilities. As part of its partnership with the UAE Disabled Sports Federation, Etisalat is the official sponsor of the UAE Special Olympics team, which this year participated in the Paralympics in Rio, Brazil. The team’s performance was rewarded with seven medals. In addition, Etisalat introduced its Freedom Plan for people with disabilities, which provides a range of discounts, offers and other benefits to the people with disabilities, and printed brochures about disability issues, which have been distributed to schools and other organisations to educate and raise awareness about such an important issue. Education, health and the environment were also highlighted in the work across our operating companies in 2016. The Maroc Telecom Group continues to support the integration of information and communication technologies (ICTs) in education, both in learning and in the delivery of educational content. The company is deeply involved with the authorities in the implementation of programmes promoting the use of ICT in schools and universities. In the third phase of the ‘Génie’ programme started in 2016, Maroc Telecom has provided equipment to more than 3,200 schools, bringing ADSL Internet access and a filtering solution to protect students from sensitive content on the Internet. Maroc Telecom has already connected 1,300 schools during the first and second phases of ‘Génie’. Since the launch of the ‘Injaz’ program, 76,000 students have benefited from mobile broadband Internet access, and access the latest generation laptops and tablets, at affordable prices. Whilst through the ‘Nafida@’ programme, almost 230,000 teachers are equipped with internet connections at attractive prices. Etisalat Misr is in the process of establishing its foundation to focus driving sustainable long-term CSR initiatives and activities for the benefit of Egyptian society. Meanwhile, in 2016, Etisalat partnered with the National Telecommunication Regulatory and National Telecommunication Institute under the capacity of the Ministry of Telecommunications to provide on ground training for 21 communication post graduate engineers. Etisalat Misr also undertook an internship program for 60 students from Egyptian universities. In Egypt, in 2012, Etisalat Misr partnered with the UNICEF for a project called: ‘Raising Healthy Children with Safe Households Water Supply’. This project is within the framework of Etisalat’s initiative Water is the origin of Life , which was adopted from Etisalat’s first day in the Egyptian market. The initiative is known as the ‘Origin Programme’ It is a long-term project, one with four main components: providing access to safe drinking water, water purification, irrigation water interventions, and treating renal failure disease. Access to clean water is a major strategic challenge for Egyptian society, and is essential for everyday living and health. Through this initiative the most marginalized children and their families have a chance to get their basic needs for safe water met and enjoy better health, hygiene, and opportunities to fulfill their potential. Origin’s initial target was to benefit 5,000 community members, in its first phase, in Qena Governorate, one of the most deprived Governorates in Upper Egypt, where many households still lack direct connection to the water distribution system. This is an ongoing project, which, so far, has benefited the daily lives of half a million people. The ultimate goal is to provide safe drinking water nationally. In Pakistan, PTCL’s Management Associate Program (MAP) has seen 400 talented young graduates experience work in the company and receive training to prepare them to succeed in their future careers. PTCL also goes out into universities, providing on-campus sessions at which senior PTCL executives share their professional experiences and provide career advice to students. Throughout 2016, PTCL set up special medical camps for under-privileged segments of society in rural areas, as well as in educational institutes that cater to children with special needs. This included a ‘Mega Mobile Medical Camp’, which provided free screening of Hepatitis B and C, and vaccinations for Hepatitis B. The company also arranges free-of-cost medical checkups, offering free blood sugar and cholesterol testing, along with complimentary medicines for deserving patients and small gift hampers for children treated in the medical camps. PTCL has also conducted Health Awareness Sessions through a total of 452 mobile medical units and health awareness activities conducted in far flung areas in Pakistan, benefiting around 30,000 patients. Etisalat Sri Lanka continued its ‘DenethakataSenahasak’ (Caring for Your Eyes) campaign in 2016. In partnership with the UAE’s Ministry of Health, UAE Vision 2020 programme, and ‘So Others May See’ (SOMS), an independent NGO working on vision-related projects in Sri Lanka, the campaign has seen over 78,000 school children from almost 100 schools screened for vision impairments, with around 900 students benefitting from receiving custom-made prescription spectacles. Etisalat Nigeria’s flagship Etisalat Telecommunications Engineering Postgraduate Programme (ETEPP) continues to provide Nigerian youth with the opportunity to get first-rate training in the area of Telecommunications Engineering. Its M.Sc. in Telecommunications Engineering Programme is a first in the country and is supported by Etisalat Academy. Since its launch in 2013, the programme has led to more than 60 young professionals trained and certified. In addition, through a tertiary scholarship scheme, over 1,400 students have been given the opportunity to secure grants to be used for furthering their education. While in 2016 Etisalat also partnered with Global Shapers (a World Economic Forum affiliate in Nigeria) to conceive and deploy a Community Schools Support Programme (CSSP) to promote enrolment and attendance in schools in the areas worst affected by conflict. Through the CSSP, 1,000 pupils returned to school, through the provision of uniforms, books, school bags and writing utensils. Heath-related initiatives in 2016 included, Etisalat Nigeria launching an initiative to fight malaria. As part of this initiative, Etisalat matched each staff purchase of insecticide-treated nets. The ‘Give a Net save a Life’ campaign was successf in controlling malaria, as well as increasing staff participation. In addition, Etisalat Fight Malaria clubs were launched in Lagos and Cross River. The Malaria clubs are in primary, secondary and tertiary educational institutions; and are designed to equip youth with information and tips on preventing the malaria scourge through computer equipment, also provided by Etisalat. Etisalat Nigeria also formed a strategic partnership with state governments to reduce maternal and infant mortality. In a dual, Etisalat provided high-end configured tablets for field data collection by health workers and distributed over 200 maternal birth kits (MAMA™ kits) to vulnerable women across key communities. In August 2016 Etisalat Nigeria deployed a Community Skills Set Programme, which empowered over 100 local entrepreneurs. After intensive training, the selected entrepreneurs were given start-up equipment for the setting up of community-based enterprises. The entrepreneurs set up 100 enterprises across 20 communities cutting across the four states of Rivers, Bayelsa, Edo and Ebonyi. This programme is helping to reduce unemployment and create avenues for wealth creation at the community level. These are expected to trickle down to even more inhabitants of these communities; increasing their purchasing power and offering more employment spaces as the enterprises mature over time. Etisalat companies have also supported local communities at times of emergency. In 2016 in Sri Lanka thousands were hit by flooding. Etisalat Sri Lanka took the initiative to provide free reloads for pre-paid customers and increased the credit limit for postpaid customers who have been affected by the natural disaster that has hit during May. More than 400,000 people were heavily affected by the flooding, with almost 300,000 people living in refugee camps. It was crucial that they were able to communicate with their family members. One main issue faced is obtaining reloads and recharge cards in flood effected areas. Therefore, Etisalat opened up a toll free number for victims to call and obtain free credit for 10 minutes of talk time to any Etisalat number and 5 minutes talk time to other networks free of charge. Further, Etisalat customers were able to gift credit from their Etisalat wallet to a friend who was affected. Due to the civil unrest faced by Nigerians in recent times, the country has a high number of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) who are forced to live under very difficult conditions. In order to ameliorate their living conditions, in 2016 Etisalat Nigeria donated ten thousand mattresses to affected Nigerians, along with foodstuffs, clothes and other useful household items to the IDPs. Environmentalism Green ICT is a core component of Etisalat’s business strategy and commercial portfolio and has been for many years. The company values and nurtures the energy and dynamism needed to achieve the very best, striving for excellence in building a sustained environment for the future. Etisalat is committed to provide telecommunications and broadband services in a manner that strikes a balance between economic, social and environmental needs. It will minimize the environmental footprint (water, energy, waste and greenhouse emissions) of its operations by pursuing environmentally sustainable practices in our technical, commercial, managerial and administrative activities and services. Etisalat fully appreciates the additional value that is created by reducing costs and creating new revenues based on the principles of eco-efficiency, internal carbon management and reduction of energy consumption. It also provides its customers with green and low carbon services to help promote an environmentally sustainable economy. In telecoms, the core environmental concern is the network which must be managed for its waste output, energy consumption (diesel and electricity) as well as the visual impact it has on the environment. Due to the large scale deployment of networks, a standardised approach is required. In 2010 Etisalat began the journey of implementing a Global Environmental Management System based on the principles of ISO 14001. This sets guidelines for the management of Group companies to ensure a consistent approach to network deployment, and facility management. Etisalat is in the process of generalising best practices across all countries and adopting eco-efficient criteria. Etisalat’s investment in next generation broadband infrastructure is also helping reduce consumption and emissions. In its own studies, the deployment of fibre optics has helped reduce power consumption by 70% and emissions by 80%. Etisalat expects more improvements from the deployment of even more efficient 4G networks. The UAE has consistently been a leader in fibre connectivity with over 90 percent of the country’s populated areas covered by fibre-to-the-home (FTTH) network. The UAE’s achievement as one of the top nations in rolling out the next generation network reaffirms its commitment to accelerate ICT adoption for a digitally enabled future. In the FTTH Council’s Global Panorama FTTH report 2016, the UAE was listed as the second most fibre-connected country in the world and first in the MENA region. Maroc Telecom has chosen to adopt world-renowned sustainable development standards to measure, promote and build on its performance. The company has held The CSR label of CGEM (Moroccan General Confederation of Companies) since 2014, demonstrating the compliance of its commitment and its continuous progress with regard to the universal principles of social responsibility and sustainable development. The label recognizes the commitment of companies to CSR and its integration into their strategy and day-to-day operations. The charter meets Moroccan legal requirements, is in line with the directives of ISO 26000 and with the standards, agreements, and recommendations of such international organizations (UN, ILO, and OECD). Maroc Telecom continues to focus on optimising the environmental footprint of its activities. In line with its environmental policy, ongoing actions concern the use of renewable energies, the installation of free cooling equipment within the technical sites, reducing electricity consumption by 70 per cent, the installation of the most economic technologies (Single RAN) and promoting dematerialization. Maroc Telecom is also involved in the Voluntary Carbon Offsetting Program, run by the Mohammed VI Foundation for Environmental Protection, and is continuing its work for the Clean Beaches program, set up by the same Foundation. After rehabilitating it in 2002-2003 — under an initiative of the Mohammed VI Foundation for Environmental Protection — Maroc Telecom maintains one of the oldest gardens in Marrakech, ArsatMoulayAbdeslam, dating back to the 18th century and covering 9 hectares. In 2016, Maroc Telecom introduced several measures in ArsatMoulayAbdeslam improving its environmental management, such as drip irrigation system, solar energy, and the recycling of vegetable waste. Renovations have also been made to improve access to the park and its various spaces for persons with reduced mobility. The park, renovated without altering its natural and historical character in any way, today combines nature and new technologies in harmony. Initiatives by Etisalat Nigeria resulted in ISO 14001:2004 certification for Quality Management Systems – the first Nigerian telecom operator to be certified to this global standard. In collaboration with Government agencies, such as the National Environment Standard and Regulations Enforcement Agency and Federal Ministry of Environment, Etisalat initiated seminars and lectures timed around World Environment Day, and centred on the negative impact of climate change and driving environmental awareness. Other environmental initiatives introduced in 2016 by Etisalat Nigeria include: Etisalat Take Back Policy, operated with manufacturers and vendors of equipment which become electronic or hazardous waste at end of life for recycling; Etisalat Waste Reduction Program to reduce the quantities of paper used and waste generated from paper (resulting in a 350% reduction per annum in paper purchase); and Environmental Management Program with targets to reduce gaseous emission, noise, soil and water pollution through monitoring of facilities and sites. This has resulted in a zero record of fines, and significant reduction in community complaints from environmental issues. While in Pakistan, PTCL organized a drive in which more than 3,000 saplings were planted across different offices and buildings, and the company also collaborated with local authorities and participated in the Monsoon Tree Plantation Campaign. Human Resources and Labour We believe Etisalat’s ability to nurture talent at all levels across all its countries has been the determining factor in growing its business sustainably, and pursuing its goal to become the leading and most admired telecom group in the markets we operate in. Being responsible for our employees means building a company that understands and lives its values and nurturing a motivational culture is essential to how we do business. To do this, Etisalat Group is attentive to the expectations and needs of all its employees. Etisalat is committed to providing challenging opportunities to all as this is at the heart of its development strategy along with strong social goals e.g. to be among the preferred employers in its main countries of operations. In all our markets, Etisalat Group extends great efforts to ensure an open and constructive dialogue between all stakeholders including Trade Unions wherever possible. We conduct global engagement surveys and internal customer surveys every year. This is followed up with discussions across all levels of employees to develop action plans and make effective improvements wherever needed. Passion to excel drives Etisalat’s people to deliver outstanding business results. Our human resources strategy enables employees to live this passion and unleash their talent, skills and capabilities. This goes with continuous investment in enhancing the capabilities of our talent pool, to drive retention and engagement. Our reward and recognition programs are benchmarked with the best practices across the world especially the Telecom sector. We take pride in having many reward programs which are recognized by the employees as a key differentiator. We also have many recognition programs to encourage employees for their contribution beyond their usual duty. Etisalat is therefore a sought after employer brand in its countries of operation. With almost 90 different nationalities across our footprint, we truly embrace diversity. We welcome the energy, creativity, and innovation of our people when they apply their different perspectives, competencies, and skills to address common business challenges. We promote equal employment and growth opportunities for talented people of different genders, origins, and work experiences. This is one of our notable responsibilities to the society in each of our markets. Our diverse workforce reflects our values but is also a source of competitive advantage to our business, because our employees are truly representative of the different communities in which we operate and the different customer segments with whom we interact. Etisalat also supports those with special needs or who experience other difficulties entering the labor market or reaching business opportunities in different areas. Our Talent Acquisition teams focus on ensuring that we have best-in-class specialists, able to set the agenda and govern the operations within their areas of expertise. Talent Acquisition teams across our footprint now work in tandem with our strategic sourcing capability building and receive regular tactical support through various social media tools. We continue to develop our International Assignment program to be more effective and forge stronger links between Talent Acquisition, Global Mobility, Succession, and Talent Management. There has been a greater collaborative focus on career planning and management. The Global Mobility of our assignees is an important pillar of our Talent Management approach and is seen as a valuable tool to deploy, develop and retain top talent. Our HiPo program targeting High Potentials employees to develop their leadership skills was an outstanding success with the graduation of participating employees. A new cohort will be introduced soon. Human resources are the foundation of any process of development and evolution. It is the real wealth of any corporation looking to grow, while preserving their distinctive competences. In line with this concept, Etisalat offers its employees all the necessary incentives and benefits allowing them to contribute to the country’s continuous success and development. The Talent Management team actively supports driving the digital future through strategic learning in futuristic technology and shaping the talent landscape by continuously identifying critical talent for new technology. Why Digital? Because this is what will drive our society tomorrow and being digitally able will further help developing customer centric products and services. It’s also an opportunity for employees to maintain the highest and most up-to-date skill levels. The evidence of continuous investment in learning is seen in World Class Learning Academies fully owned and operated in the UAE and Morocco for instance. We have continuously focused on operational excellence, which aims at ensuring an effective and efficient business management model. Two measures help monitor our operational excellence; the productivity index and the performance indicator. The productivity index measures operational efficiency such as customers per employee, revenue per employee and staff cost ratios. The performance indicator reflects prompt and efficient managerial action in instances of staff level reductions, HR policy changes and the outsourcing of non-core activities. The reviewed Performance Management System strongly contributed to align senior executives and employee objectives with the goals and aspirations of the Group’s corporate strategy. It bridged performance and associated rewards in a consistent and coherent approach in all the operations. Despite some challenging environments, we ensure good protection and safety of all our employees. Beyond safety, we truly care about our people’s health by offering good protection and promoting better living habits; from HSE (Health, Safety and Environment) training sessions and committees to prevent risks, to a wide variety of events that raise health awareness and encourage staff to adopt a healthier life style. In all our operations, HR teams are dedicated to quality and excellence. We successfully completed our sixth annual Global HR Excellence program, achieving even higher milestones. The average Excellence level has soared by 15% globally, with all participating countries having improved their scores! The continuous listening approach makes Etisalat nimble to sustainable improvement, act and evolve in becoming employer of choice. HR teams across all OPCOs spare no effort to keep improving people’s satisfaction and motivation. This is visible in our annual global employee engagement survey, with an increasingly high level of participation reaching 85% globally and a soaring level of satisfaction amongst all employees with more than 3 percentage points gained year-on-year. The Employee Engagement program enables Etisalat to capture employee voice that further enhance employee engagement and, by extension, business performance across the Etisalat Group. The overall positive engagement growth trend at the Group level reflects the survey has been well-received by our staff, who regard it as an excellent driver of required change and an opportunity to voice their views and opinions for the attention of management. Based on employees’ feedback, we launched a number of initiatives spanning from employees recognition, internal events and communication, new career management and development programs, flexible working hours, etc. Many social events were held across all our countries of operation. These foster cohesion and sense of belonging. Happiness at work has been and will remain to be a focus for Etisalat, Happiness is about having a holistic approach i.e. wellness of employees, flexible policies, contribution to the society and above all the supporting climate for sustainably developing a robust talent pipeline. In 2017, we will keep working on the deployment of these successful initiatives. We will also strengthen our global Succession Management program, increase collaboration across our operating countries, and strive to improve employees’ happiness. More Information: For more detailed information please refer to Etisalat Group’s 2015 Annual Report: http://etisalat.com/en/system/docs/12-4-2013/Etisalat-AnnualReport2015-English.pdf
