Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 UN Global Compact NKT wishes to protect the environment, safeguard human and labour rights, and work against corruption “NKT Cables is a natural part of tomorrow’s sustainable power supply” Letter from the CEO In an increasingly globalised and interconnected world, much depends on electrical power. In 2016 we celebrated the 125th anniversary of the NKT brand and our enduring passion for developing state-ofthe-art power cable solutions. This heritage with all that it embraces in terms of experience, knowhow and innovation constitutes a solid foundation on which to strengthen our position as a natural part of tomorrow’s sustainable power supply. Our commitment to the principles of the UN Global Compact is our basis for expanding the reach and awareness of corporate social responsibility throughout our company and among external stakeholders. We therefore also ask our major suppliers to adopt the UN Global Compact and we are happy to report a high and growing adherence. Similarly, several customers are asking for UN Global Compact compliance as a prerequisite for participating in tenders, e.g. in the offshore wind industry. In NKT Cables we aim at excellence in everything we do, as outlined in our EXCELLENCE 2020 business strategy. We are committed to demonstrating responsible and ethical behaviour with high focus on safety. As an active corporate citizen we embrace a principled approach to the way we conduct business around the world. In 2016 we updated our ethical guidelines to create a Business Code of Conduct to make sure that we are aligned with applicable requirements. Also in 2016, we continued to see progress in most of the defined focus areas for improving our sustainability footprint. Our continued participation in the UN Global Compact strengthens and energises our commitment to working ethically and responsibly while maintaining our business pledge of bringing power to life. Michael Hedegaard Lyng President and CEO, NKT Cables 2 CSR Report 2016 NKT Holding A/S 2016 KEY FIGURES COUNTRIES REPRESENTED IN EMPLOYEES REVENUE, EUR 16 2,769 1,004m NKT CABLES BUSINESS MODEL NKT Cables designs, manufactures and markets power cables for Our mission is by driving excellence to become the best power low-, mediumand high-voltage solutions. The company is the cable company by 2020 in the eyes of our customers and people. largest power cable manufacturer in Northern Europe and in the We aim to be the preferred choice of our customers and to top three across Europe. Founded in Denmark in 1891, NKT Cables create an excellent workplace where the best people build their is today a strong market presence with a state-of-the art highcareers and work with highly skilled colleagues. This ambition is voltage manufacturing facility in Cologne, Germany and a number supported by our values focused on safety, commitment, ability to of plants in other European countries. Altogether, the company is change and determination. represented in 16 countries and employs 2,769 people. In 2016, total revenue was EUR 1,0bn. NKT Cables has strong market positions across the portfolio High-voltage High-voltage Building wire, low/ Railway Accessories onshore offshore medium voltage Global leader in Global niche player High-quality supplier Acknowledge Leading player in catenary market with high-quality with uniqe products premium player the Nordics, strong with highly products and production in offshore wind position in Central innovative products capabilities market Europe NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2016 3 Compliance A global mindset based on sound values is key to our continued success. We are committed to responsible and ethical behaviour and have set up the appropriate systems to foster this in the way we conduct business around the world. In an increasingly complex regulatory environment, ensuring compliance is a fundamental challenge, and in 2016 we updated our compliance approach. The ambition is to identify and abide by applicable laws, regulations and international standards, meet stakeholder expectations and develop a strong compliance mindset throughout the organisation. BUSINESS CODE OF CONDUCT In 2016, as a key part of our compliance approach, a Business Code of Conduct was developed and implemented. This mechanism describes the fundamental principles and rules governing the way in which all employees should act, both within the company and in relation to our vendors, business partners and the general public. The principles set out in the Business Code of Conduct are designed to guide us, help us make the right decisions in internal and business-related actions, and protect us while we are at work. The Business Code of Conduct is about • Embodying the essence of how we do business • Adhering to our values and principles and striving to do the right things/making the right decisions • Providing a sense of direction and guidance • Setting standards of behaviour and never doing anything that could be misinterpreted • Considering how we do things, and how we can do them even better • Protecting our people, business and reputation The Business Code of Conduct focuses on the entire value chain how we conduct business in all parts of our organisation and includes policies within areas such as business integrity, anti-corruption, environment, energy & climate, fair competition, human & labour rights, information security, product compliance & quality, compliance handling and report misconduct. During 2016 an extensive communication and implementation package was developed and rolled out to the employees. The CEO explained in a video presentation the importance of correct business conduct and described what the Code means to the individual enterprise. Employees have confirmed their understanding of the Code and training was provided in the form of an e-Learning course culminating in a test. 4 CSR Report 2016 NKT Holding A/S CSR focus areas To ensure top-level commitment and local anchoring, the ANTI-CORRUPTION managements of all NKT Cables’ entities are obliged to sign a personal Statement of Representation based on the principles of the UN Global Compact. These individual statements are As a company, we are committed to refrain from and to consolidated and signed by the CEO of NKT Cables. oppose all forms of bribery and corruption. No employees may directly or indirectly offer, give or take money or anything Our policies, actions, goals and plans, reflecting relevant risks else of value in connection with business dealings in order to and mitigation thereof, are presented in the sections below obtain an improper advantage. for: the following topics: This is also stated in our anti-corruption policy which was been • Environment, energy & climate updated and implemented company-wide in 2016 through • Anti-corruption training and awareness activities. In line with our updated • Human & labour rights compliance approach our goals, actions and future plans have been reviewed and revised. The main risks in the NKT Cables business models are evaluated to be in the sales organization but the vast majority of our operations are in countries which are not part of the high-risk regions from a corruption point-of-view. Goals and actions 2016 Outcome Update anti-corruption policy and ensure implementation An updated anti-corruption policy covering relevant employees has been established as part of our new Business Code of Conduct. An extensive company-wide implementation programme has been conducted and employees have been trained in our overall anti-corruption approach Future plans, goals and actions Targets 2017 and beyond Develop and implement an extended anti-corruption All employees who are exposed to corruption risks to be further programme targeting high-risk business areas/employees trained and equipped to handle risk situations Minimise the risk of direct or indirect participation in Review and update our third-party compliance processes in corruption relation to anti-corruption NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2016 5 ENVIRONMENT, ENERGY & CLIMATE CO2 emission in 2016 Scope 3 other indirect Scope 1 direct emission from NKT Cables is committed to working for a sound environment, emission (transportation combustion of fossil fuels including energy and climate, through sustainable business of finished goods, business flights) 13% 14% practices. We will strive to reduce the consumption of resources and limit the emission of pollutants from our business activities. . To secure compliance and optimisation in line with our environmental policy all our production facilities operate to an ISO14001-certified environmental management system. In 74% Scope 2indirect addition, five locations have a certified energy management emission from electricity consumotion and direct system based on ISO 50001. Further development of the energy heating management system is planned for the years ahead. Improving our environmental impact NKT Cables makes a positive contribution to modern power investments and initiatives have had a good effect, especially in infrastructure, thereby enabling the shift towards a cleaner and ou plant in Falun, Sweden, but also the sites in Central Europe has more sustainable energy mix. This is a significant environmental seen a good trend. benefit. As with any industrial company, however, there are also negative environmental impacts associated with production and Copper is a natural but scarce resource, essential for today’s cable these must be continuously reduced. Identification of principal production. At NKT Cables the use of copper is optimised mainly material effects is carried out according to ISO 14001. through continuous improvement of production processes based on lean manufacturing principles. These initiatives have delivered NKT Cables strives to reduce CO2 emissions as a part of its significant improvements leading to a material utilisation factor of environmental policy. CO2 emission is a principal environmental 96.8% in 2016, outperforming the defined goal by 1%-points. Scope 3 impact area and primarily derives from electricity consumption Scope 2 in the production process and from the combustion of fuel for In 2017, focus will continue on further improvements in principal transport and heating. In 2016, reduced emissions were recorded environmental impact areas, namely CO2 emissions,Scope water1 primarily due to lower levels of factory activity consumption and material efficiency. Furthermore, to intensify our efforts to initiate and execute environmental efficiency projects Water consumption is another focal environmental factor. we will establish an Environmental Council consisting of key Water consumption in 2016 amounted to 93,722m3, a reduction people from the company. of 15% compared to the year before. The primary source of water consumption is the cooling system circuits. A number of 6 CSR Report 2016 NKT Holding A/S Goals and actions 2016 Outcome Reduce natural gas consumption by 260 MWh (-1%) compared Total natural gas consumption increased by 7%, mainly as a result with 2015. of adverse winter weather. Reduce power consumption by 500 MWh (-0.4%) compared Total power consumption decreased by 0.5% mainly as a result of with 2015. local saving initiatives and lower production levels. Material utilisation reached 96.8%, an improvement of 1%-points. Increase material utilisation by 0.2%-points annually. Important drivers for this was the introduction of LEAN manufacturing techniques as well as waste reduction efforts. Future plans, goals and actions Targets 2017 Improve total energy efficiency in kWh/tonne by 2% compared 597kWh/tonne to 2016. Reduce water consumption by 2% compared to 2016. 91,847 m3 Increase material utilisation by 0.2%-points annually. 97% Establish an Environmental Council to accelerate efficiency efforts. Operational before 31 December THE NKT CABLES RECYCLING CENTER The NKT Cables recycling center in Stenlille, Denmark is unique Tonnes Tonnes in our industry. The facility each year processes tonnes of cables recycled recycled scrap emanating from our own factories as well as from our copper aluminium customers. Amounts have increased steadily over the years, reflecting society’s increased focus on re-use of scarce resources. 562,8 392,7 STENLILLE AT GLANCE Amounts in tonnes 2016 Total weight of processed cables 1615,2 Total weight of processed cables (from external 91,9 customers) Recycled copper 562,8 Recycled aluminium 392,7 Recycled PEX 187,0 Recycled PVC 84,3 Recycled Halogen-free-flame retardants 45,1 NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2016 7 HUMAN & LABOUR RIGHTS strengthen its leadership culture, with more focus on feedback and dialogue in daily management. A dedicated programme will A safe and healthy working environment is a top priority in our be launched in 2017. The next survey is scheduled for mid-2017. company. We respect the integrity of all employees and always strive to treat one another with respect and decency. We respect Reporting according to the UK Modern Slavery act data privacy regulations and ensure that employees receive As stated in our human & labour rights policy it is clear that we do adequate job training. not accept any form of forced labour, including bonded labour, indentured labour, slave labour, or human trafficking. Also we To live up to our policy, appropriate systems and structures have condone the hiring of child labour. been set up with improvement goals and actions in key areas as outlined below. In the NKT cables business model, one of the key Employees are committed to continuously identifying and mitigating risks to manage relates to our ambition of a high safety level. potential violations even though that due to the countries in which we mainly operate and the nature of our production the risk of Safety first forced labour and child labour is not considered material. One of our core values is ‘safety first’. We want our employees and contractors to return home safely. Around this principle we Business partners are expected to comply with the principles set continuously build robust management processes, combined out in our Business Code of Conduct and we conduct relevant with the introduction of uniform, high safety standards. In 2016, a due diligences processes in merger and acquisition processes. new programme, ‘HSE Regulatory Compliance’ was implemented. In 2016, we furthermore extended our whistleblower system to 84% 93% incorporate external stakeholders to increase the efforts to detect Just as important as the formal rules and standards is the any breach of proper business behaviour. nurturing of a safety culture characterised by high risk awareness and constant search for hazard elimination. A special programme Diversity has been set up for identification and elimination of hazards, NKT Cables is committed through its policies to promoting resulting in the removal of 9,649 unsafe situations and behaviours diversity, and firmly believes that an impartial approach in over a three-year period. Together with comprehensive efforts terms of age, gender, nationality and culture provides the best from management, this has improved workplace conditions and possibilities for developing competencies and talents in the the safety culture significantly company. In a traditionally male-dominated industry, the main area for improvement is to achieve a more balanced gender We have registered substantial progress in reducing work composition at all organisational levels. A key action in 2016 was accidents over recent years, but we plan to go even further with to communicate these principles clearly to the organization as view to becoming the best in our industry. Over a three-year part of our code of Conduct training. period, the number of accidents has declined 28%, including a decrease of 17% in 2016. Gender composition Furthermore, to optimise our HSE efforts the relevant organisation has been redesigned and the new setup is expected to be finalised 93% 89% 84% in 2017. The goal is for each site to have at least one specialist fully dedicated to the supervision and improvement of HSE processes. Engaged and committed people The performance of our employees is vital for our success 16% 11% 7% and is intimately linked to job satisfaction. As part of our EXCELLENCE 2020 strategy, a significant increase in job satisfaction All Department Executive managers management was therefore defined as a key target and an ambitious goal Female Male of reaching a trust index of more than 80% (above industry standards) was set. The last survey, conducted in 2016, showed an improvement from 38% in 2015 to 46% in the year under review. Our top management level consists of a total of 42 persons NKT Cables is currently focusing on development initiatives to comprising 8 nationalities. The age distribution is fairly even but the majority are within the 40-55 age group. 8 CSR Report 2016 NKT Holding A/S Gender composition Goals and actions 2016 Outcome Reduce the number of unsafe situations and behaviours by more than 2907 2,499 Improve frequency of Lost Time Accidents to < 5.8 accidents per million working hours 5.8 Reduce number of Lost Time Accidents to < 25 29 Reduce number of Accidents without work absence to <80 75 Annual increase in employee trust index towards > 80% by 2020 +8%-points Future plans, goals and actions Target 2017 + Reduce the number of unsafe situations and behaviours > 2,300 Reduce the Lost Time Accidents Rate by 30% compared with 2016 0,77* Reduce the Lost Time Accidents Severity rate by 9% compared with 2016 29 Annual improvement in employee trust index to > 80% by 2020 > 46% *corresponding to 4.3 accidents per million working hours NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2016 9 VENDORS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS WHISTLEBLOWER HOTLINE NKT Cables expects its major vendors and business partners In 2016 we expanded our whistleblower system to enable acting on behalf of or in co-operation with the company to unethical behavior also to be reported by external stakeholders. comply with the principles of the UN Global Compact. We also made our whistleblower hotline policy a part of the Business Code of Conduct, which among other initiatives, has The company regularly tracks the development in supplier been implemented via an eLearning course and awareness adherence and have seen an increase in acceptance of the UN campaigns supporting the opportunity out speak out.. Global Compact, to 90%. We will continue to work for further improvement through continuous dialogue with vendors and business partners. Goals and actions 2016 Outcome Increase number of suppliers (with procurement value > EUR 50,000) adopting the UN Global 90% Compact principles to more than 90% Future plans, goals and actions Target 2017+ Increase number of suppliers (with procurement value > EUR 50,000) adopting the UN Global 95% Compact principles. 10 CSR Report 2016 NKT Holding A/S A stable cable network is essential in today's society Photos: Courtesy of nkt cables. Copyright: NKT, February 2017 nkt cables Düsseldorfer Strasse 400 Chempark 51061 Cologne Germany Tel: +49 221 676 0 info@nktcables.com www.nktcables.com Member of the NKT Group
