Hubbing at Your Service STARHUB LTD Annual Report 2016 Hi, WE ARE Hubbers :) HERE 24/7! How can I help you? StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 1 What’s Inside Hubbing Corporate Profile As an integrated Overview Overview at Your info-communications Key Figures 02 StarHub is Singapore’s company, we can create Service value when we integrate The Group Today 03 fully-integrated 5-Year Financial Highlights 04 info-communications our relationships with In an increasingly competitive landscape, all stakeholders. StarHub remains committed to investing company, offering For more details, go to a full range Strategy Strategy in service innovation and excellence. page 20 By enhancing customer service initiatives of information, Chairman’s Message 14 Enhancing the Customer Experience 18 across multiple touch points, including communications Value Creation 20 digital, homes, offices and in-store, we and entertainment Board of Directors 22 continue to strengthen our value proposition services for both In Discussion with StarHub’s Management 28 through a seamless customer experience. consumer and Performance Senior Management’s Profile 36 corporate markets. Our ability to excel in service is a competitive advantage for our business and differentiates Vision our brand. It helps us attract and retain customers from all market segments and also To be Singapore’s serves to engage and motivate our people. Governance first choice From our customers, our employees, our for information, business partners to our investors, StarHub communications Mobility Entertainment & SmartLife Enterprise Fixed remains dedicated to serving your needs. and entertainment services. Singapore’s mobile penetration Technology has brought Serving the enterprise rate remains high and the opportunities for StarHub customer involves investments in popularity of smart devices to deliver more seamless infrastructure, building trust and a Sustainability continues to drive mobile data experiences to our customers. focus on the customer’s business. Mission usage upwards. For more details, go to For more details, go to For more details, go to page 44 page 50 page 40 To provide every person, home and business in Singapore Performance Financials Others Financials with world-class Hubbing in Review Financial Statements 2016 129 Interested Person multimedia services Transactions 203 – Mobility 40 Directors’ Statement 130 and content. – Entertainment & SmartLife 44 Shareholding Information 204 Independent Auditors’ Report 140 – Enterprise Fixed 50 Statements of Notice of Annual Financial Position 147 General Meeting 206 Core Values Corporate Information 210 Income Statement 148 ExCITe: Governance Statement of Proxy Form Corporate Governance 54 Comprehensive Income 149 Excellence, Directors’ Particulars 77 Statements of Creativity, Changes in Equity 150 Awards and Industry Honours 79 Integrity, Consolidated Cash Flow Investor Relations 80 Teamwork. Risk Management 82 Statement 154 Notes to the View our Sustainability Financial Statements 155 Report Online Sustainability Report 86 Group Financial Review 124 2016 Annual Report Go green and help reduce carbon footprints. Download via our StarHub Annual Report app. Or visit www.starhub.com/ir 2 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 3 Key Figures The Group Today The Group’s total revenue of $2.40 billion was 1.9% lower Mobile Overview Dividend Cumulative Total Market Capitalisation Shareholders’ Return YoY, attributed to lower revenues from sales of equipment FY2016 Since FY2005 2016 and services. Service revenue was 0.3% lower YoY. Broadband -2.0% YoY 2016 $1.21b revenue recorded the highest revenue growth YoY at 8.2%. tiered plan mix From 2013’s $1.24b CAGR: +122% +108% Mobile Pay TV Broadband -0.8% Tiered Non-tiered 68% 32% 20¢ An increase from 394% $4.9b An increase from 51% 16% 9% FY2005 of 9c 2004 of $2.3b Total Pay TV Revenue Enterprise Sales of Fixed Equipment -3.4% YoY 2016 17% 8% $378m channel mix * % may not add up due to rounding. From 2013’s $386m CAGR: HD 57% -0.7% SD 43% StarHub Share Price Performance Against STI Index From 2006 – 2016 STI StarHub (Points) ($) Broadband 4,000 STI 2,986 STI 2,881 5 +8.2% YoY 2016 $217m high speed plan mix From 2013’s $242m 4 3,000 CAGR: > 100Mbps 93% -3.6% < 100Mbps 7% 3 2,000 Enterprise Fixed 2 +3.9% YoY 2016 $400m revenue 1,000 StarHub StarHub mix 2.63 2.81 1 From 2013’s $368m CAGR: Data & Internet 87% 0 Dec 2006 Dec 2016 0 2.8% Voice 13% 4 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 5 5-Year Financial Highlights Revenue Earnings EBITDA Margin Overview Per Share (EPS) on Service Revenue -1.9% YoY -8.2% YoY -1.0% pts YoY $2,397m 19.7¢ 31% Revenue Total revenue was $47.6 million or Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing EBITDA amounted to $690.1 million or $m 1.9% lower YoY, attributed to lower the Group’s profit attributable to 31.2% of service revenue for FY2016. revenues from sales of equipment and services. $m equity holders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares*. cents % Mobile 2.31m Customers 1,234 1,243 1,248 1,240 1,215 2012 2,434 2012 21.4 2012 33 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2,370 2013 22.0 2013 33 2014 2,387 2014 21.4 2014 34 Revenue $m 498k 2015 2,444 2015 21.4 2015 32 396 386 390 391 378 Pay TV 2016 2,397 2016 19.7 2016 31 Households * Excluding treasury shares. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Hubbing Households Revenue $m Single Service Household Double Service Household Triple Service Household +3.2% YoY +10,000 -3.2% YoY -7,000 -4.1% YoY -10,000 Broadband 473k Customers 251 242 202 200 217 ‘000 ‘000 ‘000 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 337 2012 232 2012 214 2013 327 2013 219 2013 227 Revenue $m $400m 2014 313 2014 219 2014 242 Enterprise 358 368 378 385 400 2015 312 2015 217 2015 245 Fixed Revenue 2016 322 2016 210 2016 235 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 6 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 7 We have a system that does both sales and service. Now sales interactions can be executed anywhere on the shop floor using tablet apps. Chai Juan Wei Senior Consultant From INSPIRING To INVOLVING We have empowered our retail staff to provide personalised offerings to our customers. With tools that combine service delivery and sales into one seamless system, when any customer walks into a store, we can understand their needs better and faster. Moving closer to our customers through tablet devices helps our people interact directly and increases productivity at the same time. AT YOUR SERVICE. Over 270hrs Over 35 of Training Our retail staff are equipped with more than product knowledge, they are also trained to ensure end-to-end seamless fulfillment capabilities. Retail Outlets 8 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 9 We have an e-Butler tool that fetches relevant information from various sources to enable us to resolve customers’ concerns promptly during the call. Jen Hong Process and Communications Executive From INVOLVING To ENGAGING Engaging our customers means understanding both their individual needs and their needs as a household. This enables us to offer rewards to other members in their family. While we continue to enhance our hotline services, we are also working towards every StarHub employee being involved and being responsive in engaging our customers. AT YOUR CONVENIENCE. Over Call Centre handles over 520 11,000 Customer Service Staff Our call centres are equipped with more than just technical calls everyday knowledge, they have specialised tools to address customers’ concerns promptly. 10 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 11 We aim to evolve along with our customers’ lifestyle needs and offer relevant services. Elias Khan Senior Analyst From ENGAGING To SECURING Today, our stores have a Hub Trooper consultation corner and you can find our Hub Troopers in homes all over the nation. This enables us to understand some of the issues our customers face when, for instance, moving from their previous home to their new fibre-connected home. We are able to anticipate these kinds of issues and secure the trust and loyalty of our customers. DELIGHTING YOU. Over Seamless Engagements Our Hub Troopers are equipped with tablets which remove manual work orders for 225 Hub Troopers fulfillment. Post visits, work orders are closed in real-time so that staff at other touch on the move points have visibility. 12 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 13 We are committed to leveraging our scale to derive greater synergies and serve our customers better. From SECURING Nicolas Bureau eCommerce & Online Lead To DELIGHTING The StarHub Business Partners community is an extended sales force to provide better reach to our customers, including the micro businesses in the heartlands. With more than 140 business partners, we are able to leverage on the wide network to listen to customers’ feedback and serve them better. AN EYE FOR DETAIL. Improved Over Net Promoter 140 Score Combining our partners’ diversified skills and our wide range of offerings, we provide a Business Partners complete set of info-communications technology solutions. 14 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 15 Chairman’s Message We are undergoing We will stay focused on delivering reliable services, ensuring our own digital competitive levels of network performance, and offering good value. transformation which will enable Operating Revenue Dear Shareholders, Sustainability Reporting StarHub celebrated its 16th anniversary Under proposed changes to SGX listing us to offer a wider range of services with improved $2.40b in 2016. Our 16-year journey has been sometimes very challenging, but always rules, companies are moving from voluntarily reporting their sustainability performance, Strategy exciting. The pace of technological towards a more progressive ’comply or economics, and changes impacting the industry continues explain’ basis. We are pleased to note engage with Net Profit to accelerate. Likewise, customers’ needs StarHub is an early adopter of voluntary customers in ways have changed dramatically over those years. sustainability reporting. that are more meaningful to them. $341.4m Looking ahead, we do not see that rapid pace of change letting up. As our industry This is our sixth annual report that contains an in-depth description of our environmental, Steven Terrell Clontz continues to adapt to the change, legacy social and governance performance. Chairman networks and services will always face new forms of competition. We take sustainability seriously, and are proud to communicate our performance The digital economy tends to not respect to all stakeholders, including customers, traditional boundaries, and can deliver new employees, partners, regulators, suppliers, services with a fraction of the investment and of course our shareholders. that used to be required. Life cycles are shorter, which in itself is a sobering matter StarHub has been recognised on the global for companies like StarHub who must take stage for our sustainability performance. In long-term views when investing in their 2016, we elevated our ranking on the annual Recap networks. Indeed, almost every industry and every company is being impacted. Corporate Knights’ Global 100 list to the 8th spot. This is a big leap from being ranked 66th 2016 At StarHub, we have always been quick to in 2013. The list is a ranking of the world’s 100 most sustainable companies with a market A summary of the progress embrace new technologies. In fact, we are value of US$2 billion and above. and events in 2016. undergoing our own digital transformation which will enable us to offer a wider range Our management team of services with improved economics, and is executing strategies engage with customers in ways that are and operating plans more meaningful to them. This will allow to meet challenges us to better compete with emerging and exploit new non-traditional competitors. It also requires opportunities. us to re-think how we deploy our vast For more details, go to page 28 network assets in a more efficient manner. Service Revenue Mix Service Revenue Contribution With greater number But no matter what new technology arrives, $m of apps, as more users we know how important it is to stay focused share multi-media on certain fundamentals – delivering reliable 1,215 content, network services, ensuring competitive levels of Mobile quality is key to 1,240 network performance, and offering good customer satisfaction. value. This is why thousands of business Mobile 55% For more details, go to 378 customers and millions of consumers have Pay TV page 41 391 Pay TV 17% FY2016 come to trust and rely on StarHub for their Broadband 10% In a market of many info-communications needs. 217 Enterprise Fixed 18% vendors serving Broadband business customers, we 200 differentiate ourselves by investing heavily in Enterprise 400 our own capabilities and Fixed 385 network infrastructure. For more details, go to page 51 For the full year, service revenue was FY2016 0.3% lower YoY at $2,209 million. FY2015 16 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 17 Chairman’s Message continued Looking Ahead StarHub’s Broadband revenue has seen steady Although Mobile Pay TV Broadband Mobile service providers across the globe growth. We have held our ground against running counter 119k are finding that more and more third party the newer broadband players. We have also smartphone applications are siphoning off successfully encouraged many customers to global trends, Singapore will 57% segments of revenue that used to be enjoyed to sign on to higher speeds, fibre-based, only by mobile operators. Those third parties provide what is referred to as over-the-top broadband services. The Hubbing strategy has served us well soon see the entry of a new MOBILE NET ADDS HD CHANNELS 34% services or OTT for short. Mobile Network YOY GROWTH IN Strategy for years. We have introduced multi-services FIBRE CUSTOMERS The faster speeds and reliable mobile data packs like HomeHub Go and more recently, Operator in an services provided by network operators SurfHub. We expect these Hubbing packs to already saturated We are glad hundreds of thousands of We have held our ground against the newer like StarHub provide an easy entry for OTT help increase loyalty to the StarHub brand and market. consumers turn to us to be entertained, broadband players. players, who provide alternative messaging, in turn, reduce churn. informed, and to lead a ‘smarter’ lifestyle voice, and video services. that is constantly on the go and at home. The Government has put in place the Although running counter to global trends, necessary infrastructure and policies to build Singapore will soon see the entry of a new capabilities and a supportive ecosystem for a Enterprise Fixed Mobile Network Operator in an already Smart Nation. With our extensive and diverse 3.9% YoY In line with growing demand for international bandwidth, we launched saturated market. We are prepared. After communications infrastructure, expertise in services over the new Asia-Pacific Gateway (APG) submarine cable all, StarHub grew up in a highly competitive operating networks and willingness to work We stay on top of network system. market, and we will continue to work with like-minded partners, our Enterprise improvements in REVENUE GROWTH diligently at earning our customers’ loyalty. division is expected to capture a fair share technology and have of the opportunities. started exploring how 5G can be used to enrich our U N D E R S E A D ATA C A B L E S In the Pay TV business, OTT players are also customers’ lives. making headway in video entertainment, For 16 years, StarHub has led with innovative which is impacting traditional cable TV mobile offerings, brought a whole new world providers. In addition, the industry faces of TV content beyond terrestrial broadcasting growing threats from non-sanctioned TV into our households, and delivered fast and boxes and websites streaming the latest reliable home internet access. Similarly, our blockbuster movies and popular TV shows. business customers have relied on us for an Corporate Governance Mr Miller, a former investment banker, joined It is clear that the value of linear broadcasted ever-wider range of info-communications In 2016, Mr Peter Seah Lim Huat, ST Telemedia in 2005. He is no stranger to TV content, offered over traditional networks, and IT-related services. Mr Robert J. Sachs and Mr Sio Tat Hiang, StarHub, and has supported StarHub over the is not as valued as it once was. retired from the Board. years in his role as a senior executive at ST Regardless of the challenges ahead, Telemedia. Further, Mr Miller has extensive As one example of how we are competing Tan Tong Hai and his management team, We are particularly grateful for their service international experience advising companies with OTT providers, we have launched are executing strategies and operating plans and guidance through the transformational and boards in our industry. We look forward StarHub Go, which allows customers to to meet those challenges and exploit new merger with Singapore Cable Vision, and our to working with him as a new Director. stream StarHub TV content on their mobile opportunities. We will continue to embrace IPO, 12 years ago, as well as their excellent devices. We are also finding ways to lower our new technologies and adapt as needed, counsel in strategy formulation throughout In January, we appointed new Chairpersons content costs. StarHub continues to evaluate with a sharp focus to deliver on customers’ the many dynamic developments in the for three committees. Mr Miller assumes the commercial value of each content expectations, while managing and investing industry during their terms. Being highly Chair of the Risk Committee. Mr Teo Ek Tor, offering and works to realign our packages the Group’s assets profitably. practised at, and fully committed to, excellent an independent Director, is now Chair of and pricing in keeping with customers’ needs. corporate governance, they have been the Executive Resource and Compensation outstanding stewards of the Company. Committee. Ms Rachel Eng, an independent We are happy to report that we have made Director, is now Chair of the Nominating progress with some content partners at We have appointed a new non-executive Committee. lowering costs aligned with market realities. Director: Mr Stephen Geoffrey Miller, But we need more content providers to come President and CEO of our strategic I thank you for your support and look forward around to the new realities. shareholder, ST Telemedia. to seeing you at the upcoming Annual General Meeting. Steven Terrell Clontz Chairman 18 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 19 Enhancing the Customer Experience What Consumers Want & How We Respond Explore the future in Telecoms, Media and Technology. The StarHub brand is strong around certain soft aspects. The aim is to take leading position in customer experience across all service lines. BENEFITS: BENEFITS: Strategy DATA ANALYTICS Responsiveness Pre-emptive SERVICE Transactional Episodal Business Employees 1 2 INSIGHTS Designing the customer experience based NO. EXPECTATIONS Measuring satisfaction by transactional NO. on scenarios and thinking through the Net Promoter Score (NPS) to ‘Episodal’ A strong, singular customer journey. HAVE RISEN NPS, cutting across different lines of Customer service focus on the Anonymised on CSISG* business/services. is built from the on CSISG* customer is a source Customers’ Data ground up and We use the NPS closed loop framework to help gauge of competitive Pay TV how we are doing across our touch points. In the near future, evolves the StarHub Broadband Services USAGE AT we will be extending the measurement using different episodes differentiation. DIFFERENT across a customer’s journey. culture from one With up to SCENARIOS of happiness to PROGRAMME LISTING one that aligns the 1Gbps needs of customers speeds Pick from over with employees. 210 Channels NO. 2 on CSISG* Scanning needs... NORMALISATION Personalisation + Differentiation OF TECHNOLOGY Technology is not exclusive to any provider. It is a commodity and does not offer a source of differentiation. Mobile Services High usage How likely are you to recommend us to your friends? Low Regular CONNECTIVITY Extremely Not Likely Going for usage usage ANYWHERE Likely Likely at all $8 Monthly 5G Via Nokia’s AirScale Demographics: Age band, gender, Personality: Online profile, social Customer service Customer experience Thinking of the experience as end-to-end journeys. 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 21Mbps Mobile HomeHub Voucher Up to 82 Channels integrated radio access residence, etc media profile, etc. Broadband network, we tested Hassle-free mobile speeds of a Application whopping 4.3Gbps – Interests: Behaviours: Subscribe to any ten times faster than Hobbies, life Media consumption, StarHub plan via the 4G networks. stages, etc. e-commerce profile, etc. our Online Store at Promoter Passive Detractor your convenience. Unlimited 1Gbps Segments: Local Calls Fibre Home Macro view of Sales & 1 Broadband BENEFITS: different parts Rewards Now you can BENEFITS: GB 24 Hours purchase phones Lifestyle: Brand Pay TV Customers A message from and redeem StarHub >> Habits, trends, etc. rewards anytime, On Demand anywhere. Allow customers The cost of Hi User, to watch what In making StarHub a necessity would you they want engaging and like to through different media & methods. to customers through the service retaining customers consider an experience, we are significantly upgrade to will reduce over meet your reducing the need to switch providers. time and is likely current needs? This delivers customers with a longer to increase our tenure and with higher total value. brand equity. * Customer Satisfaction Index of Singapore (CSISG) 2016. 20 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 21 Value Creation Strategy Assets Customers Revenue 1 NETWORKS: Our significant and diligent investment in our 2 Customers are at the heart 3 The primary source of revenue various networks lies at the core of what we are able to do as a of what we do. They have comes mainly from our four company. We upgrade our mobile networks to bring high speed come to rely on us to provide lines of business. The Hubbing internet access wherever our customers are; we enhance our TV them the ways and means to strategy, successfully executed and broadband networks so that families can enjoy quality time communicate, work, play and since 2002, continues to help together; and we lay down fibre so that businesses can function live. Our top priority remains drive revenues and total WHAT well in this digital economy. doing everything we can to dividend payouts. maintain uninterrupted and DISTRIBUTION: We are now in an omni-channel environment. reliable info-communications Both online and physical points of contact complement one services to millions of customers. another. Online may be preferred for some customers but we WE ARE believe our network of physical retail locations play a useful role too. Besides our own shops, we continue to work with distribution partners to help bring the StarHub brand and experience nearer to our customers. Capital Management Shareholder Value Reinvestment DOING SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIP: Without our ranks of suppliers, we cannot function as a business. They specialise in the production of certain products or the provision of certain services that we cannot do on our own. We work together so that our customers get to enjoy this integration of resources and expertise. 4 We regularly review our 5 Over the years, we have 6 We reinvest to pursue PEOPLE: Our mobile networks may be the latest, our data financial position, capital consistently delivered growth in a manner We thrive and grow when we service centres may be highly automated, but without our people, structure and use of capital. shareholder value. Since 2005, that generates value for Customers are our customers right, when we services may still fall apart. Behind all these critical functions is an We aim to achieve long-term we started paying quarterly both shareholders and at the heart of complement our partners and when energised and passionate team of StarHubbers. We complement capital efficiency, optimum dividends, which has steadily stakeholders. We target to set what we do. They each other with our skills and experience; we believe we have a shareholders’ total returns, increased from a total of aside 13% of our revenue as we deal fairly with our suppliers. bigger stake in this company than anyone else. including the level of 9 cents then to the present capital expenditure, largely for have come to rely As an integrated info-communications dividends and proper 20 cents per share for FY2016. the upgrades of our mobile, on us to provide company, we are in a good position BRAND: For more than a decade, we have built up our track strategic positioning. We remain committed to TV and broadband networks, them the ways record of offering our customers reliable and quality infoto create value when we integrate our communications services. We are an impassioned organisation upholding high standards of corporate governance and the expansion of our fibre lines, as well as better data and means to relationships with all these parties. that is ever ready to serve with pride, encapsulated by the StarHub applying constant and effective centres and other backend communicate, brand. StarHubbers are always working harder to make it the risk management to enhance support and facilities. work, play and live. brand that everyone trusts. shareholder value. 22 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 23 Board of Directors The Board leads and guides the Management, and provides overall strategic direction to the Group. Steven Terrell Tan Tong Hai Stephen Lim Ming Seong Strategy Clontz Executive Director Geoffrey Miller Non-Executive Chairman and CEO Director Non-Executive Member: S N Member: R Member: A S E Director Date of Appointment Chairman: R Date of Appointment Date of Appointment 8 December 1999 Member: S E 1 March 2013 14 December 2000 and Chairman on Date of Appointment 15 July 2015 Last Re-elected Last Re-elected 1 January 2017 19 April 2016 28 April 2015 Last Re-elected 19 April 2016 Ma Kah Woh Nihal Vijaya Liu Chee Ming Nasser Marafih Independent Devadas Independent Non-Executive Director Director Director Chairman: A Kaviratne CBE Member: S Independent Date of Appointment Member: R Director Date of Appointment 9 July 2007 Date of Appointment Chairman: S 16 August 2004 23 September 2015 Member: A Last Re-elected Last Re-elected 19 April 2016 Last Re-elected Date of Appointment 28 April 2015 19 April 2016 16 August 2004 Last Re-elected 19 April 2016 Rachel Eng Teo Ek Tor Takeshi Kazami Yaag Ngee Independent Non-Executive Independent Director Director Director Chairman: E Member: N Date of Appointment Chairman: N 13 April 2012 Member: A Date of Appointment 16 August 2004 Last Re-elected Date of Appointment 28 April 2015 4 May 2015 Last Re-elected Last Re-elected 28 April 2015 Key to Membership of Board Committees 19 April 2016 A S N E R Audit Strategy Nominating Executive Resource Risk and Compensation 24 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 25 Board of Directors continued Strategy Steven Terrell Clontz Tan Tong Hai Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee Chairman Executive Director and CEO Independent Director Independent Director Mr Steven Terrell Clontz is Senior Executive ViceMr Tan Tong Hai joined StarHub in 2009 as its Mr Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE serves on Ms Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee is the Deputy Chairman at President, International, at Singapore Technologies Chief Operating Officer, overseeing the day-tothe boards of DBS Bank Ltd, DBS Group Holdings WongPartnership LLP. Ms Eng is a corporate lawyer Telemedia Pte Ltd. He is also a Director of Level 3 day operations of StarHub. He has over 20 years of Ltd and Olam International Limited in Singapore and with vast experience and expertise in equity and debt Communications, PSA International Pte Ltd, Cloud9 experience in the regional information technology, GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited in India. capital markets, real estate investment trusts and Technologies and STT GDC Pte. Ltd.. He served as Internet and e-commerce industries and has had He is the Chairman of Caraway Pte. Ltd., a subsidiary corporate finance. She serves on the Board of Olam the CEO of StarHub for 11 years before retiring on broad experience at top management levels. Mr Tan of Olam International Limited. Mr Kaviratne held International Limited, SPH Reit Management Pte. Ltd., 1 January 2010. Mr Clontz is a well-regarded veteran was previously the President and CEO of Singapore various senior level management positions in the Certis CISCO Security Pte. Ltd. and the Public Utilities in the telecommunications and media industry with Computer Systems from August 2005 to December Unilever group across Asia, Europe and Latin America Board. She also sits on the Board of Trustees of over 43 years of extensive experience. He brings with 2008, and the President and CEO of Pacific Internet over forty years. Mr Kaviratne was cited in the Singapore Institute of Technology and Council of the him invaluable knowledge of the telecoms and media (PacNet) from March 2001 to August 2005. He was Queen’s 2004 New Year Honours List in the UK and Singapore Business Federation. She was a member of industry and extensive management expertise. During instrumental in turning both companies around was awarded the CBE (Commander of the Order of the Committee on the Future Economy (CFE) Steering his 11 years at the helm of StarHub, Mr Clontz has led when he was at their helms. In addition, Mr Tan is British Empire) for services to UK business interests in Committee, Ministry of Trade & Industry. Ms Eng StarHub in a number of major milestones including currently the Chairman of Nanyang Polytechnic’s Indonesia. He was chosen by Business Week in 2002 holds a Bachelor of Law (Honours) from the National the transformation of StarHub from being Singapore’s Board of Governors. He holds a Bachelor of for the Stars of Asia Award as one of the “25 leaders University of Singapore. third mobile player in 2000 to a fully-integrated Electrical Engineering (Honours) from the National at the forefront of change”. Mr Kaviratne holds a “quad-play” service provider, merging StarHub with University of Singapore. Bachelor of Arts (Honours) with a major in Economics the then Singapore Cable Vision in 2002; bringing from Bombay University, India and has attended Teo Ek Tor StarHub public in 2004 on the Main Board of the Independent Director various management development programmes Singapore Exchange; and advancing StarHub’s market Ma Kah Woh in India, Australia, the UK and the USA, including Mr Teo Ek Tor is the Chairman of PrimePartners Group position to become Singapore’s second largest Independent Director the Advanced Executive Programme conducted Pte Ltd and Aris PrimePartners Asset Management mobile operator in 2005. Mr Clontz began his career Mr Ma Kah Woh is a Director of Mapletree Investment by Kellogg School of Management, Northwestern Pte Ltd, a joint venture asset management company in the USA. From 1996 to 1998, he served as the Pte Ltd, Mapletree Greater China Commercial Trust University and the Advanced Management Program based in Singapore. Mr Teo has vast experience in President and CEO of IPC Information Systems Inc., Management Ltd and PACC Offshore Services at the Harvard Business School, USA. investment banking, asset management and financial based in New York. Prior to that, Mr Clontz has held Holdings Ltd. Mr Ma serves on the National Heritage services in Asia, and brings with him in-depth senior executive positions at BellSouth International, Board and is the Chairman of its Audit Committee. financial and analytical expertise. He had contributed Inc. He was the President of BellSouth International Mr Ma was a senior partner of KPMG Singapore, to, and been instrumental in the development of (Asia-Pacific), Inc. between 1991 and 1994. Mr Clontz where he was in charge of the Audit & Risk Advisory two major regional investment banking groups – holds a Bachelor of Science (Physics Major) from the Practice and Risk Management function until his Morgan Grenfell Asia (1980-1993) and BNP Prime University of North Carolina, USA. retirement in September 2003. Mr Ma is a Fellow of Peregrine (1997-1999). Mr Teo held senior executive the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and positions within the Morgan Grenfell Asia group and Wales, and a Member of the Singapore Institute of was the Regional Managing Director of BNP Prime Chartered Accountants. Peregrine (Singapore) Ltd. He holds a Bachelor of Arts (Honours), with a major in Business Administration, from the University of Western Ontario, Canada. 26 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 27 Board of Directors continued Strategy Stephen Geoffrey Miller Liu Chee Ming Nasser Marafih Takeshi Kazami Non-Executive Director Independent Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Mr Stephen Miller is the President & Chief Executive Mr Liu Chee Ming is the Managing Director of Dr Nasser Marafih is a Member of the Ooredoo Group Mr Takeshi Kazami is the President and CEO of NTT Officer of Singapore Technologies Telemedia Pte Platinum Holdings Company Limited since 1996. Board and Advisor to the Ooredoo Group Board’s Singapore Pte. Ltd., the regional headquarters of Ltd (ST Telemedia). Mr Miller joined ST Telemedia Mr Liu also serves on the board of Haitong Securities Chairman. He was the CEO of Ooredoo Group from NTT Communications Ltd for the Asia Pacific region. in 2005 and has held various senior positions Co., Ltd. He is also an Independent Non-executive 2006 until November 2015. He also served as CEO He also serves as a director of Emerio GlobeSoft including President & Chief Operating Officer and Director of OUE Hospitality REIT Management of Ooredoo Qatar from 2002 to 2011, a subsidiary Pte Ltd. He started his career with NTT in 1986 and Chief Financial Officer. He was Consultant to ST Pte. Ltd. and OUE Hospitality Trust Management of Ooredoo Q.S.C. Dr Nasser began his professional held various positions, including Area Manager – Telemedia, primarily for its portfolio companies. He Pte. Ltd., which are the REIT Manager and Trusteecareer at Ooredoo Qatar (then known as Qatar NTT America. He was seconded to StarHub, as played a crucial role in enhancing ST Telemedia’s Manager respectively of OUE Hospitality Trust Telecom) in 1992 as an expert advisor from the Head of Japanese Sales Sector in 2000. He went business competitiveness and asset portfolio while and STT GDC Pte. Ltd.. He is also an Independent University of Qatar, and later joined Ooredoo Qatar as on to become the Head of Arcstar, the flagship simultaneously maintaining prudent financial Supervisor of the Supervisory Committee of Dalian the Director of Strategic Planning and Development. brand of NTT Communications Ltd’s range of global management. Prior to joining ST Telemedia, Mr Miller Wanda Commercial Properties Co., Ltd. He has He was instrumental in many strategic initiatives and communication services. Upon his return to NTT was Financial Advisor to the company on the merger over 30 years of experience within the financial landmarks in Ooredoo Qatar’s history, including the Communications Ltd in 2005 and after serving as of its data centre business with Equinix and Pihana services sector and has an invaluable network of introduction of the first GSM service in the Middle East Director, Corporate Sales, he was appointed to his Pacific, creating one of the world’s largest carriercontacts in the media industry. Mr Liu’s financial and in 1994 and thereafter, the Internet service in Qatar current position in July 2010. He holds a Bachelor neutral data centre network. Mr Miller has more than strategic expertise and experience of dealing with in 1996, and the privatisation of Ooredoo Qatar in of Arts, International Relation Course (Chinese and 25 years of global investment, financial management, major corporations and businesses globally is an 1998. Under Dr Nasser’s leadership, Ooredoo Qatar Sociology), from the Tokyo University of Foreign strategic planning and CMT industry experience. asset to the Board. He is a member of the Takeovers has evolved from being a local telecom provider to Studies, Japan. He was a visiting scholar at the Asia He spent over 14 years of his career in investment Appeal Committee and Deputy Chairman of the an international player, with strategic investments in Pacific Research Center of Stanford University, USA. banking with Credit Suisse, primarily heading its Takeovers and Mergers Panel of the Securities and the Asia Pacific region. Dr Nasser holds a Bachelor of telecommunications and media group throughout Futures Commission in Hong Kong. Mr Liu holds a Science in Electrical Engineering, a Master of Science Asia and the Pacific. Mr Miller holds a Bachelor’s Bachelor of Business Administration from the former and a PhD in Communication Engineering from the Degree in Commerce, with First Class Honours in University of Singapore. George Washington University, USA. Economics and Finance, from the University of New South Wales, Australia. Lim Ming Seong Non-Executive Director Mr Lim Ming Seong is the Chairman of CSE Global Limited and First Resources Ltd and serves on the boards of U Mobile Sdn Bhd and STT GDC Pte. Ltd.. Mr Lim was with the ST group from 1986 to 2002, where he left as Group Director. Prior to joining the ST group, Mr Lim served as the Deputy Secretary with the Ministry of Defence of Singapore. Mr Lim brings with him extensive accounting, management and technical expertise. He holds a Bachelor of Applied Science (Honours) with a major in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Toronto and a Diploma in Business Administration from the former University of Singapore. Mr Lim also participated in the Advanced Management Programs conducted by INSEAD and the Harvard Business School, USA. 28 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 29 In Discussion with StarHub’s Management Tan Tong Hai CEO Q Can we have a brief recap of the key events for StarHub in 2016? We have embarked on a journey towards a customercentric model in servicing both our consumer Strategy and enterprise customers with segment-specific propositions and product innovations. With this focus on customer-centricity, we aim to deliver the best customer experience and believe this will be a key sustainable differentiator that will set us apart from the competition. We continued on our digital transformation drive to increasingly engage and service our customers via digital channels and self-help applications. Resources have been invested to integrate all customer-facing channels to enable a holistic omni-channel engagement and empower our agents with technology tools to enhance customer interactions. To improve our digital engagement with customers, we made enhancements to our social community management, My StarHub app and StarHub Online Store. We are also driving increased sales through digital channels and automation of backend support processes to achieve cost optimisation. Customer insights are a key differentiator in driving operational efficiency, enhancing customer engagement and developing segment propositions. We are further strengthening our SmartHub analytics capabilities to position ourselves as a leading Digital Insights provider for the government and commercial verticals. In the consumer space, we continued to drive ‘Personalised Hubbing’ to develop one-to-one relationships with customers through deeper insights, personalised engagement and microsegmentation in our service offerings. For enterprises, we focused on enabling them to innovate and improve efficiency through adoption of smart solutions and also help them serve Customers demand high and target their customers better. service standards; we demand The StarHub Cyber Security Centre of Excellence (COE) higher standards on ourselves. was formally launched in May 2016. It is a platform for us With Hubbing, we bring value; to innovate and create telco-centric cyber security services with superior customer service, that are integrated with our core infrastructure. This further we bring satisfaction. enhances our position as the Trusted Provider with security as paramount in all services we provide. Senior Management In the year, we continued to build strategic partnerships with like-minded companies such as China Mobile and Singapore Press Holdings (SPH), and renewed our existing arrangement Seated from left: with Vodafone. These partnerships will enable us to build on Diana Lee, Tan Tong Hai, Dennis Chia and Kevin Lim one another’s strengths with the aim of exploring new revenue Standing from left: For more details on Senior Management’s Profile, go to streams and innovative business models. Chan Hoi San, Tim Goodchild, Mock Pak Lum, Jeannie Ong, Howie Lau, Veronica Lai and John Tan page 36 30 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 31 In Discussion with StarHub’s Management continued Mobility mm2 Asia can also potentially extend the reach of our localised We recognise that organic growth is limited and that we need Growth has not been without challenges as core products Mobility continues to be the largest contributor of revenue content through their marketing and distribution efforts beyond to be more agile in capturing new business opportunities. become commoditised and products that once commanded to our business. We registered growth of our total mobile Singapore shores. In addition, we may tap on their cineplex We are actively exploring possible deals that are relevant and healthy margins are now contributing less. The need to grow in subscriber base to 2.3 million in the year. Higher subscription business to showcase our content. helpful to our existing businesses. For instance, start-ups new areas is talked about by all businesses. revenue from a larger customer base was dampened by the specialising in cyber security or data analytics. The world of IT global trend of declining voice, IDD and roaming usages. We recognise that organic growth is limited on this island and telecommunications is meshed tightly and we believe our The most important components in the strategy is about adding nation, so we are looking globally for adjacent businesses to existing customers will benefit greatly if we have significant, value and building a sound foundation for long term viability. We remain focused on introducing innovative and better value complement our core business and help us grow. Dennis, our adjacent capabilities in this field to offer. We aim to help our customers to generate business by focusing packages to our customers. We launched DataTravel, which CFO, who brings extensive M&A experience with him, is tasked on the creation of an intelligent eco-system for them. Strategy offers customers the best possible mobile data experience with this job. on their travels as it is operator-neutral and comes at an Q affordable flat fee. What are some key enterprise offerings you have for the market? We also stayed rooted in our Hubbing strategy by launching SurfHub, a mobile and fixed broadband service bundle that Our enterprise customers operate in an environment connects our millennial customers in and out of home and with greater IT complexities and we need to respond allow them to enjoy data-intensive services and entertainment by providing them with more capabilities. Over the past on the go. Dennis Chia Kevin Lim year, we have made big moves in cyber security. We all wish CFO CCO the Internet is a simpler place but cyber threats are real and we Entertainment & SmartLife believe that security is of upmost importance. On the pay TV front, we have seen a major shift in the viewing habits of our customers. We are facing growing challenges from increasing availability of OTT video streaming options Q How does the Board decide on the dividend payout amounts for FY2017? Q We have seen revenue growth for your Enterprise Fixed business over the years. What are you doing Cyber security is getting growing recognition from the server room to the boardroom, as something that undermines the very and alternative pirated content sources. The Board takes a forward three-year view of our to help accelerate the growth? core of business organisations. This will complement the suite earnings, free cash flow, growth prospects, investment Serving the enterprise customer involves a number of of security services we already offer. We partnered Netflix to support their content on our Fibre needs and an optimal balance sheet. The appropriate key pillars: investments in infrastructure, building trust TV set-top boxes and continued to strengthen our line-up level of dividend payment is determined by the combination of of customers and a focus on the customer’s business. We are also of the view that businesses need to be ‘smart’ to of locally produced content and self-packaged channels to these factors. Their preference is to make sustainable payments. While StarHub had an infrastructure, it was purpose-built for the be effective and this is aided as Singapore pushes towards a distinguish ourselves from the competition. We are also using consumer customer. The business customer requires a much Smart Nation. IoT is all about collecting more data that gives you data analytics to understand customers’ viewing preferences For FY2017, the Board has recommended to pay four cents per higher quality of connectivity, reliability and redundancy. more insights into operations, behaviour, etc. The connected to optimise our content lineup across multiple platforms to quarter per ordinary share. elements generate a trove of traffic pattern data, which can be deliver a superior TV viewing experience. In the past six over years, we have been digging trenches and analysed and applied in areas like urban commute and logistics. rolling out our own fibre network to serve as a backbone and Q Why have you guided a lower EBITDA For our broadband business, we continued to see good takealso as a separate access network to commercial buildings. Again working with partners, we are exploring solutions that up of our fibre offerings, with an increase in our total fibre margin for FY2017? This has also allowed us to provide many companies with true optimise resource allocation such as rubbish-compacting broadband customer base to 363,000. We also recorded 8.2% redundancy as we offer both operator and path diversity. The smart bins along Orchard Road. Our 4G mobile networks We are guiding a lower EBITDA margin because of a few provide wireless connectivity for the smart bins, whereby growth in our Broadband service revenue, driven by a higher NBN will continue to be used to serve residential customers factors. We expect the Nationwide Broadband Network real-time information is transmitted from the bins to the mix of customers on fibre and higher speed plans. and small & medium businesses (SMBs) who may not require (NBN) adoption grant to fall off in 2017. We also see waste management monitoring system for greater enterprise grade connectivity and availability. an exchange rate impact of the US dollar, primarily on US operation efficiency. Enterprise Fixed dollar expenses, and lastly, we continue to invest in customer We saw steady growth in our Enterprise Fixed revenue to Trust in the enterprise space is critical as businesses rely on excellence. We believe we need to continue to deliver the best With the government lending its full support, there will be plenty $400 million as we build leadership in selected verticals and our services to conduct business and serve their customers. service to our customers. of opportunities for enterprises, start-ups and various other further enhance our enterprise solution portfolio in areas such When we fail, they fail. To win their trust, we have invested in as cloud, cyber security, data analytics and enterprise mobility. quality programmes that cover technical, delivery and support application developers to come together and build attractive IoT assurance standards. We remain committed to delivering a high business cases, underpinned by a level of inter-connectedness We have also made investments to expand our own fibre network to extend our reach to enterprise customers. With Singapore’s Smart Nation initiatives and growing interests in Q The acquisition of a stake in mm2 Asia – is it a new strategic direction? We acquired an 8.8% stake in Catalist-listed regional level of account support, service delivery and network resiliency. Understanding what our enterprise customers need to run never seen before. As an integrated info-communications provider, we will have Internet of Things (IoT) in the enterprise space, we are wellproduction house mm2 Asia Ltd for $18.04 million in their businesses efficiently, the business challenges and desired a seat at the table. Our key advantage lies in our experience positioned to support these new services with our SmartHub June 2016. We already have a fruitful track record of outcomes, will help shape our products and solutions, and delivering an integrated suite of services, as well as our analytics capabilities and smart connected solutions. working together since 2011. We believe this deal will help provide us with an appreciation of the outcome desired and the appetite to work harder and deliver more value and provide improve our pay TV offerings with more local content. criticality of the services. better service. Inorganic Growth In June, we completed the purchase of a stake in mm2 Asia With programmes that they produced from travelogues to On this front, we have invested in data analytics starting with Ltd. This will unlock opportunities to expand our pay TV children infotainment to hit movies like Ah Boys To Men, our telco data and have leveraged this to help customers gain offerings through original content creation and set us apart in we expect to dive deeper into local production and use it to insights into their customers and operating environment, to the content space. differentiate ourselves from the competition. make better decisions and serve their own customers better. 32 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 33 In Discussion with StarHub’s Management continued Jeannie Ong Mock Pak Lum With the MOU, Howie Lau CSPO CTO CMO both companies Q What were some of the key highlights under your portfolio during the year? Q In January 2017, you announced an MOU with M1 to share mobile network will start studying potential further collaboration Q ‘Hubbing at your service’ is the theme for this year’s annual report, how do you infrastructure. Can you tell us plan to execute it? We started 2016 with a loud cheer, as our efforts more about this? in sharing RAN towards going green gained better recognition. In the We serve different types of customers but they have and backhaul 2016 Corporate Knight’s Global 100 ranking of the Sharing infrastructure with M1 is not new to us. a common need: to communicate and to connect Strategy world’s most sustainable companies with market value of at For some time now, we already share certain non-core infrastructure. whenever, wherever. We view delivering a good least US$2 billion, we were ranked eighth. This marked a big mobile infrastructure with M1 in a number of locations, customer service experience as the foundation of everything jump from the 66th position we first achieved in the same including tunnels, MRT stations, and in-building areas. we offer our customers. ranking in 2013. With the MOU, both companies will start studying potential In this light, we leverage on our collective experience and Our eighth place in 2016 makes us the most sustainable further collaboration in sharing Radio Access Networks (RAN) strong data analytics to understand what our customers would company in Singapore, ahead of three other Singaporean and backhaul infrastructure. We will still manage our own core require and expect of us. This allows us to have timely and companies with both longer history and market value than us. network and brand, and we will continue to compete with relevant recommendations for our customers so that we can Our score of 71.8% also made us the world’s most sustainable M1 in the mobile market. for us to be recognised as the fastest LTE network in the be more pre-emptive and responsive. telecommunications company. world was because of our own fibre backhaul. In 2016, we This sharing is to improve our mobile coverage for customers, completed our roll out to all government agencies using the “Hubbing at your service” represents our desire to constantly In March, we signed an Memorandum of Understanding manage our costs, and compete effectively in the longerNGN as primary and our fibre as secondary circuits. We aim to innovate our strong hubbing offerings as well as to provide (MOU) with local media giant SPH. We each have our own term. This sharing could help us bring the Singapore infohave our own nationwide fibre network by 2020. quality customer service experience at every interaction and unique reach and content. However, we see much more communications industry to the next level, competing not touch point. benefits for our respective customers and partners if we come on pure infrastructure ownership, but at a higher level of In June, the STT MediaHub building was completed and ready together. Under terms of the MOU, we will be working jointly customer service and innovative value creation. to be moved in. The building will house our TV head-end, As we emphasise more on customer experience, we are on content creation, distribution, marketing, data analytics and production facilities and innovation labs. The migration from refining the way we use our NPS, an international measure advertising sales. There is still considerable work to be done before a definitive the existing facility will be completed by mid-2017 and we will for customer satisfaction. It will shift from one that is merely a agreement with M1 may be reached. have state-of-the-art facilities to support our TV business and ‘transactional’ NPS to one that is an ‘episodal’ NPS. Simply put, The same month also saw us signed an MOU with China innovation activities. we will work towards recognising and anticipating customers’ Mobile International Limited to collaborate under the needs in order to serve customers better. Hand-in-Hand program led by China Mobile. Five broad areas Two years ago, we started studying the virtualisation of to strengthen complementary capabilities for data business services and to co-develop new business opportunities in relation to innovation and IoT are covered under this MOU. Q How is StarHub gearing up its network infrastructures for what is coming ahead? We continue to work closely with our trusted network functions. We have migrated many of our network infrastructure onto virtualised platform. One reason we were able to recover quickly from the Distributed Denial-Of-Service StarHub’s brand is already well recognised in Singapore but we can do even better. We plan to build a stronger, more positive brand experience for our customers. Perhaps our satisfied technology partners, to find out what new solutions we attacks in October was because we were able to provision customers would in turn share their delight with their friends. We are also a regular name in our local sports scene. For can implement to deliver the optimal network coverage. additional Domain Name System capacity using virtualised We look forward to welcoming more customers on this example, we won the deal from Football Association of Mobile network access speeds are accelerating in tandem with environments. journey together. Singapore as official broadcaster for local franchise, the Great better technology. Eastern Yeo’s S.League. We also inked a four-year deal with the We will continue to virtualise our network infrastructure which HSBC World Rugby Singapore Sevens as an official broadcaster. In February, we attained OpenSignal’s ‘fastest LTE networks will have a positive impact on our CAPEX, OPEX and improve in the world’ title for the second consecutive quarter. This is our nimbleness to respond to customers’ requirements. Our partnership with Hong Kong broadcaster TVB simply an independent study by OpenSignal using crowd sourcing gets better with age. In 2016, for the seventh year running, technology. In April, with Huawei, we did a live showcase It is inevitable that service providers’ networks will come under we have co-organised the StarHub TVB Awards 2016. of the world’s fastest indoor coverage of 1Gbps. This was more and more cyber attacks. The question is how quickly The glitzy ceremony held at Marina Bay Sands, is not just an achieved using just one of Huawei’s award-winning small cell we can respond and recover, and how we can protect our awards ceremony celebrating the best of Hong Kong acting base stations, not much bigger than a ream of A4-size paper. customers’ data. We have learnt from these attacks and will and production talent, it is also a chance for their fans here to work with our vendors and our customers to build a more get close to their idols. In July, with Nokia, we achieved an upload speed of 150Mbps resilient network. – three times the previous peak over a typical 4G network We are in use. This was done using Nokia’s technology that bonds In May, we launched our Cyber Security COE providing one of the together different spectrum across different bands that are not telco-centric cyber security monitoring services to our Our eighth place in contiguous. It was deployed for the year-end festive season at enterprise and government customers. This is a foundation well-recognised 2016 makes us the the popular Marina Bay and Orchard Road areas, and will be for more cyber security offerings in the future. We strive brands in Singapore most sustainable gradually expanded across the island in 2017. to operate a secured network where our consumer and but we can do company in Singapore. enterprise customers can explore digital services and even better. We continue to enhance our fixed network infrastructure to transform their business with peace of mind that their be the true alternative fibre provider. One contributing factor data is secured and their networks are free from malware. 34 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 35 In Discussion with StarHub’s Management continued Q More and more customers are engaging We have built Diana Lee With our omni-channel focus, we are constantly refining the StarHub via social media platforms. Can a social media Senior Vice President, Customer Service Experience ‘how’ and ‘when’ of interacting with customers. Sometimes, you tell us about the challenges here? all they need is to complete simple transactions which can be Singaporeans use social media platforms to engage with brands and we have leveraged this to understand and digital analytics hub within Q How does StarHub approach ‘customer experience’? At the strategic level, we have identified high levels done over a mobile application – My StarHub. The app has seen constant improvements over the years and and support our customers better. The level of activity in this space has more than tripled over the past year. We are StarHub called of customer service as a key competitive advantage. its latest enhancement in late 2016 aims to make everything ‘Curiosity’. Our journey to improve the frontline service experience effortless for our customers. They can pay bills, check data, Strategy all thriving in this new way of communication that is open, book e-appointments, redeem rewards and activate roaming is well underway. We are making sure we have a holistic direct, and real-time. with just a few taps. perspective of people, processes and tools to enable our frontliners to serve consistently, intentionally and To better engage our customers via social media, we have At times, they might be surfing our website at their leisure. We pre-emptively for our different segments of customers. expanded our dedicated team. We have also streamlined the have made it possible for customers to sign up for our services processes and made them more efficient, so that we can be through our Online Store or to manage their accounts easily Since 2013, we have been using the NPS closed loop nimbler in responding effectively. via a feature-rich My Account Manager. framework to help gauge how we are doing. In the near future, instead of measuring single transactions, we will be extending We have also leveraged more on social media to reach out to Customers can purchase services online for fulfillment at our the measurement using different episodes across customers in our marketing campaigns. As with all marketing, retail store through our click and collect option and this was a customer’s journey. it is a combination of art and science. It brings together the creative art of suitable messages, and the quantifiable science of using data and technology effectively. Q The pay TV business is under some pressure. What is being done to improve the business? By having a bigger picture of the customer’s journey, we can better identify the pain points and take pre-emptive piloted successfully in late 2016. Or, they may simply make an e-appointment to visit our retail store for a more personalised and friendly interaction with our retail staff. The pay TV business remains a key pillar for us as we measures. Instead of only managing downsides, we can We have tapped on the expertise of various leading technology Now, even with such improvements made, we are looking even believe that most customers still value the quality ride the upside as well. With data and insights across our partners to help us build a social media and digital analytics harder where we can serve our customers better. Instead of content that we have been providing as part of our customer segments, we can delight our customers where hub within StarHub – we call this new hub ‘Curiosity’. having them describe their technical issues with their set-top Hubbing proposition. Besides seamless connectivity, we and when they least expect. believe that having great media content is a staple in the boxes over the phone, in the near future, they can take pictures Curiosity allows us to collate and understand the customer and send them over, so that there is less guesswork and better, Singaporean diet as well. The exercise began from within. We spent time providing engagements, conversations and sentiments across digital/ faster understanding of how the problems can be solved. the necessary training, equipping, through automation social media platforms. These serve as valuable inputs for As the leading pay TV provider in Singapore, we will continue and simplification of tasks to ensure end-to-end seamless our product design, marketing campaign development We are also tapping into artificial intelligence by introducing to improve our content and modes of views as our customer fulfillment capabilities so that everyone, from our retail to our and customer service improvements. We are also adapting ‘chat bots’. Essentially interactive software, these chat bots consumption behaviour changes. We have constantly contact centre staff and our Hub Troopers, will know and are best practices from top-tier global brands on social media can be used for a certain level of engagement with customers enhanced our content offerings as well as to offer alternative able to engage with our customers meaningfully. engagements. when they visit our website. modes of watching content like StarHub Go where customers can watch their favourite contents on their mobile devices. In late 2013, we merged the retail and customer service stores With our investments committed in building up our social StarHub post-paid customers would further benefit as data as one. This helps streamline customer interactions at our monitoring and analytical capabilities, we plan to extend usage from StarHub Go viewing would not be chargeable. retail stores which also underwent a visual revamp to ease offering these competencies to our enterprise customers customer traffic and flows. We trained our retail staff to handle too. Most organisations understand the importance of social To differentiate our TV offerings, we have gone beyond the both sales and service interactions without handing off to media engagements, but they might not have the scale or data typical US brands and we have been adding even more Asian another party. to build their own infrastructure. We would offer this social content as Chinese and Korean content are just as popular. monitoring and analytical service as part of our overall service We have also been increasing our local content output. At the contact centre, we introduced guided workflows offering to our enterprise customers. Working with Infocomm Media Development Authority via an e-Butler tool to facilitate our staff’s interactions with (IMDA), we have commissioned and produced a variety customers. This tool also fetched relevant information from of programmes ranging from travelogues to children infotainment to sports documentaries. We are looking to various sources to enable our staff to resolve customers’ In the near concerns promptly during the call interaction. commission about 110 hours of original productions. future, instead of Additionally, we sharpened the image and professionalism measuring single Over the past year, we have introduced a new TV package, of our field Hub Troopers when they visit customers’ home transactions, we dubbed the ‘Connoisseur Pack’, and added new brand name for installations or service calls. will be extending channels with unquestionable appeal, such as BBC First and the measurement DreamWorks. We have teamed up with Netflix to help show Post visits, work orders are closed in real-time so that staff their library over our pay TV platform. at other touch points, had visibility. We also installed an elite using different team of in-store Hub Troopers, to offer advice and solutions episodes across Besides expanding the variety of content, we are also expanding for customers wishing to buy services on the fibre platform. a customer’s into new ways of distributing content. We brought in a new journey. pay-per-view channel, the CATCHPLAY Single Rental Service, which comes with its sister channel CATCHPLAY Unlimited. 36 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 37 Senior Management’s Profile Tan Tong Hai Dennis Chia Kevin Lim Jeannie Ong Howie Lau CEO Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Chief Commercial Officer (CCO) Chief Strategic Partnership Officer (CSPO) Chief Marketing Officer (CMO) (Tong Hai’s profile can be found Dennis oversees StarHub’s financial health, Jeannie leads StarHub’s efforts in Howie is responsible for charting Kevin is responsible for the commercial on page 24 of this report.) develops key business strategies together strategy and development of the company, establishing and maintaining strong StarHub’s brand and marketing strategies with the core leadership team, ensures that aligning customer needs and customer strategic relationships with government across all marketing functions and business decisions are financially sound, interface with product and service offerings agencies, content owners, key strategic ensuring overall marketing synergy and and executes strategies through financial to meet the company’s commercial partners and other complementary brand consistency. Customer value Strategy management. objectives. His role is closely linked to the companies. She is also responsible for management also falls under his purview. company’s strategic management function, building StarHub’s corporate reputation in In addition, he oversees the Pay TV and Dennis was the Senior VP and CFO of in drafting, implementing and evaluating the areas of Corporate Communications, Broadband businesses as well as StarHub’s STATS ChipPAC (Worldwide). Prior to that, cross-functional decisions that will enable Investor Relations (IR) and Corporate Content and Local Production teams. he was with Lear Corporation as its VP the company to achieve its long-term Sustainability. of Finance, Asia Pacific Operations, where objectives. Howie was the VP, Corporate Development he oversaw 400 regional finance staff in Prior to her current role, Jeannie was the of Lenovo’s Worldwide Finance 30 manufacturing and administrative The Commercial Group includes Enterprise CMO. She joined StarHub in 2001 as its Organisation, where he oversaw Lenovo’s locations across Asia. Previously, he was Business, which services the needs of Head of Corporate Communications & end-to-end Post Merger Management the CFO of Behringer Corporation and businesses; the International Business Investor Relations, and helped bring the and related Merger & Acquisition matters. Frontline Technologies Corporation, team which is responsible for international company public in 2004. Jeannie and her Previously, he as Lenovo’s VP of Marketing leading their successful listings on the product management, carrier sales, teams have won multiple awards, including and Communications for Emerging Singapore Exchange. inter-carrier agreements and international Brand of the Year at the prestigious Hall of Markets Group, and was responsible for network strategy and execution. Fame Awards (2015 and 2014); The Green the strategy and execution of marketing Dennis, a Chartered Accountant, Award at the Asia Communications Awards and communications in the ASEAN, China, has a Bachelor’s (Honours) degree in Kevin’s experience spans over 30 years in (2015 and 2014), in recognition of StarHub’s Eastern Europe, Hong Kong, India, Korea, Accountancy from the National University various industries and across the globe. significant efforts in environmental policies Latin America, Middle East, Russia and of Singapore and also holds a Master’s Prior to joining StarHub, he was from Intel and programmes. Taiwan markets. degree in Business Administration from where he worked with telecom operators, University of Hull, United Kingdom. vendors and regulators on the ecosystem In IR, Jeannie was recognised as the Best IR Howie is currently the President of for the proliferation of broadband through Officer in Singapore by IR Magazine Awards Singapore Computer Society’s Executive wireless access technology. Prior to his Intel – South East Asia thrice consecutively in Council, and is also on the management role, he was Managing Director of Pacific 2014, 2013 and 2012. She and her team board for NUS Institute of System Science as Internet Singapore and Malaysia. At a global made it to the IR Global Top 50 list in 2014. well as the advisory committee for Nanyang level, he was worldwide division General They also clinched the Best IR award (Gold) Polytechnic School of IT and Anderson Manager of Lernout & Hauspie. at the Singapore Corporate Awards thrice Junior College. (2016, 2013 and 2010). Kevin received a Bachelor of Science Howie holds a Bachelor of Business Degree in Business Administration from Jeannie has over 20 years of experience Administration from the National University Pepperdine University in California in corporate, financial, marketing and of Singapore, majoring in Promotional and a Masters Degree in International community communications across Management and Consumer Behaviour. Management from the American Graduate different industries. She first commenced School of International Management her career with the Civil Aviation Authority (Thunderbird). of Singapore. She also held senior IR and regional corporate and marketing communications positions at IPACS and Singapore Computer Systems. Jeannie holds an honours degree from the University of London, where she majored in Economics and Marketing. 38 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 39 Senior Management’s Profile continued Mock Pak Lum John Tan Diana Lee Veronica Lai Chan Hoi San Tim Goodchild Chief Technology Officer (CTO) Chief Information Officer (CIO) SVP, Customer Service Experience General Counsel & Company Secretary SVP, Human Resource SVP, Government & Strategic Affairs Pak Lum oversees the Network John is responsible for charting the Diana heads the Customer Service Veronica advises the StarHub Group Hoi San is responsible for the overall Tim and his team are responsible Engineering, SmartHub and strategic directions and providing Experience team at StarHub and is on all legal aspects of operations, direction of all HR services in the for managing StarHub’s relationship i3 divisions at StarHub. He is leadership in the development and responsible for customer sales and strategy and compliance. She company. She is also responsible for with the regulators, and for providing responsible for establishing the deployment of information systems. service activities at all touch points. supports the Board of Directors formulating, developing and ensuring regulatory support to StarHub’s lines company’s technical vision and He leads the Information Services Under her leadership, StarHub’s on corporate secretariat matters. the consistent implementation of the of business. Strategy leading all aspects of technology division and oversees operations in customer service practices and During her career with StarHub, company’s strategic HR policies and development. He also looks into the planning and management, system standards have won wide recognition she oversaw the legal aspects of procedures. Tim joined StarHub in 2004, and has strategy for technology platforms architecture design and governance, at the Annual Call Centre Awards by the merger of StarHub and SCV, more than 25 years of experience and external partnerships, as well as development and implementation, the Call Centre Council of Singapore. StarHub’s successful IPO and the Hoi San has been credited for building in telecommunications regulatory initiatives for innovations. support and maintenance of IT establishment of StarHub’s $1 billion a strong groundwork in StarHub’s HR issues. His working career has infrastructure, applications and Diana was instrumental in integrating MTN Programme. division prior to the company’s official included time with Telecom New Pak Lum started his career in services, to deliver efficient business the two customer service teams launch in April 2000. Supported by Zealand, the Telecommunications Hewlett Packard. He later joined support for StarHub. In addition, he and systems into one following Under her leadership, the StarHub a dedicated and vibrant team, she Authority of Singapore, Millicom Pico Art International. With the oversees the Business Excellence the merger of StarHub and SCV in Legal team was recognised with had reviewed and put in place the International Cellular; and Equant advent of multimedia technology, department and Customer Service 2002. Today, the single virtual call various awards, including the Best necessary manpower, compensation Singapore. His career has given him he set up a joint venture company Experience division. centre provides enhanced customer Deal for Singapore for the StarHub and benefits, as well as internal exposure to regulatory regimes with Pico – GT Communications, experience and convenience through IPO by Asia Legal Business (ALB). communication strategies, policies throughout the Asia-Pacific region. to offer computer animation and John has over 25 years in the IT a single hotline number and common Veronica received the 2007 AsiaLaw and procedures to support the interactive kiosks services. After industry and education sector. He technology. To ensure a high level Singapore In-house Counsel Award company’s rapid expansion. She also Tim holds an honours degree in that, Pak Lum moved on to head was recognised for his excellent of service to customers, she also and was named by ALB as one of played an integral part in the merger Economics from Victoria University. 1-Net Singapore. One of his key contributions and was awarded The initiated several key projects in the the Top 25 in-house counsels in Asia of StarHub and SCV by aligning and achievements was the winning of Public Administration Medal area of process efficiencies, staff in 2010. In 2013, the StarHub team integrating the various business a $92 million contract to host the (Silver) in 2007 National Day Awards. motivation and customer experience won the International Law Office’s functions and resources, HR policies Singapore Government Data Centre. In 2012, John became a Fellow in StarHub. prestigious Global Counsel Award and procedures. He was also appointed the CEO of Member of the Singapore Computer 2013 and Asia Pacific Counsel Award the technology arm of MediaCorp in Society, an esteemed title bestowed Prior to her role in heading the 2013, for regulatory support. Hoi San holds a Master of HR 2002. In 2010, he left the company in recognition of his contributions to Customer Service team, Diana Management from Rutgers University, to set up an IT software company IT and the Society. was the Senior Manager of Human For her corporate secretariat USA and a Bachelor of Arts degree before joining StarHub. Resource in SCV. Diana has a portfolio, Veronica was recognised from Scripps College, The Claremont John holds a Master Degree in Graduate Diploma in Financial with the Asian Company Secretary Group for Colleges in the USA. Pak Lum holds a Bachelor of Business Administration from the Management from Singapore 2013 Award for Singapore by She has a graduate diploma in Electrical/Electronic Engineering National University of Singapore, Institute of Management and is a Corporate Governance Asia. In 2014, Personnel Management and is from the National University of a Master Degree in Computing Customer Operations Performance the Legal team won the International also an Accredited Myers-Briggs Singapore and a Master in Business Science and a Bachelor Degree Centre (COPC) Certified Six Sigma Legal Alliance Gold Award for the Type Indicator Assessor as well as Administration from the University of Engineering (Hons) from the High Performance Management Best Asian & South Pacific Legal a Certified Evaluator of the Thomas of California, Los Angeles. University of Newcastle Upon Tyne. Techniques Specialist. Department. Veronica is listed on (DISC) Personal Profile System. The Legal 500’s GC Powerlist for Asia Pacific and for SE Asia. Veronica graduated with an honours degree from the National University of Singapore. Prior to joining StarHub, she spent six years in practice with Rajah and Tann LLP. 40 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 41 Hubbing Mobility in Review In a highly penetrated We work closely with existing and new Strategic Alliance Mobility Significant hardware partners as we believe our customers mobile market In March, we signed an MOU with Achievements are the final arbiters of what they want. media giant SPH to work closely on FY2016 that faces stiff content, distribution and other forms of competition, we Better Data Value complementary offerings. In July, as part FEB differentiate ourselves Knowing how much everyone relies on of this MOU, all existing and new StarHub Attained the OpenSignal ‘Fastest Networks with LTE’ with better value and mobile data, we have given our subscribers Mobile post-paid subscribers enjoy free local title for the second innovative offerings. the option of getting a lot more for just an data access to nine popular SPH mobile apps consecutive quarter incremental increase in cost. In March, we With more mobile for a year. MAR introduced the Plus 3 data plan; 3GB-for-$6 Introduced data upsize customers constantly for our 4G post-paid users. The apps are AsiaOne, Berita Harian, Lianhe option Plus 3 on the move Wanbao, Lianhe Zaobao, The Business Times, Signed MOU with China beyond Singapore, In August, we introduced the SurfHub packs The Straits Times, ONE FM91.3, Kiss92 and Mobile to speed up strategic we strengthen our combining mobile and home fibre broadband, UFM100.3. Additional apps will be included in Performance collaboration under Handhelping them stay online at home and on in-Hand program strategic international this offering. the move. The most accessible of the four APR alliances with SurfHub plans, bundles a 4G postpaid line Networks for Today and Tomorrow First telco in Singapore premium partners so with 12GB of data and 150 minutes of talk With greater number of apps, as more users to accept Apple Pay (carried Android Pay as to provide the best time; the top end SurfHub plan comes with share multi-media content, network quality is and Samsung Pay since and seamless mobile 24GB of mobile data and 700 minutes of talk key to customer satisfaction. In April, StarHub June 2016) time. All the four plans are tied to a 1Gbps experience across organised a live demonstration of the world’s home fibre broadband access. fastest indoor coverage with 4G speeds of up Live demonstration of world’s fastest 4G indoor borders. to 1Gbps. mobile coverage of up to 1Gbps with Huawei To give more value to our subscribers who might travel to multiple destinations in one This was made using technology partner JUL trip, we have introduced new DataTravel Huawei’s award-winning small-cell base Tripled 4G upload speeds to plans. For a flat fee, they get to use 2GB 150Mbps using Nokia’s 4G station system, which is physically no LTE-Advanced technology of data within 30 days when they travel bigger than a ream of A4 paper. Our joint across these popular destinations: Australia, demonstration of this capability was built on AUG Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, New Zealand, our earlier deployment of Huawei’s 4G LTELaunched SurfHub packs home broadband and South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand and the Advanced Heterogeneous Network upgrade mobile data bundle Philippines. For those who need more data, at Marina Bay in 2015. a 3GB plan is also available. NOV Headed towards 5G with 4.3Gbps speeds using Nokia’s AirScale Started collaborations with M1 and Singtel on universal secure mobile-based authentication Renewed and reinforced strategic partnership with Vodafone DEC Introduced new Post-paid Customers Tiered Plans Mix Total Mobile Revenue DataTravel plans for multiple $m destination trips 1.39m +4.6% YoY Joint declaration by Hand-in-Hand program 2013 1,243 members for better customer roaming experience 2014 1,248 Tier 68% 2016 Non-Tier 32% “The retail and customer service stores Pre-paid Customers 2015 1,240 have merged and we are trained to 920k handle both sales and service activities.” 2016 1,215 Vida Z. Rosel Floor Manager +6.7% YoY 42 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 43 Hubbing in Review continued Mobility We keep an open mind when it comes to issued since mid-November will not be able to multinational companies with operations Before the year was up, the Hand-in-Hand Hand-in-Hand technology and we work with top-notch support 2G services. across the various markets covered. Program took one big step forward. We are 3 Program vendors. Using Nokia’s 4G LTE-Advanced now part of the 14 mobile network operators technology, StarHub Mobile users are now In the same month, all three mobile operators In November, we renewed the strategic in this program committing to better cross 14 able to enjoy upload speeds of up to 150Mbps. also announced a collaboration to adopt partnership for another three years, expanding border connectivity and interoperability, Mobile Deployment began at the popular Marina Bay the GSMA’s ‘Mobile Connect’ authentication collaboration on unified communications thereby improving the roaming experience network and Orchard areas in the second half of 2016, standard, which is seen to be a convenient and enterprise services on top of existing of all our customers. operators with nationwide coverage in 2017. way for users to be identified as they transact partnerships in mobile voice and data roaming with financial institutions, telecommunications and knowledge-sharing initiatives. Besides StarHub, other members While we stay on top of improvements in operators and other online service providers include China Mobile Hong Kong, China technology, we are constantly looking around via their smartphones. Hand-in-Hand Mobile International, Companhia de the corner. In November, we started exploring Growing economic and business ties between Telecomunicações de Macau, S.A.R.L., how 5G can be used to enrich our customers’ With Mobile Connect, mobile customers can China and Singapore means there is increased Chunghwa Telecom, Deutsche Telekom, lives. Via Nokia’s AirScale integrated radio look forward to creating a universal trusted demand for better mobile connectivity as FarEasTone, KT Corporation, Orange, Telenor, Performance Faster 1 access network, we tested mobile speeds of a digital identity. This can then be used as a people from both countries travel to and True Corporation, Turk Telekom International mobile whopping 4.3Gbps – that is at least ten times convenient and secure way to access all fro. In March, we signed an MOU with China and Vimpel-Communications Public Joint speed faster than the 4G networks in use today. manners of online services and applications. Mobile International Limited to collaborate Stock Company. Up to under the Hand-in-Hand program led by 4.3Gbps Such a blazing mobile access speed is not an overkill. We are already trialling future To get this collaboration going, the three operators are jointly building a platform with China Mobile. technologies involving virtual and augmented the same Application Programme Interface, Five broad areas are covered under this MOU: reality as well as e-health and autonomous which defines a common interface for intensify device collaboration on research vehicle applications that need such speeds to other parties to work with. The first wave of initiatives for mobile network evolution function well. supported online services should be ready in technologies; strengthen complementary the second half of 2017. capabilities for data business services; enhance Growing economic and business ties between Industry Collaborations mobile business through global roaming China and Singapore means there is increased As we look ahead, we have to move on. We have also reaffirmed our strong and cooperation and information sharing; leverage demand for better mobile connectivity as people As part of the planned shut down of the 2G long-standing partnership with Vodafone, network resources to maximise efficiency; network that has served the industry well which boasts one of the largest mobile market co-develop new business opportunities in from both countries travel to and fro. for more than a decade, new pre-paid cards footprints in the world, thereby benefiting relation to innovation and IoT. With Mobile Connect, mobile 2 customers can look forward to creating a universal trusted digital identity. 44 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 45 Hubbing Entertainment & SmartLife in Review Entertainment Significant We are actively We formed strong partnerships in content, In addition, we delighted rugby fans by on top of changing distribution and technology. We took our carrying telecasts of all the other legs of the Achievements viewers around the world with our extensive HSBC World Rugby Sevens Series. We also FY2016 consumers’ range of programming while remaining firmly gave back to the community by working preferences, offering rooted here, promoting local sports, content, together with FOX Sports to bring in Fijian FEB them value and and values. rugby legend, Waisale Serevei, to conduct a Signed up as Great Eastern Yeo’s S.League official choice. We are glad clinic for youths here. broadcaster hundreds of thousands Kick Offs, Tip Offs Nothing keeps the eyeballs glued more In April, we introduced the beIN SPORTS HD MAR of consumers turn to than adrenaline-pumping sporting action. channel, which carries live coverage of La Partnered HSBC World Rugby Singapore Sevens us to be entertained, We have been busy reinforcing existing ties Liga, Ligue 1, Coupe de la Ligue and Trophée informed, and to lead and securing new partners to bring the des Champions matches. La Liga is the first Launched DreamWorks Animation channel across a ‘smarter’ lifestyle that biggest variety of sports content to our division of professional Spanish football, various platforms is constantly on the StarHub TV subscribers. featuring mega-stars such as Lionel Messi and Performance go and at home. Our Cristiano Ronaldo. Ligue 1, meanwhile, is the Signed MOU with SPH & SmartLife As a proud Singaporean brand, we have top division over at France and features top Raised curtains on upgraded 5-in-1 value been doing our part to support local sports. players such as Mario Balotelli, Edinson Cavani upcoming Public bundle, HomeHub Go, In February, we announced our partnership and Thiago Silva. Service Broadcast (PSB) programming offering Fibre TV, Fibre with the Great Eastern Yeo’s S.League. As the Announced intention to Broadband and 15GB local football league’s official broadcaster, The European football action continued acquire strategic stake in mobile data will serve we carried live matches via Singapore’s only with our live carriage of all 51 matches of mm2 Asia Ltd (which was free sports channel, Hub Sports Arena. We the UEFA European Football Championship completed in June) our customers well. also carried the latest news and profiles of the (UEFA EURO 2016). Football fans were treated APR various S.League players on our daily sports to not just HD action but also extras such as First in Southeast Asia to news show ‘HubSports 360’. match previews, post-match analyses, and carry BBC First daily highlights. Launched new version In March, Singapore hosted the HSBC of StarHub Go, in time World Rugby Sevens Series for the first time Knowing that the Premier League still for new season of commands the most popular football offering, Game of Thrones and we celebrated this by signing a fouryear partnership with HSBC World Rugby we have made it a point to continuously Introduced beIN Singapore Sevens. As the official broadcaster, enhance and expand ways our subscribers SPORTS channel we broadcasted the tournament live on Hub can enjoy the action via our tie-up with Eleven MAY Sports Arena and streamed it on smart devices Sports Network’s coverage. Started MaxToon through the StarHub Go app. in partnership with MyChinaChannel JUN Live telecast of UEFA EURO 2016 matches SEP Launched Smithsonian channel OCT Set up StarHub VR Tennis Zone at OCBC Square Pay TV Customers Pay TV Revenue Broadband Revenue NOV $m $m Launched Go Shop 24/7 498k -7.2% YoY shopping channel & Love Nature channel 2013 386 2013 242 Introduced new ‘Connoisseur Pack’ 2014 390 2014 202 Signed up as Singapore “The Hub Trooper team has conducted Slingers’ official Broadband Customers 2015 391 2015 200 broadcaster for three years over 100,000 home visits. We are 473k experienced in solving digital issues.” 2016 378 2016 217 Adrian Siew Hub Trooper -0.5% YoY 46 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 47 Hubbing in Review continued Entertainment & SmartLife Stream In August, English football fans were able to TVB’s Growing Blitz International Spread data analytics and marketing. This MOU We strive to offer LIVE stream live coverage of the Premier League, the We brought in the Year of the Monkey Our already comprehensive spread of brings together the complementary, multiCoverage 1 FA Cup, the English Football League Cup, the media, multi-platform capabilities of the two the widest range with lots of buzz and fun. We offered free international programming has become even Up to Football League Championship and England preview of more than 150 channels – making more so. Our content and partnership team respective companies. With this partnership, of international 5 Leagues international home ‘friendlies’ by getting the Chinese New Year house visits more lively brought on new content partners so that we we expect our subscribers to enjoy an even content but we ‘Prime Football Pass’ on StarHub Go. The and enjoyable. We also arranged for meet and can delight even more subscribers. better experience and our advertisers to gain remain fully matches were caught across three StarHub greet sessions where fans can see their idols even better returns. anchored to our Go channels – Eleven, Eleven Sports and such as Grace Chan, Kristal Tin and Raymond In January, we launched WAKUWAKU JAPAN local partners Eleven Plus. Wong from Hong Kong, Evan Ma and Pets channel, which carries shows ranging from firstEven before this MOU, both companies are Tseng from Taiwan as well as Seo Kang Jun run drama series to anime to documentaries already in close collaboration. For example, be it in content, Besides English football, the three channels from Korea. and even matches of J.LEAGUE, the country’s in August 2015, we jointly presented an eightdistribution and also aired selected football matches from the professional football league. episode ‘Ministerial Coffee Talk’ produced by even strategic Italian Serie A, Campeonato Brasileiro Série A In October, we celebrated our long-standing SPH and shown on StarHub TV. business alliances. and the Scottish Professional Football League partnership with iconic Hong Kong TV station In March, we enriched our Filipino content Performance as well as CONMEBOL 2018 World Cup TVB with the seventh edition of the StarHub with the addition of three new channels: In addition, several new initiatives are already Russia qualifiers. TVB Awards. The martial arts drama, A Fist GMA Pinoy TV, GMA Life TV, and GMA in the pipeline. In July, talk show ‘Zaobao Within Four Walls, was the biggest winner that On Demand. GMA Pinoy TV, the flagship Keywords’, started airing on StarHub’s In November, a three-year deal was signed evening. The kungfu drama, which featured international channel of Philippines’ GMA FreeView Chinese channel Hub E City. with the Singapore Slingers. Under this leading artistes Ruco Chan and Nancy Wu, network, offers the best in soap operas, talk Zaobao Keywords is a video news programme arrangement, we will be carrying all of the picked up a total of seven accolades. shows, variety programmes and news. of Lianhe Zaobao, the Chinese flagship Slingers’ matches in the ASEAN Basketball newspaper of SPH. Via each three-minute League live on Hub Sports Arena. There were 17 award categories with GMA Life TV, is a showcase of the warmth segment, the presenters would help introduce 14 open for public voting. In a sign that the of the Filipino lifestyle with its mix of soap three keywords used in the context of the The matches are available to non-StarHub popularity of StarHub TVB Awards has grown operas, movies, cookery shows and comedies. news stories of the day. subscribers via the 76.25MHz channel as well. considerably, there was a 35% year-on-year Meanwhile, GMA On Demand, offers viewers With the backing of a much wider audience, increase in the number of votes cast during their favourite GMA programming at their We have put in serious resources to develop we look forward to the Slingers go further in the six weeks voting period. convenience, injected with 16 hours of fresh original content. We acquired an 8.8% stake their coming championship run. content monthly. in Catalist-listed regional production house mm2 Asia Ltd for $18.04 million in June 2016. The following month, we became the first By doing so, we will be better placed to make market in Southeast Asia to carry the channel our content offerings stand out in this much BBC First, home of premium and original cluttered space. We celebrated drama from BBC. Marquee drama offerings our long-standing include Sherlock, a detective series with a As mm2 has presence in the region, we also 2 partnership with modern twist; War and Peace, the latest TV hope to take our original productions beyond Hong Kong TVB adaption of Leo Tolstoy’s epic novel; and Singapore shores through them. We already with the seventh Luther, a crime thriller. have a fruitful track record of partnering with edition of the mm2 Asia earlier with our investments in local StarHub TVB Korean fever went up a few notches in blockbusters such as ‘Ah Boys To Men’ and its Awards. December; we announced the launch of sequels. We look forward to more. tvN Movies HD, Asia’s first dedicated Korean movie channel. Starting January 2017, Korean The Values of PSB fans can get to enjoy the latest Korean To drive the popularity of locally-produced blockbusters in all their HD glory, roundcontent, StarHub has been working closely the-clock. The channel is also available on with industry regulator, IMDA, under its PSB demand as tvN Movies VOD HD. Contestable Funds Scheme. Proudly Local Via this scheme, we commissioned and We strive to offer the widest range of produced a variety of programmes ranging international content but we remain fully from travelogues to children infotainment to anchored to our local partners be it in sports documentaries. One of the StarHub content, distribution and even strategic Go local dramas ‘Echoes of Time’ lead actor, business alliances. James Wen, was nominated under the Best Performance By An Actor category at the In March, we signed an MOU with publishing 2016 International Emmy Awards. Taiwanese giant SPH to collaborate in areas ranging Wen scored the Emmy nod but lost out to from sales, creation and carriage of content, Dustin Hoffman. 48 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 49 Hubbing in Review continued Entertainment & SmartLife Recognising that media consumption habit We operate within this dense urbanscape but Smart Homes, Intelligent Platforms In June, we launched a new service Introducing new platforms has become more varied, we also started we bring the wide expanses of nature to our We constantly find ways to make our CATCHPLAY Unlimited on StarHub TV, 4 for unlimited enjoyment commissioning for short-form content, so viewers. In November, StarHub TV subscribers platform more useful for our subscribers. bringing additional ways of enjoying movie that they can be more easily consumed were the first in Asia to join the Love Nature In partnership with Astro, we introduced content. CATCHPLAY Unlimited is a monthly CATCHPLAY Unlimited via mobile devices on the go. The content channel on a visual journey from the savannahs Go Shop, a 24/7 shopping channel on subscription plan offering viewers a buffet of and format may differ, but they keep true of South Africa to the secrets of the Arctic. Hollywood, independent studios and Asian Movies StarHub TV in November. to some common values – the celebration titles. For viewers who prefer to pay for only of Singapore’s culture and heritage, and With more than 300 hours of original This channel offers immersive and entertaining specific titles, they can opt for CATCHPLAY promotion of the Singaporean identity. programming produced per year, Love demonstrations of products ranging from Single Rental, to enjoy at their leisure. StarHub will be commissioning about 110 Nature seeks to inspire nature lovers to bring frying pans to fitness machines. Once our hours of original productions. better awareness to issues such as wildlife subscribers fancy any item, they can easily We do not just enhance the content that we conservation. Doing our part as a company go to the Go Shop website and make their carry; we constantly experiment with new To mark Singapore’s 51st birthday in a that cares about our wider community and purchases conveniently. ways and technologies to keep the experience Special 3 meaningful way, we produced a special surroundings, we are showing the Love Nature fresh. In line with the growing popularity of Rendition Performance rendition of the national anthem ‘Majulah channel on our ‘Freeview’ tier, accessible to all We helped fan the Game of Thrones fever tennis here, we set up a StarHub VR Tennis Sung by Singapura’, sung by 51 Singaporean mothers. our StarHub TV subscribers. in April when we introduced an enhanced Zone at the OCBC Square, which gives the 51 mums This unique ‘Majulah Moms’ music video is the version of our StarHub Go streaming service experience the on-the-court action of world latest in the series of StarHub’s annual National We have an expanding range of content during the premiere of the new season. class tennis action through the power of 360 Day campaigns. offerings but we also recognise we can make The new StarHub Go version includes a 3D virtual reality. refinements in the way we present them to our recommendation feature that draws upon It is meant to promote inclusiveness and subscribers. Also in November, we introduced past viewing preferences, as well as a search The footage was captured via a Nokia OZO togetherness in this country we call home. a new ‘Connoisseur Pack’, for subscribers who function which makes it easier to fish out that Camera mounted above the umpire’s chair, Majulah Moms follows our preceding year’s are keen to experience the finer things in life most desired content. which offered an all-round vantage point from ‘Home by Homes’ which featured talents from from classical music to arthouse films and spectators’ cheering to the players serving. nine voluntary welfare organisations. It ended travel, fashion and lifestyle shows. With our supersized catalogue ranging from up as number one on YouTube’s Top 10 Playlist HBO hit series to acclaimed BBC productions in Singapore. This new channel pack consists of to TVB’s latest offerings, StarHub Go offers TV5MONDE Style HD, TV5MONDE Asie HD, something for every viewer. Family and Education Stingray Brava HD, Stingray DJAZZ HD, A-List Nothing keeps a family closer than the HD, CinemaWorld (HD) and CinemaWorld On common experience of watching some Demand HD. entertaining and educational shows. In March, in conjunction with DreamWorks Animation, Netflix Connects we launched the multi-platform DreamWorks We are always ready to bring on board new Channel, delighting our young viewers with partners to complement our TV offerings. Just the goofiness of ‘Kung Fu Panda’ and mythical after the start of the New Year, we announced world of ‘How To Train Your Dragon’. a tie-up with popular Internet TV provider Netflix to allow our Fibre TV customers to In May, StarHub TV and MyChinaChannel enjoy Netflix’s expansive catalogue of content jointly launched ‘MaxToon’, a dedicated through our set-top boxes. We have an HD Mandarin edutainment channel for expanding range kids aged three to 12. The first of its kind in Due to our Open Connect partnership with of content offerings Singapore, MaxToon offers an entertaining and Netflix, StarHub Mobile and Broadband but we also educational mix of cartoons and live action subscribers now enjoy smoother streaming for recognise we can programming, carefully curated from China. popular shows such as Daredevil, Orange is the New Black, and even Netflix’s first French make refinements In September, we brought in another big original series Marseille. in the way we brand name in content with the launch of present them to the Smithsonian Channel. Inspired by the For additional convenience, customers can our subscribers. We world-renowned Smithsonian Institution charge their Netflix subscription to their introduced a new – the world’s largest museum, education monthly StarHub bills – we are one of the ‘Connoisseur Pack’ and research complex – the channel first Asian pay TV operators to offer this offers programming ranging from stories convenient arrangement. for subscribers of human endeavour to documentaries on who are keen to breakthroughs in science as well as notable experience the events in history. finer things in life. 50 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 51 Hubbing Enterprise Fixed in Review In a market of many In 2016, we added new abilities in critical areas In addition, renowned international security Enterprise Fixed Significant such as cyber security, where the threats are expert Professor Yitzhak Ben-Israel has been Achievements vendors serving real and present. As attention on cyber security appointed Advisor to the COE. FY2016 business customers, shifts upwards from the server room to the we differentiate boardroom, we are ready to capture this as a IoT Tapped to Improve APR ourselves by growing business, but more importantly, also Business Processes Launched the SmartShare service for SMBs investing heavily in address our customers’ rising concerns. IoT is here to stay, and we are helping our own capabilities businesses to tap into it to enhance their MAY Excellence in Cyber Security operations and productivity. In September, Invested $200 million with and network In May, we announced a joint investment as part of StarHub’s Connected Labs partners & launched the Cyber Security COE infrastructure. This of $200 million with our partners over undertakings, we announced a new joint ensures that our the next five years to grow the cyber project on connected vehicles. AUG First telco in Asean to customers get to security ecosystem in Singapore. Via the be named Autodesk’s enjoy better reliability, newly-launched Cyber Security COE, we Our partners in this pilot are the National Performance ‘Value Added Distributor’ aim to grow our bench of expertise and University of Singapore (NUS), ComfortDelGro quality and value. SEP competencies in this fast-growing area. Bus as well as Veniam, a company that focuses Cyber Security COE The COE is supported by the Economic on Internet of Moving Things projects. welcomes Coronet as Development Board. latest partner As part of this trial, NUS’s shuttle buses function StarHub, NUS, Veniam and We have five industry partners at the start: as mobile Wi-Fi access points connecting to ComfortDelGro Bus in connected vehicles pilot Blue Coat, Cyberbit, Fortinet, Verint and Wedge one another, buildings and bus stops as they launch Networks. Just four months after launch, we ply throughout the NUS Kent Ridge campus. added Coronet; an Israel-based company that A dynamic Wi-Fi network is created along OCT Winner of ’Best IP Services was founded in 2014, but has already won the route, providing better reach and wireless Infrastructure’ by readers acclaim as a leading provider of technology connectivity to the NUS community. of Networkworld Asia for and solutions to ward off wireless threats. second consecutive years The connected elements generate a trove NOV To deepen the pipeline of cyber security of traffic pattern data which can then be Launched Device talent, we are also partnering with four analysed and applied in areas like urban Subscription Service for SMBs institutes of higher learning (IHL), including commute and logistics. Nanyang Polytechnic, Republic Polytechnic, DEC Temasek Polytechnic and Singapore University In November, we supported a pilot trial of Launched services over the new APG submarine cable of Technology and Design. In conjunction solar-powered, rubbish-compacting smart network system with these IHLs and the Cyber Security Agency bins along Orchard Road by technology of Singapore, we aim to train 300 specialists in company Terra Sol and the Orchard Road this field over the next five years. Business Association. Data & Internet Revenue Data & Internet Revenue Voice Revenue $m $m $347m +4.9% YoY 2013 303 2013 65 2014 321 2014 57 “Our enterprise customers operate in an Voice Revenue 331 54 environment with greater IT complexities 2015 2015 and we respond by providing them with $53m 2016 347 2016 53 -1.8% YoY more capabilities.” Guo Jiawei IP System Engineer 52 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 53 Hubbing in Review continued Enterprise Fixed Wireless Our 4G mobile networks provides wireless All these projects are part of our push towards In April, we launched a new mobile valueand other devices, they can choose to stretch Voted for the Connectivity connectivity for the smart bins, whereby realbecoming a Smart Nation. added service that aims to help SMBs their dollar by subscribing for the use of these Via 1 time information is transmitted from the bins maximise their mobile plans whilst minimising hardware together with other bundled IT second year 4G Mobile to the waste management monitoring system Expanding our IT Offerings wastage and keeping cost in check, by services and internet access. running – winner Networks located at Terra Sol’s office, allowing them We have made inroads into other parts of the combining voice minutes as well as SMS and of ‘Best IP Services to optimise operation efficiency. In addition, broader IT industry. Since August, we have data allowances from all the mobile plans Resilience in Connectivity Infrastructure’ shoppers are able to log on to the bins’ Wi-Fi been named ‘Value Added Distributor’ for 3D subscribed for employees into one common We also constantly enhance our international by readers of network and surf the internet for free. design software provider Autodesk. We are the pool for sharing. connectivity infrastructure. In December, in NetworkWorld Asia. first telecommunications provider in Southeast line with growing demand for international In October, we deployed Singapore’s first Asia accorded this status. Device and Services Subscription bandwidth, we launched services over the autonomous hotel front-of-house guest We continually improve on what we can do new APG submarine cable network system. room-service delivery robot, Relay, in As many of our business customers lean on us for our business customers. In November, as partnership with US tech start-up Savioke not just for internet access but also the range part of our Enterprise Hubbing strategy, we The APG is a 10,900-km submarine cable and Hotel Productivity Centre for M Social of IT services, we are in a good position to introduced a new ‘Device Subscription Service’. network system linking nine countries and Performance Singapore. deliver software such as Autodesk’s, which is regions in Asia Pacific: China, Hong Kong, used increasingly by remote teams working This service combines devices from renowned Japan, Malaysia, Singapore, South Korea, The hotel was looking to robotic solutions to out of the cloud. vendors such as HP, and also the software Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam. This submarine help streamline operations as well as enhance and technical support necessary to manage cable comes with a capacity exceeding guest experience. Relay is known as AURA Smart Sharing the IT needs of businesses effectively at a flat 54Tbps – the highest of any network in Asia. (Automated Room-Service Associate) at the Increasingly, SMBs depend on messagingmonthly fee. We believe such a service will hotel. This is the first time Relay is deployed based communication services as a customer help the thousands of SMBs here to worry While Singapore is already connected via outside the US. service tool. Most companies are likely to less about their IT needs and focus fully on other submarine cable networks, by tapping select the right mobile plans that fit the growing their core business. into APG, we can ensure traffic routing We integrated AURA with the key hotel usage patterns of their employees, but due diversity and thereby boosting resilience systems, enabling it to autonomously ride to the dynamic nature of today’s business, We also believe this service can go some way in communications. in elevators, navigate to guest rooms, notify it becomes inevitable that some will exceed in helping our customers manage their cash guests of a delivery, and open its lid for guests their individual allocated bundle. flow. For example, instead of requiring upfront to retrieve items when they answer the door. capital expenditure in computers, printers We deployed Singapore’s first 2 autonomous hotel front-of-house guest room-service delivery robot, AURA, for M Social Singapore. 54 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 55 Corporate Governance Building on the strong foundations of transparency, accountability and integrity. Throughout the financial year, as Board meetings for the upcoming The number of Board and Board and when deemed necessary by the financial year are scheduled in advance Committee meetings held in FY2016 and CORPORATE GOVERNANCE robust procedures and delegated • the Audit Committee (AC); Board, additional Board meetings before the end of the current financial the attendance of the Directors at these STATEMENT authorities; • the Strategy Committee (SC); may be convened to consider urgent year so that the Directors are able to meetings as well as the Annual General At StarHub, we are committed to • Regularly review the performance • the Nominating Committee (NC); proposals or matters that require plan ahead and attend the upcoming Meeting (AGM) and the Extraordinary upholding sound corporate governance of Senior Management and the • the Executive Resource and the Board’s review and approval. financial year’s Board meetings General Meeting (EGM) held in FY2016 and sustainability practices and remuneration framework of the Compensation Committee (ERCC); StarHub’s Constitution allows Board according to the respective meeting are tabulated below: policies that promote transparency, Board and Senior Management; and meetings to be held via audio and video schedules. accountability and integrity. We • Review and approve key operational • the Risk Committee (RC). conferencing to facilitate the Board’s recognise that this is essential for the and business initiatives, major decision-making process. long-term sustainability of our business funding and investment proposals, The composition of the Board and value creation for our stakeholders. acquisitions and divestments; Committees and their specific • Recognise that the perceptions responsibilities are set out in the later Table 1 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE of key stakeholder groups affect sections of this Report. The Terms Board Committee Meetings Board AGM REPORT 2016 StarHub’s reputation, identify the key of Reference of the respective Board Meetings AC SC NC ERCC RC & EGM This report describes our corporate stakeholder groups (which include Committees are available on the No. of Meetings Held 5 4 4 3 5 2 1 governance framework, policies and customers, suppliers and business StarHub Investor Relations (IR) website. Steven Terrell Clontz 5 – 4 – – – 1 practices for the financial year ended partners) and guide Management in 31 December 2016 (FY2016). StarHub StarHub’s strategy and approach in Additional Board committees may be Tan Tong Hai 5 – – – – 2 1 has complied, in all material aspects, addressing the concerns of these key formed to undertake specific duties if Ma Kah Woh 5 4 – – – – 1 with the principles and guidelines of the stakeholder groups; necessitated by business requirements. Peter Seah Lim Huat(1) 5 – – 3 5 – 1 Governance Code of Corporate Governance (Code) • Set StarHub’s values and standards Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE 5 4 4 – – – 1 issued by the Monetary Authority of (including ethical standards), to The Board delegates specific areas Teo Ek Tor 5 – – 3 5 2 1 Singapore on 2 May 2012, and in some ensure that the Group’s obligations of responsibilities to each Board Sio Tat Hiang(2) 4 – – 2 4 2 1 areas, has made improvements from to shareholders and stakeholders are Committee. Each Board Committee is Lim Ming Seong 5 4 4 – 5 – 1 the previous financial year ended well-understood and duly met; required to operate and make decisions Liu Chee Ming 4 – 3 – – – 1 31 December 2015. • Provide guidance on the social, on matters within its terms of reference ethical and environmental impact and applicable limits of authority. Robert J. Sachs(3) 5 – 4 – – – – of the Group’s activities and Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee 5 4 – – – – 1 1. BOARD MATTERS monitor compliance with StarHub’s The Board reviews the decisions Nasser Marafih 3 – – – – – 1 THE BOARD’S CONDUCT sustainability policies and practices; made by each Board Committee Takeshi Kazami 4 – – – – – 1 OF AFFAIRS and regularly. The respective Chairman of Stephen Geoffrey Miller(4) – – – – – – – • Ensure the Group’s compliance with each Board Committee updates the Notes: The Board’s Role all relevant laws and regulations. Board at Board meetings, in relation (1) After the end of FY2016, Mr Peter Seah Lim Huat stepped down from the Board and ceased to be the NC Chairman and the ERCC Chairman (as well as a NC The Board has oversight of the business to key matters raised and/or decisions member and an ERCC member) with effect from 1 January 2017. performance and affairs of the Group. The Board and individual Directors are made at the last-held meeting of the (2) After the end of FY2016, Mr Sio Tat Hiang stepped down from the Board and ceased to be a NC member, an ERCC member and a RC member with effect from The Board leads, directs and works obliged to act in good faith and consider respective Board Committees. For 1 January 2017. (3) Mr Robert J. Sachs stepped down from the Board and ceased to be a SC member with effect from 30 December 2016. closely with Management, with a view the best interests of StarHub and all its any matter which requires the Board’s (4) After the end of FY2016, Mr Stephen Geoffrey Miller was appointed as a non-executive Director, a SC member and an ERCC member with effect from to the long-term success of the various shareholders at all times. approval, the Board Committees would 1 January 2017. Mr Miller was also appointed as the RC Chairman with effect from 10 January 2017, succeeding Mr Teo Ek Tor. businesses of the Group. recommend the course of action to The Board has established a framework the Board for its consideration and The Board takes on the following key on authorisation and approval limits decision. Minutes of the meetings of roles and responsibilities: for capital and operating expenditure, the AC, the SC, the NC and the RC as well as specified transactions are also circulated to the Board for its • Provide entrepreneurial leadership including acquisitions and disposals of information, while the minutes of the and guidance to Management and investments, procurement of goods meetings of the ERCC are available to steer the Group through its strategy and services, bank facilities and cheque the Directors on request. and corporate plan; signatories. Within this framework, the • Ensure that the necessary financial Board has set relevant authority and Board Meetings and human resources are in place for approval sub-limits for delegation to For FY2016, the Board held a total of five the Group to meet its objectives; various Management levels to optimise meetings. In keeping with past practice, • Establish a framework of prudent operational efficiency. a full-day Board Strategy offsite was and effective controls which enables held to conduct an in-depth review of risks to be assessed and managed Board Committees the Group’s strategy going forward and in order to safeguard shareholders’ The Board has established the following to consider the Group’s budget for the interests and StarHub’s assets. This Board committees (Board Committees) upcoming financial year. framework is supported by clear and to facilitate the discharge of its functions: 56 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 57 Corporate Governance continued Board Orientation and Continual • updates on key legal, regulatory, and an ERCC member); independent judgement, the NC and the the review procedures, the IPT terms international), knowledge, gender, Training & Development industry and accounting changes • Mr Teo Ek Tor, an independent Board consider, inter alia, the approach, and pricing are to be (a) consistent culture and nationality. It encourages StarHub has a comprehensive induction which affect the Group, given during Director, was appointed as the character and attitude of each nonwith StarHub’s usual business practices robust and quality deliberations among programme for all newly-appointed Board meetings or via email; and ERCC Chairman, succeeding executive Director, including whether and policies and no more favourable the Directors, and mitigates ‘group Directors that is specifically tailored for • articles and reports (including Mr Peter Seah Lim Huat. Mr Teo such Director: to the interested persons than those thinking’ in decision-making. The Board the Group’s business and operations. industry news and analyst reports) also ceased to be the RC Chairman extended to unrelated third parties; and enjoys the unique contribution that each Management conducts briefings for relevant to the Group’s business, (and a RC member); • is free from any interest and any (b) fair and reasonable. StarHub will also Director brings to the development of newly-appointed Directors to familiarise regularly circulated to the Directors • Mr Sio Tat Hiang stepped down business or other relationship consider factors such as specification the overall strategy of the Group by way them with the Group’s business and uploaded onto the StarHub from the Board and ceased to be which could, or could reasonably compliance, track record, experience of alternative perspectives and fresh activities, strategic directions, financials, Board Portal for their reference. a NC member, an ERCC member be perceived to, interfere with and expertise, as well as preferential challenges during discussions. The policies and governance practices, as and a RC member; and the exercise of the Director’s rates/discounts for bulk purchase. An immense network of contacts across the well as StarHub’s corporate culture and In addition, the Directors are free to • Ms Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee, an independent business judgement authorised senior officer who does not industries which such diversity provides the key developments in the Group and conduct independent or collective independent Director, was appointed with a view to the best interests of have any conflict of interest in relation has proven invaluable to StarHub. industry. The induction programme also discussions with Management and as the NC Chairman, succeeding the Group; and to the IPT will determine whether the includes meetings with the CEO and subject matter experts on any area Mr Peter Seah Lim Huat. • has any material contractual price and terms are fair and reasonable. The Chairman and Directors support Senior Management. of interest or concern. Where needed, relationship with the Group other Where possible, competitive quotations the CEO in stakeholder engagements, operational site visits are organised Mr Tan Tong Hai, the Group CEO, than as a Director. or tenders for purchase transactions including with shareholders, business To ensure that all Directors have relevant to enable the Directors to have remains the sole executive Director are procured. partners and regulators. information and up-to-date working a clear understanding of issues faced on the Board. After careful rigorous review, the NC knowledge of the Group’s business by the Group. recommends, and the Board is of the In FY2016, there were no IPTs or In furtherance of their duties, and operations, each Director is issued The independent Directors on firm view, that Mr Nihal Vijaya Devadas related party transactions that can be the Directors are given access to Governance with a tablet which enables him or her BOARD COMPOSITION the Board are Mr Ma Kah Woh, Kaviratne CBE, Mr Teo Ek Tor and Mr classified as financial assistance to independent professional advice at to access the StarHub Board Portal. AND GUIDANCE Mr Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE, Liu Chee Ming have each demonstrated entities other than StarHub’s whollyStarHub’s expense should they deem The StarHub Board Portal is specifically Currently, the Board comprises 11 Ms Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee, Mr Teo Ek the essential independence of mind and owned subsidiary companies as well as such advice necessary. At least once designed to provide information in Directors. During FY2016, Mr Robert J. Tor and Mr Liu Chee Ming, representing objectivity of judgement to act honestly associated company, SHINE Systems a year, non-executive Directors meet accordance with the principles and Sachs stepped down from the Board more than one-third of the Board. The and in the best interests of the Group in Assets Pte. Ltd.. to discuss, inter alia, Management’s guidelines of the Code including: as an independent Director on Chairman, Mr Steven Terrell Clontz, is the discharge of their Directors’ duties, performance without the presence of 30 December 2016, after having served not an independent Director within the and therefore considers them to be StarHub does not provide loans to Management. • information on Directors’ duties and on the Board for 11 years. After the end meaning of the Code given his executive independent. Directors as a matter of corporate how to discharge those duties; of FY2016, Mr Peter Seah Lim Huat and position at Singapore Technologies policy and therefore no loans have CHAIRMAN AND CEO • the contact details of the Board and Mr Sio Tat Hiang stepped down from Telemedia Pte Ltd. Any Director who has an interest or been provided by StarHub to the In StarHub, there is a clear division Senior Management; the Board as non-executive Directors relationship which is likely to impact Directors in FY2016. in responsibilities between the • the terms of reference of the on 1 January 2017, after having served The individual profile of the Directors on his/her independence or conflict leadership of the Board and respective Board Committees; and on the Board for 14 years and 4 years and all principal directorships and with a subject under discussion by the The Board, through the NC, annually Management. The Chairman and • the insider trading policy and respectively. The Board thanks Mr Sachs, chairmanships in any listed companies Board is required to immediately declare examines its size and composition to the CEO of StarHub are separate Directors’ share trading policy Mr Seah and Mr Sio for their past held by the Directors currently and in his/her interest or relationship to the ensure its overall effectiveness. Given persons, ensuring an appropriate of StarHub. service and invaluable contributions the preceding three years, are found in Board, remove himself/herself from the scope and nature of the Group’s balance of powers, increased to the Group. the ‘Board of Directors’ and ‘Directors’ the information flow, and abstain from operations, the Board is of the view that accountability and greater capacity The Board encourages the Directors Particulars’ sections of the Annual Report. participating in any further discussion or its current size of 11 is conducive and for the Board to make independent to continually develop and refresh As part of StarHub’s ongoing renewal voting on the subject matter. facilitates effective decision-making. decisions. No one individual holds their knowledge and skills, and of the Board, Mr Stephen Geoffrey The NC rigorously reviews the In this regard, the Board has also considerable concentration of power keep themselves abreast of relevant Miller was appointed to the Board independence of each non-executive Interested person transactions (IPTs) taken into account the complexity and within the Group. developments in the Group’s business as a non-executive Director, the Director annually, particularly those who entered into by any of the entities requirements of the Group’s business. and the regulatory and industry-specific RC Chairman, a SC member and an have served more than nine years. As in the Group are governed by the The Chairman is Mr Steven Terrell environments in which the Group ERCC member in January 2017. The at 1 January 2017, three independent Shareholders’ Mandate for Interested The Board consists of Directors who are Clontz, who is a non-executive Director operates. The Company Secretary following changes to the Board also Directors, namely Mr Nihal Vijaya Person Transactions as approved by business leaders and professionals of and unrelated to the CEO. He: facilitates the arrangement of internal took effect in January 2017: Devadas Kaviratne CBE, Mr Teo Ek Tor shareholders each year at StarHub’s high calibre and integrity. They possess briefings as well as external seminars and Mr Liu Chee Ming, have served on EGM, as well as the disclosure and a broad range of core competencies • leads the Board to ensure its and trainings for the Directors (including • Mr Steven Terrell Clontz was the Board for more than nine years. The shareholder approval requirements and experience in banking, accounting effectiveness on all aspects those conducted by StarHub’s panel of appointed as a NC member; NC recommends, and the Board takes under Chapter 9 of the SGX-ST and finance, legal, regulatory, technical, of its role; law firms and the Singapore Institute of • Mr Ma Kah Woh, an independent the view, that the key consideration Listing Manual. Review procedures business and industry knowledge, • sets the agenda and ensures that Directors in conjunction with the Director, was appointed as a RC in ascertaining the effectiveness of a have been established by StarHub to management and strategic planning adequate time is available for SGX-ST). In addition, the Company member; Director’s independence is his ability ensure that all IPTs are undertaken experience, and customer-based discussion of all agenda items, in Secretary and members of Senior • Mr Peter Seah Lim Huat stepped to exercise independence of mind on an arm’s length basis and on experience and knowledge. The particular strategic issues; Management also provide regular down from the Board and ceased to and objectivity of judgement to act normal commercial terms, and are not Board, as a group, constantly seeks • promotes a culture of openness and updates to keep the Directors abreast be the NC Chairman and the ERCC honestly and in the best interest of the prejudicial to the interests of StarHub to maintain an appropriate mix of constructive debate at the Board; of relevant developments, including: Chairman (as well as a NC member Group. When assessing objectivity and and its minority shareholders. Under expertise, experience (both local and • ensures that the Directors receive 58 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 59 Corporate Governance continued complete, adequate and timely • Ms Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee, NC appointed by the Board during the Director, their individual abilities and key areas and individual interviews the Group, and regular analysts’ reports information. He works with the Chairman and independent Director financial year are required to retire and their respective individual contribution with each Director were carried out. and media articles on StarHub and CEO in relation to the Board’s (appointed to the NC with effect stand for election by shareholders at of skills, knowledge and experience and the industry. Collectively, such reports requirements for information in from 1 January 2017) the first AGM of StarHub after their their commitment to the affairs The annual review process facilitates enable the Directors to constantly keep order to contribute effectively to the • Mr Steven Terrell Clontz, nonappointment. The Code requires all of StarHub. consideration by the Board of its abreast of key issues and developments Board decision-making process; executive Chairman of the Board Directors to retire and stand for membership, including renewal in the industry as well as challenges • encourages effective (appointed to the NC with effect re-election by shareholders at least The Board does not have any alternate considerations. The results of the and opportunities for the Group, communication with shareholders; from 1 January 2017) once in every three-year period. Directors. All Directors dedicate their performance evaluation exercise are thereby facilitating informed and • encourages constructive relations • Mr Teo Ek Tor, independent Director personal time and attention to the affairs collected, analysed and presented sound decisions. within the Board and between the The NC reviews and considers the of StarHub. to the NC, in consultation with the Board and Management. As the During FY2016, the NC held 3 meetings. independence of each Director on an Chairman. The NC reviews and Independent of the information primary link between the Board annual basis. If the NC considers that a BOARD PERFORMANCE recommends to the Board the followprovided to the Directors as described and Management, he provides The Board notes that Mr Steven Terrell Director is independent notwithstanding StarHub believes that Board up actions required to strengthen the above, Management is available at all continuity between Board meetings Clontz is not considered independent the existence of specific relationships or performance is ultimately reflected in Board’s leadership so as to improve the times to answer any queries raised and thereby oversees the effective within the meaning of the Code in circumstances mentioned in the Code, the performance of the Group. effectiveness of the Board’s oversight by the Directors. Frequent dialogue implementation of the Board’s view of his executive role at Singapore it provides its view to the Board for the The NC has the responsibility of of StarHub. Where appropriate, and interactions take place between decisions; Technologies Telemedia Pte Ltd. Board’s determination. The NC will assessing the effectiveness of the Board Management may also be involved in Management and the Directors. • facilitates the effective contribution However, after due consideration, the consider factors such as the Director’s as a whole, and the contribution of the the review process, and will assist in Consequently, the Directors are able of non-executive Directors; and Board and the NC are of the view that his independent business judgement, Board Committees and each Director to implementing the necessary measures. to gain a deeper understanding of • promotes high standards of appointment does not interfere with the objectivity, integrity and conduct in the effectiveness of the Board. StarHub’s operations and information, corporate governance. exercise of his independent judgement acting honestly in the best interests of The awards and accolades that StarHub allowing them to better strategise and Governance on the Board or prevent him from acting the Group. Conversely, the NC has the For FY2016, the Board engaged the has received from the investment guide StarHub in their role as Directors. The CEO is Mr Tan Tong Hai. He leads objectively in the best interests of the discretion to consider that a Director is assistance of Aon Hewitt Singapore community are testament to sound the Management and is responsible for Group in carrying out his duties. The not independent even in the absence of Pte Ltd (Aon Hewitt) as independent corporate governance. In FY2016, Furthermore, the StarHub Board Portal the day-to-day running of the Group’s Board and the NC further note that Mr specific relationships or circumstances external consultants to facilitate the StarHub was ranked eighth in the allows the Directors to securely access business operations as well as the Clontz is not involved in the day-tomentioned in the Code, and will similarly annual review of the performance of list of the world’s most sustainable and read Board and Board Committee effective implementation of the Group’s day running of the Group’s business provide its views to the Board for the the Board and the Board Committees. company according to the 2016 papers and materials electronically using strategies and policies. and operations, and is independent of Board’s determination. The NC has The review process identifies key Corporate Knights’ Global 100 index, tablet devices provided by StarHub at Management, with a clear separation considered and is of the view that all the issues pertaining to the effectiveness, and the significant awards received their convenience. The Board does not have a lead of role between Management and the independent Directors are sufficiently efficiency and functioning of the by StarHub include the Gold – Best independent Director. The NC and deliberations of the NC. independent and are able to objectively Board and the Board Committees, Investor Relations Award (Companies The Directors have separate and the Board are of the view that the exercise their judgement in the best in particular: with at least S$1 billion in market independent access to the Company appointment of a lead independent In proposing a Director as a candidate interests of the Group. capitalisation) as well as the Winner Secretaries, who are trained in legal director is not necessary as the for appointment or re-election, the • the adequacy of the Board – Most Transparent Company Award and company secretarial practices. Board has sufficient independence NC considers several factors, including Directors with multiple board composition, including the (Telecommunications and Utilities The Company Secretaries attend all given that: (a) the Chairman and the the composition, the diversity and the representations and/or other principal Board size, the degree of Board Category) in the Singapore Corporate Board meetings and are responsible CEO are separate persons; (b) the need for progressive renewal of the commitments (as defined in the Code) independence and the mix and Awards 2016 and the Merit – Singapore for ensuring that board procedures are Chairman and the CEO are not family Board, each candidate’s competencies, must ensure that they are able to diversity of skills, experience and Corporate Governance Award (Big Cap followed and that applicable rules and members; (c) the Chairman is not part commitment, contribution and devote sufficient time and attention knowledge of the Board; Category) in the SIAS 17th Investors’ regulations are complied with. Under of the Management team; and (d) the performance (including attendance, to the affairs of StarHub to adequately • information management and Choice Award. the direction of the Chairman, they Directors are able to exercise objective preparedness, participation and carry out their duties as Directors of Board processes, including level facilitate good information flows within and independent judgement. candour) as well as potential conflicts StarHub. The NC has reviewed the and timeliness of information ACCESS TO INFORMATION the Board and its Board Committees, of interest. This is to ensure that an individual performance of each Director provided to the Board; At least three (3) business days prior between the Board and Management, BOARD MEMBERSHIP appropriate balance of skills, experience, and is satisfied that all Directors have • integrity and corporate social to each Board and Board Committee and advise the Board on all legal and StarHub has instituted a formal and expertise and diversity is maintained on dedicated adequate time to the affairs of responsibility of the Board; meeting, Management provides the corporate governance matters. The transparent process for the selection, the Board, enabling the Board to stay StarHub and have properly discharged • managing StarHub’s performance; Directors with timely information that Company Secretaries also facilitate the appointment and re-appointment of engaged and agile in meeting the needs their duties for FY2016, and will continue • the effectiveness of Board is relevant to matters on the agenda orientation of new Directors and assist in Directors to the Board. To this end, the of the Group. External consultants to do so in the financial year ending Committees; for the meeting, except for sensitive arranging professional development and Board has established the NC to lead are engaged to assist with the 31 December 2017. Although no • CEO performance and succession matters to be tabled at the meeting training for the Directors as required. and facilitate this process with written selection process if necessary. All new maximum limit has been formally planning; itself. All sensitive Board materials that The appointment and the removal of the terms of reference that clearly set out appointments to the Board are subject set by the Board on the number of • Director’s training and development; are communicated electronically are Company Secretaries are subject to the its authority and duties. to the approval of StarHub’s regulator, listed company board representations and password-protected to safeguard Board’s approval. namely the Info-communications Media a Director with multiple board • risk management. security. Throughout the financial Currently, the NC comprises the Development Authority of Singapore. representations may hold, the NC is of year, the Board also receives monthly following non-executive Directors, the view that the duties of all Directors As part of the evaluation process, management and financial reports who are independent of Management: In accordance with StarHub’s have been fully discharged based on detailed questionnaires were completed providing updates on key performance Constitution, all Directors who are the time and attention devoted by each by each Director, with feedback on the indicators and a financial analysis of 60 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 61 Corporate Governance continued 2. REMUNERATION MATTERS review and recommend the following to and recommending the grant of Carrots to conduct a Pay-forRestricted Stock Plan. This remuneration to hold a minimum number of shares PROCEDURES FOR DEVELOPING the Board for endorsement: share awards to Directors and key Performance Alignment Study. structure encourages non-executive in StarHub with a value equivalent to REMUNERATION POLICIES management personnel for the The results showed that there was Directors to hold shares in StarHub so as the prevailing annual basic retainer • the general remuneration framework Board’s approval; sufficient evidence indicating Pay-Forto better align the interests of the nonfee, or the aggregate of (a) the total The Board has instituted a formal and and specific remuneration packages • assessing and approving candidates Performance Alignment for StarHub in executive Directors with the interests number of shares awarded as part of transparent procedure for developing for key management personnel (as for key appointments; and both absolute and relative terms over of shareholders and the long-term their remuneration for the financial year policies on executive remuneration and defined in the Code); and • overseeing the development the three-year period from the financial interests of StarHub. ended 31 December 2011 and each determining the remuneration packages • the remuneration framework for of Management and reviewing years 2013 to 2015. Additionally, the subsequent financial year thereafter and of individual Directors. The Board has each Director (including Director’s succession plans for key positions in ERCC also took into consideration the Cash Component (b) 50% of the total number of shares established the ERCC to ensure that this fees, allowances and share-based the Group. challenges in the industry/market as well Each non-executive Director receives awarded from the financial year ended is duly implemented. awards). as the job complexity and found the a basic retainer fee, attendance fee 31 December 2007 to 31 December All decisions by the ERCC are made by a CEO’s total compensation to be aligned and travel allowance (for overseas 2010, whichever is lower. Non-executive Currently, the ERCC comprises the When reviewing and recommending majority of votes of the ERCC members to the performance of StarHub. Carrots Directors). Non-executive Directors who Directors can only dispose of all their following non-executive Directors, the remuneration framework and present and voting. also conducted a Compensation Risk perform additional services in Board shares in StarHub one year after ceasing who are independent of Management, packages, the ERCC covers all aspects of Assessment. The ERCC reviewed the Committees receive additional fees. The to be a Director. The number of shares with the ERCC Chairman being an remuneration including but not limited No ERCC member or any Director is various compensation risks that may Board Chairman and the Chairman of to be awarded to a participating nonindependent Director: to Director’s fees, salaries, allowances, involved in deliberations in respect arise and introduced mitigating policies each Board Committee also receive a executive Director will be determined bonuses, options, share-based of any remuneration, compensation, to better manage the risk exposure higher fee compared with the members by reference to the volume weighted • Mr Teo Ek Tor, ERCC Chairman and incentives and awards, and benefits in share-based incentives or any form of that was identified. The ERCC has been of the Board and the respective Board average price of a share on the SGX-ST independent Director (appointed as kind. The framework and packages are benefits to be granted to such individual, undertaking periodic reviews of the Committees, in view of their greater over the 14 trading days commencing the ERCC Chairman with effect from linked to: or where there are conflicts of interests. compensation-related risks. responsibilities. on the ex-dividend date that Governance 1 January 2017) The CEO is present at all ERCC immediately follows the forthcoming • Mr Stephen Geoffrey Miller, • the performance of StarHub, the discussions on the compensation and LEVEL AND MIX Share Component AGM. The number of shares to be non-executive Director Group and the relevant individual; incentive policies for StarHub’s key staff, OF REMUNERATION The restricted share awards consist of awarded will be rounded down to the (appointed to the ERCC with • industry practices and compensation such as share awards, bonus framework, DISCLOSURE ON REMUNERATION the outright grant of fully-paid shares, nearest hundred, with cash to be paid in effect from 1 January 2017) norms; and salary and other incentive schemes, Non-Executive Directors’ without any vesting conditions attached. lieu of the remaining shares arising. • Mr Lim Ming Seong, • the need to attract key management save for ERCC discussions which relate Remuneration However, in order to encourage the non-executive Director personnel in order to ensure the to the CEO’s own compensation, terms Non-executive Directors receive 70% alignment of the interests of the nonThe non-executive Directors’ continuing development of talent and conditions of service or the review of their Directors’ remuneration in executive Directors and shareholders, remuneration for FY2016 will be During FY2016, the ERCC held and the renewal of strong leadership of his performance, of which he cash and the remaining 30% in share non-executive Directors who receive subject to shareholders’ approval at the 5 meetings. for StarHub. absents himself. awards granted pursuant to the StarHub the restricted share awards are required upcoming AGM. The Board notes that Mr Stephen With regards to the CEO and key The ERCC has access to expert Geoffrey Miller and Mr Lim Ming Seong management personnel, the ERCC professional advice on remuneration Table 2 are not considered independent within ensures that the remuneration paid of the Board and executives. The ERCC the meaning of the Code in view of to them is strongly linked to the has appointed Carrots Consulting Pte Annual Fees for the Board Mr Miller’s executive role and Mr Lim’s achievement of business and individual Ltd (Carrots) and Aon Hewitt as its Board Chairman: $165,000 directorship at Singapore Technologies performance targets. The performance remuneration consultants for FY2016 Non-Executive Director: $65,000 Telemedia Pte Ltd. However, after due targets are determined by the ERCC and is satisfied that the independence consideration, the Board and the NC based on realistic yet stretched levels and objectivity of Carrots and Aon Additional Annual Fees for the Board Committees are of the view that such appointments each year to motivate them to achieve Hewitt are not affected by any Type of Committee Chairman Member do not interfere with the exercise of a high degree of business performance relationship between StarHub and each independent judgement by Mr Miller with emphasis on both short and longof Carrots and Aon Hewitt respectively. Audit Committee $43,000 $25,000 and Mr Lim on the Board or prevent term quantifiable objectives. Strategy Committee $30,000 $16,000 them from acting objectively in the The ERCC reviews StarHub’s obligations Nominating Committee $24,000 $15,000 best interests of the Group in carrying In addition, the ERCC oversees the arising in the event of termination of Executive Resource and Compensation Committee $30,000 $16,000 out their duties. The Board and the following: an executive Director’s and/or any key Risk Committee $30,000 $16,000 NC further note that Mr Miller and management personnel’s contracts of Mr Lim are not involved in the day-to• succession planning for the CEO, service, to ensure that such contracts day running of the Group’s business the CFO and other key management of service contain fair and reasonable and operations, and are independent personnel. Potential candidates for termination clauses. The ERCC aims of Management, with a clear separation immediate, medium and long-term to be fair and avoid rewarding poor of role between Management and the needs are identified each year; performance. Prior to any such deliberations of the ERCC. • assessing and approving termination, the ERCC’s approval performance share awards and is required. In overseeing StarHub’s remuneration restricted stock awards under policies, the ERCC’s key duties are to StarHub’s approved share plans, During FY2016, the ERCC engaged 62 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 63 Corporate Governance continued Breakdown of Directors’ Remuneration CEO/Executive Director and Key The target AVB for the CEO and key C. Share-based Compensation: The following shows the composition of Directors’ remuneration for FY2016: Management Personnel Remuneration management personnel is pre-set StarHub Performance Share Plan (PSP) Executive Director’s Remuneration The ERCC seeks to ensure that the level at a fixed percentage of their annual The PSP serves as a long-term Share-based and mix of remuneration for the CEO base salary, and is adjusted based on incentive to motivate the key Fixed(1) Variable(2) Benefits(3) Compensation(4) Total and key management personnel are the Group’s performance at the end management personnel to strive Name of Executive Director ($) ($) ($) ($) ($) competitive and relevant, aligned with of each financial year. The final AVB for superior performance and to Tan Tong Hai 995,615 871,767 79,862 835,635 2,782,879 shareholders’ interests and promote the payout can range from 0 to 1.5 times align their interests with that of long-term success of the Group. of the target payout. shareholders. Non-Executive Directors’ Remuneration Cash-based Share-based Total Remuneration for the CEO1 and key EVA Incentive Plan (EIP) Pursuant to the PSP, the ERCC has Name of Non-Executive Directors ($) ($) ($) management personnel comprises The EIP rewards employees for decided to grant contingent awards Steven Terrell Clontz(a) 176,050.00 75,450.00 251,500.00 a fixed component, variable cash sustainable shareholder value on an annual basis, conditional Ma Kah Woh 96,950.00 41,550.00 138,500.00 component, share-based component creation over the medium-term on meeting targets set for a three and market-related benefits: achieved by growing profits, year performance period. The Peter Seah Lim Huat 110,250.00 47,250.00 157,500.00 deploying capital efficiently and performance measures used in Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE 124,950.00 53,550.00 178,500.00 A. Fixed Component: managing the risk profile and PSP grants during FY2016 are: Teo Ek Tor 115,500.00 49,500.00 165,000.00 The fixed component comprises risk time horizon of the Group’s Sio Tat Hiang(a) 102,200.00 43,800.00 146,000.00 the base salary, Annual Wage business. A portion of the annual • Relative TSR against the MSCI Lim Ming Seong 119,350.00 51,150.00 170,500.00 Supplement and fixed allowances. performance-related bonus of the Asia Pacific Telecommunications key management personnel is tied to Index (including Japan); and Liu Chee Ming 87,500.00 37,500.00 125,000.00 B. Variable Cash Component: the EVA achieved by the Group in the Governance Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee 84,350.00 36,150.00 120,500.00 The variable cash component financial year. • Absolute Total Shareholder Return Nasser Marafih 75,950.00 32,550.00 108,500.00 includes the Annual Variable Bonus (TSR) against Cost of Equity Takeshi Kazami(a)(b) 58,100.00 – 58,100.00 and Economic Value Added (EVA) Under the EIP, one-third of the hurdles (i.e. measure of Wealth Incentive Plan. accumulated EVA performance Added). Non-Executive Director who resigned during FY2016 bonus, comprising the EVA Robert J. Sachs(c) 75,779.90 32,477.10 108,257.00 Annual Variable Bonus (AVB) performance bonus declared for the A minimum threshold performance is The AVB is a cash-based incentive current financial year and the balance required for any performance shares (1) Fixed refers to base salary, Annual Wage Supplement and fixed allowances earned for FY2016. for the CEO and key management brought forward from preceding to be released to the recipient at (2) Variable refers to incentives paid and accrued for the year pursuant to StarHub’s performance bonus scheme and Economic Value Added (EVA) scheme for FY2016. StarHub’s performance bonus scheme is the “balanced scorecard” scheme used to determine the annual performance bonuses payable to StarHub’s employees. personnel, which is linked to the financial years, is paid out in cash the end of the performance period. The EVA scheme rewards StarHub’s employees for sustainable shareholder value creation over the medium term, with alignment to StarHub’s strategic business achievement of annual performance each financial year. The remaining The actual number of performance objectives. Under the EVA scheme, each of StarHub’s employees is given clear objectives on his personal scorecard, which are aligned to StarHub’s overall strategic targets. two-thirds are carried forward in shares released will depend on the objectives of growth and profitability, creating customer value, operational efficiency, excellence and optimal customer management, and developing a motivated and well-trained workforce. A notional EVA bank account is set up for each senior executive, into which the annual EVA performance bonus earned by him for each the individual key management achievement of set targets over year is credited. One-third of the total amount in his EVA bank account is payable annually at a later date in the following financial year, and the remaining balance Individual performance objectives personnel’s EVA bank account. The the performance period. For the in his EVA bank account is payable to him upon his resignation or termination of employment (other than for cause), subject to certain conditions being met. The are set at the beginning of each balance in the EVA bank account performance measure of Absolute balance in the EVA bank account will increase or decrease depending on StarHub’s EVA performance in subsequent years. financial year. The objectives are will increase or decrease depending TSR, the achievement factor (3) Benefits are stated on the basis of direct costs to StarHub, and include tax equalisation, housing and other non-cash benefits such as leave, medical scheme and club membership. aligned to the overall strategic, on StarHub’s EVA performance in ranges from 0 to 2.0 times of 65% (4) Shares awarded to the Executive Director, Mr Tan Tong Hai, under the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan (RSP) and the StarHub Performance Share Plan (PSP) are financial and operational goals of the subsequent years. This mechanism of the conditional award. For the subject to pre-determined performance targets set over a two-year and three-year performance periods respectively. The figures shown are based on the fair Group, and are cascaded down to encourages the CEO and key performance measure of Relative value of the shares at 100% of each of the RSP and PSP conditional awards. They may not be indicative of the actual value at vesting which can range from 0% to a select group of key management management personnel to work for TSR, the achievement factor ranges 150% of the RSP conditional award and 0% to 182.5% of the PSP conditional award. Over the last two financial years 2014 and 2015, the average number of shares vested to participants of the RSP and the PSP has been less than 100% of the conditional awards granted. personnel using scorecards, creating sustainable EVA generation and to from 0 to 1.5 times of 35% of the (a) Fees are payable to Director’s employer company. alignment between the performance adopt strategies that are aligned with conditional award. (b) Mr Takeshi Kazami had declined the share award and will only receive the cash component of his remuneration. Mr Kazami holds no shares in StarHub. of the Group, the Company and the the long-term interests (c) Mr Robert J. Sachs stepped down from the Board and ceased to be a SC member with effect from 30 December 2016. For Mr Sach’s remuneration in respect of individual. While the performance of the Group. The final PSP award is conditional on FY2016, he will receive $75,779.90 in cash and $32,477.10 in the form of share award granted pursuant to the RSP. objectives are different for each the vesting of the shares under the (d) Mr Stephen Geoffrey Miller was appointed as a non-executive Director, a SC member and an ERCC member with effect from 1 January 2017. Mr Miller was executive, they are assessed on the Based on the ERCC’s assessment Restricted Stock Plan (RSP) which have appointed as the RC Chairman with effect from 10 January 2017, succeeding Mr Teo Ek Tor. same principles across the following that the actual performance of the the same performance end period. four broad categories of targets: Group in FY2016 had partially met Details of the share awards granted by StarHub to the non-executive Directors under the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan can be the pre-determined targets, the The Group has attained an found in the Directors’ Statement. • Business; resulting annual payout under EVA achievement factor which is • Customer; was adjusted accordingly to reflect reflective of not meeting the pre• Process; and the performance level achieved. determined target performance • People. levels for PSP awards granted based on the performance period for the financial years from 2014 to 2016. (1) As an executive Director, the CEO is remunerated as a key management personnel of StarHub. He does not receive Directors’ fees for his Board directorship with StarHub. 64 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 65 Corporate Governance continued StarHub Restricted Stock Plan (RSP) Table 3 member who are independent of RISK MANAGEMENT AND containment; and The RSP is established with the Share-based Management. The members are: INTERNAL CONTROLS • to set and instill in StarHub an objective of motivating managers Fixed(1) Variable(2) Benefits(3) Compensation(4) Total Remuneration The Board takes responsibility for the appropriate risk-aware culture for (%) (%) (%) (%) (%) bands(5) and key talent to strive for sustained • Mr Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne governance of risks and to this end, effective risk governance. Dennis Chia 49 28 4 19 100 B (6) long-term growth and superior CBE, SC Chairman and has established and maintains a sound Kevin Lim 51 20 5 24 100 B performance of the Group. It also independent Director system of risk management and internal In addition, the AC also has the mandate Howie Lau 59 16 6 19 100 A(6) aims to foster a share ownership • Mr Steven Terrell Clontz, controls to safeguard shareholders’ to monitor the system of internal controls Jeannie Ong 51 21 4 24 100 A culture among employees within non-executive Chairman interests and StarHub’s assets. (including financial controls, operational Mock Pak Lum 56 19 5 20 100 A the Group and to better align of the Board controls which impact financial controls, employees’ incentives with Total $4,778,256 • Mr Stephen Geoffrey Miller, nonThe RC assists the Board in its discharge compliance with accounting and shareholders’ interests. (1) Fixed refers to base salary, Annual Wage Supplement and fixed allowances earned for FY2016. executive Director (appointed to the of this responsibility. Currently, the RC listing rules and regulations, as well as (2) Variable refers to incentives paid and accrued for the year pursuant to StarHub’s performance bonus SC with effect from 1 January 2017) comprises the following Directors: information technology controls relating scheme and Economic Value Added (EVA) scheme for FY2016. StarHub’s performance bonus scheme is Pursuant to the RSP, the ERCC the “balanced scorecard” scheme used to determine the annual performance bonuses payable to StarHub’s • Mr Lim Ming Seong, to financial systems). has decided to grant contingent employees. The EVA scheme rewards StarHub’s employees for sustainable shareholder value creation over non-executive Director • Mr Stephen Geoffrey Miller, awards on an annual basis, the medium term, with alignment to StarHub’s strategic business objectives. Under the EVA scheme, each • Mr Liu Chee Ming, RC Chairman (appointed as the The Board, upon recommendation of StarHub’s employees is given clear objectives on his personal scorecard, which are aligned to StarHub’s conditional on targets set for a overall strategic objectives of growth and profitability, creating customer value, operational efficiency, independent Director RC Chairman with effect from by the RC, approved a Risk Appetite two-year performance period. The excellence and optimal customer management, and developing a motivated and well-trained workforce. • Mr Nikhil O. J. Eapen, 10 January 2017) Statement to provide guidance to A notional EVA bank account is set up for each senior executive, into which the annual EVA performance performance measures, set based on bonus earned by him for each year is credited. One-third of the total amount in his EVA bank account is co-opted SC member • Mr Tan Tong Hai, Management on key risk parameters. the Group corporate objectives, are: payable annually at a later date in the following financial year, and the remaining balance in his EVA bank CEO and executive Director StarHub is committed to upholding high account is payable to him upon his resignation or termination of employment (other than for cause), subject During FY2016, the SC held 4 meetings. • Mr Ma Kah Woh, independent standards of corporate governance and to certain conditions being met. The balance in the EVA bank account will increase or decrease depending • Return on Invested Capital (ROIC); Director (appointed to the RC with applying consistent and effective risk Governance on StarHub’s EVA performance in subsequent years. and (3) Benefits are stated on the basis of direct costs to StarHub, and include tax equalisation, housing and other effect from 1 January 2017) management to enhance shareholder • Earnings before Interest, Taxes, non-cash benefits such as leave, medical scheme and club membership. 4. ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT value. The Group faces a variety of Depreciation and Amortisation (4) Shares awarded under the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan (RSP) and the StarHub Performance Share Plan ACCOUNTABILITY Note: internal and external risks due to (PSP) are subject to pre-determined performance targets set over a two-year and three-year performance (1) Mr Teo Ek Tor ceased to be the RC Chairman (EBITDA). periods respectively. The figures shown are based on the fair value of the shares at 100% of each of the RSP The Board provides a balanced and complex business operations and the (and a RC member) with effect from and PSP conditional awards. They may not be indicative of the actual value at vesting which can range from informed assessment of the Group’s 10 January 2017. dynamic and competitive market in 0% to 150% of the RSP conditional award and 0% to 182.5% of the PSP conditional award. Over the last two A minimum threshold performance is financial years 2014 and 2015, the average number of shares vested to participants of the RSP and the PSP performance, position and prospects which it operates. The Group recognises required for any restricted shares to be has been less than 100% of the conditional awards granted. to shareholders in the Group’s quarterly During FY2016, the RC held 2 meetings. risk management as an optimisation released to the recipient at the end of (5) Remuneration bands: and full-year operating performance and of the risk-reward relationship, within the performance period. The actual “A” refers to remuneration between $750,001 and $1,000,000 per annum known and agreed risk appetite levels. “B” refers to remuneration between $1,000,001 and $1,250,000 per annum financial results which are released via The RC has the following mandate: number of shares released will depend (6) Share-based compensation to Mr Dennis Chia and Mr Howie Lau excludes a one-off time-based SGXNET, together with the associated The Group will manage or avoid on the achievement of set targets over restricted award of 130,000 shares and 110,000 shares respectively. press releases and presentation slides • to review and recommend to the situations or actions that risk having a the performance period, and will be relating to the financial results. Board the type and level of business negative impact on its reputation and determined by the ERCC at the end If an executive Director or any key 3. STRATEGIC MATTERS risk that the Group undertakes in brand, network integrity and business of the performance period, capped management personnel of StarHub is The SC supports, advises and provides For the quarterly financial statements, achieving its business strategy, and continuity. StarHub seeks to treat its at 1.5 times of the conditional award. involved in fraud or misconduct, which direction to the Group on the the Board provides a negative assurance the appropriate risk management customers reasonably and fairly. StarHub The shares will be released in equal results in a re-statement of StarHub’s formulation, review and execution of the confirmation to shareholders, in line framework and policies for requires its staff to uphold integrity. tranches over two consecutive years. financial results or financial loss to Group’s strategies. The mandate for the with the requirements of the SGX-ST managing risks that are consistent StarHub also seeks to meet applicable StarHub, the Board may reclaim the SC includes: Listing Manual. For FY2016, the CEO with StarHub’s risk appetite; legal and regulatory requirements. The The Group has attained an unvested components of remuneration and the CFO have provided assurance • to provide oversight in the design, Group is prepared to take measured achievement factor which is reflective from such executive Director or • identifying and assessing significant to the Board on the integrity of the implementation and monitoring of risks to seek new growth and pursue of not meeting the pre-determined key management personnel under intermediate and long-term financial statements for the Group. the risk management framework, value-creation opportunities as they target performance level for RSP all incentive plans for the relevant opportunities (in terms of new StarHub recognises that prompt and and system of internal controls arise, while leveraging its current scale awards granted based on the period, to the extent such incentive frontiers of organic and inorganic full compliance with statutory reporting (including operational, compliance and core strengths. performance period for the financial has been earned but not yet released growth) and threats in the Group’s requirements is imperative in maintaining and information technology years from 2015 to 2016. or disbursed. The Board, taking into business areas and operations shareholder confidence and trust. controls), and to ensure that The RC is assisted by the Management account the ERCC’s recommendation, (including technology, competition, Management puts in place action Risk Committee (MRC), comprising D. Market-related Benefits: may decide whether and to what extent, regulatory and financial) and the Management updates the Board with plans to mitigate the identified risks relevant members of Senior The benefits provided are comparable such recoupment of the incentive is industry; and monthly management and financial where possible; Management. The MRC oversees, with local market practices. appropriate, based on the specific facts • providing constructive input and reports which explain StarHub’s • to review the adequacy and co-ordinates and monitors the and circumstances of the case. recommendations to the Board on performance (in comparison with its effectiveness of StarHub’s risk implementation of the enterpriseThe details of the top five any strategic matter reviewed by forecasted performance and budget) management system and system wide risk management policies and key management personnel During FY2016, no employee of the the SC which requires the Board’s and financial position on a timely basis. of internal controls (including procedures across the Group, including remuneration are set out in Table 3 (in Group whose remuneration exceeded approval. Other related business reports are also operational, compliance and the Group’s insurance programme bands of $250,000 and percentage $50,000 per annum was an immediate provided to the Board regularly and information technology controls); and the facilitation of self-assessment terms for the services rendered by family member of any Director or Currently, the SC comprises nonupon request by the Board from time • to review policies and procedures exercise required of significant business them to the Group for FY2016). the CEO. executive Directors and a co-opted to time. for timely risk identification and units on an annual basis. The MRC 66 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 67 Corporate Governance continued also proactively identifies existing and by audit findings of the external and key responsibilities include: The significant areas of focus by the AC in relation to the financial statements for The AC has explicit authority to emerging significant risks, and manages internal auditors and the relevant FY2016 are outlined below. These areas were discussed with the external auditors, investigate any matter within its terms them at the enterprise level within assurance from the CEO and the CFO, • reviewing and approving quarterly KPMG LLP, during the review and approval by the AC of their audit plan. During of reference, with full access to and StarHub on an ongoing basis. The MRC the Board (with the concurrence of and year-end financial results the year, Management kept the AC updated on the status of these areas and at the co-operation from Management. reports to the RC on a regular basis. the AC and the RC) is of the opinion announcements and financial conclusion of their audit, the AC reviewed and discussed with the external auditors the The AC also has full discretion to invite that the risk management system and statements, before recommending results of their work and conclusions on these areas. These areas have been addressed any Director or executive officer to The RC has authority to investigate any internal controls of the Group are to the Board for approval; by the external auditors in their Independent Auditors’ Report on pages 140 to 146 of attend its meetings, and to require matter within its terms of reference, and adequate and effective to address the • monitoring compliance with relevant the Annual Report. Management to provide it with has full access to and co-operation from financial, operational, compliance and statutory and listing requirements to reasonable resources to enable it to Management. The RC will also have information technology risks as well as ensure the integrity of the Group’s Significant Areas How the AC reviewed these areas and what decisions were made discharge its functions properly. full discretion to invite any Director or risk management objectives which the financial statements, including the Revenue The external auditors shared their approach to the audit of revenue executive officer to attend its meetings, Group considers relevant and material relevance and consistency of the The AC has performed a review of the recognition in their audit plan, which identified the primary risk attaching to the and to require Management to provide it to its current business environment and accounting principles adopted; revenue recognition to be the complexities in the telecommunication independence and objectivity of the with reasonable resources to enable it to scope of operations. • reviewing and reporting to the Board systems and their related reporting systems from which information is external auditors, as well as the volume discharge its functions properly. at least annually on the adequacy generated for revenue recognition. The external auditors reported on and type of non-audit services provided The Board notes that the system of and effectiveness of StarHub’s the results of their audit work in this area to the AC and elaborated on by the external auditors during FY2016. In terms of internal controls, internal controls and risk management internal controls (including financial this matter as a key audit matter (KAM). The aggregate amount of external independent audits are conducted established by the Group provides controls, operational controls The AC discussed the issues with Management and the external auditors auditors’ fees paid for FY2016 and the by the external and internal auditors reasonable, but not absolute, assurance which impact financial controls, in relation to the recognition of revenue. The AC was satisfied with the breakdown for the audit and non-audit on the effectiveness of the Group’s that the Group will not be adversely compliance with accounting and appropriateness of the revenue recognised in the financial statements services are set out in Note 21.3 to the for FY2016 and agreed with the external auditors that the differences key internal control systems. The AC affected by any event that can be listing rules and regulations, as well Financial Statements of the Annual Report. Governance identified were not significant to the income statement for FY2016. is responsible for reviewing the audit reasonably foreseen as it strives as information technology controls reports and assessing the effectiveness to achieve its business objectives. relating to financial systems); Accruals The basis of accruals required considerable judgement by Management Based on such review, the AC is of the actions taken by Management in However, the Board also notes that • reviewing the effectiveness of the due to the complexities of the underlying business transactions and the satisfied that the independence of time taken to agree on the final amounts for certain costs. The external resolving any lapses or weaknesses in there is no system of internal controls Group’s internal audit function; auditors have raised this as a KAM. the external auditors has not been accordance with the recommendations and risk management that can provide • reviewing the scope and results of the compromised by the provision of the made by the external and internal absolute assurance in this regard or external audit, and the independence The AC queried Management and the external auditors on the non-audit services and that Rules 712 judgements and estimates involved in the accruals, and was satisfied that auditors, and taking into account against the occurrence of material and objectivity of the external and 715 of the SGX-ST Listing Manual the amounts have been recorded appropriately as of 31 December 2016. Management’s views. errors, poor judgement in decisionauditors (taking into account the have been complied with. The external making, human error, losses, fraud or nature, extent and cost of non-audit Impairment This has been an area of focus by both Management and the external auditors have also confirmed their assessment of auditors, given the materiality of the goodwill ($220.3 million as of For FY2016, the Board has received other irregularities. services provided by the external independence. Accordingly, the AC has goodwill 31 December 2016) and the subjectivity involved in impairment written assurance from the CEO and auditors during the financial year); testing. The Group performs an annual impairment assessment on recommended to the Board that KPMG the CFO that: (a) the financial records AUDIT COMMITTEE • reviewing interested person goodwill, which requires determination of the recoverable amount LLP be nominated for re-appointment of the Group have been properly Currently, the AC comprises the transactions to ensure compliance of cash generating unit (CGU) based on value-in-use. This requires as the Group’s external auditors at the maintained and the financial statements following non-executive Directors, with with the SGX-ST Listing Manual Management to make significant judgements and estimates with upcoming AGM. To further maintain give a true and fair view of the Group’s a majority (including the AC Chairman) and the Shareholders’ Mandate for regards to the computation of future cash flows, use of discount rates the independence of KPMG LLP, the AC and other assumptions. operations and finances; and (b) the risk being independent Directors: Interested Person Transactions that is ensures that the audit partner in-charge management and internal controls of renewable annually; The AC reviewed the assessments from Management and the external of the Group is rotated every five years. the Group are adequate and effective • Mr Ma Kah Woh, AC Chairman and • making recommendations to the auditors, and queried the appropriateness of the assumptions made, Further, the Board ensures that a former to address the financial, operational, independent Director Board on the proposals to the including the consistent application of Management’s methodology, the audit partner will not be appointed as achievability of the business plans, assumptions in relation to terminal compliance and information technology • Mr Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne shareholders for the appointment, growth in the businesses and the discount rates used. The AC also an AC member of StarHub within 12 risks which the Group considers relevant CBE, independent Director re-appointment and removal of the reviewed the stress testing of Management’s value-in-use calculation months upon his or her cessation as a and material to its current business • Ms Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee, external auditors, and approving to ensure there is sufficient headroom over the carrying value of the KPMG LLP partner and for so long as environment and scope of operations. In independent Director the remuneration and terms of CGU. The AC was satisfied with the appropriateness of the analyses he or she has any financial interest in addition, Management has implemented • Mr Lim Ming Seong, engagement of the external auditor; performed by Management and had concurred that as of 31 December KPMG LLP. None of the Directors or an enhanced process to sign off non-executive Director • commissioning and reviewing 2016, no impairment of the goodwill allocated to the CGU was required. Senior Management is or has in the past assurance to the CEO and the CFO, in findings of internal investigations into Valuation of trade The Group’s trade receivables include balances due from both two years been a former employee or order to enhance the current processes During FY2016, the AC held 4 meetings suspected fraud, irregularity, failure receivables corporate and retail customers. Management evaluates and provides partner of the Group’s external auditors. for supporting the Board’s opinion on and met with the external auditors of internal controls or violation allowances for the trade receivables on specific individual balances and on the receivables portfolio collectively. The determination of allowance the adequacy and effectiveness of the without Management at least once. of any law that is likely to have a for doubtful debts for trade receivables involves estimates about the INTERNAL AUDIT risk management system and internal material impact on the Group’s timing and collectability of past due debts, and the external auditors The internal audit function of the Group controls of the Group. The AC members are appropriately results; and have raised this as a KAM. for FY2016 was carried out by RSM Risk qualified to discharge their • reviewing reports made under Advisory Pte. Ltd., an independent firm. The AC reviewed information provided by Management and the external Based on the risk management system responsibilities and collectively StarHub’s Whistle Blowing Policy, auditors in relation to the basis used as well as the specific doubtful The internal auditor is guided by the and internal controls established and have strong accounting and related and where appropriate, directing the debts to determine the level of allowance for doubtful debts, and Standards for the Professional Practice maintained by the Group, the reviews financial and legal management investigation of such matters and the was satisfied that as of 31 December 2016, the level of allowance for of Internal Auditing, prescribed by the performed by Management as supported expertise and experience. The AC’s follow-up of any actions to be taken. doubtful debts for the Group was adequate. Institute of Internal Auditors. 68 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 69 Corporate Governance continued The internal auditor reports to the information is central to good corporate elect to be notified of any new updates The external auditors are also present first three quarters of its financial share capital, the Board has decided AC functionally, and to the CEO and governance and assists shareholders to via an e-mail alert service. However, to address shareholders’ queries about year and ending on the date of to limit the mandate to 15% only. In the CFO administratively. The AC make informed investment decisions. new material price-sensitive information the conduct of audit and the preparation announcement of the relevant addition, for the specific mandate from approves the appointment, removal, such as financial results are released and content of the auditors’ report. results; and StarHub’s shareholders to allot and issue evaluation and compensation of the All shareholders are entitled to attend via SGXNET before being posted on Registered shareholders are invited to Shares under the StarHub Performance internal auditor. The internal auditor has and vote at general meetings and are the StarHub IR website or before any attend and participate actively in such (b) commencing one month Share Plan and the StarHub Restricted unfettered access to all of StarHub’s afforded the opportunity to participate media or analyst conferences are general meetings, including seeking prior to the announcement Stock Plan, the Board has decided to documents, records, properties and effectively in the general meetings. conducted. This ensures fair and clarification and/or querying the Group’s of the Group’s full year results limit the aggregate number of Shares personnel, including access to the AC. Shareholders are allowed to appoint non-selective disclosure of information strategic direction, business, operations, and ending on the date of available for grant under the StarHub up to two proxies to attend, speak to all shareholders. performance and proposed resolutions. announcement of the Performance Share Plan and the The internal auditor adopts a risk-based and vote in their place at general relevant results. StarHub Restricted Stock Plan to 8% auditing approach in developing the meetings. In view of the Companies Shareholders may direct their queries StarHub ensures that there will be of StarHub’s total issued share capital annual internal audit plan, which focuses (Amendment) Act 2014, shareholders and concerns to the StarHub IR team separate resolutions at general meetings • All Management and employees (instead of the permitted 15% under on material internal controls, including who are nominee companies, custodian at the contact particulars given at the on each substantially separate issue. directly involved in the preparation the SGX-ST Listing Manual), taking into financial, operational, compliance and banks or CPF agent banks (Relevant StarHub IR website. The StarHub IR team Voting is carried out systematically of the Group’s quarterly and full year account any outstanding unexercised information technology controls, across Intermediaries) may appoint more than is also prompt in keeping Management and all resolutions passed are properly results are prohibited from dealing options and unvested share awards. the Group’s business. The internal two proxies to attend, speak and vote at fully apprised of shareholder views and recorded. To enhance transparency in StarHub’s securities during the audit plan is submitted to the AC for its the upcoming AGM and at subsequent sentiments. and efficiency in the voting process period commencing one month WHISTLE BLOWING POLICY review and approval at the start of each general meetings. and results, electronic poll voting is prior to the announcement of each StarHub takes a zero tolerance stance financial year. Periodic internal audit StarHub declares dividends on conducted. The results showing the of the Group’s quarterly and full year towards fraud and ethical violations. reports are submitted to the AC detailing a quarterly basis, and informs its number of votes cast for and against results and ending on the date of As such, the Group has instituted a Governance the internal auditor’s progress in 6. COMMUNICATION WITH shareholders of the dividend payments each resolution and the respective announcement of the relevant results. robust procedure for the purpose of executing the internal audit plan and any SHAREHOLDERS in the respective quarterly and full year percentages are announced via SGXNET providing third parties and employees major findings and corrective actions StarHub protects and facilitates the financial results announcements on the same day of the general meeting. All Directors, Management and with accessible channels for reporting taken by Management. exercise of shareholders’ rights. StarHub via SGXNET. employees are notified by email prior suspected fraud, corruption, financial reaches out to its shareholders through Minutes of general meetings are made to the start of each trading blackout impropriety, unethical conduct and The AC conducts a review of the regular, effective and non-discriminatory available on the StarHub IR website. period and the restrictions are only other criminal or dishonest practices. adequacy and effectiveness of the communication with shareholders. 7. CONDUCT OF lifted after the announcement of the Such channels include the employees’ internal audit function annually, to SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS respective financial results. The policy immediate supervisors, the relevant ensure that StarHub maintains an StarHub provides regular and timely At general meetings, StarHub 8.CONTINUAL COMMITMENT also discourages trading on short-term Heads of Department or the Head effective internal audit function that is information to the investment encourages shareholder participation TO ENHANCE CORPORATE considerations and reminds Directors, of Human Resource (as may be adequately staffed and independent of community regarding the Group’s through active discussion at the GOVERNANCE Management and employees of their appropriate), as well as the AC. the audited activities. performance, progress and prospects question and answer session. Going beyond the requirements of the obligations under insider trading laws. as well as major industry and corporate Code, the SGX-ST Listing Manual, the The Investigation Committee During FY2016, the AC met with the developments and other relevant Notices of the AGM and the annual Companies Act and the Securities and In addition, StarHub has also adopted (comprising representatives from the internal auditor once without the information. StarHub solicits and reports are issued to all shareholders Futures Act, StarHub has continued a share trading policy which requires Senior Management) will investigate the presence of Management. considers the views of shareholders (including foreign shareholders) at least to implement additional measures to Directors and Senior Management suspected wrongdoing and implement via: (a) periodic analyst and media 21 days prior to the scheduled AGM. This enhance the corporate governance of to give prior notice of their intended any necessary rectification and briefings throughout the year, (b) provides ample time for shareholders the Group for FY2016: dealing in StarHub’s securities to the prevention measures. Any personnel 5. SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS regular meetings between the CEO, to review the notice of AGM and annual Chairman, the CEO and the Head with a conflict of interest (whether AND RESPONSIBILITIES the StarHub IR team and institutional reports before the AGM and appoint SECURITIES DEALINGS of Investor Relations, through the actual or potential) will be barred from StarHub respects shareholders’ rights investors through international road their proxies to attend the AGM if they StarHub has adopted an enhanced Company Secretary, in order to being appointed to the Investigation and promotes the fair and equitable shows and conferences organised by wish. As part of StarHub’s commitment insider trading policy, with respect to facilitate compliance by the Directors Committee. All cases of wrongdoing treatment of all shareholders. StarHub major brokerage firms and (c) third-party towards more environmentally-friendly dealings in the securities of StarHub and Senior Management. will also be reported to and reviewed keeps all of its shareholders sufficiently perception studies on StarHub. and sustainable practices, electronic by the Directors and employees of the by the AC. informed of its corporate affairs and copies of annual reports (in the form of Group, which exceeds the requirements StarHub has also adopted a policy activities, including any changes to Apart from SGXNET announcements a CD-ROM) are issued by default, with of the SGX-ST Listing Manual, pursuant against acquiring any of its shares In cases of suspected wrongdoing StarHub or its business which may and the annual report, the StarHub hardcopies of annual reports available to to which: pursuant to its Share Purchase Mandate involving the CEO or the CFO, the materially affect the price or value of IR website at www.starhub.com/ir, shareholders on request. where a price-sensitive development Investigation Committee will be chaired StarHub shares, on a timely basis. which is regularly updated, is the main • All Directors and employees has occurred or been the subject of by the AC Chairman (or his nominee). source of information for shareholders. All Directors (in particular the Chairman of the Group are prohibited from a decision, until the development has Upon completing the investigations for All new material price-sensitive It houses all media releases, financial of the Board and the respective dealing in StarHub’s securities during been publicly announced. each case of suspected wrongdoing, information is disclosed on an adequate, results, annual reports, SGXNET Chairmen of the Board Committees) the period: the Investigation Committee may at its accurate and timely basis via SGXNET, announcements, presentation materials, and Senior Management attend While the SGX-ST Listing Manual permits discretion decide whether to circulate which are also posted on the StarHub archived webcasts and conference calls, all general meetings to address (a) commencing two weeks prior the Board to seek a general mandate the findings of the investigations to all IR website. StarHub recognises that as well as other corporate information shareholders’ queries. to the announcement of the from StarHub’s shareholders to allot and employees, taking into account the the release of timely and relevant relating to the Group. Investors may also Group’s results for each of the issue up to 20% of StarHub’s total issued interests of the Group. 70 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 71 Corporate Governance continued The Group’s whistle-blowing policy for easy access by all employees and program is also supplemented by DISCLOSURE GUIDE – CODE OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2012 aims to encourage the reporting of members of the public. the Pandemic Plan, Haze Response such matters in good faith, by lending Plan and Crisis Communication Plans Guideline Questions How has the Company complied? confidence that whistle-blowers will COMPLIANCE LEAVE POLICY to ensure StarHub is able to address General (a) Has the Company complied with all the principles and StarHub has complied, in all material aspects, with the principles be treated fairly and accorded with due StarHub has a Compliance Leave Policy different crisis situations. guidelines of the Code? If not, please state the specific and guidelines of the Code of Corporate Governance (Code) protection against any reprisals. StarHub which applies to employees who hold deviations and the alternative corporate governance issued by the Monetary Authority of Singapore on 2 May 2012. will take disciplinary action against any Senior Manager positions and above, SECURITY MEASURES practices adopted by the Company in lieu of the recommendations in the Code. party who victimises whistle-blowers. finance advocates and employees with FOR DATA PROTECTION (b) In what respect do these alternative corporate Not applicable. Further, StarHub does not disregard sensitive job functions such as handling In addition to the Laptop Encryption governance practices achieve the objectives of the anonymous complaints but will give due monies, inventories, payroll processing Solution, StarHub has implemented principles and conform to the guidelines in the Code? regard to such complaints. The Group’s and approvals, risk management and Mobile Device Management (MDM) Board Responsibility whistle-blowing policy is available on purchasing of goods and services. to ensure that commercially sensitive Guideline 1.5 What are the types of material transactions which require The Board has established a framework on authorisation and StarHub’s intranet and corporate website Under the Compliance Leave Policy, and confidential corporate emails and approval from the Board? approval limits for capital and operating expenditure, as well as for easy access by all employees and such employees are required to go on information accessed by employees specified transactions including acquisitions and disposals of members of the public. mandatory block leave for a period of using their corporate-issued mobile investments, procurement of goods and services, bank facilities at least five consecutive working days devices are protected. In the event and cheque signatories. Within this framework, the Board has set relevant authority and approval sub-limits for delegation to various EMPLOYEE CODE OF CONDUCT each calendar year. This arrangement that an employee’s corporate-issued Management levels to optimise operational efficiency. Board AND RULES ON BUSINESS allows covering officers to fully step into mobile device is lost or stolen, MDM approval is required for all transactions which exceed the relevant CONDUCT the duties of the employee on leave, as will remove corporate data stored on authorisation and approval limits. To guide employees in carrying out their an additional check and balance against the corporate-issued mobile device Members of the Board duties and responsibilities with high any breaches. This is an additional risk by performing a remote factory reset. Guideline 2.6 (a) What is the Board’s policy with regard to diversity in The Board recognises the importance and value of diversity. Governance standards of personal and corporate mitigation measure voluntarily put in Both the Laptop Encryption Solution identifying director nominees? It constantly seeks to maintain an appropriate mix of expertise, integrity when dealing with StarHub, its place to enhance corporate governance. and the MDM enhance the security of experience (both local and international), knowledge, gender, competitors, customers, suppliers and StarHub’s commercially sensitive and culture and nationality in its composition. With Board diversity, each Director is able to bring in his or her unique contribution to the community, StarHub has put in place DOCUMENT confidential corporate data accessed the development of the overall strategy of the Group by way of the following: CLASSIFICATION POLICY through or stored on such mobile alternative perspectives and fresh challenges during discussions. StarHub has a document classification devices and laptops by employees. (b) Please state whether the current composition of the The Board consists of Directors who possess a broad range • StarHub’s Employee Code of policy to guide employees in StarHub continually evaluates new Board provides diversity on each of the following of core competencies and experience in banking, accounting Conduct and Ethics; their handling of information and technologies which may further – skills, experience, gender and knowledge of the and finance, legal, regulatory, technical, business and industry • Corporate Gift and Hospitality Policy; documents relating to the Group’s enhance the security of its confidential Company, and elaborate with numerical data where knowledge, management and strategic planning experience and appropriate. customer-based experience and knowledge. The individual profile and business, activities and operations. and sensitive information on an onof the Directors can be found in the ‘Board of Directors’ section of • Supplier and Vendor Policy. Such information and documents going basis. StarHub has put in place the Annual Report. are required to be classified as a comprehensive Personal Data (c) What steps has the Board taken to achieve the balance In proposing a Director as a candidate for appointment or StarHub’s Employee Code of Conduct “Confidential”, “For Internal Use” Protection compliance program to and diversity necessary to maximise its effectiveness? re-appointment, the Nominating Committee (NC) takes into and Ethics as well as the Corporate or “For Public Distribution”, which ensure compliance with applicable law. account several factors, including the composition, the diversity Gift and Hospitality Policy cover helps to safeguard the information and the need for progressive renewal of the Board, each business conduct (including employees’ and documents, ensures that only candidate’s competencies, commitment, contribution and performance (including attendance, preparedness, participation compliance with anti-corruption and appropriate persons have access to and candour) as well as potential conflicts of interest. This is to anti-bribery laws), conduct in the that information and that access is ensure that an appropriate balance of skills, experience, expertise workplace, protection of StarHub’s on a need-to-know basis only. and diversity is maintained on the Board, enabling the Board assets, proprietary and confidential to stay engaged and agile in meeting the needs of the Group. information and intellectual property, STRATEGIC BUSINESS External consultants are engaged to assist with the selection process if necessary. conflict of interest, non-solicitation CONTINUITY MANAGEMENT Guideline 4.6 Please describe the board nomination process for the The NC leads the process for the selection and appointment of customers and employees, and (BCM) Company in the last financial year for (i) selecting and of new Directors and re-appointment of incumbent Directors, workplace health and safety. In StarHub was the first Infoappointing new directors and (ii) re-electing incumbent with written terms of reference that clearly set out its authority parallel, the Supplier and Vendor Policy Communications company in directors. and duties. It takes into account several factors, including the covers internal controls on tenders, Singapore to be successfully certified composition, the diversity and the need for progressive renewal vendor selection and purchasing to to Singapore Standards SS540:2008 of the Board, each candidate’s competencies, commitment, contribution and performance (including attendance, ensure transparency, objectivity and for Business Continuity Management preparedness, participation and candour) as well as potential compliance. (BCM) in May 2011. In May 2014, conflicts of interest. This is to ensure that an appropriate balance StarHub successfully converted to ISO of skills, experience, expertise and diversity is maintained on The Employee Code of Conduct and 22301:2013, which is the ISO standard the Board, enabling the Board to stay engaged and agile in Ethics as well as the Corporate Gift for BCM. StarHub’s BCM program meeting the needs of the Group. External consultants are and Hospitality Policy are available on focuses on Info-Communications engaged to assist with the selection process if necessary. All new appointments to the Board are subject to the approval of StarHub’s intranet, while the Supplier Network, Infrastructure and Support StarHub’s regulator, namely the Info-communications Media and Vendor Policy are available on Services for Mobile, Television, Development Authority (IMDA). StarHub’s intranet and corporate website Broadband and Fixed. The BCM 72 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 73 Corporate Governance continued DISCLOSURE GUIDE Guideline Questions How has the Company complied? Guideline Questions How has the Company complied? Guideline 1.6 (a) Are new directors given formal training? Yes, new Directors are given formal training. (b) Has the Board met its performance objectives? Based on the NC’s review, the Board and the various Board If not, please explain why. Committees operate effectively, and each Director is contributing (b) What are the types of information and training provided (i) StarHub has a comprehensive induction programme for all to the overall effectiveness of the Board. to (i) new directors and (ii) existing directors to keep them newly-appointed Directors that is specifically tailored for the Independence of Directors up-to-date? Group’s business and operations. Management conducts Guideline 2.1 Does the Company comply with the guideline on the Yes. The current StarHub Board comprises 11 Directors briefings for newly-appointed Directors to familiarise them proportion of independent directors on the Board? If not, of whom five are independent, representing more than one-third with the Group’s business activities, strategic directions, please state the reasons for the deviation and the remedial of the Board. financials, policies and governance practices, as well as action taken by the Company. StarHub’s corporate culture and the key developments in the Guideline 2.3 (a) Is there any director who is deemed to be independent There is no Director who is deemed to be independent by the Group and industry. The induction program includes meetings by the Board, notwithstanding the existence of a Board, notwithstanding the existence of a relationship as stated in with the CEO and Senior Management. relationship as stated in the Code that would otherwise the Code that would otherwise deem him not to be independent. deem him not to be independent? If so, please identify (ii) Existing Directors are provided with regular updates on key the director and specify the nature of such relationship. legal, regulatory, industry and accounting changes which affect the Group. The updates may be given by way of (b) What are the Board’s reasons for considering him Not applicable. (a) briefings at Board meetings or via email and (b) articles and independent? Please provide a detailed explanation. reports (including industry news and analyst reports) relevant Guideline 2.4 Has any independent director served on the Board As at 1 January 2017, three independent Directors, namely to the Group’s business, which are regularly circulated to for more than nine years from the date of his first Mr Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE, Mr Teo Ek Tor and the Directors and uploaded onto the StarHub Board Portal appointment? If so, please identify the director and set out Mr Liu Chee Ming have served on the Board for more than nine for their reference. Directors are also encouraged to attend the Board’s reasons for considering him independent. years. After careful rigorous review, the NC recommends, and external seminars and trainings (including those conducted the Board is of the firm view, that Mr Kaviratne, Mr Teo and by StarHub’s panel of law firms and the Singapore Institute of Mr Liu have each demonstrated the essential independence of Directors in conjunction with the SGX-ST). mind and objectivity of judgement to act in the best interests of Governance Guideline 4.4 (a) What is the maximum number of listed company board StarHub has not prescribed a maximum number of listed company the Group in the discharge of their Directors’ duties, and therefore representations that the Company has prescribed for its board representations that a Director may hold. considers them to be independent. When assessing objectivity directors? What are the reasons for this number? and independent judgement, the NC and the Board consider, inter alia, the approach, character and attitude of each non-executive (b) If a maximum number has not been determined, The NC is responsible for determining whether each Director Director, including whether such Director (i) is free from any what are the reasons? is able to adequately devote sufficient time to discharge their interest and any business or other relationship which could, or responsibilities to the Company. The NC is of the view that the could reasonably be perceived to, interfere with the exercise of duties of all Directors have been fully discharged based on the the Director’s independent business judgement with a view to the time and attention devoted by each Director, their individual best interests of the Group and (ii) has any material contractual abilities and their respective individual contribution of skills, relationship with the Group other than as a Director. Two knowledge and experience and their commitment to the affairs of additional independent Directors, Mr Ma Kah Woh and Ms Rachel StarHub. The table of attendance can be found in the Corporate Eng Yaag Ngee, were appointed in 2015. Governance Report. Disclosure of Remuneration (c) What are the specific considerations in deciding on the The specific considerations are as set out in (b) above. capacity of directors? Guideline 9.2 Has the Company disclosed each director’s and the CEO’s Yes, the details of each Director’s and the CEO’s remuneration are remuneration as well as a breakdown (in percentage fully disclosed. Board Evaluation or dollar terms) into base/fixed salary, variable or Guideline 5.1 (a) What was the process upon which the Board reached For FY2016, the Board engaged the assistance of Aon Hewitt performance-related income/bonuses, benefits in kind, the conclusion on its performance for the financial year? Singapore Pte Ltd as independent external consultants to facilitate stock options granted, share-based incentives and awards, the annual review of the performance of the Board and the Board and other long-term incentives? If not, what are the Committees. The review process identifies key issues pertaining reasons for not disclosing so? to the effectiveness, efficiency and functioning of the Board Guideline 9.3 (a) Has the Company disclosed each key management Yes, the details of each key management personnel’s and the Board Committees, in particular (i) the adequacy of the personnel’s remuneration, in bands of S$250,000 or remuneration are fully disclosed. Board composition, including the Board size, the degree of Board in more detail, as well as a breakdown (in percentage independence and the mix and diversity of skills, experience and or dollar terms) into base/fixed salary, variable or knowledge of the Board, (ii) information management and Board performance-related income/bonuses, benefits in kind, processes, including level and timeliness of information provided stock options granted, share-based incentives and to the Board, (iii) integrity and corporate social responsibility of awards, and other long-term incentives? If not, what the Board, (iv) managing the Company’s performance, (v) the are the reasons for not disclosing so? effectiveness of Board Committees, (vi) CEO performance and succession planning, (vii) Director’s training and development and (b) Please disclose the aggregate remuneration paid to StarHub has disclosed the aggregate remuneration paid to the (viii) risk management. As part of the evaluation process, detailed the top five key management personnel (who are not top five key management personnel (who are not Directors or questionnaires were completed by each Director, with feedback directors or the CEO). the CEO) in the Corporate Governance Report. The aggregate on the key areas and individual interviews with each Director were remuneration paid to the top five key management personnel carried out. (who are not Directors or the CEO) is S$4,778,256. Guideline 9.4 Is there any employee who is an immediate family member No. Feedback and comments received from the Directors are of a director or the CEO, and whose remuneration exceeds reviewed by the NC in consultation with the Board Chairman, and S$50,000 during the year? If so, please identify the tabled to the Board for discussion. employee and specify the relationship with the relevant director or the CEO. 74 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 75 Corporate Governance continued DISCLOSURE GUIDE Guideline Questions How has the Company complied? Guideline Questions How has the Company complied? Guideline 9.6 (a) Please describe how the remuneration received by The ERCC seeks to ensure that the level and mix of remuneration Guideline 11.3 (a) In relation to the major risks faced by the Company, The Board’s view on the adequacy and effectiveness of the executive directors and key management personnel for the CEO (Executive Director) and key management personnel including financial, operational, compliance, internal controls and risk management systems (including has been determined by the performance criteria. are competitive and relevant, aligned with shareholders’ information technology and sustainability, please state financial, operational, compliance and information technology interests, promote the long-term success of the Group and the bases for the Board’s view on the adequacy and controls) established and maintained by the Group is made strongly linked to the achievement of business and individual effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls and in concurrence with the Audit Committee (AC) and the Risk performance targets. Remuneration for the CEO and key risk management systems. Committee (RC) based on the reviews performed by Management management personnel comprises a fixed component, variable as supported by audit findings of external and internal auditors and cash component, share-based component and market-related the relevant assurance from the CEO and the CFO. benefits. The performance targets are determined by the ERCC and are set at realistic yet stretched levels each year to motivate In assessing the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal them to achieve a high degree of business performance with controls, the Board ensures that material assets are properly emphasis on both short and long-term quantifiable objectives. safeguarded, integrity and availability of critical information and (b) What were the performance conditions used to Please refer to the performance conditions used to determine systems (including accounting records) are maintained, and determine their entitlement under the short-term and the CEO’s and key management personnel’s entitlement under reliable financial information is prepared in compliance with long-term incentive schemes? the short-term and long-term incentive schemes as set out in the applicable internal policies, laws and regulations. Corporate Governance Report. (b) In respect of the past 12 months, has the Board Yes. For FY2016, the Board has received written assurance from (c) Were all of these performance conditions met? Based on the performance level attained, the performance received assurance from the CEO and the CFO as well the CEO and the CFO that (i) the financial records of the Group If not, what were the reasons? conditions were met. as the internal auditor that: (i) the financial records have have been properly maintained and the financial statements been properly maintained and the financial statements give a true and fair view of the Group’s operations and finances Risk Management and Internal Controls give true and fair view of the Company’s operations and (ii) the risk management and internal control systems of Guideline 6.1 What types of information does the Company provide to Throughout the financial year, the Board receives monthly and finances; and (ii) the Company’s risk management the Group are adequate and effective to address the financial, independent directors to enable them to understand its management and financial reports providing updates on key and internal control systems are effective? If not, how operational, compliance and information technology risks as business, the business and financial environment as well performance indicators and a financial analysis of the Group, and does the Board assure itself of points (i) and (ii) above? well as risk management objectives which the Group considers Governance as the risks faced by the Company? How frequently is the regular analysts’ reports and media articles on StarHub and the relevant and material to its current business environment and information provided? industry. Other related business reports are also provided to the scope of operations. In addition, Management has implemented Board regularly and upon request by the Board from time to time. an enhanced process to sign off assurance to the CEO and the Such reports enable the Directors to constantly keep abreast of CFO, in order to enhance the current processes for supporting the key issues and developments in the industry as well as challenges Board’s opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal and opportunities for the Group, thereby facilitating informed and controls and the risk management systems of the Group. sound decisions. Based on the risk management system and internal controls At least three (3) business days prior to each Board and Board established and maintained by the Group, the reviews performed Committee meeting, Management provides the Directors with by Management as supported by audit findings of the external and timely information that is relevant to matters on the agenda for internal auditors and the relevant assurance from the CEO and the the meeting, except for sensitive matters to be tabled at the CFO, the Board (with the concurrence of the AC and the RC) is of meeting itself. This is to give Directors sufficient time to review the opinion that the risk management system and internal controls and consider the matters being tabled and/or discussed. The of the Group are adequate and effective to address the financial, Board also receives updates from the respective Chairman of operational, compliance and information technology risks as each Board Committee at Board meetings, in relation to key well as risk management objectives which the Group considers matters raised and/or decisions made at the last-held meeting relevant and material to its current business environment and of the relevant Board Committee. For any matter which requires scope of operations. the Board’s approval, the Board Committees would recommend Guideline 12.6 (a) Please provide a breakdown of the fees paid in total to The aggregate amount of external auditors’ fees for FY2016 and the course of action to the Board for its consideration and the external auditors for audit and non-audit services the breakdown for the audit and non-audit services are set out in decision. Minutes of the meetings of the AC, the SC, the NC and for the financial year. Note 21.3 to the Financial Statements of the Annual Report. the RC are also circulated to the Board for its information, while (b) If the external auditors have supplied a substantial Non-audit fees amount to less than 50% of the total fees paid/ the minutes of the meetings of the ERCC are available to the volume of non-audit services to the Company, please payable to the external auditor of StarHub. The AC has also Directors on request. state the bases for the Audit Committee’s view on the reviewed the volume and type of non-audit services provided by independence of the external auditors. the external auditors. Based on such review, the AC is satisfied The Board has access to Management at all times to answer any that the independence of the external auditors has not been queries raised by the Directors. Frequent dialogue and interactions compromised by the provision of the non-audit services and take place between Management and the Directors. that Rules 712 and 715 of the SGX-ST Listing Manual have been Guideline 13.1 Does the Company have an internal audit function? Yes, the Company has an internal audit function complied with. The external auditors have also confirmed their If not, please explain why. independence. 76 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 77 Corporate Governance continued Directors’ Particulars DISCLOSURE GUIDE Guideline Questions How has the Company complied? Principal Directorships/Chairmanships in other listed companies & other major appointments, Communication with Shareholders both present and held over the preceding 3 years Guideline 15.4 (a) Does the Company regularly communicate with StarHub, through its Investor Relations (IR) team, communicates Age in Past Principal Directorships/ shareholders and attend to their questions? How regularly with shareholders and the investment community Year Present Principal Directorships/ Chairmanships & Appointments often does the Company meet with institutional and through regular, effective and non-discriminatory communication Director 2017 Chairmanships & Appointments (from 1 Jan 2014 to 30 Dec 2016) retail investors? including regular dialogues and timely disclosures of material and other pertinent information via SGXNET announcements. Steven Terrell Clontz 67 Level 3 Communications, Inc. InterDigital, Inc. (b) Is this done by a dedicated investor relations team Yes, StarHub has a dedicated IR team. Virgin Mobile Latin America, Inc. Jasper Technologies, Inc (or equivalent)? If not, who performs this role? PSA International Pte Ltd (formerly known as Jasper Wireless, Inc.) (c) How does the Company keep shareholders informed Apart from SGXNET announcements and the annual report, STT GDC Pte. Ltd. of corporate developments, apart from SGXNET the StarHub IR website at www.starhub.com/ir, which is regularly Cloud9 Technologies announcements and the annual report? updated, is the main source of information for shareholders. It houses all media releases, financial results, annual reports, Tan Tong Hai 54 StarHub Cable Vision Ltd. – SGXNET announcements, presentation materials, archived webcasts and conference calls, as well as other corporate StarHub Internet Pte Ltd information relating to the Group. Investors may also elect StarHub Mobile Pte Ltd to be notified of any new updates via an e-mail alert service. Nanyang Polytechnic The CEO and the StarHub IR team also have regular meetings Workforce Singapore with institutional investors through international road shows and conferences organised by major brokerage firms. Ma Kah Woh 70 Mapletree Investments Pte Ltd CapitaLand China Development Guideline 15.5 If the Company is not paying any dividends for the financial Not applicable. StarHub has been paying dividends on a quarterly Mapletree Greater China Commercial Trust Fund II Ltd year, please explain why. basis for FY2016. Management Ltd Mapletree Logistics Trust Management Governance National Heritage Board Limited PACC Offshore Services Holdings Ltd National University of Singapore Nihal Vijaya Devadas 73 DBS Bank Ltd PT TVS Motor Company Indonesia Kaviratne CBE Olam International Limited TVS Motor (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Caraway Pte. Ltd. SATS Ltd. GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited Akzo Nobel India Limited Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee 49 Olam International Limited Governor – Raffles Girls’ School SPH REIT Management Pte Ltd (Secondary) Certis CISCO Security Pte. Ltd. Member of CMFAS Examination Board – Board Member – Public Utilities Board The Institute of Banking & Finance Board Member – Singapore Institute of Board Member – APREA (Asia Pacific Real Technology Estate Association) Singapore Chapter Teo Ek Tor 64 PrimeFounders Pte Ltd – PrimePartners Group Pte Ltd PrimePartners Corporate Finance Pte Ltd Aris PrimePartners Asset Management Pte Ltd WhiteRock Medical Company Pte Ltd Stephen Geoffrey Miller 54 STT GDC Pte. Ltd. – Asia Mobile Holdings Pte. Ltd. Singapore Technologies Telemedia Pte Ltd Telechoice International Limited U Mobile Sdn. Bhd. Advanced Info Service Public Company Limited 78 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 79 Directors’ Particulars continued Awards and Industry Honours Principal Directorships/Chairmanships in other listed companies & other major appointments, Advertising/ Branding/Marketing Corporate Technology both present and held over the preceding 3 years Age in Past Principal Directorships/ Hall of Fame Awards 2016 Alpha Southeast Asia’s 10 Annual th NetworkWorld Year Present Principal Directorships/ Chairmanships & Appointments • Brand of the Year, for the third consecutive Best Financial Institution Awards Asia Information Director 2017 Chairmanships & Appointments (from 1 Jan 2014 to 30 Dec 2016) year: StarHub • Recognised in three categories Management • GOLD: Digital Design Campaign of the Year – Most Organised Investor Relations, Lim Ming Seong 70 CSE Global Limited – (StarHub.com) Strongest Adherence to Corporate Governance Awards 2016 First Resources Ltd & Most Improved Investor Relations • WINNER: Data Centre • SILVER: For Good Award Infrastructure Management (StarHub Majulah Moms music video) Liu Chee Ming 66 Platinum Holdings Company Limited – • SILVER: Content Marketing Idea of the Year Asia Sustainability Reporting Haitong Securities Co., Ltd. (StarHub Majulah Moms music video) NetworkWorld Awards 2016 • WINNER: Asia’s Best Sustainability Report Asia Readers’ Nasser Marafih 56 Ooredoo Q.S.C. – Holmes Report’s Innovator within Annual Report Choice Product Takeshi Kazami 54 President & CEO, NTT Singapore Pte Ltd. – 25 Asia-Pacific 2016 Excellence 2016 President & CEO, NTT Worldwide Network • One of the 25 innovators in the inaugural Built Environment Industry (BEI) • WINNER: IP Services Asia-Pacific listing (Rod Strother) Asia Awards 2015/16 Infrastructure, for the Singapore Pte Ltd. second consecutive year • Asia Responsible Corporate Award Emerio Globesoft Pte. Ltd. HWM + HardwareZone.com – People Centric Award NTT MSC Bhd. Tech Awards 2016 OpenSignal PT NTT Indonesia • Best Pay TV Service (Singapore) 2016 Corporate Knights’ Global 100 ‘The State of LTE’ • Sixth win in a row • Ranked 8th in the list of the world’s most February 2016 Report sustainable company • Attained “Fastest Networks Governance Singapore Media Awards 2016 • Improved from its ranking of 24th in 2015 with LTE” title for the second • Media Sales Person of the Year • Most sustainable Singaporean company; consecutive quarter (Isaac Elias M Arif Bin Saini) remains the only local telco to be awarded Nikkei Asian Review’s Asia 300 • StarHub topped the list for fiscal 2015 SIAS Investors’ Choice Awards • WINNER: Most Transparent Company Award (Telecommunications & Utilities category); third win in a row • MERIT: Singapore Corporate Governance Award (Big Cap category) Singapore Corporate Awards 2016 • GOLD: Best Investor Relations Award (for companies with $1B and above in market capitalisation) • Third consecutive win SPRING Singapore’s People Developer Standard • Certified People Developer 80 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 81 Investor Relations We continue to maintain a very active When there are new developments in IR programme. In 2016, we met more this rapidly-changing industry, we stand Cumulative TSR Why Invest in StarHub than 280 investors in over 210 meetings. ready to address queries our investors since FY2005 They range from large multi-company meetings, multi-day conferences where we reach out to international investors, might have. The changes might include new policies, new competing products or other developments of the industry. +394% 1 PROVEN 2 WIDELY 3 ASTUTE 4 FINANCIALLY 5 CUSTOMER to intimate one-on-one sessions We also try and proactively anticipate here to help them better understand what their concerns might be and offer MANAGEMENT RECOGNISED STRATEGY SOUND SERVICE TEAM BRAND A management team Positive cash flow EXCELLENCE StarHub’s business. our views to address investors’ concerns We were also appreciated in three Experienced, Well-known in the willing and able to refresh generation, financial Customers are at the as quickly as possible. categories at the Alpha Southeast Asia’s performance-oriented info-communications our ideas and refine our flexibility and consistently heart of everything For regular updates and reinforcement of management team with and media industry to strategies to stay ahead providing a quarterly we do. We believe we 10th Annual Best Financial Institution the investment thesis on StarHub, we have Regardless of how we engage with solid industry expertise, be innovative, providing of the game dividend payout have a comprehensive Awards. They were; ‘Most Organised our quarterly earnings announcements investors, we have a common goal: technical depth and good values to customers, network of service Investor Relations’, ‘Strongest Adherence company tenures household and enterprise and communication and conference calls. Fronted by the CEO, uphold the best corporate governance to Corporate Governance’ & ‘Most – a brand that cares for channels to deliver Tan Tong Hai and the senior management standards possible and communicate the community and a this promise Improved Investor Relations’. team, we take questions from analysts, what we are doing to them effectively. company with a heart fund managers and journalists. We have We thank you – our shareholders responded to questions ranging from the We are glad our IR programme has – for the recognitions and we strive broader industry trends to topical issues gained continued recognition. For the to do better. of the day. third consecutive year at the Singapore 6 7 8 9 Corporate Awards, we were given the Governance To make it easier for investors and other ‘Best IR Award (Gold)’, for companies interested parties to catch up or recap with market value above $1 billion. At the conference calls, we continue to put the SIAS Investors’ Choice Awards, we our recordings and transcripts online, on won the ‘Most Transparent Company SINGAPORE’S REGIONAL STRATEGIC BUSINESS FIRST FULLY CONNECTIVITY PARTNERSHIPS SUSTAINABILITY top of the usual presentation decks and Award’ (Telecommunications & Utilities INTEGRATED INFOStrategic investments in Developing and fostering Constantly measuring financial statements found on our category) for the third time as well. COMMUNICATIONS submarine cable systems strategic relationships to and assessing the impact IR website. COMPANY like AAG, ASE and APG run an efficient business of the landscape and Fully-integrated infoensure low network model, provide complete stakeholders on the communications and latency, resilience and end-to-end service Company and vice versa, entertainment service diversity, and support offerings and continue to working towards longprovider based in future growth needs lead innovation in all areas term profitability Singapore, providing at least one service to over 60% of local households For the third consecutive year at the Singapore Corporate Awards, we were given the ‘Best IR Award (Gold)’, for companies with market value above $1 billion. 82 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 83 Risk Management Risk Structure Risk Considerations StarHub recognises that risks are inherent in all businesses. A sound system of risk The risk structure sets out our risk StarHub’s external environment is characterised by numerous challenges, management and internal controls does not eliminate risk, but rather mitigates and management functions, roles and including rapid technological changes; cyber security threats, increased manages risk-taking such that StarHub is able to make business decisions which responsibilities of key stakeholders for the competition in a saturated local market; growing government and commensurate with its risk tolerance. governance of risk, as illustrated below: sectoral regulations; as well as unfavourable global and domestic economic conditions. StarHub is committed to establishing a structured and Through our risk management programme, we aim to have disciplined approach towards managing risk. Thus, a current, correct and comprehensive understanding of our we have integrated a systematic and effective risk significant risks, which will be managed within risk tolerances Board management process into our core business processes reflecting our values, objectives and resources. Risk Risk Levels of Directors Committee and decision-making activities. ect (RC) Dir 5 Likelihood Impact an d Levels Levels k Ris ent 5. Almost certain 5. Severe StarHub’s Risk Management Approach: em 4. Likely 4. Major nag Management 4 Risk Committee ma n 3. Possible 3. Moderate (with ERM and risk atio 1 2 3 or alu 2. Unlikely 2. Minor Risk Workgroups) nit r ev Management 3 mo 1. Rare 1. Insignificant s fo or t rep CREATE VALUE by FORM AN INTEGRAL PART of StarHub’s management ENABLE STARHUB’S 2 contributing to the practices, organisational processes and core business DECISION MAKERS Likelihood Very high (Must treat unless accepted) Governance achievement of StarHub’s activities, including strategic planning, project processes to make informed choices, High (To treat &/or monitor) mission, business and and change management processes; prioritise actions and Business Heads 1 2 3 4 5 Medium (To monitor) strategic objectives; distinguish alternative Low (To review annually for relevance) courses of action; Impact 4 TAKE INTO ACCOUNT 5 FOLLOW A SYSTEMATIC, 6 BASED ON RELIABLE 7 ALIGNED TO STARHUB’S StarHub’s current risk management process, which is an integral part of our key business activities is summarised and illustrated in the diagram below: UNCERTAINTIES, the disciplined and structured INFORMATION SOURCES CULTURE, processes and Risk Levels nature and extent of the approach which is such as historical data, structure, taking into Likelihood Levels 5 uncertainties and how efficient and produces experience, stakeholder account the internal and 4 Mission they can be addressed; consistent, comparable feedback, observation, external parameters for 3 Risk Organisation and reliable results; forecasts and expert risk management; 2 Structure judgement; 1 2 3 4 5 DRIVERS es ons Top-tier re s p IMPACTS Impact Levels ons Risk Heat Map 8 9 10 re s p Risks es Preemptive REMAIN RELEVANT AND CONTINUOUSLY ADAPT CONTINUOUSLY IMPROVE STARHUB’S capability/ Escalation UPDATED by involving key TO CHANGE, including capacity, adequacy of resources and availability of stakeholders and decision occurrence of internal and requisite experience to identify, manage, mitigate and DRIVERS es Mid-tier re s p IMPACTS ons makers regularly and on a external events, change take on new risks. re s p Risks ons Key Risk Indicators es timely basis; in risks and emergence of new risks; and Effectiveness of Control 1. Effective DRIVERS es Micro-tier re s p IMPACTS 2. Partially effective ons re s p Risks ons 3. Not effective es Risk Management Training For effective risk governance and management, it is important for employees to be risk-aware. We create training programmes for employees to build up competency for managing risk through workshops, communication bulletins and other channels. 84 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 85 Risk Management continued Key Risks StarHub is committed to upholding high standards of corporate governance 1 Technology, IT, Security and Resiliency 2 Customers 3 Legal & Regulatory 4 Human Resource 5 Partnership and applying consistent StarHub’s business as an info-communications In Singapore where the consumer A change in laws and regulations could Human resource is a significant StarHub works with partners for various and effective risk service provider is dependent on the security, market is over-saturated and fixed potentially impact StarHub’s business StarHub asset. Attracting, hiring, aspects of its info-communications management to enhance availability and resilience of the underlying broadband and mobile networks are and we are exposed to a dynamic retaining and developing talented, business and also forms strategic shareholder value. The network infrastructure and information widely used for access to services regulatory landscape in the local experienced, innovative and passionate partnerships with key vendors and Group faces a variety of systems it operates on. While our network is on the Internet, global technology technology and info-communications people are vital and strategic factors other complementary service providers internal and external risks designed to be resilient and robust, points of players, device manufacturers and sector. In recent years, regulators have to the company’s success. In a tight to expand its footprint and serve new due to complex business failure, network outages and external events over-the-top providers continue to lowered the barriers for new entrants, labour market, it poses additional market segments. These expose us to operations and the dynamic such as cyber-attack, accidents stemming enter the highly competitive market. enforced stringent requirements in challenge to recruit the right people potential supply chain risks. from human error and disasters beyond our a competitive and highly saturated with the right skill-sets to support the and competitive market control could cause an extended disruption to Customers have increasing local market and imposed heavier company’s strategic imperatives. The ability to build and sustain in which it operates. our network services and business operations. demands on network capacity, penalties for failure to meet regulatory partnerships is a strategic differentiator The Group recognises including faster network speeds and licence requirements. As part of We regularly invest in developing for StarHub. Our senior management risk management as an The technology evolution cycle is fastwhile being price sensitive. our operations, we are also exposed our people with ongoing learning regularly engages with key partners optimisation of the riskchanging in our industry and the emergence to litigation risks from regulators, and training to keep them relevant to and plays an active role in sustaining reward relationship, within of disruptive technologies across all industries StarHub seeks to understand our customers and suppliers. the business needs. Effective employee the strength and commitments of Governance known and agreed risk continuously influences strategic decisions customer needs and has put in place learning and development are a “mustour strategic relationships and joint appetite levels. The Group necessary to identify the most appropriate strategies to meet and exceed their StarHub engages with regulators have” to support the business strategies ventures. We have also established will manage or avoid technology to adopt due to the high levels expectations to win their loyalty. by participating in consultations and growth, build intellectual capital service standards, training programmes, situations or actions that of capital expenditure involved and the Our Hubbing strategy continues to conducted by the relevant government and develop innovative products and and feedback mechanisms to drive risk having a negative uncertainty of the return on investment. evolve to meet changing market ministries and authorities. services to meet customer needs. consistent and desirable service impact on its reputation and and customers’ needs. Targeted standards from our partners. brand, network integrity Cyber risks, a real and increased concern marketing and promotional activities Our in-house legal and regulatory Retention strategies are in place to and business continuity. especially in today’s digital economies, are launched to counter increased support functions provide prompt minimise employee turnover including StarHub seeks to treat its can potentially lead to security breaches, competition. communications and guidance to talent and performance management, 6 customers reasonably and compromise of network integrity and loss ensure that internal stakeholders competitive remuneration, recognition of customer information, resulting in potential We are also constantly looking are aware of and comply with the and reward programmes and fairly. StarHub requires its breaches of statutory or regulatory as well as into capitalising emerging existing and new legislations, as well as fast-tracking of high-performing staff to uphold integrity. contractual obligations. technologies to retain and attract regulatory and contractual obligations. employees. Human resource policies Financial StarHub also seeks to customers, so as to support the and functions are also in place to StarHub is exposed to billing, credit, meet applicable legal and StarHub is careful in its investments to upgrade growth of the business. support attracting, retaining and liquidity, interest rate and foreign regulatory requirements. and modernise its network and IT infrastructure, growing talent as well as creating currency risks in the normal course The Group is prepared expand capacity to handle growth in data Our leading position in content and a conducive work environment. of its business, which are generally to take measured risks traffic, address security issues while controlling channel offerings is aligned with governed by policies, processes and to seek new growth and capital expenditure. Network infrastructure and our strategy to move into content We also have succession planning guidelines. Please refer to the notes pursue value-creation information systems are kept refreshed, secured development and internet delivery programmes to mitigate key to the financial statements for opportunities as they arise, and up-to-date with technological changes. of content to our customers across employee risks. more details. while leveraging its current In response to disruptive technologies, different technical platforms. We For more details, go to page 129 scale and core strengths. StarHub is swift and proactive to embrace and continue to make investments leverage, adopting them as part of our business to improve our customer service StarHub’s corporate risk appetite processes and offerings. excellence. Our products and statement as approved by the Board services are continuously reviewed, We have established specialised security, refreshed and improved so as to be business continuity and disaster recovery up-to-date with technology changes functions and programmes to prevent, and our customers’ needs. monitor, detect, respond and escalate security incidents as well as coordinate and operate across the company to mitigate the security and resiliency risk. 86 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 87 Sustainability Report Significant StarHub’s sixth annual sustainability report presents a balanced SR2016 Achievements overview of our environmental, social and governance (ESG) Sustainability Report FY2016 performance for the calendar year 2016. Sustainability About This Report Reporting Process Contents “I’m the one who watches JAN Ranked 8th in the Corporate This report has been prepared in accordance StarHub’s Sustainability Committee, Value Creation 90 the most StarHub TV Knights Global 100 Most with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) which includes senior executives from Our Stakeholders 92 programmes at home. Sustainable Corporations list. Remains the only local Standards: Core option, the latest set major functions, provides the overall Our Materiality Topics 96 I also love the fast speeds on telco on the list of standards issued by the GRI Global direction for preparing the report. The – Our Environment 98 StarHub fibre broadband to Sustainability Standards Board which will Committee’s responsibilities include – Our Marketplace 104 MAY access my favourite apps & Raised $122,000 for supersede the GRI G4 Guidelines from July reviewing, assessing and determining the – Our Workplace 108 follow rugby and golf games.” Hair for Hope, with 122 2018. We have decided to be an early adopter sustainability context, material ESG topics, – Our Community 114 StarHubbers and business partners shaving their heads of the GRI Standards starting with this report. report content and topic boundaries, scope Economic Performance 118 Ethan Koh The report continues to include relevant and prioritisation of issues to be included in GRI Content Index 120 Young Hubber JUN indicators from GRI’s Telecommunications the report. The Committee also considers Contributed $200,000 to Central Singapore Sector Supplement and the G4 Media formal and informal feedback from a range Community Development Sector Disclosures. In developing the report, of internal and external stakeholders received Council (CDC) to support we have also incorporated some of the throughout the year to determine the most learning opportunities and literacy for disadvantaged International Integrated Reporting Council’s material topics to be covered in the report. children (IIRC) Integrated Reporting principles to The Committee is supported by a crosscommunicate value created by our ESG functional project team which gathers AUG Organised annual StarHub strategies, wherever possible. A GRI Content and verifies ESG performance data. Open and raised $209,700 Index has been included at the end of this for Metta School, MINDS report indicating the disclosures’ locations. Our reporting cycle begins with a review of the Towner Garden School and Lighthouse School current sustainability report to re-assess the This report covers ESG performance material topics and their boundaries in the light OCT of all business divisions and subsidiaries of business environment changes, stakeholder Sustainability Won the Sustainable Business category at the which are under StarHub’s financial and feedback and sustainability trends. 2016 Singapore Apex operational control. Corporate Sustainability Awards StarHub’s Corporate Sustainability and Information presented in the report has Responsibility (CSR) advocate has the NOV been extracted from the primary internal responsibility for coordinating the entire Won “Best Sustainability Report within an Annual records and documents to ensure accuracy reporting process. Report” at the 2016 Asia using internationally accepted measurement Sustainability Reporting data units. Restatements Awards (ASRA) This report does not include any restatement Reporting Principles of previously published data. As in our previous reports, we have followed the GRI principles for defining the sustainability report content and quality. We have determined the report content using the principles of stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context, materiality and completeness. To ensure quality of the report, we have applied the GRI principles of accuracy, balance, clarity, comparability, reliability and timeliness. Sustainability Report 88 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 89 Sustainability Report continued External Assurance Sustainability Governance StarHub’s CSR advocate is responsible StarHub Value Creation Scorecard for developing, managing and executing Case Study While the financial At StarHub, the Board of Directors has statements in the report oversight of the Group’s sustainability strategy. CSR programmes and is supported by a Strategic Area FY 2016 FY 2015 FY 2014 StarHub in the are audited by independent The Board’s responsibilities include providing cross-functional project team which has auditors, we rely on our Environmental guidance on the material environmental, the responsibility to collect, verify, monitor TOP 8 internal process to verify social and governance (ESG) factors that and provide ESG performance data for OF THE GLOBAL CO2e emissions (tonnes) 54,518 56,706 54,625 100 RANKING the accuracy of ESG impact the Group’s activities. sustainability reporting. Carbon emission intensity per $million revenue StarHub’s ranking in the performance data and 2016 Global 100 Most (tonnes CO2e) 22.7 23.2 22.9 information presented in In managing sustainability throughout the StarHub Core Values: ExCITe Sustainable Corporations in the report. Energy intensity per $million revenue (gigajoules) 183 183 183 Group, the Board is assisted by the StarHub Our approach to sustainable development of the World index jumped to the Water consumption (cubic metres) 28,421 27,500 27,832 Sustainability Committee. The Sustainability the business is guided by StarHub’s four pillars 8th place from the previous 24th place. StarHub, ranked Availability General waste (non-hazardous) (tonnes) 40 30 33 Committee is headed by the CEO, and of Core Values: for the fourth consecutive A PDF version of the report is Internal e-waste recycled (tonnes) 379 117 385 comprises senior executives of the Group year, is the only Singaporean available for download on our representing key functions. The Sustainability Excellence info-communications Paper recycled (kilogrammes) 16,012 19,295 12,210 website www.starhub.com. Committee reviews and determines material Creativity provider included in this Smart device users can Copier paper consumption (kilogrammes) 28,340 40,065 53,230 ESG factors, develops sustainability strategy, Integrity—social, environmental prestigious index. also download the StarHub Electricity used (million kWh) 119.9 121.7 118.8 considers stakeholder feedback and and financial The Global 100 is a list of the Annual Report app to browse expectations, and establishes priorities, Teamwork world’s 100 most sustainable and experience the StarHub Social goals and targets. corporations compiled by Annual Reports on their Employees Our sustainability strategy to create shared Corporate Knights based on an extensive data-driven smart devices. Permanent employees+ 91% 88% 88% value for shareholders and stakeholders is sustainability assessment. Local employees (Singapore citizens)++ 75% 75% 76% deeply rooted in our core values. A small number of copies of Asia Sustainability New hires 283 320 346 Reporting Awards this report have been printed on Forest Stewardship Female employees++ 42% 43% 43% StarHub Sustainabilty For its reporting excellence, StarHub won Best Council (FSC) certified Female managers (% of Senior level) 37% 36% 35% Reporting Committee Business Sustainability Report within sustainable paper to reduce Female managers (% of Middle level) 36% 38% 38% Continuity an Annual Report at the Asia Sustainability environmental impact. Female Heads of Department (% of HODs) 33% 33% 33% Management Sustainability Reporting Awards (ASRA) 2016. Average training hours per employee 19 20 17 Feedback Corporate Singapore Apex We welcome feedback from Training expenditure per employee $784 $611 $873 Administration Corporate Sustainability all stakeholders. Please HR Satisfaction Survey (Employee satisfaction level Awards 2016 send questions, comments, based on survey scores) 91% 92% 92% StarHub was recognised for Employee turnover rate 12% 12% 14% Corporate outstanding performance suggestions or feedback Purchasing in corporate sustainability relating to this report or our Number of reported work injuries 2 2 9 in the Sustainable Business sustainability performance to Fatal Accidents 0 0 0 category at the Singapore StarHubCSR@StarHub.com + % refers to base of total StarHub workforce Customer Apex Corporate Sustainability ++ % refers to base of StarHub permanent employees Service Awards, which recognise companies in Singapore Suppliers for their commitment to Advisor & sustainable business. Share of local suppliers as % of total supplier CSR Advisory Chairman Finance Advocate payments 86% 89% 91% Panel Proportion of local suppliers 85.0% 82.7% 86.4% Community Network Employee volunteerism (number of days) 124 144 214 Community investment and donations to charities ($million) 0.8 1.1 1.4 Legal Financial Revenue ($million) 2,397 2,444 2,387 Human Net profit ($million) 341 372 371 Resource Dividends paid to shareholders ($million) 346 346 345 Government & Strategic Affairs 90 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 91 Sustainability Report continued Value We are focused on providing every person, every home and every business in Singapore Mobile communication, Pay TV, ultra-high speed broadband services, and data and voice businesses, both small and large, run their operations efficiently. Superfast and We operate an islandwide mobile and HFC network for delivering TV and cable We strongly believe that sustainable growth of our business depends on our Creation with world-class information, communication and entertainment services. As a fully integrated info-communications company, our services for businesses make lives better and help businesses thrive. Our communications services help people connect with family and reliable connectivity that we offer allows people to access a host of public services from their mobile phones on the go. broadband services. Both, part of the nation’s crucial info-communications infrastructure, enable inclusive growth ability to create value for our customers and society. We therefore take a balanced approach to sustainable development of services enrich lives, connect people, facilitate friends, and access information when they Our Pay TV services bring world-class and support economic development. our business and the communities around business and empower the community. need it. Our communications solutions help entertainment to everyone’s home. us. A summary of how we create value for our stakeholders is presented below. Creating Sustainable Value for All Strategic Areas Value Created Challenges Beneficiaries Strategic Areas Value Created Challenges Beneficiaries ENVIRONMENT ECONOMIC Energy • Lower environmental footprint • Cost of upgrading technology • Shareholders Info• State-of-the-art energy efficient mobile and cable • Rapid technological advancements and innovation • Customers efficiency • Reduced energy cost • Building employee and customer awareness • Environment communications TV infrastructure to support customers and the • High investment cost • Economy • Community infrastructure local economy • Competitive market place • Community Climate change • Lower carbon footprint • Cost of upgrading technology • Shareholders • Government mitigation • New business opportunities in a low carbon • Ensuring continued awareness among employees • Environment • Shareholders economy and customers • Community Local suppliers • Supporting local businesses' growth • Local suppliers may have cost disadvantage due to • Suppliers Waste • Resource efficiency • Collection, segregation and tracking of all waste • Shareholders • Creating indirect local jobs adverse economies of scale • Suppliers' minimisation • Lower pollution across business • Environment • Contributing to local economic growth • Capacity limitations employees • Building employee and customer awareness • Community • Limited capital for expansion or modernisation • Suppliers' • Cost of disposal suppliers • Government Water • Saving water • Cost of retrofitting • Shareholders conservation • Employees' pride in saving water • Cost of water efficient fittings • Environment Supply chain • Reducing social and environmental impacts and • Cost of supplier training, assessments and • Suppliers • Creating employee awareness • Community sustainability risks in supply chain monitoring • Suppliers' assessments • Limited influence on dominant suppliers employees SOCIAL • Communities Employee • Employee satisfaction • Competition for talent • Shareholders • Government development • Innovative problem-solving • Instilling personal ownership of career planning and • Employees GOVERNANCE • Motivated and engaged employees skills upgrading • Local Sustainability • Higher productivity • Engaging multi-generational workforce economy Board diversity • Holistic guidance to the company • Recruitment of suitable directors • Shareholders • Lower turnover and reduced hiring cost • Developing leadership and mentoring skills • Community • Investors • Regulators Customer service • Customer retention • Increasing competition • Shareholders excellence • Customer loyalty • Frequent training to keep pace with new products • Customers Risk • Effective risk taking and management, aligned • Creating a risk-aware culture • Shareholders • Reduced cost of new customer acquisition and technologies management with the organisation’s business objectives with an • Keeping updated with the latest emerging risks • Investors • Avoid expensive administrative time in solving and internal integrated, proactive and systematic approach in and threats customer problems by being proactive controls risk management • Better corporate governance Uninterrupted • Trust in brand • Cost of preventive maintenance • Shareholders availability of • Attract and retain customers • Investment in expanding infrastructure • Customers Whistle blowing • Mitigate business risks • Ongoing training and awareness for existing and • Shareholders services • Customer satisfaction • Cyber-attack threats • Local policy • Fraud prevention new employees • Investors • Reduced regulatory risk • Reliance on upstream providers economy Employee code • Ethical conduct • Ongoing training and awareness for existing and • Shareholders High speed • Faster, reliable communication • Cost of network upgrade • Customers of conduct • Conducive working environment with high level of new employees Investors mobile and • Convenient access to public services such as • Rapid evolution of new technologies • Businesses trust and professionalism • Business broadband government e-services, banking, and online • Keeping prices affordable • Local • Minimise business risks partners connectivity shopping • Increasing competition economy Strategic • Robust plans to keep business operational during • Increase resiliency of core network infrastructure • Shareholders • Supporting the growth of digital economy such as Business crisis or emergency situations such as haze, to meet stakeholders’ requirements • Investors e-commerce Continuity pandemic periods etc • Regulators Access to • Inclusive growth • Cost of subsidy • Community Management • Mitigate regulatory risk • Customers telecom services • Narrowing digital divide Data protection • Safety of sensitive commercial and strategic data • Investment in automated systems • Shareholders for all • More resilient and stronger communities and information • Mitigating cyber attacks • Investors Fair market • Build trust through transparency • Ensuring ongoing employee training and awareness • Shareholders • Mitigate regulatory risk • Employee training and awareness Regulators practices • Attract /retain customers and business partners • Building customer awareness • Customers • Increased confidence of customers, business • Customers • Reduced regulatory risk • Local partners and employees economy Community • Goodwill of community • Complex to determine return on investment • Community External Initiatives development • Stronger brand equity and respect • Employees We support or are committed to a number of national and international economic, environmental and social principles, codes and frameworks. • More resilient, stable and stronger communities • Shareholders Some of these include: • Trusted relations with society • GRI Standards • The Universal Declaration • bizSAFE Level 3 certification, the • The Carbon Disclosure Project Employee • Greater employee engagement • Identifying high impact programmes • Community (our first sustainability report of Human Rights second highest level, awarded by (We participate through CDP Supply volunteering • Enhanced job satisfaction • Meeting employees’ expectations for choice of • Employees (SR 2011) followed GRI 3.1 and the • International Labour Organisation’s the Workplace Safety and Health Chain and CDP Climate Change last four sustainability reports (SR (ILO) Core Labour Standards Council Singapore programmes) • Stronger community engagement programmes • Shareholders 2012-SR 2015) were in accordance • UN Sustainable Development Goals • The Greenhouse Gas (GHG) • Advertising Standards Authority • Cost of volunteering with the latest GRI G4 guidelines) Protocol of Singapore (ASAS) Code • Tripartite Alliance for Fair Employment Practices (TAFEP) • Mobile Operators' Content Code 92 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 93 Sustainability Report continued Our Stakeholder engagement is at the core of our sustainability strategy. We engage with a We seek stakeholder feedback using both formal and informal channels. Ongoing Stakeholder feedback also helps us identify, prioritise and address the most significant ESG issues. To prepare this report, Our approach is to build trusted relationships with all stakeholders through respectful conversations and upholding Stakeholders range of stakeholders who may be impacted by our business operations or whose opinion may influence our business. Insights from stakeholder feedback allows us to offer the right products and services that meet our customers’ needs and expectations, create a we engaged key internal stakeholders to seek their views and input for reporting. Assessments that we receive from numerous sustainability analysts and ranking organisations the highest standards of professionalism and ethics in conducting our business. our interactions with stakeholders enrich our fulfilling workplace for employees, and serve help us improve our sustainability reporting. decision making and enable us to create value the community. for all. How we engage with diverse stakeholders, including how we respond to the topics and concerns raised by them, is presented below. Customers Employees Suppliers Distributions/Retailers Business Partners Investors HOW WE ENGAGE: HOW WE ENGAGE: HOW WE ENGAGE: HOW WE ENGAGE: HOW WE ENGAGE: HOW WE ENGAGE: Customer surveys, Twitter®, Facebook® pages, Through social media platforms such as StarHub Community and Quotations, Request Regular meetings, shop Frequent discussions with Quarterly briefings, annual advertisements, StarHub retail stores, online stores, HubbaVoice where they can share their comments and observations on For Proposals, tenders, visits, email correspondence. telecom and content press conference, Investors’ Customer Service Hotlines. topics of interest, be it local or world events, new technology/applications regular meetings, email partners. Day, regular meetings, etc. We also continue to engage via Intranet, emails, internal newsletter, correspondence, and STAKEHOLDERS’ discussions, emails with STAKEHOLDERS’ EXPECTATIONS: workshops, company-sponsored sporting and social activities such as teleconferences. EXPECTATIONS: STAKEHOLDERS’ over 240 institutional Seamless, high-quality coverage, rich content, in-house games organised for employees, small group discussions, twiceTimely delivery; quality EXPECTATIONS: yearly employee communication sessions, twice-yearly video addresses by assurance; strong dealer investors, across Asia, affordability, data security, prompt level of service. STAKEHOLDERS’ Partnerships for business CEO, encouragement of employees to interact more personally in and out EXPECTATIONS: collaboration, driving good Europe and the US. • Friendly processes and policies opportunities and growth. • Ease of use of the office, free health snacks on the last Friday of every month. Compliance with terms customer experience; STAKEHOLDERS’ • Hassle-free sign up and conditions of after-sales support. HOW WE RESPOND: EXPECTATIONS: • Employees with excellent product knowledge STAKEHOLDERS’ EXPECTATIONS: prevailing purchasing By engaging them to seek A caring and conducive environment where employees are equipped Transparency, timely • Easy to understand promotional packages and policies and procedures, HOW WE RESPOND: mutually beneficial business and motivated to do their best work and continue to excel in personal while maintaining ethical By proactive sales planning; information on company mechanics opportunities. development. standards; appropriate costs. sales support; regular visits progress and status, by Account Managers and profitability. HOW WE RESPOND: PROGRESS DURING 2016: By committing ourselves to respect consumers’ HOW WE RESPOND: HOW WE RESPOND: providing Single Point of By adopting sound HR policies and practices that promote fair treatment, Rolled out more StarHub Go, HOW WE RESPOND: rights, provide clear product information, offer value By establishing policies and Contact for distributors/ safe working conditions, reward and recognition for performance, SVOD, on demand content By endeavouring to generate for money, ensure product performance and quality, practices that ensure a fair partners for timely response. Sustainability teamwork and career growth, e.g. we promote work-life balance and a selection and procurement for viewers. optimum return on reliable service, prompt handling of complaints, and conducive work environment for employees through provision of nursing process, ethical business PROGRESS DURING 2016: investment, good respect for privacy. Provide customers with fulfilment PL ANS FOR 2017: rooms, a well-equipped gym and encouraging employees to take part practices and respect for • We continued to engage governance, transparency channels such as Retail, Online, Roadshow, Telesales To work together with in sporting activities such as marathons, bowling, futsal, as well as giving contractual obligations. through quarterly and and disclosure, as well as and also self-help options like My StarHub app. partners to combat piracy. employees early release from work on the last Friday of each quarter for yearly performance sustainable and long-term them to spend meaningful family time with their loved ones. We also PROGRESS DURING 2016: updates, and sharing PROGRESS DURING 2016: growth of business. organised Bring-Your-Kids-to-Work Day for our employees. We completed the sales trends • We continued to simplify processes at all touch points for both sales and service transactions, Supplier Sustainability Survey • Enabled Partners to PROGRESS DURING 2016: PROGRESS DURING 2016: covering 73 key suppliers, provide post sales launched e-appointments for existing and new We continued a strong We continued to focus on bringing out the best in our people and building more than the target transactions (SIM customers at retail stores, created Hub Trooper investor engagement in the a high performing work culture through the following areas: of 60 suppliers. mapping and Set Top Box experience corner at our StarHub retail stores reporting year that included • Revamped internal performance rating system to allow for greater swops) for customers to for personalised solution sales, offered seamless 214 face-to-face investor differentiation of employee performance PL ANS FOR 2017: integrate sales and post customer experiences through launch of “click and • Equipped people managers with relevant skillsets to hold effective meetings. collect” for mobile e-commerce sales Continue supplier sales in partners’ shops performance conversations with their teams sustainability survey. • Revamped the online My Account Manager for more • Maintained our Quarterly PL ANS FOR 2017: • Rolled out Leadership Development Program (5E2P) for senior managers digital self-services to be performed Partner Delight Index To maintain current levels of and above to inculcate key leadership traits and encouraged leaders to • Outcomes measured in elevated NPS results for both Score at 3.98 and above investor engagement, with walk the talk retail and Hub Troopers • Sustained our Career Development efforts for employees through internal for the Mobile Pre-paid good corporate governance, • Revamped My StarHub app with new look and feel Career Fairs and actively facilitated internal transfers and job expansion business transparency and disclosure. and additional features • Achieved the People Developer (PD) certification in 2016 in recognition PL ANS FOR 2017: • Strengthened Social Media team to provide better of our efforts to develop our people for the better • Continue to support response times to customers, better handling of Partners with simplified queries, and greater engagement with customers PL ANS FOR 2017: We are putting in place an all-empowering Human Capital Management processes and systems; (HCM) system to empower our employees through digitisation to achieve training and selling tools PL ANS FOR 2017: collaboration, productivity and innovation at work. • Enhance the service • Focus on episodic NPS to reduce customer pain offerings to be closer points such as billing and relocation To create a truly employee-centric experience through: to that provided at • Strengthen the image of our partner stores to be • Spontaneous 360 Feedback tool to heighten self-awareness and StarHub shops more representative of our StarHub brand stores development • Introducing Salesforce • Increased engagement across our Social Channels • Transparency of shared goals to drive job clarity and accountability tool to further improve • Improve upon our Social Health Index rating among employees our channel management • More effective query management during periods of • Creating space and varied opportunities for learning, peer socialising and in the Mobile Pre-paid high traffic on social channels cross-functional collaboration business • Add new features to My StarHub app to encourage • Simplifying and automating processes in employee lifecycle e.g. benefits, higher use performance management, learning and engagement 94 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 95 Sustainability Report continued Local Communities Media Government & Regulators Trade Associations Trade Unions NGOs & Advocacy Groups* HOW WE ENGAGE: HOW WE ENGAGE: HOW WE ENGAGE: HOW WE ENGAGE: HOW WE ENGAGE: HOW WE ENGAGE: Community outreach programmes, corporate Invitations to media events, regular media Regular discussions with Joining relevant trade Open, timely dialogue with the union. Attending conferences, meeting with interest sponsorships. releases. relevant agencies and associations. Collaborative partnership to enhance groups, and sustainability reporting. departments. employees’ welfare and skills upgrading. STAKEHOLDERS’ EXPECTATIONS: STAKEHOLDERS’ EXPECTATIONS: STAKEHOLDERS’ STAKEHOLDERS’ EXPECTATIONS: Support from a caring corporate citizen. Exposure and access to company STAKEHOLDERS’ EXPECTATIONS: STAKEHOLDERS’ EXPECTATIONS: Responsible business practices, reducing developments and news, as well as breaking EXPECTATIONS: Support in addressing issues Access to employees for promoting environmental impacts, and disclosing HOW WE RESPOND: stories on products, services, entertainment Adherence to regulations, facing the industry. membership, open and honest dialogue with information about sustainability performance. By regularly reviewing community needs, and related content. reporting of any service management. partnering with Voluntary Welfare Organisations delivery issues as required HOW WE RESPOND: HOW WE RESPOND: (VWO), and investing in community projects to HOW WE RESPOND: by regulators, prompt By contributing through HOW WE RESPOND: By committing to wider sustainability support underprivileged youth By providing dedicated media contacts, and resolution of issues. active membership and By maintaining open communication with programmes that seek to harmonise our and families. offering timely and accurate information on participating in industry the union. We have signed a Memorandum of economic, social and environmental goals. company affairs of public interest. HOW WE RESPOND: forums and dialogues, Understanding (MOU) with Singapore Industrial PROGRESS DURING 2016: By committing ourselves to sharing knowledge and and Services Employees’ Union (SISEU) which PROGRESS DURING 2016: For greater, more targeted impact, we have PROGRESS DURING 2016: comply with applicable laws, information. allows rank and file employees to participate in Worked with a number of VWOs and NGOs to streamlined sponsorships to align with the • With 64 press releases, media engagement putting in place policies recreational and social activities organised by support programmes for communities and the business and our community investment focus. remained consistently strong in 2016 and procedures to ensure PROGRESS DURING 2016: the Union. environment as reported in the chapters on • Timely announcements. Well-handled compliance. No significant changes Our Environment and Our Community. PL ANS FOR 2017: communications on outages through timely were implemented in the PROGRESS DURING 2016: To work with high-performing VWOs and/ updates on various channels including PROGRESS DURING 2016: reporting year. • We have extended our sponsorship of PL ANS FOR 2017: or other organisations to effect meaningful mainstream media and social media No significant changes membership fees from rank and file To work more closely with advocacy groups to outcomes for disadvantaged groups in the were implemented in the PL ANS FOR 2017: employees to include junior executive integrate sustainability more broadly into the community. PL ANS FOR 2017: reporting year. No major plans for positions business. To maintain the existing level of media enhanced engagement • We continue our collaborative efforts with engagement, with timely and accurate PL ANS FOR 2017: have been scheduled for the SISEU in encouraging employees’ training company information. To maintain the current level year 2017. and skills upgrading of dialogue with adherence to regulations, as well as PL ANS FOR 2017: prompt reporting and We will continue to work closely with SISEU resolution of issues. to ensure our employees’ skills stay relevant Sustainability as we undergo business transformation, by tapping on the NTUC, WSG and e2i training programmes and grants to support upgrading of our employees’ skills. * e.g. GCNS, human rights groups, WWF, etc. Membership of Associations A list of StarHub’s membership to some of the associations and other organisations is provided here: StarHub actively engages with a number of national and international trade associations and advocacy organisations through membership and participation in committees or work groups. Membership of Associations/Organisations American Chamber of Current Analysis Ovum Enterprise IT Singapore Chinese Singapore International For example, Tan Tong Hai, Jeannie Ong, StarHub’s Kevin Lim, CCO of StarHub Howie Lau, CMO of StarHub, Commerce, Singapore knowledge Centre Chamber of Commerce Chamber of Commerce Games Exchange Alliances CEO of StarHub, is a CSPO and Head of holds the following is President of Singapore & Industry Asia Digital Marketing Global Compact Network Pacific Singapore National corporate representative to Sustainability, serves on the positions: Councillor with Computer Society. Association Telecommunications Singapore Computer Employers’ Federation Singapore Singapore Chinese Chamber Management Committee of the Singapore infocomm Council Society Asia Pacific Network GSMA Development Fund Singapore Press Club of Commerce & Industry Global Compact Network Technology Federation (SiTF) Information Centre Promax Asia Singapore Corporate Singapore Training and (SCCCI). Singapore (GCNS), and is a where he is also advisor to Association of Media GSMA Wireless Intelligence Counsel Association Development Association Subscription Routing Asset Database Director of Investor Relations the Digital Media Chapter. Owners Singapore Hotel Institute of Advertising, Singapore Academy Singapore Manufacturing Professional Association Association of Small Association Federation Singapore of Law of Singapore. She is also & Medium Enterprises Singapore Human Institute of Public Singapore Advanced Singapore Retailers a council member at the (ASME), Singapore Resource Institute Association Relations, Singapore Research & Education Singapore-Guangdong British Chamber of Network Singapore Indian Chamber Investor Relations TM Forum Collaboration Council and a Commerce, Singapore Singapore Association of Commerce & Industry member of Business China Professional Association, Wireless Broadband Cable Television Singapore of the Institute of Singapore infocomm Alliance Singapore’s Publicity Laboratories (CableLabs) Chartered Secretaries & Technology Federation sub-committee. Law Society of Singapore Administrators CASBAA Singapore Institute of Lawnet for Legal Research Singapore Business Management Contact Centre Association of Singapore Federation 96 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 97 Sustainability Report continued Our Materiality Topics Boundary of Our Material Topics A summary of StarHub’s material environmental, social and economic topics, where the impacts occur and StarHub’s involvement with the impacts is presented below. Our indirect involvement indicates the impacts that occur outside We identify material topics for reporting based StarHub such as the value chain where we may not have much control. A more detailed discussion on the material topics, on the significance of our ESG and economic Environment • Energy For more details, go to page 98 including the management approach, how we evaluate the management approach, StarHub’s involvement with the impacts and the degree of influence they have • Emissions impacts, and the topic boundary limitations, if any, is provided in the respective chapters of this report. on stakeholder assessments and decisions. • Effluents and Waste We review our material topics every year in Important but not material topic: Our Material Topics Where the StarHub’s Material for the light of fresh stakeholder feedback, new (GRI Standards) Impacts Occur Involvement StarHub Subsidiaries • Water trends in sustainability, challenges facing the telecom and media industries, experts’ views Environment and our own business goals. Social Marketplace For more details, go to • Energy All page 104 • Customer Satisfaction • Emissions All We are focused on those ESG and economic • Cyber Security • Effluents and Waste All topics where we see the most potential for • Customer Privacy creating maximum value for shareholders and Social • Procurement Practices stakeholders. This involves managing ESG Workplace risks and opportunities across the value chain. GRI Telecommunication Sector Indicators: The impacts that occur outside StarHub, • Reliable access to telecom services • Employment All such as in the value chain, are challenging • Clarity of Charges and Tariffs • Diversity and Equal Opportunity All to deal with as we may have little or no • Customer Relations • Training and Education All control on some of these. Our approach is to • Employee Turnover All engage our value chain partners, wherever GRI G4 Media Sector Disclosures: • Health and Safety All possible, to address the ESG impacts in their • Content Creation • Human Rights All operations. For example, we engage with • Content Dissemination Marketplace our key suppliers through an annual supplier Other Topics: sustainability assessment and share the results • Cyber Security • Supply Chain Sustainability All in this report (see Our Marketplace chapter). • Cyber Security StarHub Mobile Pte Ltd Sustainability • Customer Privacy All Workplace For more details, go to Presented here is a summary of our material page 108 topics and their boundaries. • Employment GRI Telecommunication Sector Disclosure: • Diversity and Equal Opportunity • Customer Relations & StarHub Mobile Pte Ltd • Training and Education • Employee Turnover GRI G4 Media Sector Disclosure: • Occupational Health and Safety • Content Creation StarHub Cable Vision Ltd • Content Dissemination StarHub Cable Vision Ltd Important but not material topic: • Audience Interaction StarHub Cable Vision Ltd • Non-discrimination • Media Literacy StarHub Cable Vision Ltd • Freedom of Association Community • Child Labour • Forced or Compulsory Labour • Local Communities All For more details, go to GRI Telecommunication Sector Disclosure: Community page 114 • Access to Telecom Products and Services/ • Local Communities Bridging Digital Divide StarHub Mobile Pte Ltd GRI Telecommunication Sector Indicators: • Access to Content StarHub Mobile Pte Ltd • Access to Telecom Products and Services/Bridging Digital Divide Economic • Access to Content • Economic Performance All • Indirect Economic Impacts All Economic • Economic Performance For more details, go to page 118 GRI Telecommunication Sector Disclosure: • Indirect Economic Impacts • Infrastructure StarHub Mobile Pte Ltd GRI Telecommunication Sector Indicators: • Infrastructure StarHub Suppliers/Business Partners/Suppliers StarHub/Business Partners Business Partners Direct Indirect 98 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 99 Sustainability Report continued OUR ENVIRONMENT We are focused on creating value by 4 We will adopt environmentally friendly continuously minimising the environmental technologies as far as possible, when ordering impacts of our business operations. and purchasing necessary resources. Our management approach is to minimise our 5 We will implement education programmes environmental impacts even as we expand to raise environmental awareness among and upgrade our network infrastructure to our employees so that they recognise the continuously enhance customer experience. essence of this Green Policy by actively We support a precautionary approach to addressing environmental concerns. environmental challenges by addressing the material environmental risks and impacts in 6 We will make social contributions in close our operations. partnership with local communities by disclosing environmental information and Our environmental efforts are focused on supporting environmental conservation reducing energy consumption, greenhouse initiatives. gas emissions and waste management. We also try to conserve water which is a precious This report presents several initiatives we have natural resource. Other than our operational taken in line with our Green Policy. efforts to minimise environmental impacts, we actively encourage our employees, customers Climate Change and communities to participate in StarHub’s Singapore, where our operations are mainly environmental programmes. concentrated, is not immune to climate change. According to studies undertaken We regularly review and evaluate the by the National Climate Change Secretariat, effectiveness of our approach by various the annual mean temperature has increased means including stakeholder feedback and from 26.6°C to 27.7°C from 1972 to 2014. The our environmental performance. mean sea level in the Straits of Singapore has Sustainability also risen at the rate of 1.2mm to 1.7mm per StarHub Commitment year in the period 1975 to 2009. Recent years We have refreshed the StarHub Green Policy, have also witnessed an increase in rainfall. first launched in 2009, to address our material The annual average rainfall has increased environmental impacts. The six commitments from 2,192mm in 1980 to 2,727mm in 2014. we have made through the Green Policy are: Singapore has pledged to reduce national 1 Minimise energy 4 Reduce and 6 Encourage 7 Comply with 1 We will adopt responsible and sustainable emission intensity by 36% from 2005 levels by How We intensity. recycle waste. customers regulations. practices in our corporate activities to 2030 and to stabilise the country’s emissions Create Value 2 Reduce greenhouse 5 Increase employee to minimise minimise the environmental impact of with the aim of peaking around 2030. We are gas emissions. awareness about environmental our operations. We will continually review committed to doing our part by striving to environmental issues. impact. our goals and commitment to protect the become more energy efficient and minimise 3 Conserve water. global environment as much as possible. our carbon footprint. We adopted energy efficient technologies when we recently Performance 2 We will adhere to, as much as possible, upgraded our telecom infrastructure. As a Highlights environmental recommendations by the result, our absolute GHG emissions have Energy Intensity: Carbon Emissions Intensity: Water Use: General Waste: Total e-waste recycled relevant authorities and also implement dropped 11% in 2016 compared with 2010 183 GJ 22.7 tonnes 28,421m 40 tonnes (including RENEW): in-house targets to improve our even as we expanded our infrastructure. 438 tonnes 3 environmental performance. per $M revenue CO2e per $M revenue We believe the information and 3 We will reduce our environmental loads by communications technology (ICT) industry efficiently using resources, saving energy, has great potential especially in the area OUR reducing waste, encouraging material of developing green data centres through recycling and minimising emissions of research and innovation. In our view, wireless greenhouse gases and ozone-depleting and telecom technologies have an important substances. role to play in the world’s transition to a lower ENVIRONMENT carbon economy. 100 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 101 Sustainability Report continued OUR ENVIRONMENT Our Performance Solar Energy Waste StarHub’s Green Marketing Journey Green Building We operate two solar-powered mobile Our management approach is to reduce, We reduce our environmental impact by base transceiver stations (BTS) located at our reuse and recycle waste wherever possible Over the years, we have implemented several initiatives to reduce printed We also joined headquarters, StarHub Green and on the roof through employee awareness. Waste from operating from certified green buildings. marketing material. hands with ST Our head office StarHub Green is located of IKEA Alexandra. The two stations annually our operations includes paper, packaging Telemedia to in a Green Mark Gold certified building. The save approximately 8,000 kWh energy or waste and e-waste. We recycle our e-waste Invitations to our marketing events are mostly sent as e-invites. We have jointly develop STT building, certified green by the Building and about 3,599 kg of CO2. We have also invested through licensed waste management switched to sending e-cards during festive seasons from the conventional MediaHub, a highly Construction Authority (BCA), saves energy in Singapore’s first solar-powered BTS-enabled contractors. We also help our customers printed greeting cards. Electronic version of the latest issues of our specialised teleand water and provides healthier indoor air for vehicle used to boost signal strength. recycle their used mobile phones and cable newsletters to business customers are now available online on our our employees and visitors. TV set top boxes and remote controls. website. Our Annual Reports are printed in limited number on FSC certified communications, GHG Emissions sustainably sourced paper. media and data We also joined hands with ST Telemedia Our management approach is to progressively REcycling Nation’s Electronic Waste centre facility to jointly develop STT MediaHub, a highly reduce our organisational carbon footprint by (RENEW) Other initiatives have included: which was awarded specialised telecommunications, media and improving energy efficiency and minimising RENEW is an award-winning initiative aimed the BCA-IDA Green data centre facility which was awarded the energy consumption. StarHub’s greenhouse at encouraging the public to recycle their BCA-IDA Green Mark Platinum for New gas (GHG) emissions can be attributed to e-waste. RENEW, our collaboration with Mark Platinum for the use of electricity, diesel and petrol. Our logistics provider DHL and waste recycler Data Centres. New Data Centres. emission intensity in 2016 was calculated TES-AMM, collects e-waste from public through Energy to be 22.7 tCO2 per million $ in revenue, collection bins placed across the island. Our management approach is to minimise the use of fossil fuel energy. Data centres, compared with 23.2 tCO2 in the preceding year. Emissions from electricity represented People can drop their unwanted electronic 2014 base stations, offices and transport 99% of our total carbon. Our overall GHG items such as answering machines, cables, operations account for most of our energy emission was slightly lower in 2016, mainly car stereos, computer mice, CDs/ DVDs, 2013 We also replaced our paper bags use. We are focused on adopting energyattributable to less use of refrigerant gases docking stations, CD/ DVD/ VCD players, with new reusable efficient technologies and saving energy through employee awareness. We have included in the Kyoto Protocol. electronic toys, hard drives, keyboards, laptops, lithium-ion (Li-ion) batteries, mobile 2012 A paperless bill payment process carrier bags. The bags are labelled was introduced at with the Recycling improved energy efficiency in our data Ozone Depleting Fugitive Emissions phones, modems, MP3 players, printed circuit 2009 StarHub customers our retail shops, Code 5 symbol, Sustainability centres by improvements in cabling and Our ozone depleting fugitive emissions, boards, printers, remote controls, routers, can opt to save printing out bills to help recyclers air-conditioning equipment. This year’s attributed to the use of refrigerant R22 in set-top boxes, telephones, VCRs and wires in paper by receiving only for customers identify the Annual Reports electronic who request a hard specific type of electricity data includes consumption at air-conditioning equipment, amounted the designated bins. DHL helps transport the copy for retention. recycling required. and EGM Circulars statements instead STT MediaHub where we started moving to 143 tCO2e in 2016 as against 786 tCO2e e-waste safely to TES-AMM’s recycling facility. available in digital of printed bills with some of the telco and media operations in the prior year. format. MyStarHub e-bill. Introduced the from July 2016. There are now 325 bins across 274 locations. Complementing Board Portal to Scope 3 Emissions Close to 59 tonnes of e-waste collected from MyStarHub e-bill replace all printed is the My StarHub Board documents. Green Network Our current reporting of Scope 3 emissions the public in 2016 was recycled, as against app, available on The initiative saves We have modernised our 2G and 3G networks or other indirect emissions includes emissions 31.7 tonnes in the preceding year. both the iOS and an estimated 2,000 which consume less power and added an from use of electricity by our exclusive retail Android platforms. sheets of paper energy-efficient 4G network resulting in a partners. In 2016, the Scope 3 emissions were Recycling The app allows each year. StarHub customers substantial reduction in energy consumption. calculated to be 187 tCO2, compared to Figures for our paper and e-waste recycling to view their 217 tCO2 in the prior year. programmes are presented in the chart. account details, such as billing Water information, We use water only for drinking, washing, on their mobile Detailed Emissions Summary (CO2e tonnes) devices at their and cooling equipment. Even though water convenience, Emission Sources FY 2016 FY 2015 FY 2014 is not considered a material impact of our encouraging them operations, we make efforts to conserve to go paperless. Scope 1 water as Singapore lacks natural fresh water StarHub also Stationary Combustion 65 112 87 removed Business resources. Our office building, which is Reply Envelopes Mobile Combustion 487 568 600 certified Green Mark Gold, is installed with from mailed bills Fugitive emissions (refrigerant gases) 9 1,252 494 water efficient fittings, fixtures and flushing in 2012, an effort system. We also regularly measure, monitor which saves about Total Scope 1 emissions 561 1,932 1,181 15 tonnes of paper and report our water consumption. each year. Scope 2 Purchased electricity 53,957 54,774 53,444 Total Scope 2 emissions 53,957 54,774 53,444 Total CO2e emissions 54,518 56,706 54,625 102 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 103 Sustainability Report continued OUR ENVIRONMENT StarHub Customers Performance Charts Case Study Donate Reward Points The StarHub Rewards Redemption for Charity My StarHub e-Bill Emission Intensity Electricity Use Energy Intensity Sources of GHG My StarHub e-bill is an programme encourages our customers to use Emissions 2016 tCO2e million KWh gigajoules initiative to encourage their Rewards points to make a tax-deductible customers to switch from $5 donation to World Wide Fund for Nature receiving printed bills to 2014 22.9 2014 118.8 2014 183 (WWF). In 2016, the redemption donation electronic statements. As of 31 December 2016, 242,740 amounted to $10,375. 2015 23.2 2015 121.7 2015 183 billing accounts were on the scheme as against 154,060 Compliance 2016 accounts at the end of 2016 22.7 2016 119.9 2016 183 StarHub was not fined or sanctioned for any 2015. We have introduced non-compliance with environmental laws or paperless billing system at our retail shops, printing regulations in 2016. tCO2e emission per $million revenue Energy consumption – GJ per $million revenue out bills only for customers who request a hard copy for Environmental advocacy Purchased retention. The initiative saved 98.97% Environmental advocacy is one of the electricity an estimated 1.1 million sheets of paper in 2016. key components of our environmental Fuel Consumption Water Consumption Total Energy Consumption Mobile 0.89% combustion programme. Our approach is to engage our (thousand) litres cubic metres gigajoules Stationary Sustainable Paper employees, customers, business partners, combustion 0.12% To reduce impact on the students and other stakeholders to spread 2014 117 32 123 2014 27,832 2014 437,466 environment, we use Fugitive awareness of environmental issues. Some emissions sustainably sourced (refrigerant 0.02% Forest Stewardship Council of the initiatives we undertook in 2016 are 2015 113 42 114 2015 27,500 2015 448,012 gases) (FSC) Certified office described below. paper. Through employee 2016 93 24 103 2016 28,421 2016 439,721 awareness, we strive to Awareness reduce paper use by judicious printing. We have also As part of our Green Learning Journey, Diesel (mobile combustion) implemented Managed Print an ongoing in-house programme to Diesel (stationary combustion) Sustainability Services (MPS) to optimise raise environmental awareness amongst Petrol (mobile combustion) paper use. Our FSC paper employees, trips to the NEWater Plant and consumption in 2016 was Semakau Landfill were organised. Both 28,340kg, compared with General Waste Internal e-waste Recycled E-waste Recycled via RENEW 40,065 kg in the previous tours centred on innovations in resource tonnes tonnes tonnes year. Consequently, through conservation and waste management in the transition to MPS, the use resource-scarce Singapore, along with of printer toner cartridges 2014 33 2014 385 2014 8.7 practical tips on reducing our personal has also been reduced. carbon footprint. 2015 30 2015 117 2015 31.7 Annual School Green Awards 2016 40 2016 379 2016 58.8 Continuing our 3-year title sponsorship of the Singapore Environment Council (SEC)-StarHub School Green Awards (SGA) for the second year, the SGA has reached out to more youth in raising awareness of environmental issues and challenges. The SGA is a programme aimed at nurturing values and skills within our young, enabling them to be environmentallysavvy and proactive in leading and advocating a sustainable lifestyle. To reflect current environmental challenges, a new outreach component was introduced, resulting in involvement among more than 320,000 students, residents and the wider community. Earth Hour 2016 Non-essential lights were switched off at the headquarters at StarHub Green and our stores on 19 March 2016 for an hour. Our logo on StarHub Green was also switched off. 104 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 105 Sustainability Report continued OUR MARKETPLACE We are focused on providing every on 22 October and 24 October which caused person, every home and every business in intermittent web connection issues for some Singapore with world-class information, of our home broadband customers. communication and entertainment services. On both occasions, we mitigated the attacks Our management approach is to build a and restored service within two hours. No trusted brand through innovation, integrity impact was observed on the rest of our and customer service excellence. Our services, and the security of our customers’ marketplace practices are aimed at creating information was not compromised. We kept long-term value for our business. customers informed on these matters via our hotline and social media. Our mobile, broadband and fixed network services connect millions of customers and StarHub Cyber Security businesses making their lives better. Our Pay Centre of Excellence TV service delivers world-class entertainment StarHub has committed to supporting the to almost half a million households, enriching development of the cyber security ecosystem their lives. Continuously enhancing customer in Singapore. experience is our number one priority. Our people work round the clock to ensure that In May 2016, we launched StarHub’s Cyber our customers enjoy uninterrupted digital Security COE. The Cyber Security COE, communication and entertainment the way established by StarHub and supported by the they like it. Economic Development Board (EDB) serves as a hub for the cyber security ecosystem, We believe that tariff transparency, customer bringing together the best of brains and experience, privacy, accessibility to telecom expertise to tackle cyber threats, which services, responsible content and supply are among other serious risks affecting chain sustainability are all important issues for economies globally today. Sustainability us to focus on. The Cyber Security COE is a broad Mobile Accessibility collaboration between StarHub and a number As smartphones become indispensable tools of industry partners and Institutes of Higher for everyone to communicate, connect, Learning (IHL). Early partners include Blue shop and access a host of personal and Coat, Cyberbit, Fortinet, Wedge Networks public services, mobile accessibility has and Coronet as well as Nanyang Polytechnic 1 Ensure reliable 2 Customer 4 Protect customer 6 Protect children become more important than ever before. (NYP), Republic Polytechnic, Temasek How We access to telecom, satisfaction through privacy and against undesirable StarHub’s quality and reliability of service has Polytechnic and Singapore University of Create Value broadband and service excellence. personal data. content through consistently remained above 99.9% as we Technology and Design. TV services. 3 Cyber Security. 5 Create and safeguards. have continued to strengthen our network. disseminate content 7 Ensure clarity Together with StarHub, the partners will with responsibility. of tariffs. Our telecom services are available in a wide undertake various initiatives to strengthen range of packages to meet the needs of all Singapore’s capabilities in cyber security, sections of society. We respect human rights focusing on talent development, innovation to the access and use of telecommunication and industry partnerships. products and services and follow the policies issued by the IMDA. We have also committed to addressing the shortage of cyber security talent in Singapore Our Business Continuity Management by training at least 300 specialists on different (BCM) programme focuses on providing, cyber related capabilities and skill sets over maintaining and promptly recovering our the next five years. We have teamed up with OUR info-communication services in the event the four IHLs and the Cyber Security Agency of an emergency, disaster or crisis situations of Singapore (CSA) to enhance cyber security including pandemic, haze and cyber attacks. training curriculum and programmes, and to collaborate on research and development. MARKETPLACE Service Disruption by Cyber Attacks We experienced intentional and potentially As a first step, StarHub and NYP have jointly malicious Distributed Denial-of-Service (DDoS) established a lab on NYP campus to provide attacks on our Domain Name Servers (DNS) hands-on training for students of Cyber 106 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 107 Sustainability Report continued OUR MARKETPLACE Security & Forensics. These students security, national harmony, or that is app to manage their overseas data bills Privacy and Data Security An overview of our supply chain is illustrated below. will subsequently have the opportunity illegal under Singapore laws. and cap roaming expenses. We respect our customers’ privacy. Our Customer Sales & Business External Collaterals Soft Content Own to learn directly from experienced IT suppliers Premise Fulfilment End of Life approach is to adhere to the privacy and Unit Suppliers Suppliers Network Equipment Channels cyber security professionals during their We offer services that help customers Customer Satisfaction data protection laws of Singapore and Mobile internship placements at StarHub or our to make informed choices with respect We gather feedback and insights other applicable regulations and standards. 2G, handsets, Traded-in Mobile Apps 3G, SIM cards, industry partners. to what kind of content their children from our customers through various We regularly review our customer privacy Printers 4G mobile Stores, handsets, (of Customer Exclusive donated can access. For example, our Parental channels. Insights gathered through the and data protection processes to ensure publicity/ Relationship accessories Partners, handsets, The Cyber Security COE’s first Control facility offers Parental Lock and NPS, a customer loyalty metric, have marketing Programmes ManageHybrid compliance. We have implemented a strict materials), (content Fibre Resellers, take-back ment, Set-top Sales of faulty/ commercial initiative is the first-ofPurchase Lock features. Customers can helped us improve our customer service personal data protection policy and have TV corporate providers and Enterprise Coaxial boxes Partners, obsolete gift production (HFC), its-kind Security Operations Centre use the Parental Lock feature to control and systems in a targeted manner. taken the necessary measures to protect vendors, partners) Planning Fibre IP Direct equipment Resource, Sales, for at StarHub (named StarHub Security what their children can watch. The our customers’ personal data. For example, etc. Billing Cable Retail recycling, Fibre Database, HFC, Chain recycling of Operations Centre), whereby StarHub’s Purchase Lock feature allows customers Since 2013, frontliners have been we do not send promotional and marketing Broadband Storage, Fibre IP modems, Stores, surplus/old routers core infrastructure is integrated with to prevent their children from making successfully cross-trained to handle messages via phone calls, text messages and etc. Field marketing/ Fibre, Services publicity round-the-clock proactive cyber threat unauthorised channel subscription(s) or both sales and post-sales transactions. faxes to the customers who have opted out Enterprise Fibre IP, Customer material premise detection capabilities. Video on Demand (VOD) purchase(s). This seamless integration, the visual from receiving marketing messages through Fixed Undersea equipment Cable Customers can use the Rating Level revamp and enhanced customer flow these channels. Customers can modify their Intranet Expendable Cyber-attacks come through wired and feature to block rated VOD content within the StarHub retail stores has consent through our StarHub web portal. Corporate Office office IT hardware supplies wireless networks. As a telco, StarHub’s according to rating level set. delighted customers. We will continue core networks are thus a strategic to introduce a number of enhancements Our detailed Personal Data Protection Policy location to monitor and detect potential We continue to promote content in to customer service. is available on the StarHub website. malicious data traffic early and perform all national languages. We support art, Supplier Sustainability Survey mitigation. In addition, cyber security culture and education by promoting Customers who are pressed for time Supply Chain Sustainability Our annual Supplier Sustainability Survey covered our top 73 vendors and solutions to protect industrial control TV programmes for schools, can now make e-appointments prior Our management approach is to source business partners in 2016. The Survey, based on a set of questions relating systems and cloud-based cyber security educational TV shows, news and to shop visits. In 2016, we also piloted responsibly and work with our suppliers to to important sustainability topics, aims to assess our suppliers’ sustainability solutions are being developed. information programmes; arts and a Click and Collect option for customers promote ethical conduct throughout the commitment and performance. The 2016 Survey findings are presented below. cultural programmes; and drama and who wish to collect their devices value chain. We choose vendors, suppliers StarHub and the Cyber Security COE sports programmes. from our shops instead of home and contractors fairly and require them to Supplier Sustainability Survey Result Sustainability partners will jointly invest $200 million deliveries. This ‘shop online-collect commit to our ethical code of conduct. (proportion of vendors with sustainability initiatives in 2016) over the next five years to support a We have partnered with the IMDA to offline’ option has been well received. % sustainable cyber security ecosystem. produce local content for PSB. In 2016, At the contact centre, we introduced Our supply chain includes providers of StarHub committed to commissioning guided workflows via an e-Butler tool Environment policy 42 products and services for our Mobile, Content Responsibility about 110 hours of original productions to facilitate our staff’s interactions Pay TV, Broadband and Enterprise Fixed Recycling programme 45 Protecting young users of our services aimed at supporting PSB values, such as with customers over the phone. This business lines. This also covers network Use renewable energy 57 from harmful content is an important celebration of the Singapore’s culture tool also fetched relevant information equipment, consumer handsets and customer Measuring environmental impacts 22 issue for us. JuniorProtect Basic is a and heritage, and promotion of the from various sources to enable our premise equipment. Environmental reporting 23 StarHub service that lets kids explore Singaporean identity, through innovative staff to resolve customers’ concerns the Internet safely across devices, storytelling. promptly during the call interaction. Our supplier relationships include dominant Social responsibility policy 43 blocking out harmful websites and With our omni-channel focus, we are vendors who are among the largest Corporate philanthropy fund 52 content on both mobile and PC. Tariff Transparency constantly refining the ‘how’ and ‘when’ corporations in the world. Several of them Social outreach initiatives 25 Targeted at StarHub’s pre-defined We are committed to transparent of interacting with customers. Simple have publicly committed to sustainability. Risk management policy 62 categories as Juniors (Age 7 to 12) and communication of our tariffs and transactions can be done over a mobile We recognise that our ability to influence Teens (Age 13 to 16), the service uses charges through various marketing application called My StarHub. The app them is somewhat limited. Our approach is Whistle blowing policy 43 default content filters as required by the channels. Our price plans are has seen constant improvements over to engage with them whenever possible and Employee code of conduct 67 IMDA. Parents, who have subscribed prominently displayed at all retail the years and its latest enhancement in work together to support responsible business Business continuity management policy 55 to the service for their child, can also outlets and are available on our late 2016 aims to make transactions as practices. We also engage a selected group of Non-discrimination policy 52 set access rules across 15 categories website. Our customer service effortless as possible for our customers. suppliers and business partners through Freedom of association policy 47 considered undesirable for young minds staff are provided training to clearly They can pay bills, check data, book a supplier sustainability survey questionnaire. via a web portal. communicate the pricing structure e-appointments, redeem rewards and Child labour policy 48 and the contract terms to all customers activate roaming with just a few taps. Our supply chain spend exceeded Content Values at the time of signing contracts. $1.9 billion in 2016. Out of the 2,449 vendors We are committed to promoting safe that we purchased from, 85% were local. and responsible use of our mobile We measure and publish typical range Local suppliers’ share in our total purchase Anti-corruption services. In line with the Voluntary Code of Internet speeds for our broadband was 86%. We follow a zero-tolerance policy toward fraud and unethical conduct for Self-regulation of Mobile Content in plans on our website to maintain including corruption and bribery. StarHub’s Employee Code of Conduct and Singapore, our policies prohibit content transparency. We have taken measures Ethics and the Corporate Gift and Hospitality Policy cover business conduct that is objectionable on the grounds of to protect our customers from ‘bill including employees’ compliance with anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws. public interest, public morality, public shock’. Customers can use My StarHub There was no reported incident of corruption in the reporting period. 108 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 109 Sustainability Report continued OUR WORKPLACE We are focused on creating a high We are also committed to promoting an performing organisation based on respect, inclusive workplace and offering employment teamwork, inclusivity and excellence. opportunities to persons with disabilities. We employed four persons with physical Our management approach is to continually disabilities in 2016. invest in people so that they can deliver value to our customers and other stakeholders. Equal Remuneration Our human resource policies are aimed at for Men and Women developing a high-performing organisation by Our management approach is to offer creating a fair, inclusive, engaging and fulfilling remuneration based on merit and experience workplace. Our policies promote merit-based without any gender discrimination. hiring and remuneration, teamwork, safe and healthy working conditions, diversity, Ratio of base salary: reward and recognition for performance, Female to Male (2016) people development, career growth, work-life balance, and employee volunteering. StarHub management regularly reviews HR Employee Category Female Male policies and performance including hiring, Senior Manager & above 1.0 1.1 diversity and equal opportunity, training, Middle Manager 1.0 1.1 performance management and occupational health and safety. Executive 1.0 1.0 Non-Executive 1.0 1.1 We are proud to have achieved the People Developer (PD) certification in 2016, awarded 2016 2015 2014 by SPRING Singapore, in recognition of Female 1 1 1 our efforts to develop our people to drive Male 1.1 1.1 1.1 business excellence. Sustainability Our People StarHub employed 2,965 people in 2016 Employee Profile with a median age of 37 years. Permanent employees, which include part-time employees, represented 90.6% of the total headcount. Employees with managerial or Permanent 90.3% employees 1 Attract, nurture and 3 Promote teamwork as 5 Develop people through supervisory roles accounted for 16% of the Contract How We retain talent. a core value. regular training and education. workforce. The Customer Service Experience 2016 employees 9.4% Create Value 2 Nurture a caring workplace 4 Promote diversity and 6 Ensure health and safety (30%), StarHub Integrated NW Engineering Part-time 0.3% based on fair and inclusive providing equal opportunity. at workplace. (23%), Enterprise Business Group (13%), employees employment practices. 7 Encourage employee volunteering. and Information Services (11%) divisions accounted for the largest shares of the headcount. Performance Highlights Our Performance Women in Women Heads Local Employees: Training Hours Training Spend Employee Fatal Employee Diversity and equal opportunity Workforce: of Department: (Singaporeans) Per Employee: Per Employee: Turnover: Accidents: Satisfaction Rate: Our mission is to nurture a diverse and 42% 33% 75% 19 $784 12% 0 91% inclusive workplace. Our policies promote diversity and meritocracy. We strive to offer equal opportunity in hiring, career advancement, promotions and remuneration OUR strictly based on merit irrespective of gender, age, racial, ethnic or cultural background. StarHub’s Board includes one female director WORKPLACE who holds the position of an independent director. There are four women in the 11-member strong senior management team. 110 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 111 Sustainability Report continued OUR WORKPLACE Diversity at StarHub New Hiring Learning and Development Employee Turnover Gender Diversity Gender Profile by Employee Category New Hiring by Gender Average Training Hours Employee Turnover % % by Category and Gender % hours Snr. Managers 14 2014 57 43 & above 63 37 2014 26 Snr. Managers 18 Middle 26 27 Managers 64 36 & above 12 2015 57 43 2015 24 Executives 56 44 2016 Middle 19 Managers 27 23 12 2016 58 42 Non-exec 13 87 2016 22 22 Executives 21 14 Male Female Male Female StarHub National average Telecom Industry Male 62% Male Female Female 38% Gender Diversity: StarHub Vs Infocomm Gender Diversity (Department/Division/Section Heads) Training Expenditure Employee Turnover By Age Group % % $ % 27 Male 58 2014 67 33 2014 873 2014 11 employees New Hiring by Age Group 4 61 20 2015 67 33 2015 611 2015 11 5 Female 42 20 employees 39 2016 67 33 2016 784 2016 11 7 StarHub Male Female 2016 Training expenditure per employee < 30 years 30-50 years Above 50 years National Infocomm Industry (source: MOM Year Book 2016) Sustainability Age Diversity by Gender Ethnic Diversity Employee Turnover By Gender Learning and Development % % < 30 years 48% % Our management approach is to invest in people development to build a high 30-50 years 50% 75 performing organisation. Our Learning & Development Framework is focused 15 <30 years 55 45 Chinese 75 Above 50 years 2% 2014 on ensuring our employees have the appropriate learning and development 13 55 45 7 30-40 years Malay 13 opportunities to build functional and technical skills to succeed in their jobs, 13 2015 41-50 years 62 38 Indian 6 and the management and leadership skills to inspire and lead teams to perform. 12 9 12 13 > 50 years 65 35 Others 2016 3 We also collaborate with multiple government agencies such as SkillsFuture 12 Singapore, the IMDA, and the Economic Development Board to maximise Male Female StarHub learning and funding opportunities for our employees. Female Male National Ethnic Composition (source: Population trends 2016, Dept of Stat, Singapore) In 2016, we rolled out an enhanced development roadmap for first-time managers to provide ongoing coaching support, build a sense of community Age Diversity Local Employees Training Hours per Employee by Gender and interaction among peers and more targeted learning opportunities. We hours also organised several experiential micro-learning sessions on topics like coaching, management skills and change management to encourage practical 2014 17 17 application of learning after training. < 30 years 18% Singapore 75% 2015 21 19 30-40 years 47% citizens 2016 2016 We achieved PD certification in 2016 in recognition of our continued efforts to 41-50 years 27% Singapore PR 12% strive for improvement and business excellence by bringing out the best in our Above 50 years 8% Foreigners 13% people and make StarHub a truly high performing organisation. 2016 22 16 We invested $2.1 million on training in 2016, up from $1.7 million spent Male Female in the previous year. We received a confirmed amount of $368,915 in training subsidy from various government agencies. In total, we provided 52,354 hours of training. Training expenditure per employee was $784, higher than $611 per employee in the prior year. 112 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 113 Sustainability Report continued OUR WORKPLACE Performance Management Our own operations are mainly concentrated Occupational Health and Safety Siting of masts Our performance management system in Singapore. We have determined that the Our management approach is to ensure Our policies and practices on the siting of covers all StarHub employees and includes potential risk of child labour, forced labour, workplace health and safety by taking masts and transmission sites encourage We will continue discrimination and violation of freedom of stakeholder consultation, site sharing and periodic performance reviews and career preventive measures based on risk assessment to stay focused on development discussions with employees. All association rights in our own operations and creating employee awareness. measures to reduce visual impacts. the sustainability StarHub employees, irrespective of gender or is highly unlikely given our strong HR aspects that are category, received regular performance and policies and management oversight. We StarHub’s Workplace Safety and Health A brief summary of our sites as of end 2016 is most material career development reviews in 2016. have limited or no control over our supply Committee, represented by management presented below: for our business chain which includes several dominant and employees, periodically reviews policies, We revamped the performance rating suppliers who have their own publicly known procedures and practices relating to Type of Site % and for our main system in 2016 to make our performance commitment to supporting human rights. occupational health and safety. Nominated Stand-alone Mobile Sites 7.3 stakeholders. management system more robust and However, we engage with our key suppliers Risk Management Champions across the Shared Sites (Mobile-CAS) 29.1 effective. Comprehensive training was through an annual supplier sustainability organisation work closely with the Risk provided to people managers to equip survey that covers the topics of child labour, Assessment team to assess risks for every Sites on Existing Structures 63.6 them with relevant skills to hold effective discrimination, forced labour and freedom work activity and process carried out at the performance conversations with their of association (see Our Marketplace chapter workplace. StarHub continues to be a certified Health Education teams. We also rolled out a new Leadership for more). bizSafe Level 3 organisation, awarded by We continued organising lunch talks Development Programme for senior managers the Workplace Safety and Health Council and workshops throughout 2016 to raise and above to inculcate key leadership traits. MOU with Employees Union Singapore based on an independent audit. employee awareness on health issues. Like previous years, we continued to organise We respect our employees’ right to freedom internal Career Fairs, Career Guidance of association in accordance with local laws. In 2016, we prioritised workplace health and Enrichment talk topics and engagement workshops and Career Coaching to support In a significant move to collaborate with safety through continued investment in first activities organised in 2016 included Eye employees’ career development efforts. employees union, StarHub and the Singapore aid training and certification. A number of Care Talk, Healthy Crepes Making Workshop, Industrial and Services Employees Union learning conversations were also organised at Urban Gardening Workshop, Kayaking to Employee Benefits (SISEU) signed a MOU for five years in August our StarHub Green and Tanjong Pagar offices Seletar Island, and Bring Your Kids to Work Benefits exclusive to StarHub’s permanent 2016. The scope of the collaboration includes to spread first aid awareness. During the year, Day. In total, 2,562 participants attended employees, include product benefits, enhancing the well-being of employees and 84 employees were certified in the new Office these events, significantly more than 976 Sustainability comprehensive Health Screening, additional providing social, recreational, training and First-aid course where these first-aiders are participants in the prior year. insurance coverage other than Work Injury skills upgrading benefits. trained to use automated external defibrillator. Compensation insurance coverage, medical Collaboration with and dental consultation and/or treatment There were no reported incidents of child There were no fatal accidents in 2016. There Educational Institutions reimbursement, transport allowance, labour, discrimination or forced labour in our were two reported cases for Work Injury We continued to collaborate with posttraining, claim for professional fees for joining own operations in the reporting period. Compensation. Injuries sustained included secondary educational institutions in 2016. professional associations, Long Service those relating to traffic accident, trips and falls We signed a collective three-year MOU with Award, entry passes for places of interest, and Employee Satisfaction at workplace, with an absenteeism payroll of Institute of Technical Education, Nanyang tokens for special occasions. We assess the effectiveness of our people $1,188 based on 18 days of medical leave. Polytechnic, Ngee Ann Polytechnic, initiatives and policies and the overall HR Republic Polytechnic, Singapore Polytechnic StarHub employees also enjoy other benefits support through an annual survey to measure Safety for Field Employees and Temasek Polytechnic to provide a which include childcare leave, paternity employee satisfaction. In the 2016 Annual HR Our field employees and contractors involved collaborative framework for supporting the leave and shared parental leave, eldercare Satisfaction Survey, 91% of the participants in the installation, operation and maintenance enhanced internships and Earn-and-Learn leave, and access to the supplementary said that the overall HR performance met or of masts, base stations, laying cables and Programme in the Retail Sector under major medical insurance coverage to the exceeded expectations. other outside work are required to adhere to SkillsFuture, a Government initiative to provide employees’ family at special rates. strict safety procedures. Singaporeans with the opportunities to develop their fullest potential throughout life, Human Rights A detailed Code of Practice on WSH Risk regardless of their starting points. StarHub is committed to upholding human Management, Risk Assessment, safety rights in line with nationally and internationally procedures for installation of radio equipment The scope of collaboration includes offering accepted principles and labour standards Employee Satisfaction Survey and a disaster recovery plan are included in relevant enhanced internship placements in Our management such as the core labour standards advocated % our Workplace Safety and Health system. two key functions in the organisation, jointly approach is to by the International Labour Organisation. Our developing and implementing the planned invest in people 2014 92 policies prohibit child labour, discrimination We require the contractors undertaking work training programme and assessments that development and forced labour in our operations as well as at our sites to comply with the provisions are aligned with the learning outcomes, and to build a high 2015 92 providing on-the-job training, mentoring of in our supply chains. of the Workplace Safety & Health Act. We also require contractors to submit a risk interns, career guidance and explaining earnperforming 2016 91 assessment report for approval prior to and-learn opportunities. organisation. carrying out any work on site. Employee satisfaction rate 114 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 115 Sustainability Report continued OUR COMMUNITY We are focused on building long-term Employee Volunteering relationships based on trust with We encourage our employees to participate the community by making a positive in community and environmental initiatives contribution. through volunteering. We provide up to two working days of paid leave a year to our Our management approach is to contribute employees for volunteering. Several StarHub toward building a strong and resilient employees volunteer for a number of social community. We also actively involve our and environmental causes each year. Our employees and customers in community employees volunteered 124 man-days in 2016. programmes. StarHub Community Investment 2016 We reviewed our community investment Together with employees, customers and programme in 2016 and identified two areas business partners, we supported several of priority: improving employability and life community initiatives throughout the year. skills, and supporting connectivity needs Our key community investment programmes for disadvantaged youth and families. In in 2016 are described below. addition, we contributed to a number of other community causes. In total, our investment 624 children benefitted from the Nurture 2.0 in community development programmes programme, a volunteer programme that amounted to $844,769. We partnered with tutors underprivileged children in Central 12 VWOs in various initiatives, enhancing Singapore District in English and Mathematics employability and critical life skills. with financial support from StarHub. Nurture 2.0, a weekly volunteer-driven programme Community Chest Awards for children aged seven to 12 run by the StarHub’s fundraising efforts were recognised Central Singapore CDC, received $200,000 at the annual ComChest Awards in from the StarHub Sparks Fund, our corporate September 2016 with a Corporate Gold (for philanthropic vehicle. Working closely with Sustainability our donation of $213,850 for StarHub Open the Central Singapore CDC, we have refined 2015) and a Special Events Silver (for StarHub and introduced several non-academic Rewards Redemption Programme 2015). modules such as creativity through IT, crafts We also received a token of appreciation and robotics to complement the academic from President’s Challenge for our in-kind curriculum. StarHub employees continued sponsorship of airtime worth $400,000. to volunteer at the Nurture 2.0 initiative in 1 Make positive 2 Bridge digital divide. 3 Encourage employee 4 Encourage How We contribution to volunteering. customers to Create Value local communities, participate in focus on the community initiatives. underprivileged. Community Investment Employee Volunteering $m days 2014 1.4 2014 214 Performance Highlights 2015 1.1 2015 144 Community investment: Employee volunteering: VWOs supported: Beneficiaries: $ 844,769 124 days 12 More than 35,500 disadvantaged youth and families 2016 0.8 2016 124 Amount disbursed from StarHub Sparks Fund OUR COMMUNITY 116 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 117 Sustainability Report continued OUR COMMUNITY 2016. A group of 35 staff volunteers acted as Beneficiaries of StarHub’s Community mentors and took 202 Nurture beneficiaries Outreach Programmes in 2016 for a day-long interactive learning experience We continued to KidZania, an indoor theme park in Sentosa, $200,000 funding of Nurture 2.0. our support for the where the children learnt about various $209,700 to three special needs schools: Children’s Cancer vocations and basic financial literacy. Metta School, MINDS Towner Garden School Foundation’s and Lighthouse School through the StarHub annual Hair for People with special needs and/or disabilities Open. Hope event have been identified as one of the most $122,000 for Hair for Hope in total vulnerable groups in Singapore. To support for the fifth this group, StarHub donated $209,700 from donations to Children’s Cancer Foundation. consecutive year. the StarHub Sparks Fund through the annual $50,000 to Entrepreneurs with Disability to StarHub Open, a golf event for corporate support disadvantaged/deaf entrepreneurs in clients, joined by StarHub management with starting their own enterprises. guest appearances by TVB artistes. $150,000 for SPD’s ICOS, final tranche of a 2-year commitment from 2015. Funds went towards Metta School, MINDS Towner Garden School and Lighthouse $10,000 to Football with a Heart Fundraiser. School, to equip special needs students $47,860 for MINDS Towner Garden School, with the knowledge and skills necessary StarHubbers bringing Care Corner Counselling Centre, and WWF children from the Nurture for independent functioning. This programme to KidZania, through Rewards Redemption. includes training of functional academic, to learn about various vocations. independence, vocational and life skills to $16,420 donated to Daughters of maximise their potential towards independent Tomorrow, helping single or disadvantaged StarHub CEO presenting living and integration into the community. mothers get employability skills, in a cheque to ComChest conjunction with the National Day campaign. for funds raised through the StarHub Open. Our two-year sponsorship of $300,000 Sustainability of SPD’s Infocomm Accessibility Centre Certificate in Office Skills (ICOS) from 2015 Media Spots for Social Campaigns to 2017, an office skills training programme Our in-kind donations in the form of that enables people with disabilities to find TV commercial spots for social and open, gainful employment in administrative environmental campaigns amounted to positions has reaped positive outcomes. In $1.44 million in 2016. The campaigns included 2016, over 70 persons were trained. Out of WWF’s Earth Hour 2016, Children Cancer these, 19 found open employment. Foundation’s Hair for Hope 2016, Make a Wish Foundation’s Santa Run for Wishes 2016 and We continued our support for the Children’s President’s Challenge. Cancer Foundation’s annual Hair for Hope event for the fifth consecutive year. To raise awareness of childhood cancer, StarHub pledged $1,000 for every person who shaved his/her head at the satellite event held at our main office in StarHub Green. A record 122 shavees including employees, partners and customers went bald in support of children with cancer, raising a total of $122,000 from the StarHub Sparks Fund. 118 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 119 Sustainability Report continued ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE We are focused on creating longStarHub continues to create and Research and Development term value for shareholders and support high quality direct jobs We regularly invest in research and stakeholders by pursuing sustainable benefitting the local economy and the development projects and forge business growth strategies. communities. Our significant purchase cross-industry collaborations from local suppliers supports indirect that promise new technological Our management approach is to jobs and helps in the development of breakthroughs, reinvigorate our create value for our shareholders and local businesses. infrastructure, enhance productivity for stakeholders by ensuring sustainable customers and empower the community. growth of our business. We are Our other contributions to the local These projects include enhancing mobile focused on adopting strategies that economy include tax payments, network evolution technologies and maximise shareholder returns while payment of wages, and community speed, strengthening complementary creating environmental, social and investments. capabilities for data business services, economic value for our stakeholders. the development of opportunities in the We regularly review our management StarHub provided 2,965 direct jobs Internet of Things and cyber security. approach in view of the business goals, across the Group as of end-December StarHub launched the Cyber Security stakeholder expectations and the actual 2016. Our operating expenditure, COE in 2016 and together with the COE performance to evaluate effectiveness. including employee costs, exceeded partners, will jointly invest S$200 million $2 billion in 2016. We paid $281 million over the next five years to support a Our shareholders have enjoyed consistent in wages, adding further value to the sustainable cyber security ecosystem. and healthy dividends over the years. local economy. More information on the COE is available in the section under Our Marketplace. Indirect Economic Impacts Supporting Local Suppliers Our management approach is to We indirectly contribute to the local Financial Assistance support projects, initiatives, services and economic development through from the Government infrastructure which allows us to pursue our purchases. In 2016, our vendor We received $368,915 in subsidy sustainable business growth and at the payments exceeded $1.9 billion. In 2016, for employee training in 2016 under same time make a positive difference to the share of local suppliers was 86% various schemes run by the IMDA, Sustainability the society where we operate. of the total purchases. Local suppliers SkillsFuture Singapore, and Employment constitute 85% of our vendor base. and Employability Institute (e2i). StarHub plays a critical role in augmenting Singapore’s national Our significant purchase from local Financial Performance infocomm infrastructure by regularly suppliers supports local jobs and A summarised version of our economic investing in the upgrade of our mobile, businesses and creates tax opportunities performance is presented below in line wireless communications and cable for the government. Read more about with the GRI Standards. The figures 1 Create sustainable 2 Make a positive 3 Support local 4 Invest in TV infrastructure. As we upgrade our our Supply Chain Sustainability in the have been extracted from the Audited How We economic value for indirect impact on suppliers. infrastructure. networks, we strive to adopt energychapter on Our Marketplace chapter. Annual Report approved by the Board Create Value shareholders as well local economy and efficient technologies to reduce of Directors for the respective financial as stakeholders. communities. the impact on the environment and Infrastructure Development years. To learn more about StarHub’s contribute to climate change We regularly invest in upgrading the financial performance, please refer to mitigation efforts. mobile, broadband and cable TV the Group Financial Review and Financial infrastructure. A major portion of our Statements sections of this report. Performance Our modern infocomm infrastructure and $367 million CAPEX was used for Highlights technologies enable people to connect infrastructural investments and 4G Net Profit: Direct Jobs: Local Suppliers: Local Suppliers’ Share in and businesses to run their operations spectrum licences in 2016. 341m 2,965 2,090 Total Supplier Payments: using our fast and reliable networks. $ 86% Summary of StarHub’s Economic Performance ($m) ECONOMIC Economic Performance Indicators FY 2016 FY 2015 FY 2014 Operating revenue 2,397 2,444 2,387 Net profit 341 372 371 PERFORMANCE Operating costs (including staff costs) 2,004 2,049 1,957 Staff costs 281 271 275 Dividends paid to shareholders 346 346 345 120 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 121 Sustainability Report continued GRI Content Index ‘In accordance’ – Core Page Number(s) Page Number(s) GRI Standard Disclosure GRI Standard Disclosure and/or URL(s) and/or URL(s) GRI 101: Foundation 2016 MATERIAL TOPICS (GRI 101 does not include any standards) Economic Performance GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 91, 97 GRI 102: Organisational Profile Management General Disclosures Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 118-119 2016 102-1 Name of the organisation StarHub Ltd 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 119 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 3 GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 119 102-3 Location of headquarters Singapore Economic Performance 2016 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 119 102-4 Location of operations Mainly Singapore Indirect Economic Impacts 102-5 Ownership and legal form 204-205 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 97, 119 102-6 Markets served 3, 5 Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 119 102-7 Scale of the organisation 3-5 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 119 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 108-112 GRI 203: 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 119 102-9 Supply chain 107 Indirect Economic 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain None Impacts 2016 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 96, 99 Procurement Practices 102-12 External initiatives 91 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 96, 97 Management 102-13 Membership of associations 95 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 91, 107, 119 Strategy 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 107, 119 102-14 Statement from senior decision maker 15-17 GRI 204: 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 107, 119 Procurement Practices 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 90-91 2016 Sustainability Ethics and Integrity Anti-corruption 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 69-70, 89 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 107 Governance Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 107 102-18 Governance structure 54-78 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 107 Stakeholder Engagement GRI 205: 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 107 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 92-93 Anti-Corruption 2016 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 107 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 112 Energy 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 92 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 90, 96-97 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 92-93 Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 98-100 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 92-93 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 98-100 Reporting Practice GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 100, 102-103 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 177 Energy 2016 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organisation 100 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 87, 97 302-3 Energy intensity 103 102-47 List of material topics 96 Emissions 102-48 Restatements of information 87 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 90, 96-97 102-49 Changes in reporting 87 Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 98-100 102-50 Reporting period 87 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 98-100 102-51 Date of most recent report 87 GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 100 102-52 Reporting cycle 87 Emissions 2016 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 100 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 88 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 100 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 87 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 102 102-55 GRI content index 120-123 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 100 102-56 External assurance 88 Effluents and Waste GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 90, 96-97 Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 101 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 101 122 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 123 Sustainability Report continued Page Number(s) Page Number(s) GRI Standard Disclosure GRI Standard Disclosure and/or URL(s) and/or URL(s) GRI 306: 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 102-103 Child Labour Effluents and Waste 2016 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 96-97 Management Environmental Compliance Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 112 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 99 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 112 Management GRI 408: 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labour 107, 112 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 99 Child Labour 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 99 Forced or Compulsory Labour GRI 307: GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 102 Environmental GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 96-97 Compliance 2016 Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 112 Employment 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 112 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 90, 96-97 GRI 409: 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour 112 Management Forced or Compulsory Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 109 Labour 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 109 Local Communities GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 110-111 Employment 2016 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 96-97 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or 112 Management part-time employees Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 115 Occupational Health & Safety 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 115 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 96-97 GRI 413: 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development 115-117 Management Local Communities programs Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 113 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 113 Customer Privacy GRI 403: 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees 113 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 96-97 Occupational Health Management and Safety 2016 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and 113 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 105, 107 number of work-related fatalities 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 105, 107 Training and Education GRI 418: 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 105, 107 Sustainability GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 90, 96-97 Customer Privacy Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 111 GRI TELECOMMUNICATION SECTOR SPECIFIC INDICATORS 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 111 Health and Safety GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 111 IO3 Practices to ensure Health and safety of field personnel involved in the installation, operation and maintenance of 113 Training and masts, base stations, laying cables and other outside plant Educations 2016 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 111 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 112 IO7 Policies and practices on the siting of masts and transmission sites including stakeholder consultation, site sharing 113 and initiatives to reduce visual impacts Diversity and Equal Opportunity IO8 Number and percentage of stand-alone sites, shared sites and sites on existing structures 113 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 96-97, 109 Management Providing Access Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 109 PA1 Policies and practices to enable the deployment of telecommunications infrastructure and access to 105 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 109 telecommunications products and services in remote and low population density areas GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 110 PA2 Policies and practices to overcome barriers for access and use of telecommunication products and services 105 Diversity and Equal including: language, culture, illiteracy, and lack of education, income, disabilities, and age. Include an Opportunity 2016 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 109 explanation of business models applied Non-discrimination PA3 Policies and practices to ensure availability and reliability of telecommunications products and services and 105 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 96-97, 112 quantify, where possible, time periods and locations of down time Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 112 PA4 Quantify the level of availability of telecommunications products and services in areas where the organisation 105 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 112 operates GRI 406: 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 107, 112 PA6 Programmes to provide and maintain telecommunication products and services in emergency situations and for 105 Non-discrimination disaster relief 2016 PA7 Policies and practices to manage human rights issues relating to access and use of telecommunications 105 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining products and services GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 96-97 PA10 Initiatives to ensure clarity of charges and tariffs 106 Management GRI MEDIA SECTOR SPECIFIC INDICATORS Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 95, 112 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 112 Product Responsibility GRI 407: 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining 107, 112 M2 Methodology for assessing and monitoring adherence to content creation values 106 Freedom of may be at risk M3 Actions taken to improve adherence to content creation values, and results obtained 106 Association and Collective Bargaining M4 Actions taken to improve performance in relation to content dissemination issues (accessibility and protection of 106 vulnerable audiences and informed decision making) and results obtained 124 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 125 Group Financial Review 1.1 Revenue (ii) Other Operating Expenses Year ended 31 December Year ended 31 December 2016 2016 2015 2015 Incr/(Decr) 2016 2015 Incr/(Decr) $m % $m % $m % $m $m $m % Mobile revenue 1,214.6 50.7 1,239.8 50.7 (25.2) (2.0) Staff costs 281.4 270.7 10.7 4.0 Pay TV revenue 377.8 15.8 391.0 16.0 (13.2) (3.4) Operating leases 116.1 121.7 (5.6) (4.6) Broadband revenue 216.8 9.0 200.3 8.2 16.5 8.2 Marketing and promotions 133.7 144.6 (10.9) (7.5) Enterprise Fixed revenue 400.0 16.7 384.9 15.8 15.1 3.9 Allowance for doubtful receivables 21.0 18.4 2.6 14.5 Total service revenue 2,209.2 92.2 2,216.0 90.7 (6.8) (0.3) Repair and maintenance 96.9 86.0 10.9 12.6 Sales of equipment 187.5 7.8 228.3 9.3 (40.8) (17.9) Other expenses 115.1 82.7 32.4 39.0 Total 2,396.7 100.0 2,444.3 100.0 (47.6) (1.9) Subtotal 764.2 724.1 40.1 5.5 Depreciation and amortisation (net of asset grants) 265.0 271.4 (6.4) (2.4) The Group’s total revenue of $2,396.7 million was $47.6 million Broadband service revenue was higher by 8.2% when Total 1,029.2 995.5 33.7 3.4 or 1.9% lower year-on-year (YoY), attributed to lower revenues compared to 2015. The higher revenue was driven by an from sales of equipment and services. increase in the mix of customers taking fibre plans, resulting The Group’s other operating expenses were higher by 3.4% when compared to 2015. As a percentage of revenue, other operating in higher average revenue per user (ARPU) of $37 in 2016, expenses were at 42.9%, up from 40.7% in 2015. Compared to 2015, mobile service revenue was lower by up from $34 in 2015. 2.0% due to lower usage revenue from voice services, IDD and Analysis of major variances in other operating expenses is provided below: roaming services from both post-paid and pre-paid services, YoY, enterprise fixed service revenue was higher by 3.9%, Staff costs Repair and maintenance partly mitigated by higher subscription revenue from a larger primarily due to growth in data & internet services. The higher staff costs were due to annual increments and Compared to 2015, the higher repair and maintenance customer base. provision for restructuring costs, mitigated by reversal of staff expenses in 2016 were mainly due to the provision for Governance Revenue from sales of equipment decreased 17.9% YoY costs accruals not required. submarine cable repair costs for cable cuts in the first half Pay TV service revenue was lower by 3.4% YoY, primarily due to primarily due to lower volume of handsets sold. of 2016 and higher maintenance costs driven by expanded a decrease in the customer base. Operating leases network and systems infrastructure. The higher operating leases in 2015 were mainly due to the catch up of property tax on our network offices. Excluding Other expenses 1.2 Operating Expenses this catch up in 2015 and reversal of accruals not required in YoY, the higher other expenses were due to higher licence fees Year ended 31 December 2016, operating leases were 1.2% higher YoY mainly due to ($11.7m), foreign exchange losses ($7.3m), professional and 2016 2015 Incr/(Decr) commencement of new office’s rental. outsourcing fees ($5.0m) and lower gain on disposal of fixed $m $m $m % assets ($3.2m). Marketing and promotions Cost of sales 974.6 1,053.1 (78.5) (7.5) Compared to 2015, the lower marketing and promotions Depreciation and amortisation Other operating expenses 1,029.2 995.5 33.7 3.4 expenses in 2016 were primarily due to the lower acquisition The lower depreciation and amortisation expenses were Total 2,003.8 2,048.6 (44.8) (2.2) and re-contract costs driven by lower sales volume and mainly due to property, plant and equipment and intangible Total operating expenses were 2.2% lower YoY at $2,003.8 million, attributed to lower cost of sales (primarily cost of equipment reclassification of certain expenses to cost of sales. assets fully depreciated and amortised respectively, offset by and traffic expenses), offset by higher other operating expenses. new additions of CAPEX. Allowance for doubtful receivables As a percentage of revenue, total operating expenses were at 83.6% when compared to 83.8% in 2015. The higher allowance for doubtful receivables was due to an increase in provision rate with effect from 4Q2016 after the A breakdown of total operating expenses is as follows: review of the outstanding accounts receivables profile. (i) Cost of Sales Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 Incr/(Decr) $m $m $m % Cost of equipment sold 447.8 487.1 (39.3) (8.1) Cost of services 409.5 415.8 (6.3) (1.5) Traffic expenses 117.3 150.2 (32.9) (21.9) Total 974.6 1,053.1 (78.5) (7.5) Cost of equipment decreased 8.1% YoY with fewer handsets sold. take-up of fibre broadband plans. This was partly mitigated by lower TV programming and production costs. Cost of services in 2016 included some reversals of accruals not required. Excluding these reversals, cost of services were Traffic expenses were lower by 21.9% YoY due to lower 1.1% higher YoY, mainly due to higher enterprise fixed costs, domestic and international traffic volume. coupled with increase in installation costs driven by higher 126 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 127 Group Financial Review continued 1.3 Profitability 1.4 Liquidity and Resources Year ended 31 December Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 Incr/(Decr) 2016 2015 $m $m $m % $m $m Total revenue 2,396.7 2,444.3 (47.6) (1.9) Profit before taxation 410.3 440.2 Operating expenses (2,003.8) (2,048.6) (44.8) (2.2) Non-cash items & net finance expenses adjustments 257.8 233.7 Other income 32.2 45.6 (13.4) (29.2) Changes in operating assets and liabilities (63.7) (36.7) Profit from operations 425.1 441.3 (16.2) (3.6) Income tax paid (53.7) (92.7) Finance income 3.5 2.0 1.5 73.3 Net cash from operating activities 550.7 544.5 Finance expenses (26.2) (17.8) 8.4 46.7 Net cash used in investing activities (389.3) (300.3) 402.4 425.5 (23.1) (5.4) Net cash used in financing activities (49.6) (335.3) Non-operating income 9.5 15.0 (5.5) (37.1) Net change in cash and cash equivalents 111.8 (91.1) Share of loss of associate (net of tax) (1.6) (0.3) 1.3 nm Exchange difference on cash and cash equivalents – 0.3 Profit before taxation 410.3 440.2 (29.9) (6.8) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 173.4 264.2 Taxation (68.9) (67.9) 1.0 1.5 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 285.2 173.4 Profit for the year 341.4 372.3 (30.9) (8.3) Free Cash Flow (1) 184.0 215.7 EBITDA 690.1 712.7 (22.6) (3.2) (1) Free Cash Flow refers to net cash from operating activities less purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets in the cash flow statement. Governance Service revenue 2,209.2 2,216.0 (6.8) (0.3) YoY, the Group’s net cash from operating activities was The Group’s CAPEX payments in 2016 totalled $366.7 million. EBITDA as a % of service revenue 31.2% 32.2% -1% pts $6.2 million higher due to lower tax paid offset by higher Excluding the $80 million spectrum paid in 3Q2016, the nm – not meaningful requirements from working capital and lower cash flows CAPEX payments in 2016 were 12.0% of total revenue. Profit from operations was 3.6% lower YoY at $425.1 million in mm2 Asia Ltd. In 2015, the non-operating income of from operations. due mainly to lower service revenue and income grant as all $15.0 million was due to the deconsolidation of one of its Free cash flow was $31.7 million lower at $184.0 million rollout grant has been fully amortised and recognised in the subsidiaries, SHINE Systems Assets Pte. Ltd. The negative changes in working capital of $63.7 million was as a result of higher CAPEX payments. income statement. attributed to lower net balances due to related parties, higher Compared to 2015, the share of loss from associate was higher trade receivables, other receivables, deposits and prepayments. Net cash used in financing activities were lower at 2016 EBITDA was lower by 3.2% when compared to 2015. at $1.6 million in 2016. This was mitigated by higher trade and other payables. $49.6 million in 2016 as compared to $335.3 million in 2015. As a percentage of service revenue, EBITDA margin was The lower cash outlay was due to the proceeds received 31.2% in 2016 compared to 32.2% in 2015. 2016 profit before taxation decreased $29.9 million YoY, Net cash used in investing activities increased by $89.0 million from the issue of $300.0 million medium term notes offset largely due to lower profits from operations ($16.2 million) YoY, due to higher CAPEX payments and loans disbursed to by purchase of treasury shares in 2016. The higher finance income YoY was due to higher cash and and non-operating income ($5.5 million), coupled with higher associate of $8.7 million in 2016 as compared to a repayment cash equivalent balances, while higher finance expenses were net interest expenses ($6.9 million) and share of loss from of loan from associate of $36.9 million in 2015. In addition, The resulting net cash generated was a surplus of attributed to increase in interest expenses following the issue associate ($1.3 million). 2016 cash outflow also included the investment in mm2 Asia $111.8 million. As a result, cash and cash equivalents balance of the $300.0 million medium term notes in 2Q2016, coupled Ltd of $18.0 million compared to $12.0 million additional was higher at $285.2 million, up from $173.4 million in 2015. with higher interest rate. Taxation in 2015 included catch up for prior periods’ tax losses capital injected in associate in 2015. benefits. Excluding this adjustment, taxation for 2016 was For 2016, the non-operating income of $9.5 million was due lower by 10.3% due to lower profits before taxation. to the fair value gain on initial recognition from an investment 128 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 129 Group Financial Review continued A BIG Thank You! To the below StarHubbers & their little one who in no small part, have made this annual report a more vibrant and colourful one with their bright smiles and warm personalities. 1.5 Financial Position As at 31 December 2016 2015 Chris Tan Rod Strother Acquires sports content for Pay TV. A man of simple pleasures who’s $m $m Plays a mean game of golf & cooks. developing our Digital Transformation footprints. Loves football & his three furkids. Non-current assets 1,455.3 1,305.6 Rayana Pandey Responsible for overall content strategy Nicole Ong Current assets 741.0 603.8 & includes managing the C-suite’s Leads the social media team. Loves traveling presence on social. off the beaten track and a good latte. Less: Current liabilities 855.5 1,027.9 Less: Non-current liabilities 1,145.9 693.9 Net assets 194.9 187.6 Shareholders' equity 194.9 187.6 Compared to 2015, the Group’s non-current assets The Group’s shareholders’ equity increased by $7.3 million of $1,455.3 million as of 31 December 2016 were higher to $194.9 million as of 31 December 2016. The increase by $149.7 million. The increase was mainly due to higher net was primarily due to higher share capital of $6.2 million book values for fixed assets which included the addition of 4G and favourable changes in fair value of available-for-sale spectrum rights in 3Q2016, and higher non-current balance investments of $12.5 million, offset by the purchase due from related parties resulting from the loan disbursement of treasury shares of $12.3 million. to associate. In addition, the investment in mm2 Asia Ltd with a fair value of $40.0 million recorded as of 31 December 2016 Gearing LOCATION: LOCATION: LOCATION: LOCATION: also contributed to the higher non-current assets. The Group’s unsecured borrowings of $987.5 million as StarHub Retail Store Call Centre Homes Curiousity Hub of 31 December 2016 were $300.0 million higher when Plaza Singapore Branch Tai Seng Islandwide StarHub Green Financial Total current assets of $741.0 million as of 31 December 2016 compared to a year ago. The increase was due to the were $137.2 million higher YoY, primarily due to higher cash $300.0 million 3.55% fixed rate 10-year medium term notes and cash equivalents which was up by $111.8 million when issued in June 2016, with maturity due in 2026. Chai Juan Wei Mycar C. Jen Hong Elias Khan Nicolas Bureau Nicholas Chee compared to 31 December 2015. A Shop senior Taboada From Frontline Training A senior eCommerce An eCommerce & A Corporate consultant who identify gaps for Analyst who looks after Online Lead who Counsel who Statements 2016 As a Hubbing Against 31 December 2015, net debt was $188.2 million higher who ensures the consultant, she’s existing operational the analytics section of provides a delightful when not assisting highest quality of role-playing as process & recommends the online store, providing online experience with legal matters Total current liabilities as of 31 December 2016 were at $702.3 million as of 31 December 2016, attributed to higher customer service a customer to new processes and actionable insights and for customers and for our business $172.4 million lower at $855.5 million when compared to a borrowings mitigated by an increase in ending cash balances. is provided at understand their assist in developing helping stakeholders to increase the online units, is into running, all times. pain points. process flowcharts. make data-driven decision adoption for sales and movies & good wine. year ago. The decrease was due to the reclassification of bank As a ratio of the full year EBITDA, the Group’s net debt was to improve business. post-sales transactions. borrowings from current liabilities to non-current liabilities as a higher at 1.02 times as of 31 December 2016, up from result of extension of bank borrowings. Balance due to related 0.72 times as of 31 December 2015. Financials Financials parties was also lower by $55.4 million upon the finalisation of outstanding claims and timing in settlement of payables. Directors’ Statement 130 Statement of Consolidated Cash Flow Independent Auditors’ Report 140 Comprehensive Income 149 Statement 154 Statements of Statements of Changes Notes to the Against 31 December 2015, total non-current liabilities were in Equity 150 Financial Statements 155 Financial Position 147 $452.0 million higher at $1,145.9 million. The increase was Income Statement 148 largely due to the $300.0 million medium term notes issued in 2Q2016 and reclassification of bank borrowings from current liabilities. Vida Z. Rosel Adrian Siew Guo Jiawei Ethan Koh Maria Kolesnikova Floor Manager, Retail Shop Hub Trooper IP System Engineer Young Hubber SEO Manager “Managing the shop operations “I’m a die-hard soccer fan “I love challenges and “I’m the one who watches the “I oversee the marketing and & coaching consultants keeps & loves outdoor sports. competitive activities; both most StarHub TV programmes development efforts for natural me busy. At home, I love Reading tech news puts a smile physical & mental. Music and at home. I also love the fast search. Outside of work, I’m to bake while listening to on my face too.” fitness bust my grooves too.” speeds on StarHub fibre on a journey to discover how alternative music.” broadband to access my to feel great through yoga, favourite apps & follow rugby meditation & healthy nutrition.” and golf games.” Shareholders’ Feedback FSC Logo If you would like to give us any feedback on this year’s Annual Report, please send your written comments to our investor relations team at StarHub Ltd 67 Ubi Ave 1, #05-01 StarHub Green, S(408942) or email to ir@starhub.com Inspired by Sedgwick Richardson 130 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 131 Directors’ Statement Year ended 31 December 2016 We are pleased to submit this statement to the members of the Company together with the audited financial statements for the Directors’ Interests (continued) financial year ended 31 December 2016. Holdings Holdings In our opinion: at beginning at end Names of director and corporation in which interests are held of the year of the year (a) the financial statements set out on pages 147 to 202 are drawn up so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position The Company of the Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2016 and the financial performance and the cash flows of the Ordinary Shares Group, and changes in equity of the Group and of the Company for the year ended on that date in accordance with the provisions of the Singapore Companies Act, Chapter 50 and Singapore Financial Reporting Standards; and Tan Tong Hai 1,049,830 1,343,530 (b) at the date of this statement, there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Company will be able to pay its debts as and Ma Kah Woh 78,580 81,780 when they fall due. Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE 21,000 19,000 Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee – 6,900 Teo Ek Tor 153,838 168,738 Directors Lim Ming Seong 222,036 237,136 The directors in office at the date of this statement are as follows: Liu Chee Ming 180,184+ 191,584+ Nasser Marafih 59,930 66,330 Steven Terrell Clontz (Chairman) Peter Seah Lim Huat* 578,092 592,092 Tan Tong Hai (Chief Executive Officer) Sio Tat Hiang* 25,600 39,300 Ma Kah Woh Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE Related Corporations Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee Teo Ek Tor Olam International Limited Stephen Geoffrey Miller (Appointed on 1 January 2017) Euro Medium Term Note Programme Lim Ming Seong Liu Chee Ming Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE US$200,000(1) US$200,000(1) Nasser Marafih Takeshi Kazami Singapore Technologies Engineering Ltd Ordinary Shares Directors’ Interests According to the register kept by the Company for the purposes of Section 164 of the Singapore Companies Act, Chapter 50, Lim Ming Seong 98,336 98,336 particulars of interests of directors who held office at the end of the financial year (including those held by their spouses and Financials Peter Seah Lim Huat* 545,325 545,325 infant children) in shares, debentures, warrants, share options and share awards in the Company and in related corporations (other than wholly-owned subsidiaries) are as follows: Singapore Telecommunications Limited Ordinary Shares Holdings Holdings at beginning at end Names of director and corporation in which interests are held of the year of the year Ma Kah Woh 380 380 The Company Peter Seah Lim Huat* 3,217 3,217 Ordinary Shares TeleChoice International Limited Steven Terrell Clontz 62,900 80,700 Ordinary Shares Lim Ming Seong 60,000 60,000 Peter Seah Lim Huat* 50,000 50,000 Sio Tat Hiang* 253,000 325,000 + Held (partly or wholly) by a nominee. * Peter Seah Lim Huat and Sio Tat Hiang resigned as directors on 1 January 2017. (1) US$200,000 of the US$300,000,000 in principal amount of 4.5% fixed rate notes due 2020 under Olam International Limited’s Euro Medium Term Note Programme. 132 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 133 Directors’ Statement Year ended 31 December 2016 Directors’ Interests (continued) Directors’ Interests (continued) Holdings Holdings Except as disclosed in this statement, no director who held office at the end of the financial year had interests in shares, at beginning at end debentures, warrants, share options or share awards of the Company, or of its related corporations, either at the beginning of the Names of director and corporation in which interests are held of the year of the year financial year or at the end of the financial year. The Company There were no changes in the above-mentioned directors’ interests in the Company between the end of the financial year and Conditional awards of shares under StarHub Performance Share Plan 21 January 2017. Tan Tong Hai 210,000(2) – Except as disclosed under the “Share-based Payments” section of this statement, neither at the end of nor at any time during 278,600(3) 278,600(3) the financial year, was the Company a party to any arrangement whose objects are, or one of whose objects is, to enable the directors of the Company to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the Company or any other Conditional awards of shares under StarHub Performance Share Plan 2014 body corporate. Tan Tong Hai 261,200(4) 261,200(4) Share-based Payments – 261,200(5) The Company has in place the StarHub Performance Share Plan 2014 and the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan 2014 (collectively, “StarHub Share Plans 2014”, and each, “StarHub PSP 2014” and “StarHub RSP 2014” respectively). Conditional awards of shares under StarHub Restricted Stock Plan The StarHub Share Plans 2014 were approved and adopted at the Extraordinary General Meeting (“EGM”) of the Company held Tan Tong Hai 87,200(6) – on 14 April 2014, in replacement of the then existing StarHub Performance Share Plan and the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan 195,400(7) 64,464(7) which were adopted by the Company on 16 August 2004 (collectively, “StarHub Share Plans 2004”, and each, “StarHub PSP 2004” and “StarHub RSP 2004” respectively). Conditional awards of shares under StarHub Restricted Stock Plan 2014 The StarHub Share Plans 2004 together with the StarHub Share Option Plan 2004 were terminated at the EGM of the Company held on 14 April 2014. The Company had also in 2000 adopted the StarHub Pte Ltd Share Option Plan (“StarHub Share Option Tan Tong Hai 156,200(8) 156,200(8) Plan 2000”) and terminated the same in 2004. Since 31 May 2015, there were no outstanding or unexercised options under the – 156,200(9) StarHub Share Option Plans. (2) A conditional award was granted in May 2013. The performance period was from 2013 to 2015. The final award was granted in March 2016 based on the actual The StarHub Share Plans 2014, the StarHub Share Plans 2004, the StarHub Share Option Plan 2004 and the StarHub Share Option level of achievement of the pre-determined targets. The shares under the final award were delivered in April 2016. (3) A conditional award was granted in March 2014. The performance period was from 2014 to 2016. No shares will be delivered if the threshold performance Plan 2000 (collectively, “Plans”) are administered by the Company’s Executive Resource and Compensation Committee (“ERCC”) targets are not achieved while up to 1.825 times the number of shares that are the subject of the award will be delivered if the stretched performance targets are comprising three directors, namely Teo Ek Tor, Stephen Geoffrey Miller and Lim Ming Seong. met or exceeded. (4) A conditional award was granted in March 2015. The performance period is from 2015 to 2017. No shares will be delivered if the threshold performance targets The Company designates Singapore Technologies Telemedia Pte Ltd as its parent company (“Parent Company”) for purposes of Financials are not achieved while up to 1.825 times the number of shares that are the subject of the award will be delivered if the stretched performance targets are met or exceeded. the Plans. (5) A conditional award was granted in March 2016. The performance period is from 2016 to 2018. No shares will be delivered if the threshold performance targets are not achieved while up to 1.825 times the number of shares that are the subject of the award will be delivered if the stretched performance targets are met StarHub Share Plans 2014 and StarHub Share Plans 2004 (collectively, the “StarHub Share Plans”) or exceeded. (6) A conditional award was granted in May 2013. The performance period was from 2013 to 2014. The final award was granted in March 2015 based on the actual (i) The StarHub Share Plans were implemented with the objectives of motivating key executives to strive for superior level of achievement of the pre-determined performance targets. The shares under the final award were partially delivered in 2015, and the balance was delivered in 2016. performance and sustaining long-term growth for the Group. (7) A conditional award was granted in March 2014. The performance period was from 2014 to 2015. The final award was granted in March 2016 based on the actual level of achievement of the pre-determined performance targets. The shares under the final award were partially delivered in 2016, and the balance will be (ii) The termination of the StarHub Share Plans 2004 was without prejudice to the rights of holders of awards accepted and delivered in 2017. outstanding under the StarHub Share Plans 2004 as at the date of termination. The outstanding awards under the StarHub (8) A conditional award was granted in March 2015. The performance period was from 2015 to 2016. No shares will be delivered if the threshold performance targets are not achieved while up to 1.5 times the number of shares that are the subject of the award will be delivered if the stretched performance targets are met or Share Plans 2004 were vested according to the terms of the StarHub Share Plans 2004 and the respective grants. exceeded. Shares will be delivered in phases according to the stipulated vesting periods. (9) A conditional award was granted in March 2016. The performance period is from 2016 to 2017. No shares will be delivered if the threshold performance targets are not achieved while up to 1.5 times the number of shares that are the subject of the award will be delivered if the stretched performance targets are met or exceeded. Shares will be delivered in phases according to the stipulated vesting periods. 134 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 135 Directors’ Statement Year ended 31 December 2016 Share-based Payments (continued) Share-based Payments (continued) (iii) The following persons were/shall be eligible to participate in the StarHub Share Plans, respectively at the absolute Details of share awards granted under the StarHub PSP 2004 and StarHub PSP 2014 (collectively, the “StarHub PSP Share discretion of the ERCC: Plans”) are as follows: (1) employees (including executive directors) and non-executive directors of the Group; Aggregate share awards granted since Aggregate (2) employees (including executive directors) and non-executive directors of the Parent Group who meet the relevant commencement of the share awards Share awards granted StarHub PSP Share Plans Share awards vested outstanding as at age and rank criteria and whose services have been seconded to a company within the Group and who shall be Participants during the financial year to 31 December 2016 during the financial year 31 December 2016 regarded as an employee of the Group for the purposes of the StarHub Share Plans; and StarHub PSP 2004 (3) employees and non-executive directors of the Company’s associated companies, who in the opinion of the ERCC, Executive director: have contributed or will contribute to the success of the Group. Tan Tong Hai – 960,400 42,000 278,600 (iv) Under the StarHub PSP 2004 and the StarHub PSP 2014, awards of shares are granted on an annual basis, conditional Key executives – 7,178,650 37,800 291,500 on targets set for a performance period, currently prescribed to be a three-year period. Awards represent the right of a participant to receive fully paid shares, their equivalent cash value or combinations thereof, free of charge, upon the participant achieving prescribed performance targets set based on medium-term corporate objectives. Total – 8,139,050 79,800 570,100 Awards are released once the ERCC is satisfied that the prescribed performance targets have been achieved. The StarHub PSP 2014 actual number of shares given will depend on the level of achievement of the prescribed performance targets over the Executive director: performance period. Tan Tong Hai 261,200 522,400 – 522,400 Since the commencement of the StarHub PSP 2004 to the financial year ended 31 December 2016, conditional awards Key executives 395,100 668,600 – 668,600 aggregating 9,050,250 shares have been granted under the aforesaid plan. For share awards granted prior to and during the financial year ended 31 December 2013, no shares will be delivered if the threshold performance targets are not achieved, while up to twice the number of shares that are the subject of the award will be delivered if the stretched Total 656,300 1,191,000 – 1,191,000 performance targets are met or exceeded. For share awards granted during and after the financial year ended 31 December 2014, no shares will be delivered if the threshold performance targets are not achieved, while up to 1.825 times (v) Under the StarHub RSP 2004 and the StarHub RSP 2014, awards granted vest only after the satisfactory completion of the number of shares that are the subject of the award will be delivered if the stretched performance targets are met or time-based service conditions (time-based restricted awards) or where the award is performance-related, after a further exceeded. The performance targets benchmark (a) the performance of the Company’s Total Shareholders’ Return (“TSR”) period of service beyond the performance period (performance-based restricted awards). measured against the MSCI Asia-Pacific Telecommunications Index (including Japan) over the performance period, and (b) the Wealth Added which measures investment performance in terms of the Company’s TSR against shareholders’ No minimum vesting periods are prescribed under the StarHub RSP 2004 and the StarHub RSP 2014 and the length of the expected returns using cost of equity as a benchmark. vesting period in respect of each award will be determined on a case-by-case basis. Performance-based restricted awards Financials differ from awards granted under the StarHub PSP 2004 and the StarHub PSP 2014 in that an extended vesting period is Since the commencement of the StarHub PSP 2014 to the financial year ended 31 December 2016, conditional awards imposed beyond the performance period. aggregating 1,191,000 shares have been granted under the aforesaid plan. For share awards granted during and after the financial year ended 31 December 2015, no shares will be delivered if the threshold performance targets are not The performance-based restricted awards represent the right of a participant to receive fully paid shares, their equivalent achieved, while up to 1.825 times the number of shares that are the subject of the award will be delivered if the stretched cash value or combinations thereof, free of charge, upon the participant achieving prescribed performance targets. performance targets are met or exceeded. The performance targets benchmark (a) the performance of the Company’s The actual number of shares to be released depends on the level of attainment of the performance targets over the Total Shareholders’ Return (“TSR”) measured against the MSCI Asia-Pacific Telecommunications Index (including Japan) performance period. over the performance period, and (b) the Wealth Added which measures investment performance in terms of the Company’s TSR against shareholders’ expected returns using cost of equity as a benchmark. For performance-based restricted awards granted prior to and during the financial year ended 31 December 2007, (a) the first performance target benchmarks the performance of the Company’s TSR measured against the Straits Times Index (“STI”) over the performance period; and (b) the second performance target used is measured against Free Cash Flow (“FCF”). For performance-based restricted awards granted during and from financial year ended 31 December 2008 to financial year ended 31 December 2013, the performance targets used are measured against the Return on Invested Capital (“ROIC”) and the FCF respectively. For performance-based restricted awards granted during and from financial year ended 31 December 2014 onwards, the performance targets used are measured against the Return on Invested Capital (“ROIC”) and the Earnings Before Interest, Taxation, Depreciation and Amortisation (“EBITDA”). 136 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 137 Directors’ Statement Year ended 31 December 2016 Share-based Payments (continued) Share-based Payments (continued) Since the commencement of the StarHub RSP 2004 to the financial year ended 31 December 2016: Details of share awards granted under the StarHub RSP 2004 and the StarHub RSP 2014 (collectively, the “StarHub RSP Plans”) are as follows: (1) performance-based restricted awards aggregating 17,413,000 shares have been granted under the aforesaid Plan. No shares will be delivered if the threshold performance targets are not achieved, while up to 1.3 times or Aggregate share as the case may be 1.5 times, the number of shares that are the subject of the award, will be delivered if stretched awards granted since Aggregate performance targets are met or exceeded; commencement of the share awards Share awards granted StarHub RSP Share Plans Share awards vested outstanding as at Participants during the financial year to 31 December 2016 during the financial year 31 December 2016 (2) a time-based restricted award of 100,000 shares has been granted on 15 January 2009. The shares under this award were vested in three equal tranches over a 3-year period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2011 StarHub RSP 2004 according to a specified vesting schedule; Non-executive directors: (3) a time-based restricted award of 213,000 shares has been granted on 17 May 2010. The shares under this award Steven Terrell Clontz – 40,100 – – were vested in May 2011 upon the participants’ continued tenure as non-executive directors of the Company for a Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE – 103,700 – – full one-year period from the date of grant; Teo Ek Tor – 91,100 – – (4) a restricted award of 155,900 shares has been granted on 7 June 2012. The shares under this award formed 30% Lim Ming Seong – 106,900 – – of the non-executive directors’ remuneration for the financial year ended 31 December 2011 and were vested Liu Chee Ming – 76,100 – – immediately without any further vesting period; Nasser Marafih – 50,400 – – Peter Seah Lim Huat* – 98,700 – – (5) a restricted award of 99,400 shares has been granted on 10 May 2013. The shares under this award formed 30% Sio Tat Hiang* – 4,400 – – of the non-executive directors’ remuneration for the financial year ended 31 December 2012 and were vested immediately without any further vesting period; and Executive director: (6) a time-based restricted award of 30,000 shares has been granted on 10 March 2014. The shares under this award Tan Tong Hai – 739,400 151,700 64,464 were vested in two equal tranches over a 2-year period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2016 according to a specified vesting schedule. Key employees – 15,143,700 1,296,995 628,880 Since the commencement of the StarHub RSP 2014 to the financial year ended 31 December 2016: StarHub RSP 2014 (1) performance-based restricted awards aggregating 4,758,100 shares have been granted under the aforesaid Plan. Non-executive directors: No shares will be delivered if the threshold performance targets are not achieved, while up to 1.5 times, the number of shares that are the subject of the award, will be delivered if stretched performance targets are met or exceeded; Steven Terrell Clontz 17,800 40,600 17,800 – Financials Ma Kah Woh 3,200 3,200 3,200 – (2) restricted awards aggregating 365,300 shares have been vested to non-executive directors of the Company as part Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE 16,900 42,000 16,900 – of their directors’ remuneration, and were vested immediately upon grant; Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee 6,900 6,900 6,900 – Teo Ek Tor 14,900 38,100 14,900 – (3) a time-based restricted award of 32,500 shares has been granted on 8 July 2015. The shares under this award will Lim Ming Seong 15,100 38,900 15,100 – vest in two equal tranches over a 2-year period from 8 July 2015 to 7 July 2017 according to a specified vesting Liu Chee Ming 11,400 29,900 11,400 – schedule; and Nasser Marafih 6,400 23,300 6,400 – (4) a time-based restricted award of 240,000 shares has been granted on 20 May 2016. The shares under this Peter Seah Lim Huat* 14,000 35,900 14,000 – award will vest in two equal tranches over a period from 20 May 2016 to 7 July 2017 according to a specified Sio Tat Hiang* 13,700 34,900 13,700 – vesting schedule. Executive director: Tan Tong Hai 156,200 312,400 – 312,400 Key employees 2,571,100 4,718,200 136,300 4,337,400 * Peter Seah Lim Huat and Sio Tat Hiang resigned as directors on 1 January 2017. 138 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 139 Directors’ Statement Year ended 31 December 2016 Share-based Payments (continued) Auditors The auditors, KPMG LLP, have expressed their willingness to accept re-appointment. During the financial year, a total of 1,856,315 ordinary shares fully paid in the Company were issued pursuant to the StarHub Share Plans. The Board of Directors has, on the date of this statement, authorised these financial statements for issue. As at 31 December 2016, no participant has been granted and/or received shares pursuant to the release of awards granted under the StarHub Share Plans, which, in aggregate, represents 5% or more of the aggregate of: (a) the total number of new shares available under the StarHub Share Option Plans and the StarHub Share Plans collectively; and On behalf of the Board of Directors (b) the total number of existing shares delivered pursuant to options exercised under the StarHub Share Option Plans and awards released under the StarHub Share Plans collectively. Audit Committee The members of the Audit Committee as at the date of this statement are as follows: Steven Terrell Clontz Tan Tong Hai Director Director Ma Kah Woh, independent non-executive director (Chairman) Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE, independent non-executive director Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee, independent non-executive director Singapore Lim Ming Seong, non-executive director 3 February 2017 The Audit Committee has held four meetings since the last directors’ statement. In performing its functions in accordance with Section 201B of the Singapore Companies Act, Chapter 50, the Audit Committee met with the Company’s external and internal auditors to discuss the scope of their work, the results of their examination and evaluation of the Company’s internal accounting control system. The Audit Committee has also reviewed the following: (1) assistance provided by the Company’s officers to the internal and external auditors; (2) financial statements of the Group and the Company prior to their submission to the directors of the Company for adoption; and Financials (3) interested person transactions (as defined in Chapter 9 of the Listing Manual of the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited) of the Company and its subsidiaries and the Company’s compliance with the review procedures of such transactions. The Audit Committee has full access to management and is given the resources required for it to discharge its functions. It has full authority and the discretion to invite any director or executive officer to attend its meetings. The Audit Committee also recommends the appointment of the external auditors and reviews the level of audit and non-audit fees. The Audit Committee has undertaken a review of all non-audit services provided by the external auditors, and is satisfied that the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors are not compromised as a result thereof, and has recommended to the Board of Directors that KPMG LLP be nominated for re-appointment as auditors at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company. 140 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 141 Independent Auditors’ Report Members of the Company StarHub Ltd Report on the audit of the financial statements Revenue recognition ($2,396.7 million) Opinion (Refer to note 3.11 ‘Significant accounting policies’ and note 20 ‘Revenue’) We have audited the financial statements of StarHub Ltd (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries (the “Group”), which comprise The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit the consolidated statement of financial position of the Group and the statement of financial position of the Company as at 31 December 2016, the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement The Group’s five largest revenue streams are derived from Our audit was performed with a high reliance on the of changes in equity and consolidated cash flow statement of the Group, and the statement of changes in equity of the Company the provision of Mobile, Pay TV, Broadband, Enterprise Fixed Group’s IT systems and key manual internal controls. for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies as set out services and sales of equipment. on pages 147 to 202. Our audit procedures included: The Group provides its services from its integrated fixed, In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements of the Group and the statement of financial position of the mobile, cable and broadband operations through its fixed • Testing the design and implementation, and operating Company are properly drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the Singapore Companies Act, Chapter 50 (the “Act”) and and wireless networks. effectiveness of the IT environment over systems Financial Reporting Standards in Singapore (“FRSs”) so as to give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position of in which billings, ratings and other relevant support the Group and the financial position of the Company as at 31 December 2016 and of the consolidated financial performance, Information used to recognise revenue is based on data activities reside. consolidated changes in equity and consolidated cash flows of the Group and changes in equity of the Company for the year captured in the network switches which are interfaced with management IT reporting system. Complexities in the • Evaluating the relevant IT systems and the design and ended on that date. telecommunication systems and the related configurations operating effectiveness of controls over the capture of the system generated information give rise to the risk that and recording of revenue transactions from network Basis for opinion revenue may not be accurately recognised. switches to the billing system, and subsequently to the accounting system. In doing so, we involved our IT We conducted our audit in accordance with Singapore Standards on Auditing (“SSAs”). Our responsibilities under those standards In addition, products and services offered with promotional specialists to assist in the test of automated controls, are further described in the ‘Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements’ section of our report. We are rates and discounts, adds to the complexities in the including interface controls between different IT independent of the Group in accordance with the Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority (“ACRA”) Code of Professional calculation of revenue to be recognised. applications. Conduct and Ethics for Public Accountants and Accounting Entities (“ACRA Code”) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in Singapore, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance • Testing the design and implementation, and with these requirements and the ACRA Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to effectiveness of controls over initiation, authorisation, provide a basis for our opinion. recording, and processing of revenue transactions. • Testing key reconciliations used by management to Key audit matters assess the completeness and accuracy of revenue including testing the period in which it is recorded. Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, • Assessing the suitability of revenue recognition policy for the products and services offered by the Group. Financials and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. • Performing analytical procedures on revenue by corroborating with non-financial data and test of details. Findings Based on our procedures, we noted no significant issues on the completeness, existence and accuracy of revenue recorded in the year, except for the recognition of revenue from sales and usage of pre-paid phone cards. Management identified errors in the data in the pre-paid mobile rating and accounting systems that are used for the recognition of revenue from the sales and usage of pre-paid phone cards. Management is in the process of reconciling the differences between pre-paid and accounting systems. The effects of the errors and the unreconciled differences is not significant to the income statement for the year. We noted that the revenue recognition policies relating to recognition for some of the pre-paid card programmes were not in accordance with the requirements of financial reporting standards. The effect of these deviations is not material to the income statement for the year. 142 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 143 Independent Auditors’ Report Members of the Company StarHub Ltd Accruals ($472.1 million) Impairment assessment of goodwill ($220.3 million) (Refer to note 3.6(i) ‘Significant accounting policies’ and note 14 ‘Trade and other payables’) (Refer to note 3.7 (ii) ‘Significant accounting policies’ and note 5 ‘Intangible assets’) The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit The Group incurs significant costs in its operations. Our procedures included: Goodwill is subject to an annual impairment test or more Our audit procedures included: Accounting for certain costs at year end is considered a frequently if there are indications of impairment. The significant audit risk due to the judgement and • Reading contracts of certain significant accruals and determination of the recoverable amount of the cash • Evaluating management’s basis of determination and complexities involved. considering the accounting treatment and timing of generating unit (“CGU”) requires judgement on the part of identification of the CGU within the Group. recognition. management in both identifying and valuing the CGU. Judgement is required in determining the level of accrual • Challenging management’s estimates applied in the needed for costs that span the year end where settlement • Understanding and assessing management’s The Group recorded goodwill of $220.3 million arising from value-in-use model based on our knowledge of the has not been fully and finally made. process and basis of accruals for each significant the acquisition of StarHub Cable Vision Ltd (“SCV”) in 2002. CGU’s operations, by: accruals category. Management considers SCV to be an essential part of the Judgement is also required where there are invoices under Comparing historical forecasts against historical Group’s fully integrated info-communications business. negotiation because agreement on amounts payable to • Testing the accruals utilised during the year to actual performance to assess management’s forecast Hence, for impairment testing purposes, management has suppliers may take a significant amount of time due to the invoices received and checking that the utilisation of ability; and allocated the goodwill to the CGU comprising the Group’s complexities in the telecommunication industry. accruals have been correctly accounted for. integrated fixed, mobile, cable and broadband operations. Comparing current forecasts against historical Management performed a detailed review of each of its • Testing key reconciliations used by management to performance to assess the reasonableness of Management applies the value-in-use (discounted cash significant accrual accounts relying on historical trend of assess the completeness and accuracy of liabilities and the forecasts. flow) method to determine the recoverable amount of observable claims and actual costs to assess the sufficiency accruals. the CGU. Any shortfall of the recoverable amount against • Obtaining an understanding of management’s of these accruals. the carrying amount would be recognised as an • Assessing management’s basis of reversal of significant revenue growth forecasts and capital expenditure on accruals resulting from changes in management’s impairment loss. network assets, and independently deriving applicable assessment of the likelihood of economic outflows. discount rates and comparing these to those used by Key assumptions and estimates used in the value-in-use management. • Performing search for unrecorded liabilities to assess the calculations include revenue growth rates, expected completeness of liabilities. changes in profit margins, and the applicable discount rate. • Stress testing management’s value-in-use calculations These estimates require judgement and the determination through applying and analysing the impact to the of the recoverable amount is a key focus area for our audit. headroom when possible but unlikely key assumptions Findings We have identified certain over accruals made in the financial statements. The effects of these over-accruals were not found or discount rates were applied. to be significant to the income statement for the year. • Assessing the sufficiency of related disclosures in Note 5 Financials Based on our assessment of historical utilisation patterns, we found that the estimates used by management to determine the to the financial statements including those in respect of accruals were conservative. Management is continually refining its processes to improve the accuracy of the estimates used the sensitivities of the recoverable amount to variations to determine these accruals. in assumptions. Findings In view of the Group’s “Hubbing” strategy whereby the majority of its customers are on a suite of services using an integrated network, we agree with management on the allocation of the goodwill to the CGU. Based on our procedures, we consider management’s assumptions to be within the range of likely market trends and our stress tests showed sufficient headroom for the carrying value of the CGU. We therefore agree with management that there is no impairment in the goodwill allocated to the CGU. We found the Group’s disclosure in the financial statements to be compliant with financial reporting standards. 144 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 145 Independent Auditors’ Report Members of the Company StarHub Ltd Responsibilities of management and directors for the financial statements Valuation of trade receivables ($172.2 million) (Refer to note 3.7 (i) ‘Significant accounting policies’ and note 11 ‘Trade receivables’) Management is responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with the provisions of the Act and FRSs, and for devising and maintaining a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide a The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorised use or disposition; and transactions are properly authorised and that they are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of true and fair financial statements and to maintain The Group has a policy to provide allowances for trade Our audit procedures included: accountability of assets. receivables on specific individual balances and on its receivables portfolio collectively. • Performing tests of controls over the Group’s collection In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, procedures, and the Group’s assessment of the provision disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management Determining the amount of allowance requires required at every period end. either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. management’s judgement on overdue debts and the amount of collection default based on past • Assessing the suitability of its policy for the allowance of The directors’ responsibilities include overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process. collection trends. doubtful debts. There is a risk that the allowance of doubtful debts • Evaluating the ageing profile of trade receivables and Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements recognised may be insufficient. critically assessing the Group’s provision levels by considering the historical cash collection trends. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material • Discussing with management on the recoverability of misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is past due debts to assess the sufficiency of allowance a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SSAs will always detect a material for trade receivables through specific and collective misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the provisioning. aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. • Reviewing the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in relation to the degree of estimation involved in arriving at As part of an audit in accordance with SSAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism the provision. throughout the audit. We also: Findings • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and We found that the level of allowance of doubtful debts as at 31 December 2016 to be adequate. We have considered the perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a adequacy of the Group’s disclosures about the degree of estimation involved in deriving the allowance is sufficient. basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls. Other Information Financials • Obtain an understanding of internal controls relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in Management is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the Annual Report, but does not include the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls. the financial statements and our auditors’ report thereon. Other than the Directors’ Statement, which we obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s report, the other sections included in the Annual Report are expected to be made available to us after the • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related date of this auditors’ report. disclosures made by management. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we will not express any form of assurance • Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit conclusion thereon. evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the the matter to those charged with governance and take appropriate actions in accordance with SSAs. We have nothing to report in financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. this regard with respect to the Directors’ Statement. • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. 146 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 147 Independent Auditors’ Report Statements of Financial Position Members of the Company As at 31 December 2016 StarHub Ltd We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant Group Company audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal controls that we identify during our audit. 2016 2015 2016 2015 Note $m $m $m $m We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our Non-current assets independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. Property, plant and equipment 4 918.0 890.0 431.0 411.4 Intangible assets 5 463.8 388.1 78.3 70.6 From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of Subsidiaries 6 – – 2,472.8 1,758.1 the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ Associate 7 25.9 27.5 27.8 27.8 report unless the law or regulations preclude public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, Available-for-sale financial assets 8 40.0 – 40.0 – we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would Amounts due from related parties 9 7.6 – 7.6 344.2 reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. 1,455.3 1,305.6 3,057.5 2,612.1 Current assets Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Inventories 10 49.6 54.3 0.7 50.1 Trade receivables 11 172.2 153.3 141.7 137.5 In our opinion, the accounting and other records required by the Act to be kept by the Company and by those subsidiary corporations incorporated in Singapore of which we are the auditors have been properly kept in accordance with the provisions Other receivables, deposits and prepayments 12 212.2 196.8 43.6 34.1 of the Act. Amounts due from related parties 9 21.8 26.0 19.4 110.8 Cash and cash equivalents 13 285.2 173.4 236.0 154.2 The engagement partner on the audit resulting in this independent auditors’ report is Ong Chai Yan. 741.0 603.8 441.4 486.7 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 14 (707.9) (687.3) (309.4) (297.7) Amounts due to related parties 9 (67.1) (122.5) (356.5) (404.4) Borrowings 15 (10.0) (137.5) (10.0) (137.5) Provision for taxation (70.5) (80.6) (15.4) (49.1) (855.5) (1,027.9) (691.3) (888.7) KPMG LLP Public Accountants and Net current liabilities (114.5) (424.1) (249.9) (402.0) Chartered Accountants Non-current liabilities Singapore Trade and other payables 14 (21.6) (22.7) (21.6) (22.7) 3 February 2017 Borrowings 15 (977.5) (550.0) (977.5) (550.0) Financials Deferred income 16 (1.4) (1.1) (1.4) (1.1) Deferred tax liabilities 17 (145.4) (120.1) (73.5) (61.3) (1,145.9) (693.9) (1,074.0) (635.1) Net assets 194.9 187.6 1,733.6 1,575.0 Equity attributable to equity holders of the Company Share capital 18 299.7 293.5 299.7 293.5 Reserves 19 (104.8) (105.9) 1,433.9 1,281.5 Total equity 194.9 187.6 1,733.6 1,575.0 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements. 148 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 149 Income Statement Statement of Comprehensive Income Year ended 31 December 2016 Year ended 31 December 2016 Group Group 2016 2015 2016 2015 Note $m $m $m $m Revenue 20 2,396.7 2,444.3 Profit for the year 341.4 372.3 Operating expenses 21 (2,003.8) (2,048.6) Other income 22 32.2 45.6 Other comprehensive income Profit from operations 425.1 441.3 Items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Finance income 23 3.5 2.0 Change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets, net of taxation 12.5 – Finance expense 23 (26.2) (17.8) Foreign currency translation differences – 0.5 Net finance costs (22.7) (15.8) Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges, net of taxation 3.9 1.9 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of taxation 16.4 2.4 Non-operating income 24 9.5 15.0 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity Share of loss of associate, net of tax 7 (1.6) (0.3) holders of the Company 357.8 374.7 Profit before taxation 410.3 440.2 Taxation 25 (68.9) (67.9) Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company 341.4 372.3 Earnings per share (in cents) Basic 26 19.8 21.5 Diluted 26 19.7 21.4 EBITDA 27 690.1 712.7 Financials The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements. The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements. 150 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 151 Statements of Changes in Equity Year ended 31 December 2016 Goodwill Share-based Goodwill Share-based Share written payments Hedging Translation Retained Total Total Share Treasury written payments Fair value Hedging Translation Retained Total Total capital off reserve reserve reserve profits reserves equity capital shares off reserve reserve reserve reserve profits reserves equity Group $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Group $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At January 2015 282.6 (276.3) 13.4 (1.4) 0.8 129.9 (133.6) 149.0 At 1 January 2016 293.5 – (276.3) 12.3 – 0.5 1.3 156.3 (105.9) 187.6 Total comprehensive income for the year Total comprehensive income Profit for the year – – – – – 372.3 372.3 372.3 for the year Profit for the year – – – – – – – 341.4 341.4 341.4 Other comprehensive income Foreign currency translation differences – – – – 0.5 – 0.5 0.5 Other comprehensive income Effective portion of changes in fair value Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges, net of taxation – – – 1.9 – – 1.9 1.9 of available-for-sale Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 1.9 0.5 372.3 374.7 374.7 financial assets – – – – 12.5 – – – 12.5 12.5 Effective portion of changes Transactions with equity holders in fair value of cash flow of the Company, recognised directly hedges, net of taxation – – – – – 3.9 – – 3.9 3.9 in equity Total comprehensive income Contributions by and distributions to equity for the year – – – – 12.5 3.9 – 341.4 357.8 357.8 holders of the Company Issue of shares pursuant to share plans 10.9 – (10.6) – – – (10.6) 0.3 Transactions with equity Share-based payment expenses – – 9.5 – – – 9.5 9.5 holders of the Company, recognised directly Dividends paid (Note 29) – – – – – (345.9) (345.9) (345.9) in equity Total transactions with equity holders Contributions by and of the Company 10.9 – (1.1) – – (345.9) (347.0) (336.1) distributions to equity holders of the Company At 31 December 2015 293.5 (276.3) 12.3 0.5 1.3 156.3 (105.9) 187.6 Treasury shares purchased by the Company – (12.3) – – – – – – (12.3) (12.3) Issue of shares pursuant to share plans 6.2 – – (6.2) – – – – (6.2) – Share-based Financials payment expenses – – – 7.2 – – – – 7.2 7.2 Tax impact on transfer of treasury shares – – – 0.8 – – – – 0.8 0.8 Dividends paid (Note 29) – – – – – – – (346.2) (346.2) (346.2) Total transactions with equity holders of the Company 6.2 (12.3) – 1.8 – – – (346.2) (356.7) (350.5) At 31 December 2016 299.7 (12.3) (276.3) 14.1 12.5 4.4 1.3 151.5 (104.8) 194.9 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements. The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements. 152 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 153 Statements of Changes in Equity Year ended 31 December 2016 Merger/ Share-based Merger/ Share-based Share capital payments Hedging Retained Total Total Share Treasury capital payments Fair value Hedging Retained Total Total capital reserve reserve reserve profits reserves equity capital shares reserve reserve reserve reserve profits reserves equity Company $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Company $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 January 2015 282.6 276.5 13.4 (1.4) 823.2 1,111.7 1,394.3 At 1 January 2016 293.5 – 276.5 12.3 – 0.5 992.2 1,281.5 1,575.0 Total comprehensive income for the year Total comprehensive income for the year Profit for the year – – – – 514.9 514.9 514.9 Profit for the year – – – – – – 497.1 497.1 497.1 Other comprehensive income Other comprehensive income Effective portion of changes in fair value Net change in fair value of of cash flow hedges, net of taxation – – – 1.9 – 1.9 1.9 available-for-sale financial assets – – – – 12.5 – – 12.5 12.5 Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 1.9 514.9 516.8 516.8 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges, net of taxation – – – – – (0.5) – (0.5) (0.5) Transactions with equity holders of the Company, Total comprehensive income recognised directly in equity for the year – – – – 12.5 (0.5) 497.1 509.1 509.1 Contributions by and distributions to equity holders of the Company Transactions with equity holders of the Issue of shares pursuant to share plans 10.9 – (10.6) – – (10.6) 0.3 Company, recognised directly Share-based payment expenses – – 9.5 – – 9.5 9.5 in equity Dividends paid (Note 29) – – – – (345.9) (345.9) (345.9) Contributions by and distributions Total transactions with equity holders of the Company 10.9 – (1.1) – (345.9) (347.0) (336.1) to equity holders of the Company Treasury shares purchased by the Company – (12.3) – – – – – (12.3) (12.3) At 31 December 2015 293.5 276.5 12.3 0.5 992.2 1,281.5 1,575.0 Issue of shares pursuant to share plans 6.2 – – (6.2) – – – (6.2) – Share-based payment expenses – – – 7.2 – – – 7.2 7.2 Tax impact on transfer of treasury shares – – – 0.8 – – – 0.8 0.8 Dividends paid (Note 29) – – – – – – (346.2) (346.2) (346.2) Total transactions with equity holders of the Company 6.2 (12.3) – 1.8 – – (346.2) (356.7) (350.5) At 31 December 2016 299.7 (12.3) 276.5 14.1 12.5 – 1,143.1 1,433.9 1,733.6 Financials The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements. The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements. 154 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 155 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2016 Year ended 31 December 2016 2016 2015 These notes form an integral part of the financial statements. $m $m The financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors of StarHub Ltd on Operating activities 3 February 2017. Profit before taxation 410.3 440.2 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation, net of asset grants 265.0 271.4 1 Domicile and Activities Income related grants (32.0) (45.4) StarHub Ltd (“StarHub” or the “Company”) is incorporated in the Republic of Singapore and has its registered office at 67 Ubi Avenue 1, #05-01 StarHub Green, Singapore 408942. Share-based payments 7.2 9.5 Changes in fair value of financial instruments 1.2 (1.0) The principal activities of the Company are those relating to the operation and provision of telecommunications services Net finance costs 22.7 15.8 and other businesses relating to the info-communications industry. The principal activities of the subsidiaries are set out in Non-operating income (9.5) (15.0) Note 6 to the financial statements. Share of loss of associate, net of tax 1.6 0.3 Others 1.6 (1.9) The consolidated financial statements relate to the Company and its subsidiaries (together the “Group” and individually as 668.1 673.9 “Group entities”), and the Group’s interest in its equity-accounted investee. Changes in: Inventories 4.7 (11.9) 2 Basis of Preparation Trade receivables (18.9) 7.6 Other receivables, deposits and prepayments (19.3) (2.9) 2.1 Statement of compliance Trade and other payables 19.9 (55.8) The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the Singapore Financial Reporting Standards (“FRS”). Amounts due from related parties 5.3 (8.9) Amounts due to related parties (55.4) 35.2 2.2 Basis of measurement Cash generated from operations 604.4 637.2 The financial statements are prepared on a historical cost basis except for certain financial assets and liabilities which are Income tax paid (53.7) (92.7) measured at fair value as disclosed in the accounting policies below. Net cash from operating activities 550.7 544.5 2.3 Functional and presentation currency Investing activities The financial statements are presented in Singapore dollars, which is the Company’s functional currency. All financial Interest received 3.3 2.0 information presented in Singapore dollars has been rounded to the nearest million, unless otherwise stated. Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 0.8 1.6 Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (366.7) (328.8) 2.4 Significant accounting estimates and judgements Purchase of available-for-sale financial assets (18.0) – The preparation of financial statements in conformity with FRSs requires management to make judgements in the Financials (Loan to)/Repayment of loan from an associate (8.7) 36.9 application of accounting policies. It also requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Investment in an associate – (12.0) financial statements, and the reported income and expenses during the financial year. These estimates are based on Net cash used in investing activities (389.3) (300.3) management’s best knowledge and judgement of current events and environment. Actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates. Financing activities Proceeds from exercise of share options – 0.3 Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are Treasury shares purchased by the Company (12.3) – recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected. Grants received 34.0 30.0 Proceeds from issue of medium term notes 300.0 – Dividends paid (346.2) (345.9) Interest paid (25.1) (19.7) Net cash used in financing activities (49.6) (335.3) Net change in cash and cash equivalents 111.8 (91.1) Exchange difference on cash and cash equivalents – 0.3 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 173.4 264.2 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year (Note 13) 285.2 173.4 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements. 156 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 157 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2016 2 Basis of Preparation (continued) 2 Basis of Preparation (continued) 2.4 Significant accounting estimates and judgements (continued) 2.5 Adoption of new and revised standards In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in Note 3, management is of the opinion that In the current financial year, the Group has adopted all the new and revised FRSs and Interpretations of FRSs (“INT FRSs”) there is no instance of application of judgement which is expected to have a significant effect on the amounts recognised that are relevant to its operations and effective for annual periods beginning on 1 January 2016. The adoption of these in the financial statements, apart from those involving estimations described below. new/revised FRSs and INT FRSs does not result in substantial changes to the Group’s accounting policies and has no material effect on the amounts reported for the current or prior years. The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next 2.6 New accounting standards and interpretations not yet adopted financial year are: A number of new standards and amendments to standards are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 2016 and earlier application is permitted; however, the Group has not early applied the following new or amended standards in • Measurement of recoverable amounts relating to goodwill impairment preparing these statements.  The carrying value of the Group’s goodwill is assessed for impairment annually or more frequently if there are For those new standards and amendments to standards that are expected to have an effect on the financial statements of indications that the goodwill might be impaired. The impairment assessment requires an estimation of the value-inthe Group and the Company in future financial periods, the Group has set up project teams to assess the transition options use of the cash generating unit (“CGU”) to which the goodwill is allocated. and the potential impact on its financial statements, and to implement these standards. The Group does not plan to adopt these standards early.  Assessing the value-in-use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the CGU and apply an appropriate discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows. Actual cash flows will differ from these estimates as a result of differences between assumptions used and actual operations Applicable to 2018 financial statements (see Note 5). New standards • Measurement of impairment losses on investments in subsidiaries and recoverable amounts of loan receivables to Summary of the requirements Potential impact on the financial statements subsidiaries Convergence with International Financial  The carrying values of investments in subsidiaries are reviewed for impairment whenever there is any indication that Reporting Standards (IFRS) the investment is impaired. This determination requires significant judgement. As the Group’s fixed, mobile, cable and broadband operations are integrated and generate interdependent cash flows, the assessment is performed on The Accounting Standards Council (ASC) The Group has performed a preliminary assessment of the the same CGU determined for purposes of assessment of impairment of goodwill (see Note 5). announced on 29 May 2014 that Singaporeimpact of SG-IFRS 1 First-time adoption of International incorporated companies listed on the Singapore Financial Reporting Standards for the transition to the new • Measurement of recoverable amounts of trade receivables Exchange (SGX) will apply a new financial reporting reporting framework. Based on the Group’s preliminary framework identical to the International Financial assessment, the Group expects that the impact on adoption  The Group evaluates whether there is any objective evidence that trade receivables are impaired, and determine Reporting Standards (referred to as SG-IFRS in these of SG-IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and the amount of impairment loss as a result of the inability of the debtors to make the required payments. The Group financial statements) for the financial year ending SG-IFRS 9 Financial Instruments will be similar to adopting Financials bases the estimates on the ageing of the trade receivables balance, credit worthiness of the debtors and historical 31 December 2018 onwards. FRS 115 and FRS 109 as described in this Note. write-off experience. The Group has a policy to provide allowance for trade receivables on specific individual balances and on its receivables portfolio collectively. If financial conditions of the debtors were to deteriorate, Other than arising from the adoption of new and revised actual write-offs would be higher than that estimated. standards, the Group does not expect to change its existing accounting policies on adoption of the new framework. • Adequacy of accruals The Group is currently performing a detailed analysis of the  Assessing the adequacy of accruals made at the reporting date requires the Group to make judgements in available policy choices, transitional optional exemptions and determining the level of accruals needed for costs that span the year end where settlement has not been fully transitional mandatory exceptions under SG-IFRS 1 and the and finally made. Due to the complexities in the telecommunication industry, agreement on amounts payable to preliminary assessment may be subject to changes arising from suppliers may take a significant amount of time. The Group determines the sufficiency of these accruals based on the detailed analyses. historical trend of observable claims and actual costs. Actual payments may differ from these estimates when the final settlements are reached between the parties. 158 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 159 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2016 2 Basis of Preparation (continued) 2 Basis of Preparation (continued) 2.6 New accounting standards and interpretations not yet adopted (continued) 2.6 New accounting standards and interpretations not yet adopted (continued) Applicable to 2018 financial statements (continued) Applicable to 2018 financial statements (continued) New standards New standards Summary of the requirements Potential impact on the financial statements Summary of the requirements Potential impact on the financial statements FRS 115 Revenue from Contracts with Customers FRS 109 Financial Instruments FRS 115 establishes a comprehensive framework During 2016, the Group performed an initial assessment of the FRS 109 replaces most of the existing guidance During 2016, the Group completed its initial assessment of the for determining whether, how much and when impact on the Group’s financial statements. in FRS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and impact on the Group’s financial statements. revenue is recognised. It also introduces new cost Measurement. It includes revised guidance on guidance which requires certain costs of obtaining Based on its initial assessment, the Group expects the following the classification and measurement of financial The Group’s initial assessment of the three elements of FRS 109 and fulfilling contracts to be recognised as separate key changes: instruments, a new expected credit loss model for is as described below. assets when specified criteria are met. calculating impairment on financial assets, and new FRS 115 will require the Group to identify deliverables in general hedge accounting requirements. It also Classification and measurement – The Group does not expect When effective, FRS 115 replaces existing revenue contracts with customers that qualify as performance carries forward the guidance on recognition and a significant change to the measurement basis arising from recognition guidance, including FRS 18 Revenue, obligations taking into consideration the estimated value of derecognition of financial instruments from FRS 39. adopting the new classification and measurement model under FRS 11 Construction Contracts, INT FRS 113 material rights and variable considerations offered. FRS 109. Customer Loyalty Programmes, INT FRS 115 FRS 109 is effective for annual periods beginning Agreement for the Construction of Real Estate, Currently, revenue from bundled products and services are on or after 1 January 2018, with early adoption Loans and receivables that are currently accounted for at INT FRS 118 Transfers of Assets from Customers and recognised based on values allocated to the individual elements permitted. Retrospective application is generally amortised cost will continue to be accounted for using INT FRS 31 Revenue – Barter Transactions Involving of the bundled products and services in accordance to the required, except for hedge accounting. For hedge amortised cost model under FRS 109. Advertising Services. earning process of each element. Under FRS 115, revenue accounting, the requirements are generally applied will be allocated to these individual elements within bundled prospectively, with some limited exceptions. For financial assets currently held at fair value, the Group FRS 115 is effective for annual periods beginning products and services based on their relative stand-alone Restatement of comparative information is not expects to continue measuring most of these assets at fair value on or after 1 January 2018, with early adoption selling prices. mandatory. If comparative information is not under FRS 109. The expected classification and measurement of permitted. FRS 115 offers a range of transition restated, the cumulative effect is recorded in these financial assets under FRS 109 is summarised below: options including full retrospective adoption where The Group expects an increase in the revenue allocated to opening equity as at 1 January 2018. an entity can choose to apply the standard to its sales of equipment and a corresponding reduction in the Available-for-sale equity securities are held as long-term historical transactions and retrospectively adjust revenue allocated to services under FRS 115. In addition, the investments. For these, the Group expects to elect to present Financials each comparative period presented in its 2018 Group expects to defer the recognition of the cost of acquiring subsequent changes in fair value in other comprehensive financial statements. When applying the customers over the contract duration. income. Under FRS 109, only dividend income is recognised full retrospective method, an entity may also in the income statement. Any subsequent fair value changes elect to use a series of practical expedients to Transition – The Group intends to adopt the standard when it are recognised in other comprehensive income and will not be ease transition. becomes effective in 2018 using the full retrospective approach. reclassified to the income statement even upon divestment. The Group intends to elect all the practical expedients under FRS 115 and is currently performing the detailed analysis to Impairment – The Group intends to adopt the simplified quantify the transition adjustments on its financial statements. approach and is currently assessing the impact of impairment loss allowance under the new standard. Hedge accounting – The Group intends to adopt the general hedge accounting model under the new standards, using prospective application of hedge accounting requirements in the standards. The Group is currently assessing the impact of adopting the new standard. Transition – The Group intends to adopt the standard when it becomes effective in 2018 without restating comparative information. The Group is currently gathering data to quantify the potential impact arising from the adoption. 160 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 161 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2016 2 Basis of Preparation (continued) 3 Significant Accounting Policies The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently by the Group to all periods presented in these 2.6 New accounting standards and interpretations not yet adopted (continued) financial statements. Applicable to 2019 financial statements 3.1 Basis of consolidation New standards (i) Subsidiaries Summary of the requirements Potential impact on the financial statements Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the FRS 116 Leases entity. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases. FRS 116 eliminates the lessee’s classification of The Group has performed a preliminary high-level Investments in subsidiaries are stated in the Company’s statement of financial position at cost less impairment losses. leases as either operating leases or finance leases assessment of the new standard on its existing operating Subsidiaries are consolidated with the Company in the Group’s financial statements. and introduces a single lessee accounting model. lease arrangements as a lessee. Based on the preliminary Applying the new model, a lessee is required to assessment, the Group expects these operating leases to be Acquisitions of subsidiaries from related corporations controlled by the ultimate holding company, Temasek Holdings recognise right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease recognised as ROU assets with corresponding lease liabilities (Private) Limited (“Temasek”), are accounted for as reconstructions of businesses under common control using the liabilities for all leases with a term of more than under the new standard. The Group is currently assessing the historical cost method similar to the “pooling of interest” method. 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of quantitative impact on the financial statements. low value. Under the historical cost method, the acquired assets and liabilities were recorded at their existing carrying amounts. The Group plans to adopt the standard when it becomes The consolidated financial statements included the results of operations, and the assets and liabilities, of the pooled FRS 116 substantially carries forward the lessor effective in 2019. The Group will perform a detailed analysis enterprises as part of the Group for the whole of the current and preceding periods. accounting requirements in FRS 17 Leases. of the standard, including the transition options and practical Accordingly, a lessor continues to classify its expedients in 2018. To the extent that the par value of the shares issued in consideration for these transactions exceeded the par value of the leases as operating leases or finance leases, and to shares held by the related corporations, the difference was recognised as a merger reserve in the Group’s account for these two types of leases using the The Group expects that the impact on adoption of IFRS 16 financial statements. FRS 17 operating lease and finance lease Leases to be similar to adopting SG-FRS 116, after the transition accounting models respectively. However, to SG-IFRS in 2018 as described above. FRS 116 requires more extensive disclosures (ii) Loss of control to be provided by a lessor. When control over a subsidiary is lost as a result of a transaction, event or other circumstances, the Group derecognises all assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, any non-controlling interest and the other components of equity related to When effective, FRS 116 replaces existing lease the subsidiary. Any surplus or deficit arising on the loss of control is recognised in the income statement. Any remaining accounting guidance, including FRS 17, INT FRS 104 interest in the previous subsidiary is recognised at its fair value at the date that control is lost. Subsequently, it is accounted Determining whether an Arrangement contains a for as an equity-accounted investee or as an available-for-sale financial asset depending on the level of influence retained. Financials Lease; INT FRS 15 Operating Leases—Incentives; and INT FRS 27 Evaluating the Substance of Transactions (iii) Associates Involving the Legal Form of a Lease. Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control or joint control, over the financial and operating policies. Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds 20% or more of the voting power FRS 116 is effective for annual periods beginning of another entity. on or after 1 January 2019, with early adoption permitted if FRS 115 is also applied. Investment in associates is accounted for using the equity method. They are recognised initially at cost, which includes transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, the consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the income statement and other comprehensive income of equity-accounted investees, after adjustments to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity-accounted investee, the carrying amount of the investment, together with any long-term interests that form part thereof is reduced to zero, and the recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation to fund the investee’s operations or has made payments on behalf of the investee. 162 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 163 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2016 3 Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 3 Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 3.1 Basis of consolidation (continued) 3.3 Property, plant and equipment (iv) Transactions eliminated on consolidation (i) Recognition and measurement Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. The cost of self-constructed assets Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity-accounted investees are eliminated against the investment to the include the cost of materials and direct labour, any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to a working extent of the Group’s interest in the investee. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only condition for their intended use, and when the Group has an obligation to remove the asset or restore the site, an estimate to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment. of the costs of dismantling and removing the assets and restoring the site on which they are located and capitalised borrowing costs. 3.2 Foreign currencies Gains or losses arising from the retirement or disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined as the difference (i) Foreign currencies transactions between the estimated net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the income Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated to the functional statement on the date of retirement or disposal. currency at the exchange rate at that date. The foreign currency gain or loss on monetary items is the difference between amortised cost in the functional currency at the beginning of the year, adjusted for effective interest and payments during (ii) Subsequent costs the year, and the amortised cost in foreign currency translated at the exchange rate at the end of the year. Subsequent expenditure relating to existing property, plant and equipment is added to the carrying amount of the asset when it is probable that future economic benefits, in excess of the originally assessed standard of performance Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at fair value are translated to the of the existing asset, will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced functional currency at the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined. Non-monetary items in a foreign component is derecognised. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in the currency that are measured in terms of historical cost are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. income statement as incurred. Foreign currency differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement, except for the following differences which are recognised in other comprehensive income arising on the translation of: (iii) Depreciation • available-for-sale equity instruments (except on impairment in which case foreign currency differences that have Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives (or lease term, if shorter) of each part of an been recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement); or item of property, plant and equipment as follows: • qualifying cash flow hedges to the extent the hedge is effective. Leasehold buildings 30 years to 42 years Leasehold improvements Shorter of lease term or 5 years (ii) Foreign operations Network equipment 2 years to 15 years The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated to Singapore dollars at exchange rates at the reporting date. Office equipment, computers and furniture and fittings 2 years to 5 years The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated to Singapore dollars at average rates during the year. Motor vehicles 5 years Financials Foreign currency translation differences are recognised in other comprehensive income, and presented in the foreign Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed, and adjusted as appropriate, at the end of each currency translation reserve in equity. However, if the foreign operation is a non-wholly-owned subsidiary, then the reporting date. relevant proportionate share of the translation difference is allocated to the non-controlling interests. When a foreign subsidiary is disposed of such that control is lost, the cumulative amount in the foreign currency translation reserve related No depreciation is provided on freehold property or in respect of property, plant and equipment under construction. to that foreign subsidiary is transferred to the income statement as an adjustment to profit or loss arising on disposal. When the Group disposes of only part of its interest in a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation while retaining control, the relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is reattributed to non-controlling interests. 3.4 Intangible assets (i) Goodwill Goodwill that arises upon the acquisition of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of associates is presented together with investments in associates. Acquisitions prior to 1 January 2010 Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 January 2010 represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree. 164 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 165 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2016 3 Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 3 Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 3.4 Intangible assets (continued) 3.5 Inventories Inventories comprise goods held for resale and reserved telephone numbers. Inventories are valued at the lower of (i) Goodwill (continued) cost and net realisable value. The cost of goods held for resale is determined on the weighted average basis. Reserved telephone numbers are stated at cost and accounted for using the specific identification basis. Acquisition on or after 1 January 2010 For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. Allowance for obsolescence is made for all deteriorated, damaged, obsolete and slow-moving inventories. • the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus • the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; plus • if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the pre-existing equity interest in the acquiree, 3.6 Financial instruments (i) Non-derivative financial instruments over the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Any Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity securities, trade and other receivables (including goodwill that arises is tested annually for impairment. amounts due from related parties), cash and bank balances, trade and other payables (including amounts due to related parties), and borrowings. When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in the income statement. Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, deposits with financial institutions with maturities of three months Goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis as or less, and bank overdrafts. For the purpose of presentation in the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash described in Note 3.7(ii). equivalents are presented net of bank overdrafts which are repayable on demand and which form an integral part of the Group’s cash management. Goodwill arising on acquisitions of subsidiaries that occurred prior to 1 January 2001 was written off against reserves in the year of acquisition and has not been retrospectively capitalised and amortised. A financial instrument is recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial assets are derecognised when the Group’s contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial assets expire Goodwill that has previously been taken to the reserves is not taken to the income statement when the business is or if the Group transfers the financial asset to another party without retaining control or transfers substantially all the risks disposed of or the goodwill is impaired. Similarly, negative goodwill that has previously been taken to reserves is not taken and rewards of ownership of the asset. On disposal of a financial asset, the difference between the sale proceeds and to the income statement when the business is disposed. the carrying amount is recognised in the income statement. Any amount in the fair value reserve relating to that asset is reclassified to the income statement. Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are accounted for at trade date, In respect of associates, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment, and an i.e. the date that the Group commits itself to purchase or sell the asset. impairment loss on such an investment is not allocated to any asset, including goodwill, that forms part of the carrying amount of the associates. Financial liabilities are derecognised if the Group’s obligations specified in the contract expire or are discharged or cancelled. (ii) Telecommunications and spectrum licences Telecommunications and spectrum licences costs incurred are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the statement of financial position when, and Financials accumulated impairment losses. These costs are amortised to the income statement using the straight-line method over only when, the Group has a legal right to offset the amounts and intends either to settle on a net basis or to realise the the period of the licence, being 10 years to 21 years, commencing from the effective date of the licence. asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value plus, for instruments not at fair value through (iii) Computer software profit or loss, any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, non-derivative financial Computer software comprises software purchased from third parties, and also the cost of internally developed software. instruments are measured as described below: Computer software is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. These costs are amortised to the income statement using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives of 2 years to 5 years. Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is added to the carrying value only when it increases the future market. Such assets are initially measured at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates. All other expenditure is recognised in the income initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any statement as incurred. impairment losses. Computer software integral to a related item of equipment is accounted for as property, plant and equipment. Loans and receivables comprise cash and cash equivalents, and trade and other receivables (including amounts due from related parties). Amortisation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted if appropriate. 166 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 167 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2016 3 Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 3 Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 3.6 Financial instruments (continued) 3.6 Financial instruments (continued) (i) Non-derivative financial instruments (continued) (iii) Derivative financial instruments, including hedge accounting Available-for-sale financial assets The Group uses interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge its exposure to interest rate risks and Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are designated as available for sale or are not foreign exchange risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities. In accordance with its treasury policy, classified in any of the above categories of financial assets. Available-for-sale financial assets are initially measured at fair the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. value (normally the transaction price) plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial When the fair value at initial recognition differs from the transaction price, for fair value evidenced by a quoted price instruments are remeasured at fair value prevailing at reporting date. The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is in an active market, the difference will be recognised as a gain or loss in the income statement. For all other cases, the recognised immediately in the income statement. However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of difference would be recognised to other comprehensive income. any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged as described in below. Subsequent to initial recognition, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value and changes therein are The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the fair value reserve in equity. When an investment is the reporting date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties. derecognised, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is reclassified to the income statement. The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the reporting date, being the present value of the quoted forward price. Available-for-sale financial assets comprise equity securities. Cash flow hedges Trade and other payables Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset Trade and other payables (including amounts due to related parties) are carried at amortised cost using the effective or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial interest method. instrument is recognised directly in other comprehensive income and presented in the hedging reserve in equity. Borrowings When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, Borrowings are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Any difference between the proceeds (net of or the forecast transaction for a non-financial asset or non-financial liability becomes a firm commitment for which fair transactions costs) and the settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised in the income statement over the period value hedge accounting is applied, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from other comprehensive income of the borrowings. and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability. If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or financial liability, the associated gains and losses that were recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified into the income statement in the same period or (ii) Share capital periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects the income statement. Ordinary Shares Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issuance of new equity shares are For other cash flow hedges, the associated cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in other comprehensive income recognised as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects. is removed and recognised in the income statement in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the income statement. The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the Financials Repurchase, disposal and reissue of share capital (treasury shares) income statement. Where share capital recognised as equity is repurchased and held as treasury shares, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, net of any tax effects, is presented as a deduction from equity. Where such shares are When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge subsequently reissued, sold or cancelled, the consideration received is recognised as a change in equity. No gain or loss is relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains recognised in the income statement. in other comprehensive income and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised immediately in the income statement. Other non-trading derivatives When a derivative financial instrument is not designated in a hedge relationship that qualifies for hedge accounting, all changes in its fair value are recognised immediately in the income statement. 168 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 169 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2016 3 Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 3 Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 3.7 Impairment 3.7 Impairment (continued) (i) Non-derivative financial assets (ii) Non-financial assets A financial asset not carried at fair value through profit or loss, including an interest in an associate, is assessed at the end The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at of each reporting period to determine whether there is objective evidence that it is impaired. A financial asset is impaired if each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s objective evidence indicates that a loss event has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset, and that the loss event recoverable amount is estimated. For goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and intangible assets not yet has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of that asset that can be estimated reliably. available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated each year at the same time. An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its related cash generating unit (“CGU”) exceeds its estimated recoverable amounts. Loans and receivables Objective evidence that financial assets (including equity securities) are impaired can include default or delinquency The recoverable amount of an asset or its CGU is the greater of its value-in-use and its fair value less costs to sell. In by a debtor, restructuring of an amount due to the Group on terms that the Group would not consider otherwise, assessing value-in-use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate indications that a debtor or issuer will enter bankruptcy, adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers or issuers, that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or CGU. economic conditions that correlate with defaults or the disappearance of an active market for a security. In addition, for an investment in an equity security, a significant or prolonged decline in its fair value below its cost is objective evidence of For an asset that does not generate cash inflows largely independent of those from other assets, the recoverable amount impairment. is determined for the CGU to which the asset belongs. For the purpose of goodwill impairment testing, CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are aggregated so that the level at which impairment testing is performed reflects the lowest The Group considers evidence of impairment for loans and receivables at both specific asset and collective level. All level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal reporting purposes. individually significant loans and receivables are assessed for specific impairment. All individually significant receivables found not to be specifically impaired are then collectively assessed for any impairment that has been incurred but not yet Impairment losses recognised in the income statement in respect of CGU are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount identified. Loans and receivables that are not individually significant are collectively assessed for impairment by grouping of any goodwill allocated to the CGU (group of units) and then, to reduce the carrying amount of other assets in the CGU together loans and receivables with similar risk characteristics. (group of units) on a pro rata basis. In assessing collective impairment, the Group uses historical write-off patterns and ageing of receivables. Bad debts are An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in written off when incurred. prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An Available-for-sale financial assets impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that Impairment losses on available-for-sale financial assets are recognised by reclassifying the losses accumulated in the fair would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. All reversals value reserve in equity to the income statement. An impairment loss in respect of on the cumulative loss that is reclassified of impairment are recognised in the income statement. from equity to the income statement is the difference between the acquisition cost, and the current fair value, less any impairment loss recognised previously in the income statement. Any subsequent recovery in the fair value of an impaired Goodwill that forms part of the carrying amount of an investment in an associate is not recognised separately, and available-for-sale equity security is recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the fair value reserve therefore is not tested for impairment separately. Instead, the entire amount of the investment in an associate is tested for in equity. impairment as a single asset when there is objective evidence that the investment in an associate may be impaired. Financials Associates 3.8 Employee benefits An impairment loss in respect of an associate is measured by comparing the recoverable amount of the investment with its carrying amount in accordance with Note 3.7(ii). An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement. An impairment (i) Share-based payment loss is reversed if there has been a favourable change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. Share Option Plans The Share Option Plans allow the Group employees and directors to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees and directors become unconditionally entitled to the options. At each reporting date, the Company revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable. It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates in employee expense and in a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period. The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital when the options are exercised. Performance Share Plans and Restricted Stock Plans The Performance Share Plans and the Restricted Stock Plans are accounted as equity-settled share-based payments. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The share-based expense is amortised and recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period. At each reporting date, the Company revises its estimates of the number of shares that the participating employees and directors are expected to receive based on non-market vesting conditions. The difference is charged or credited to the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. 170 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 171 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2016 3 Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 3 Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 3.8 Employee benefits (continued) 3.11 Revenue recognition Revenue comprises fees earned from telecommunications services, broadband access, Pay TV, related advertising space (ii) Defined contribution plans and sales of equipment. Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement when incurred. Group and the revenue can be reliably measured. Revenue is recognised in the income statement as follows: (iii) Other short-term benefits • Revenue from telecommunications, broadband and cable television services and advertising space is recognised Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service at the time such services are rendered. Revenue billed in advance of the rendering of services is deferred and is provided. presented in the statement of financial position as unearned revenue. • Revenue from managed services is recognised at the time such services are rendered. (iv) Other long-term benefits Long-term employee benefit obligations are measured on performance conditions over a period of three years. • Revenue from sales of pre-paid phone cards for which services have not been rendered is deferred and presented in the statement of financial position as unearned revenue. Upon the expiry of pre-paid phone cards, any unutilised The Group adopts an incentive compensation plan, which is tied to the creation of Economic Value Added (“EVA”) for its value of the cards is taken to the income statement. management personnel executives. An EVA bank is used to hold incentive compensation credited in any year. Typically one-third of the accumulated EVA-based bonus, comprising the EVA declared in the financial year and the balance of such • Revenue from sales of equipment is recognised upon delivery and acceptance of the equipment sold. bonus brought forward from preceding years is paid out in cash each year, with the balance being carried forward to the following year. The balances of the EVA bank in future will be adjusted by the yearly EVA performance of the Group and • Revenue from bundled products and services is recognised based on values allocated to the individual elements of the payouts made from the EVA bank. the bundled products and services in accordance to the earning process of each element. 3.9 Customer loyalty programmes 3.12 Finance income and costs For customer loyalty programmes, the fair value of the consideration received or receivable from a sales transaction which Finance income comprises interest income on bank deposits. Interest income is recognised on a time-apportioned basis attracts customer loyalty credits or points is allocated between the customer loyalty points and the other component of taking into account the principal outstanding at the applicable rate. the sale. The amount allocated to the customer loyalty points is estimated by reference to the fair value of the customer loyalty points for which they could be redeemed. The fair value of the customer loyalty points is estimated by taking Finance costs comprise interest expense and similar charges. They are recognised in the income statement using the into account the expected redemption rate and the timing of such expected redemptions. Such amount is deferred and effective interest method, except to the extent that they are capitalised as being directly attributable to the acquisition, recorded as unearned revenue until the customer loyalty points are redeemed. At this juncture, the cost of fulfilling the construction or production of an asset which necessarily takes a substantial period of time to prepare for its intended use customer loyalty credits is also recognised. or sale. 3.10 Provisions 3.13 Government grants Provisions are recognised in the statement of financial position when the Group has a present legal or constructive Government grants received, which are designated for the purchase of property, plant and equipment, are accreted to the obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle Financials income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the related assets, so as to match the related the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of obligation. If the effect is material, provisions depreciation expense. are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. Government grants received, which are designated for operating expenditure, are recognised on a systematic basis in the income statement over the periods necessary to match the related cost which they are intended to compensate. 3.14 Marketing and promotions Advertising costs are expensed when incurred. The direct costs of acquiring customers, including commission and promotion expenses, are recognised in the income statement when incurred. 3.15 Operating leases Where the Group has the use of assets under operating leases, payments made under the leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the terms of the lease. Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease payments made. Contingent rentals are charged to the income statement in the accounting period in which they are incurred. 172 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 173 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2016 3 Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 4 Property, Plant and Equipment 3.16 Income taxes Office Income taxes comprise current tax and deferred tax. Income taxes are recognised in the income statement except to equipment, the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case such tax is recognised in equity, or in other computers comprehensive income. Leasehold Leasehold Leasehold Freehold Network and furniture Motor Construction land buildings improvements property equipment and fittings vehicles in progress Total Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively Group $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. Cost Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences at the balance sheet date arising between the tax bases of At 1 January 2015 34.3 9.1 49.2 1.7 3,209.2 160.3 6.6 89.9 3,560.3 assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. Additions – – – – 4.2 19.3 0.4 228.6 252.5 Transfers – 0.1 1.8 – 236.5 – – (238.4) – Deferred tax is provided based on the expected realisation or settlement of the temporary differences, using tax rates Disposals/Write-offs – – (2.8) – (103.2) (8.5) (0.5) – (115.0) enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. Disposal of subsidiary (34.3) – – – – – – (19.6) (53.9) At 31 December 2015 – 9.2 48.2 1.7 3,346.7 171.1 6.5 60.5 3,643.9 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised for: At 1 January 2016 – 9.2 48.2 1.7 3,346.7 171.1 6.5 60.5 3,643.9 • temporary differences on the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss; Additions – – – – 6.8 16.4 0.7 231.6 255.5 • temporary differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and associate to the extent that the Group is able to Transfers – – 1.3 – 234.4 – – (235.7) – control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that they will not reverse in the Disposals/Write-offs – – (3.2) – (117.0) (10.9) (0.3) – (131.4) foreseeable future; and At 31 December 2016 – 9.2 46.3 1.7 3,470.9 176.6 6.9 56.4 3,768.0 • taxable temporary differences on the initial recognition of goodwill. Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against At 1 January 2015 1.0 1.7 45.7 – 2,459.8 135.4 5.6 – 2,649.2 which the temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced Charge for the year 0.3 0.3 1.8 – 203.2 13.7 0.5 – 219.8 to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised. Impairment losses – – – – 0.6 – – – 0.6 Disposals/Write-offs – – (2.8) – (102.7) (8.4) (0.5) – (114.4) 3.17 Dividends Disposal of subsidiary (1.3) – – – – – – – (1.3) Interim dividends to the Company’s shareholders are recognised in the financial year in which they are declared payable. At 31 December 2015 – 2.0 44.7 – 2,560.9 140.7 5.6 – 2,753.9 Final dividends to the Company’s shareholders are recognised in the financial year in which the dividends are approved by the shareholders. At 1 January 2016 – 2.0 44.7 – 2,560.9 140.7 5.6 – 2,753.9 Financials Charge for the year – 0.3 1.5 – 209.9 13.9 0.4 – 226.0 3.18 Segment reporting Disposals/Write-offs – – (2.3) – (116.5) (10.8) (0.3) – (129.9) Segment information is presented based on the information reviewed by chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) for performance assessment and resource allocation. At 31 December 2016 – 2.3 43.9 – 2,654.3 143.8 5.7 – 2,850.0 The Group operates primarily in Singapore and delivers its Mobile, Pay TV, Broadband, Enterprise Fixed revenue and Carrying amount equipment sales on an operationally integrated network, and has a centralised customer service, sales, marketing and At 31 December 2015 – 7.2 3.5 1.7 785.8 30.4 0.9 60.5 890.0 administration support. Based on the financial information regularly reviewed by the CODM, the Group has one operating At 31 December 2016 – 6.9 2.4 1.7 816.6 32.8 1.2 56.4 918.0 and reporting segment. Staff costs capitalised in construction in progress for the Group during the year amounted to $3.4 million (2015: $3.3 million). 174 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 175 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2016 4 Property, Plant and Equipment (continued) 5 Intangible Assets Office Telecommunications equipment, and spectrum Software in computers licences Software development Goodwill Total Leasehold Leasehold Network and furniture Motor Construction Group $m $m $m $m $m buildings improvements equipment and fittings vehicles in progress Total Company $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Cost At 1 January 2015 156.8 489.9 12.6 220.3 879.6 Cost Additions – 0.2 36.3 – 36.5 At 1 January 2015 9.1 40.9 1,236.7 113.9 2.1 48.9 1,451.6 Transfers – 32.2 (32.2) – – Additions – – – 10.1 0.1 86.7 96.9 Disposals/Write-offs (1.0) (4.2) – – (5.2) Transfers 0.1 1.7 92.4 – – (94.2) – At 31 December 2015 155.8 518.1 16.7 220.3 910.9 Disposals/Write-offs – (2.8) (3.4) (7.7) (0.2) – (14.1) At 31 December 2015 9.2 39.8 1,325.7 116.3 2.0 41.4 1,534.4 At 1 January 2016 155.8 518.1 16.7 220.3 910.9 Additions 80.3 0.3 35.1 – 115.7 At 1 January 2016 9.2 39.8 1,325.7 116.3 2.0 41.4 1,534.4 Transfers – 34.9 (34.9) – – Additions – – – 12.5 – 100.1 112.6 Disposals/Write-offs – (3.6) – – (3.6) Transfers – 1.3 117.9 – – (119.2) – At 31 December 2016 236.1 549.7 16.9 220.3 1,023.0 Disposals/Write-offs – (3.2) (24.2) (2.0) – – (29.4) At 31 December 2016 9.2 37.9 1,419.4 126.8 2.0 22.3 1,617.6 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2015 72.0 403.1 – – 475.1 Accumulated depreciation Charge for the year 7.8 44.8 – – 52.6 At 1 January 2015 1.7 38.8 909.3 99.6 1.7 – 1,051.1 Disposals/Write-offs (1.0) (3.9) – – (4.9) Charge for the year 0.3 1.0 76.1 7.9 0.2 – 85.5 At 31 December 2015 78.8 444.0 – – 522.8 Disposals/Write-offs – (2.8) (3.0) (7.6) (0.2) – (13.6) At 31 December 2015 2.0 37.0 982.4 99.9 1.7 – 1,123.0 At 1 January 2016 78.8 444.0 – – 522.8 Charge for the year 9.1 30.9 – – 40.0 At 1 January 2016 2.0 37.0 982.4 99.9 1.7 – 1,123.0 Disposals/Write-offs – (3.6) – – (3.6) Charge for the year 0.3 1.1 81.8 8.4 0.1 – 91.7 At 31 December 2016 87.9 471.3 – – 559.2 Disposals/Write-offs – (2.3) (23.8) (2.0) – – (28.1) At 31 December 2016 2.3 35.8 1,040.4 106.3 1.8 – 1,186.6 Financials Carrying amount At 31 December 2015 77.0 74.1 16.7 220.3 388.1 Carrying amount At 31 December 2016 148.2 78.4 16.9 220.3 463.8 At 31 December 2015 7.2 2.8 343.3 16.4 0.3 41.4 411.4 At 31 December 2016 6.9 2.1 379.0 20.5 0.2 22.3 431.0 Impairment testing of goodwill The Group, through its “Hubbing” strategy, operates and delivers its Mobile, Pay TV, Broadband and Enterprise Fixed services on an operationally integrated network, customer service, sales, marketing and administration support. For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the cash generating unit (“CGU”) comprising the Group’s integrated fixed, mobile, cable and broadband operations. This represents the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for impairment for internal management purposes. The recoverable amount of the CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculations. The key assumptions for the valuein-use calculations are the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to profit margins. 176 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 177 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2016 5 Intangible Assets (continued) 6 Subsidiaries Company Impairment testing of goodwill (continued) 2016 2015 The cash flow projections include the financial budget for the Group for the year ending 31 December 2017, which were $m $m approved by the board, and management’s forecast for a further two years ending 31 December 2019. The forecast cash flows of 3 years (2015: 3 years) were extrapolated using an estimated growth rate of 1.1% (2015: 3.8%), taking into Investments in subsidiaries, at cost 1,209.1 1,209.1 consideration the competitive pressures on EBITDA margins. The pre-tax discount rate applied to cash flow projections is Loans to subsidiaries 1,270.7 556.0 at 6.6% (2015: 6.3%) and the forecast long-term growth rate used to extrapolate the cash flow projections beyond the third Discount implicit in the interest-free loan to a subsidiary 21.9 21.9 year is Nil (2015: Nil). 2,501.7 1,787.0 Allowance for impairment losses (28.9) (28.9) No impairment charge was required for the carrying amount of goodwill assessed as at 31 December 2016 and 2,472.8 1,758.1 31 December 2015 as the recoverable value was in excess of the carrying value. A reasonable change to the key assumptions applied was not likely to cause the recoverable value to be below the carrying value. At 31 December 2016, the loans to the subsidiaries are unsecured, not repayable within the next 12 months and bore interest ranging from 2.86% to 3.04% (2015: 2.72% to 3.48%) per annum. Telecommunications Software in licences Software development Total During the year, loans to subsidiaries of $714.7 million (2015: $66.0 million) were reclassified from amounts due from Company $m $m $m $m related parties to form part of the Company’s interest in subsidiaries. Cost At 1 January 2015 1.0 418.0 10.5 429.5 Country of incorporation/ Effective equity Additions – – 28.4 28.4 Name of company Principal activities business interest held by the Group Transfers – 24.4 (24.4) – 2016 2015 Disposals (1.0) – – (1.0) % % At 31 December 2015 – 442.4 14.5 456.9 The subsidiaries directly held by the Company are as follows: At 1 January 2016 – 442.4 14.5 456.9 StarHub Cable Vision Ltd. (1) Provision of subscription television and Singapore 100 100 Additions 0.3 – 31.0 31.3 television broadcasting services Transfers – 30.7 (30.7) – StarHub Mobile Pte Ltd (1) Provision of mobile telecommunications Singapore 100 100 Disposals – (0.1) – (0.1) services At 31 December 2016 0.3 473.0 14.8 488.1 StarHub Internet Pte Ltd (1) Provision and operation of internet services Singapore 100 100 Accumulated amortisation StarHub Online Pte Ltd (1) Provision of broadband access services Singapore 100 100 At 1 January 2015 0.9 349.3 – 350.2 Financials Charge for the year 0.1 37.0 – 37.1 Nucleus Connect Pte. Ltd. (1) Provision of high speed wholesale Singapore 100 100 Disposals (1.0) – – (1.0) broadband services At 31 December 2015 – 386.3 – 386.3 StarHub (Mauritius) Ltd (2) Investment holding company and for Mauritius 100 100 acquisition of info-communication and At 1 January 2016 – 386.3 – 386.3 infotainment services Charge for the year 0.1 23.5 – 23.6 StarHub (Hong Kong) Limited (3) Provision of telecommunication services Hong Kong 100 100 Disposals – (0.1) – (0.1) At 31 December 2016 0.1 409.7 – 409.8 StarHub Shop Pte Ltd (4) Dormant Singapore 100 100 Carrying amount StarHub, Inc. (4) Dormant United States 100 100 At 31 December 2015 – 56.1 14.5 70.6 Other subsidiary indirectly held by the Company is as follows: At 31 December 2016 0.2 63.3 14.8 78.3 Foosti Pte. Ltd. (5) Dormant Singapore – 100 Staff costs capitalised in software in development for the Group and Company during the year amounted to $2.4 million (2015: $1.8 million). (1) Audited by KPMG LLP Singapore (2) Audited by KPMG Mauritius, a member firm of KPMG International (3) Audited by another firm (4) Not required to be audited by laws of the country of incorporation (5) The company had been fully dissolved on 11 August 2016 178 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 179 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2016 7 Associate 8 Available-for-sale Financial Assets Group Company Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Investment in associate 27.8 27.8 27.8 27.8 Quoted equity securities 40.0 – 40.0 – Share of post-acquisition reserves (1.9) (0.3) – – 25.9 27.5 27.8 27.8 Included in available-for-sale financial assets was a day one fair value gain arising on initial acquisition of $9.5 million (2015: Nil) (see Note 24). Country of incorporation/ Effective equity Name of company Principal activities business interest held by the Group 9 Balance with Related Parties 2016 2015 The immediate and ultimate holding companies are Asia Mobile Holdings Pte. Ltd. and Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited % % respectively. These companies are incorporated in the Republic of Singapore. SHINE Systems Assets Pte. Ltd. (1) Investment in, ownership or lease of Singapore 30 30 infrastructure assets and provision of data 9.1 Amounts due from related parties centre services Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 (1) Audited by KPMG LLP Singapore $m $m $m $m The following summarises the financial information of the associate, based on its financial statements prepared in Current accordance with FRS, amended for fair value adjustments on acquisition: Amounts due from (trade): – Ultimate holding company 0.1 0.1 0.1 – 2016 2015 – Subsidiaries – – 2.1 97.2 $m $m – Related corporations 20.6 25.9 16.1 13.6 Summarised Statement of Financial Position – Loan to associate 1.1 – 1.1 – 21.8 26.0 19.4 110.8 Non-current assets 202.5 93.2 Current assets 23.6 14.4 Non-current Current liabilities (16.9) (15.9) Amount due from (trade): Non-current liabilities (122.9) – – Subsidiary – – – 344.2 Net assets 86.3 91.7 – Loan to associate 7.6 – 7.6 – Financials 7.6 – 7.6 344.2 Reconciliation to carrying amount: All outstanding current trade balances with ultimate holding company, subsidiaries and related corporations are Opening net assets 91.7 93.4 unsecured, interest-free and repayable on demand. These outstanding balances with ultimate holding company, Loss for the year (5.4) (1.7) subsidiaries and related corporations are not impaired as at the financial year end. Closing net assets 86.3 91.7 The non-current trade amount due from a subsidiary was unsecured, interest free and is not repayable within the Summarised Statement of Comprehensive Income next 12 months. Total revenue 4.2 – The current loan to associate is unsecured, bear interest rate of 2.86% and 2.96% (2015: Nil) and is repayable in October 2017 and December 2017 respectively. Loss for the year (5.4) (1.7) The non-current loan to associate is unsecured, bear interest rate of 3.53% (2015: Nil) and is repayable in June 2021. Other comprehensive loss – – Total comprehensive loss for the year (5.4) (1.7) Group’s share in % 30% 30% Group’s share of loss of associate (net of tax) for the year (1.6) (0.3) Carrying amount of interest in associate at end of the year 25.9 27.5 180 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 181 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2016 9 Balance with Related Parties (continued) 11 Trade Receivables Group Company 9.2 Amounts due to related parties 2016 2015 2016 2015 Group Company $m $m $m $m 2016 2015 2016 2015 $m $m $m $m Trade receivables 213.0 186.4 181.6 168.8 Current Allowance for doubtful receivables (40.8) (33.1) (39.9) (31.3) Amounts due to (trade): 172.2 153.3 141.7 137.5 – Subsidiaries – – 338.5 373.8 The trade receivables of the Company include amounts billed under a combined billing arrangement to customers for – Related corporations 67.1 122.5 18.0 30.6 services provided by certain subsidiaries. 67.1 122.5 356.5 404.4 The Group’s and the Company’s primary credit risk exposure arises through its trade receivables, which include The amounts due to subsidiaries include unsecured interest bearing amounts of $178.7 million (2015: $167.9 million) at corporate and retail customers. There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the Group interest rates ranging from 0.95% to 1.73% (2015: 0.93% to 1.25%) per annum and are repayable on demand. The remaining and the Company have a large number of customers. The recorded allowances for doubtful receivables have been amounts due to subsidiaries and related corporations have trade terms. made based on the Group’s and the Company’s historical collections experience. Due to these factors, management believes that no additional credit risk beyond the amounts provided for collection losses is inherent in the Group and the 9.3  The Company’s balances with subsidiaries included amounts netted under agreed master netting arrangements. The Company’s trade receivables. amounts before netting are as follows: The age analysis of trade receivables past due but not impaired at the reporting date is as follows: Gross amounts Group Company Gross amounts offset Net amounts 2016 2015 2016 2015 Company $m $m $m $m $m $m $m 2016 Past due 1 – 15 days 33.3 40.9 30.3 37.7 Current Past due above 15 days 69.1 50.5 49.3 41.9 Amounts due from subsidiaries 458.5 (456.4) 2.1 102.4 91.4 79.6 79.6 Amounts due to subsidiaries 794.9 (456.4) 338.5 The movements in allowance for doubtful receivables in respect of trade receivables during the year are as follows: 2015 Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 Current $m $m $m $m Amounts due from subsidiaries 565.5 (468.3) 97.2 Amounts due to subsidiaries 842.1 (468.3) 373.8 At beginning of year 33.1 29.5 31.3 27.8 Financials Allowance for doubtful receivables 21.0 18.4 7.5 5.4 Non-current Recharged to subsidiaries – – 14.4 12.9 Amounts due from subsidiaries 344.2 – 344.2 Allowance utilised (13.3) (14.8) (13.3) (14.8) At end of year 40.8 33.1 39.9 31.3 10 Inventories Group Company 12 Other Receivables, Deposits and Prepayments 2016 2015 2016 2015 Group Company $m $m $m $m 2016 2015 2016 2015 $m $m $m $m Equipment held for resale 47.7 52.6 0.7 50.1 Maintenance and project inventories 1.9 1.7 – – Grant receivables 6.2 10.7 – – 49.6 54.3 0.7 50.1 Accrued revenue 115.4 113.9 8.0 11.1 Deposits 4.2 4.0 1.1 0.9 Allowance made/(written back) during the year 0.5 (0.5) (0.4) (0.7) Prepayments 65.4 57.2 17.5 18.4 Other receivables 15.6 9.0 11.6 1.7 In 2016, inventories of $447.8 million (2015: $487.1 million) were recognised as an expense during the period and included Mark-to-market financial instruments in ‘cost of sales’. – Forward exchange contracts 5.4 1.2 5.4 1.2 During the year, the Company transferred its equipment held for resale amounting to $36.9 million to one of its subsidiaries. – Interest rate swaps – 0.8 – 0.8 212.2 196.8 43.6 34.1 182 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 183 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2016 13 Cash and Cash Equivalents 15 Borrowings (continued) Group Company 15.1 Bank loans 2016 2015 2016 2015 Group and Company $m $m $m $m 2016 2015 Fixed deposits 214.3 111.8 214.3 111.8 $m $m Cash at bank and in hand 70.9 61.6 21.7 42.4 Repayable: 285.2 173.4 236.0 154.2 – Within 1 year 10.0 137.5 – After 1 year but within 5 years 457.5 330.0 Fixed deposits relates to deposits with financial institutions with maturities of three months or less (2015: six months or less) with effective interest rates ranging from 0.80% to 1.25% (2015: 0.75% to 1.2%). 467.5 467.5 At 31 December 2016, the unsecured bank loans bear interest at rates ranging from 1.67% to 2.98% (2015: 1.47% to 2.98%) per annum. 14 Trade and Other Payables Group Company There is no material difference between the carrying amount and fair value of the bank loans. 2016 2015 2016 2015 Note $m $m $m $m 15.2 Medium term notes Current The Company has established a multicurrency medium term note programme with a maximum aggregate principal Trade payables 91.3 98.9 72.1 77.4 amount of $1,000.0 million in September 2011. In September 2012, the Company issued a $220.0 million 10-year medium Accruals 472.1 433.2 201.1 184.6 term note which bears interest rate of 3.08% per annum and is repayable in September 2022. Unearned revenue 129.4 131.1 21.3 19.1 Deferred income 16 0.8 7.8 0.8 0.5 In June 2016, the Company issued a $300.0 million 10-year medium term note which bears interest of 3.55% per annum Deposits from customers 14.3 16.3 14.1 16.1 and is repayable in June 2026. 707.9 687.3 309.4 297.7 The fair value of the medium term note is $525.0 million (2015: $218.8 million). Non-current Unearned revenue 21.6 22.7 21.6 22.7 16 Deferred Income Group Company 15 Borrowings 2016 2015 2016 2015 Group and Company $m $m $m $m 2016 2015 Note $m $m Deferred grants Financials At beginning of year 8.9 21.3 1.6 – Current Grants receivable 1.7 2.3 1.7 2.3 Bank loans 15.1 10.0 137.5 Amount accreted to the income statement (8.4) (14.7) (1.1) (0.7) At end of year 2.2 8.9 2.2 1.6 Non-current Bank loans 15.1 457.5 330.0 Deferred grants to be accreted: Medium term notes 15.2 520.0 220.0 Current (within 1 year) 0.8 7.8 0.8 0.5 977.5 550.0 Non-current (after 1 year but within 5 years) 1.4 1.1 1.4 1.1 Total 2.2 8.9 2.2 1.6 Deferred income refers to government grants received. Assets related grants are recognised over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Income related grants are recognised on a systematic basis over the periods to match the related cost. 184 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 185 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2016 17 Deferred Tax Liabilities 17 Deferred Tax Liabilities (continued) Movements in deferred tax liabilities during the year are as follows: Recognised Recognised Recognised Recognised in other in income in other At in income comprehensive Recognised At At statement comprehensive Recognised At Company 1 January 2016 statement income in equity 31 December 2016 Group 1 January 2016 (Note 25) income in equity 31 December 2016 2016 $m $m $m $m $m 2016 $m $m $m $m $m Deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax liabilities Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (61.8) (16.1) – – (77.9) Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (134.3) (14.6) – – (148.9) Other payables and accruals 0.6 1.7 – – 2.3 Other payables and accruals 1.8 0.5 – – 2.3 Derivatives (0.1) – 0.1 – – Derivatives (0.1) – (0.8) – (0.9) Share-based payment transactions – 1.3 – 0.8 2.1 Share-based payment transactions – 1.3 – 0.8 2.1 Total (61.3) (13.1) 0.1 0.8 (73.5) Unutilised capital allowances 8.4 (8.4) – – – Unutilised tax losses 4.1 (4.1) – – – Recognised Recognised in other Total (120.1) (25.3) (0.8) 0.8 (145.4) At in income comprehensive Recognised At Company 1 January 2015 statement income in equity 31 December 2015 Recognised Recognised 2015 $m $m $m $m $m in income in other At statement comprehensive Recognised At Deferred tax liabilities Group 1 January 2015 (Note 25) income in equity 31 December 2015 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (76.8) 15.0 – – (61.8) 2015 $m $m $m $m $m Other payables and accruals 0.6 – – – 0.6 Deferred tax liabilities Derivatives 0.3 – (0.4) – (0.1) Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (143.9) 9.6 – – (134.3) Total (75.9) 15.0 (0.4) – (61.3) Other payables and accruals 3.8 (2.0) – – 1.8 Derivatives 0.3 – (0.4) – (0.1) Unutilised capital allowances 8.5 (0.1) – – 8.4 18 Share Capital 2016 2015 Unutilised tax losses 4.1 – – – 4.1 Number of Number of Total (127.2) 7.5 (0.4) – (120.1) shares shares Company ’000 $m ’000 $m Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that realisation of the related tax benefits through future taxable profits is probable. Issued and fully paid ordinary shares: Financials At beginning of year 1,729,795 293.5 1,726,322 282.6 Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: Issue of ordinary shares under the StarHub Performance Share Plans and StarHub Restricted Stock Plans 1,856 6.2 3,297 10.6 2016 2015 Issue of ordinary shares for cash pursuant to the exercise of $m $m options under the StarHub Share Option Plans – – 176 0.3 At end of year 1,731,651 299.7 1,729,795 293.5 Tax losses 3.7 3.5 The holders of ordinary shares (excluding treasury shares) are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time Deferred tax assets 0.6 0.6 and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company. All ordinary shares (excluding treasury shares) rank equally with regard to the Company’s residual assets. The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets in respect of the above tax losses and capital allowances as the Group does not expect to recover these potential deferred tax assets in the foreseeable future. The Group reassesses the recovery of these potential deferred tax assets annually. 186 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 187 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2016 19 Reserves 21 Operating Expenses Group Company Group 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 $m $m $m $m $m $m Treasury shares (12.3) – (12.3) – Cost of equipment sold 447.8 487.1 Merger/Capital reserve – – 276.5 276.5 Cost of services 409.5 415.8 Fair Value Reserve 12.5 – 12.5 – Traffic expenses 117.3 150.2 Goodwill written off (276.3) (276.3) – – Depreciation and amortisation (net of asset grants) 265.0 271.4 Share-based payments reserve 14.1 12.3 14.1 12.3 Marketing and promotions 133.7 144.6 Hedging reserve 4.4 0.5 – 0.5 Staff costs 281.4 270.7 Translation reserve 1.3 1.3 – – Allowance for doubtful receivables 21.0 18.4 Retained profits 151.5 156.3 1,143.1 992.2 Repairs and maintenance 96.9 86.0 (104.8) (105.9) 1,433.9 1,281.5 Operating leases 116.1 121.7 Other expenses 115.1 82.7 Treasury shares comprise the cost of the Company’s shares held by the Group. The Company bought 3,894,100 ordinary 2,003.8 2,048.6 shares from the market at a consideration of $12.3 million. There was no transfer of treasury shares during the year (2015: Nil). Included in the Group’s cost of services is government grant amounting to $3.2 million (2015: $3.4 million). The merger/capital reserve comprises reserve arising from the acquisition of a subsidiary, StarHub Cable Vision Ltd. (“SCV”), on 2 July 2002 and the excess of the fair value of the Company’s shares issued as consideration for the acquisition of SCV over its par value. 21.1 Depreciation and amortisation (net of asset grants) Depreciation and amortisation expenses comprise the following: The fair value reserve comprises the cumulative net change in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets until the Group assets are derecognised or impaired. 2016 2015 $m $m The goodwill written off represents the excess of consideration paid on the acquisition of subsidiaries prior to 1 January Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 226.0 219.8 2001 over the Group’s share of the fair value of net assets acquired. Accretion of asset grants to the income statement (1.0) (1.0) The share-based payments reserve comprises the cumulative value of services received from employees and directors 225.0 218.8 recorded in respect of the grant of share options and share awards. Amortisation of intangible assets 40.0 52.6 Total 265.0 271.4 The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions. 21.2 Staff costs Financials The following are included in staff costs: The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency translation differences arising from the translation of the financial Group statements of foreign operations. 2016 2015 $m $m 20 Revenue Defined contribution plans 27.4 25.1 Group Share-based payments 7.2 9.5 2016 2015 Government grants Wage Credit Scheme (4.7) (3.7) $m $m Mobile revenue 1,214.6 1,239.8 Pay TV revenue 377.8 391.0 Broadband revenue 216.8 200.3 Enterprise Fixed revenue 400.0 384.9 Sales of equipment 187.5 228.3 2,396.7 2,444.3 188 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 189 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2016 21 Operating Expenses (continued) 21 Operating Expenses (continued) 21.2.1 Key management personnel compensation 21.2.2 Share-based Payments The key management personnel compensation is as follows: StarHub Performance Share Plans Group Under the StarHub PSP and the StarHub PSP 2014 (collectively the “StarHub Performance Share Plans”), conditional 2016 2015 awards of shares are granted. Awards represent the right of a participant to receive fully paid shares, their equivalent cash $m $m value or combinations thereof, free of charge, upon the participant achieving prescribed performance targets set based Short-term employee benefits 10.4 10.2 on medium-term corporate objectives. Awards are released once the Company’s Executive Resource and Compensation Share-based payments 4.4 4.3 Committee is satisfied that the prescribed performance targets have been achieved. There is no vesting periods beyond the performance achievement periods. 14.8 14.5 During the financial year ended 31 December 2016, the conditional grants of 656,300 (2015: 534,700) shares under the Included in the above is the total compensation to directors of the Company which amounted to $4.7 million StarHub Performance Share Plans were made to the key employees of the Group. These represent the number of shares (2015: $5.0 million). to be delivered when performance targets at “on-target” level are achieved, or as the case may be when the time-based service conditions are completed. Key management personnel also participate in the StarHub Performance Share Plans and the StarHub Restricted Stock Plans. The short term benefits include the Company balanced scorecard incentive programme to reward employees for The movements of the number of shares under the StarHub Performance Share Plans, the fair values of the grant at achieving or exceeding performance target. measurement date and the assumptions of the fair value model for the grants of the Company are as follows: Conditional awards of shares of 656,300 (2015: 534,700 shares) under the StarHub Performance Share Plans and Balance Number of Number of Number of Balance conditional awards of shares of 557,800 (2015: 435,800 shares) under the StarHub Restricted Stock Plans were granted to outstanding at performance performance performance outstanding at the key management personnel of the Company during the year. 2016 1 January 2016 shares granted shares vested shares forfeited 31 December 2016 Date of grant ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000 Awards of 120,300 shares (2015: 95,800 shares) under the StarHub Restricted Stock Plans were vested and delivered to certain non-executive directors of the company as part of their non-executive directors’ remuneration, without any 31 May 2013 429 – (86) (343) – performance or vesting conditions attached, during the year. 10 March 2014 570 – – – 570 16 March 2015 535 – – – 535 Based on the actual level of achievement of the pre-determined performance targets over the 2013 to 2015 performance 22 March 2016 – 656 – – 656 period, final awards comprising 79,800 (2015: 629,300) shares were delivered to the key management personnel of the Total 1,534 656 (86) (343) 1,761 Company during the year under the 2013 conditional awards granted to key management personnel of the Company in May 2013 pursuant to the StarHub Performance Share Plans. Balance Number of Number of Number of Balance outstanding at performance performance performance outstanding at Based on the actual level of achievement of the pre-determined performance targets over the 2014 to 2015 performance 2015 1 January 2015 shares granted shares vested shares forfeited 31 December 2015 period, final awards comprising 359,634 (2015: 372,780) shares were delivered to the key management personnel of the Date of grant ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000 Financials Company during the year under the 2014 conditional awards granted to the key management personnel of the Company 25 May 2012 872 – (872) – – in May 2014 pursuant to the StarHub Restricted Stock Plans. 180,000 shares under the final awards were delivered during 31 May 2013 432 – – (3) 429 the year, with the balance of 179,634 shares to be delivered in phases according to the stipulated vesting periods. 10 March 2014 645 – – (75) 570 All conditional share awards (except for the time-based restricted share awards) granted to the key management 16 March 2015 – 535 – – 535 personnel of the Company were on the same terms and conditions as those offered to other employees of the Company. Total 1,949 535 (872) (78) 1,534 As at 31 December 2016, 1,761,100 (2015: 1,503,800) of the conditional awards of shares under the StarHub Performance The fair value of the shares is estimated using a Monte-Carlo simulation methodology at the measurement dates, which Share Plans, and 1,309,434 (2015: 1,199,380) of the conditional awards of shares under the StarHub Restricted Stock Plans are grant dates of the share awards. The assumptions under the model used for the grant in 2016 and 2015 are as follows: granted to the key management personnel were outstanding. Year of grant 2016 2015 Fair value $1.46 $2.94 Share price $3.32 $4.25 Expected volatility of the Company’s shares 15.28% 16.23% Expected volatility of MSCI Asia-Pacific Telecommunications Component Stock 14.14% 12.42% Expected dividend yield 5.70% 4.48% Risk-free interest rates 1.16% 1.39% 190 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 191 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2016 21 Operating Expenses (continued) 21 Operating Expenses (continued) 21.2.2 Share-based Payments (continued) 21.2.2 Share-based Payments (continued) StarHub Restricted Stock Plans StarHub Restricted Stock Plans (continued) Under the StarHub RSP and StarHub RSP Plan 2014 (collectively the “StarHub Restricted Stock Plans”), awards granted vest The assumptions under the model used for the grant in 2016 and 2015 are as follows: only after the satisfactory completion of time-based service conditions (time-based restricted awards) or where the award is performance-related after a further period of service beyond the performance targets completion date (performanceYear of grant based restricted awards). 2016 2015 During the financial year ended 31 December 2016, the conditional grants of 2,884,800 (2015: 2,432,200) shares under Fair value $2.91 $3.33 $3.65 $3.82 the StarHub Restricted Stock Plans were made to non-executive directors and key employees of the Group. These Share price $3.32 $3.45 $3.98 $4.25 represent the number of shares to be delivered when performance targets at “on-target” level are achieved, or as the case Expected volatility of the Company’s shares 10.79% 15.28% 16.23% may be when the time-based service conditions are completed. Expected dividend yield 5.46% 5.70% 4.48% 5.15% Risk-free interest rates 0.70% 1.14% 0.70% 1.36% During the financial year ended 31 December 2016, 141,300 (2015: 128,900) shares under the StarHub Restricted Stock Plans were vested and delivered to certain non-executive directors of the Company as part of their non-executive directors’ remuneration, without any performance or vesting conditions attached. 21.3 Other expenses Included in other expenses are the following: The movements of the number of shares under the StarHub Restricted Stock Plans, the fair values of the grant at Group measurement date and the assumptions of the fair value model for the grants of the Company are as follows: 2016 2015 $m $m Balance Number of Number of Number of Balance outstanding at restricted restricted restricted outstanding at Fees paid to auditors of the Company: 2016 1 January 2016 shares granted shares vested shares forfeited 31 December 2016 – Audit 0.4 0.4 Date of grant ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000 – Non-audit 0.4 0.3 31 May 2013 692 – (672) (20) – Foreign currency exchange loss/(gain), net 3.7 (1.4) 10 March 2014 2,340 – (764) (863) 713 Changes in fair value of financial instruments 1.2 (1.0) 16 March 2015 2,266 – – (160) 2,106 8 July 2015 32 – (16) – 16 22 Other Income 22 March 2016 – 2,460 – (80) 2,380 Group 20 May 2016 – 267 (120) – 147 2016 2015 23 May 2016 – 157 (141) (16) – $m $m Total 5,330 2,884 (1,713) (1,139) 5,362 Financials Corporate recharges to related parties 0.2 0.2 Balance Number of Number of Number of Balance Income related grants 32.0 45.4 outstanding at restricted restricted restricted outstanding at 32.2 45.6 2015 1 January 2015 shares granted shares vested shares forfeited 31 December 2015 Date of grant ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000 25 May 2012 912 – (912) – – 23 Net Finance Costs Group 31 May 2013 1,407 – (699) (16) 692 2016 2015 10 March 2014 2,454 – (15) (99) 2,340 $m $m 16 March 2015 – 2,271 – (5) 2,266 3 June 2015 – 129 (113) (16) – Interest income: 8 July 2015 – 32 – – 32 – Bank deposits 3.4 2.0 Total 4,773 2,432 (1,739) (136) 5,330 – Associate 0.1 – Finance income 3.5 2.0 The fair value of the share awards is estimated using a Monte-Carlo simulation methodology at the measurement dates, which are grant dates of the share awards. Interest expense: – Bank loans 13.4 11.0 – Medium term note 12.8 6.8 Finance costs 26.2 17.8 192 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 193 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2016 24 Non-operating Income 25 Taxation (continued) Group The Group’s utilisation of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets in prior year relate to unutilised tax losses and 2016 2015 unutilised capital allowances transferred from its subsidiaries under the group tax relief system in the Republic of Singapore. $m $m Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income for the years ended 31 December are as follows: Gain on deconsolidation of a subsidiary – 15.0 Group Fair value gain on initial recognition of available-for-sale (“AFS”) financial assets 9.5 – 2016 2015 9.5 15.0 $m $m The fair value gain on initial recognition of AFS financial assets arose from the difference between the transaction price Cash flow hedge, before taxation 4.7 2.3 and the fair value of the quoted investment at the point when the transaction was concluded. Taxation (0.8) (0.4) Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedge 3.9 1.9 25 Taxation Group 26 Earnings Per Share 2016 2015 Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted $m $m average number of ordinary shares outstanding (excluding treasury shares) during the year. Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares Current tax outstanding (excluding treasury shares), for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, which comprise share Current income tax 52.5 62.9 options granted to employees under the StarHub share plans. Utilisation of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets – (9.6) (Over)/Under provision in prior year (8.9) 22.1 Group 43.6 75.4 2016 2015 $m $m Deferred tax Profit attributable to equity holders 341.4 372.3 Reversal and origination of temporary differences 17.2 12.8 Under/(Over) provision in prior year 8.7 (20.3) Number of shares Utilisation of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets (0.6) – 2016 2015 25.3 (7.5) ’000 ’000 Weighted average number of ordinary shares (basic) during the year # 1,727,348 1,729,101 Total income tax in the income statement 68.9 67.9 Adjustment for dilutive effect of share plans 7,123 6,864 Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) during the year 1,734,471 1,735,965 A reconciliation between tax expense and the product of accounting profit multiplied by the applicable corporate tax rate Financials for the years ended 31 December is as follows: # Excludes treasury shares. Group 2016 2015 $m $m 27 Earnings Before Interest, Taxation, Depreciation and Amortisation The earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation (“EBITDA”) is a supplementary indicator of Profit before taxation 410.3 440.2 performance used by the Group. The measurement of EBITDA is not covered by FRS. Income tax using Singapore tax rate of 17% 69.8 74.8 The Group defines EBITDA as follows: Income not subject to tax (3.4) (2.7) Group Non-deductible expenses 4.4 3.7 2016 2015 Utilisation of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets (0.6) (9.6) $m $m (Over)/Under provision in prior year, net (0.2) 1.8 Profit before taxation 410.3 440.2 Tax benefit (1.3) – Adjustments for: Others 0.2 (0.1) Depreciation and amortisation (net of asset grants) 265.0 271.4 Total income tax in the income statement 68.9 67.9 Finance income (3.5) (2.0) Finance expense 26.2 17.8 Non-operating income (9.5) (15.0) Share of loss of associate (net of tax) 1.6 0.3 EBITDA 690.1 712.7 194 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 195 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2016 28 Related Party Transactions 30 Segment Reporting The Company has entered into contractual agreements on behalf of its subsidiaries, and recharges its subsidiaries based Segment information is presented based on the information reviewed by the chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) for on terms agreed between the parties involved. performance assessment and resource allocation. In the normal course of business, the Group purchases and sells info-communications services to related companies. The CODM assess the Group’s financial performance using performance indicators which include revenue, EBITDA, The related party transactions are carried out on terms negotiated between the parties which are intended to reflect capital expenditure and cash flow of the Group. competitive terms. The Group operates primarily in Singapore in one segment. The Group delivers its Mobile, Pay TV, Broadband, Enterprise Other than disclosed above and elsewhere in the financial statements, significant transactions of the Group and the Fixed services and equipment sales on a fully integrated network, and has a centralised customer service, sales, marketing Company with related parties during the financial year were as follows: and administration support. Group 2016 2015 The Group has a large and diversified customer base which consists of individuals and corporations. There was no single $m $m customer that contributed to 10% or more of the Group’s revenue. Ultimate holding company The Group’s reportable segment information is as follows: Sales 0.4 0.5 Group 2016 2015 Associate $m $m Purchase of property, plant and equipment 5.0 – Mobile revenue 1,214.6 1,239.8 Rental expenses 1.9 – Pay TV revenue 377.8 391.0 Purchase of services 0.2 – Broadband revenue 216.8 200.3 Enterprise Fixed revenue 400.0 384.9 Related corporations Sales of equipment 187.5 228.3 Sales 60.7 70.0 Total revenue 2,396.7 2,444.3 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 13.3 19.5 Rental expenses 77.7 81.7 EBITDA 690.1 712.7 Purchase of services 142.3 183.7 Depreciation and amortisation (net of asset grants) (265.0) (271.4) Purchase of inventories 147.0 166.1 Finance income 3.5 2.0 Finance expense (26.2) (17.8) 29 Dividends Non-operating income 9.5 15.0 Group and Company Share of loss of associate (net of tax) (1.6) (0.3) Financials 2016 2015 Profit before taxation 410.3 440.2 $m $m Taxation (68.9) (67.9) Profit for the year 341.4 372.3 Final dividend of $0.05 (2015: $0.05) per share (1-tier tax exempt) paid in respect of the previous financial year 86.5 86.5 Interim dividends of $0.15 (2015: $0.15) per share (1-tier tax exempt) paid in respect Assets and liabilities of the current financial year 259.7 259.4 Non-current assets 1,455.3 1,305.6 346.2 345.9 Current assets 741.0 603.8 Total assets 2,196.3 1,909.4 Borrowings 987.5 687.5 Other non-current liabilities 168.4 143.9 Other current liabilities 845.5 890.4 Total liabilities 2,001.4 1,721.8 Other information Capital expenditure 371.2 289.0 Free cash flow * 184.0 215.7 * Free cash flow refers to net cash from operating activities less purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets in the consolidated cash flow statement. 196 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 197 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2016 31 Financial Risk Management 31 Financial Risk Management (continued) Financial risk management objectives and policies Liquidity risk (continued) Exposure to credit, liquidity, interest risk, foreign exchange and market risks arises in the normal course of the Group’s The following are the expected contractual undiscounted cash outflows (including interest payments) of financial liabilities: business. The Group has written risk management policies and guidelines which set out its overall business strategies, its Contractual cash flows tolerance of risk and its general risk management philosophy, and has established processes to monitor and control the After After hedging of transactions in a timely and accurate manner. 1 year but within 5 years but within Carrying amount Total Within 1 year 5 years 10 years Derivative financial instruments are used to reduce exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. $m $m $m $m $m While these are subject to the risk of market rates changing subsequent to acquisition, such changes are generally offset Group by opposite effects on the items being hedged. 2016 The Group’s accounting policy in relation to derivative financial instruments is set out in Note 3.6(iii). Non-derivative financial liabilities Borrowings 987.5 1,169.3 34.3 560.3 574.7 Trade and other payables ^ 577.7 577.7 577.7 – – Credit risk Amounts due to related parties 67.1 67.1 67.1 – – Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Periodic frequent credit review and counterparty credit limits are practised. 1,632.3 1,814.1 679.1 560.3 574.7 The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk from trade receivables due to its large diversified customer base. 2015 Credit evaluations are performed on corporate customers requiring credit. Identification documents are obtained from Non-derivative financial liabilities retail customers. Deposits are obtained for certain categories of higher-risk customers. Borrowings 687.5 773.7 152.3 387.8 233.6 Trade and other payables ^ 548.3 548.3 548.3 – – The Group places its cash and cash equivalents and enters into treasury transactions only with creditworthy banks and Amounts due to related parties 122.5 122.5 122.5 – – financial institutions. 1,358.3 1,444.5 823.1 387.8 233.6 The maximum credit risk exposure is represented by the carrying value of each financial asset in the statement of financial position. Company 2016 Non-derivative financial liabilities Liquidity risk The Group actively monitors its liquidity risk and manages its operating cash flows, debt maturity profile and availability Borrowings 987.5 1,169.3 34.3 560.3 574.7 of funding. The Group maintains sufficient level of cash and cash equivalents, expects to generate sufficient cash flows Trade and other payables ^ 287.3 287.3 287.3 – – from its operation, and has available funding through diverse sources of committed and uncommitted credit facilities from Amounts due to related parties 356.5 356.5 356.5 – – banks and the capital market through its medium term note programme to ensure that there are adequate credit facilities 1,631.3 1,813.1 678.1 560.3 574.7 Financials which may be utilised when the need arises to meet its working capital requirements. 2015 At the end of the reporting period, assets held by the Group and the Company for managing liquidity risk included cash Non-derivative financial liabilities and short-term deposits, as well as available credit from its medium term note programme. In addition, the Group also Borrowings 687.5 773.7 152.3 387.8 233.6 reviews compliance with loan covenants. Trade and other payables ^ 278.0 278.0 278.0 – – Amounts due to related parties 404.4 404.4 404.4 – – 1,369.9 1,456.1 834.7 387.8 233.6 ^ The carrying amount of trade and other payables disclosed in the table excludes deferred income and unearned revenue. 198 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 199 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2016 31 Financial Risk Management (continued) 31 Financial Risk Management (continued) Liquidity risk (continued) Foreign currency risk The following table indicates the periods in which the cash flow hedges are expected to affect profit or loss: The Group incurs foreign exchange risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in currencies other than the respective functional currencies of Group entities. The currency giving rise to this risk is primarily the United States Dollar. Contractual cash flows After The Group’s and the Company’s exposures to United States Dollar are as follows: 1 year but within Group Company Carrying amount Total Within 1 year 5 years 2016 2015 2016 2015 Group and Company $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m 2016 Trade and other receivables 72.9 63.1 11.9 9.3 Derivative financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 55.3 108.0 43.9 104.1 Forward exchange contracts used Trade and other payables (156.8) (132.2) (49.0) (35.7) for hedging (gross-settled) 5.4 (28.6) 38.9 6.8 77.7 – Outflow (117.5) (117.5) – – Inflow 122.9 122.9 – For operations with significant expenditure denominated in foreign currencies, forward exchange contracts are entered 5.4 5.4 5.4 – into to hedge the foreign currency risk on forecasted payment obligations. At 31 December 2016, the Group and the Company have outstanding forward exchange contracts with notional principal amounts of approximately $117.5 million 2015 (2015: $105.1 million). The current year forward exchange contracts are entered into by the Company on behalf of Derivative financial assets a subsidiary. Interest rate swaps used for hedging (net-settled) 0.8 0.8 0.5 0.3 In respect of other monetary liabilities held in foreign currencies, the Group ensures that the net exposure is kept to an acceptable level by buying foreign currencies at spot rates where necessary to address any shortfalls. Interest rate risk The Group’s exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s debt obligations. Sensitivity analysis The Group and Company had assessed that a reasonable change in the exchange rate would not result in a material The Group adopts a policy of ensuring that at least 50 percent of its exposure to changes in interest rates on bank loans impact on the Group’s and Company’s results. is on a fixed rate basis. Interest rate swaps, denominated in Singapore dollars, have been entered into to achieve this purpose. Market risk At 31 December 2016, the Group had outstanding interest rate swap agreements with notional principal amounts totalling The Group has investments in quoted equity shares. The market value of these investments will fluctuate with market $20.0 million (2015: $145.0 million) in cash flow hedges against borrowings. These interest rate swaps will mature over conditions. the remaining term of 0.5 years (2015: 0.6 year to 1.4 years) to hedge the floating semi-annual interest payments on The Group and Company had assessed that a reasonable change in the share price would not result in a material impact Financials borrowings. The fixed interest payable has interest rates at 0.86% per annum (2015: 0.86% to 1.45% per annum). on the Group’s and Company’s equity. Sensitivity analysis The Group’s and the Company’s borrowings are denominated in Singapore dollars. An increase/decrease in the floating interest rates by 100 basis points, with all other variables remaining constant, does not have a material impact in the Group’s and the Company’s profit before taxation. 200 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 201 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2016 31 Financial Risk Management (continued) 31 Financial Risk Management (continued) Estimation of fair values Fair value hierarchy The following summarises the significant methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method. The different levels have been instruments of the Group and Company: defined as follows: Derivatives Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Marked to market valuations of the forward exchange contracts are provided by the banks. For interest rate swaps, valuations are also provided by the banks. Those quotes are tested using pricing models or discounted cash flow Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either techniques. directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). Where discounted cash flow techniques are used, estimated future cash flows are based on management’s best estimates Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). and the discount rate is a market related rate for a similar instrument at the reporting date. Where other pricing models are used, inputs are based on market related data at the reporting date. The following table represents the assets and liabilities measured at fair value, using Level 1 and Level 2 valuation methods, at reporting date: Borrowings Group and Company The fair values of borrowings which reprice within one year of reporting date were assumed to equate the carrying value. Fair value 2016 2015 All other borrowings are calculated using discounted cash flow models based on the present value of future principal and level $m $m interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate at the reporting date. Financial assets Amounts due from subsidiaries (non-current) Mark-to-market financial instruments Non-current amounts due from subsidiaries are calculated using discounted cash flow model based on the present value – Forward exchange contracts 2 5.4 1.2 of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate at the reporting date. – Interest rate swaps 2 – 0.8 Available-for-sale quoted equity securities Available-for-sale financial assets 1 40.0 – The carrying amount of the available-for-sale financial assets approximates its fair value. There were no transfers between level 1 and 2 in 2016 and 2015. Other financial assets and liabilities The carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities with maturity of less than one year (including trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, and trade and other payables) are assumed to approximate their fair values. 32 Capital Management The Group regularly reviews its financial position, capital structure and use of capital, with the objective of achieving Interest rates used in determining fair values long-term capital efficiency, optimum shareholders’ total returns, including the level of dividends, and appropriate The Group and the Company use the interbank swap yield as of year end plus an adequate constant credit spread to strategic positioning. discount financial instruments. The interest rates used are as follows: Financials From time to time, the Group may purchase its own shares on the market; the timing of these purchases depends on 2016 2015 market prices. Such share purchases are intended to be used for issuing shares under the StarHub Performance Share Plan % per annum % per annum and StarHub Restricted Stock Plan programmes. Other than for such specific purposes, the Group does not have a defined Derivatives 0.86 0.86 – 1.45 share buy-back plan. The Group manages the use of capital centrally and all borrowings to fund the operations of the subsidiaries are managed by the Company. The capital employed by the Company consists of equity attributable to shareholders, bank borrowings from financial institutions and medium term note issued. The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirement. There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the year. 202 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 203 Notes to the Financial Statements Interested Person Transactions and Material Contracts Year ended 31 December 2016 (Pursuant to SGX-ST Listing Manual Rule 907 and Rule 1207(8)) 33 Commitments Aggregate value of all Aggregate value of all interested person transactions interested person transactions (a) Capital and other financial commitments conducted under a Shareholders’ (excluding transactions less than Group Company Mandate pursuant to Rule 920 $100,000 and transactions conducted of the SGX-ST Listing Manual under a Shareholders’ Mandate 2016 2015 2016 2015 (excluding transactions pursuant to Rule 920 of the $m $m $m $m less than $100,000) SGX-ST Listing Manual) 1 January 2016 to 1 January 2016 to Contracted and not provided for in the financial statements: 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 – Capital expenditures 182.8 285.4 95.7 103.5 $m $m – Other operating expenditures 450.2 279.0 – – 633.0 564.4 95.7 103.5 Transactions for the Sale of Goods & Services CapitaLand Limited & its associates 0.4 – As at 31 December 2016, the Group has outstanding capital and other financial commitments with related companies SATS Ltd. & its associates 0.1 – amounting to $12.5 million (2015: $10.2 million), which has been included above. Singapore Airlines Limited & its associates 0.2 – Singapore Technologies Engineering Ltd & its associates 1.7 – Included in the capital expenditures contracted by the Company is an amount of approximately $0.2 million (2015: $1.5 million) which has been entered into on behalf of its subsidiaries. Singapore Telecommunications Limited & its associates 23.7 – TeleChoice International Ltd & its associates 114.2 – Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited & its associates (b) Operating leases (other than those disclosed above) 3.4 – Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 143.7 – Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 Transactions for the Purchase of Goods & Services $m $m $m $m CapitaLand Limited & its associates 5.9 – Payable Refinery Media Pte Ltd – 0.9 – Within 1 year 60.1 98.8 44.3 60.9 SembCorp Industries Ltd & its associates 0.2 – – Within 2 to 5 years 90.4 106.1 80.1 83.1 Singapore Power Limited & its associates 25.6 – – After 5 years 190.7 210.5 190.7 210.4 Singapore Technologies Engineering Ltd & its associates 5.3 – 341.2 415.4 315.1 354.5 Singapore Telecommunications Limited & its associates 69.3 – TeleChoice International Ltd & its associates 238.6 – As at 31 December 2016, the Group has outstanding operating lease commitments with related companies amounting to Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited & its associates $219.4 million (2015: $277.6 million), which has been included above. (other than those disclosed above) 15.0 – 359.9 0.9 Financials Included in the operating lease commitment of the Company is $7.0 million (2015: $7.0 million) which is contracted on behalf of a subsidiary. Provision of shareholder loans and security for debt financing The operating leases include lease of premises and network infrastructure. The leases have varying terms and renewal rights. SHINE Systems Assets Pte. Ltd. – 62.8 – 62.8 34 Subsequent Event Receipt of shareholder loans The directors have proposed a final dividend of $0.05 (2015: $0.05) per share, tax exempt (one tier), totalling $86.4 million STT APDC Pte. Ltd. – 1.0 (2015: $86.5 million) in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2016. This proposed final tax exempt dividend has not been recognised as at year end and will be submitted for shareholders’ approval at the forthcoming Annual General – 1.0 Meeting of the Company in 2017. During the financial year ended 31 December 2016, no material contracts were entered into by StarHub Ltd or any of its subsidiaries involving the interests of the CEO, any Director or controlling shareholder pursuant to Rule 1207(8) of the SGX-ST Listing Manual. 204 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 205 Shareholding Information As at 22 February 2017 Class of shares : Ordinary share Twenty largest shareholders Voting rights : One vote per share No. Name of shareholder Number of shares held % of issued share capital (1) Total number of issued shares excluding treasury shares : 1,728,452,537 1 Asia Mobile Holdings Pte. Ltd. 965,845,290 55.88 Total number of treasury shares held : 3,198,906 2 NTT Communications Corporation 171,490,520 9.92 Percentage of treasury shares held against the total number of : 0.19% 3 Citibank Nominees Singapore Pte Ltd 112,718,300 6.52 issued shares excluding treasury shares 4 DBS Nominees Pte Ltd 91,357,670 5.29 5 HSBC (Singapore) Nominees Pte Ltd 59,070,589 3.42 Distribution of shareholdings 6 DBSN Services Pte Ltd 32,354,622 1.87 Size of shareholdings No. of shareholders % of shareholders No. of shares % of issued share capital 7 Raffles Nominees (Pte) Ltd 22,702,329 1.32 8 United Overseas Bank Nominees Pte Ltd 11,103,550 0.64 1 – 99 152 0.62 6,007 0.00 9 Singapore Press Holdings Limited 10,411,230 0.60 100 – 1,000 4,630 18.90 3,849,912 0.22 10 BNP Paribas Securities Services 7,107,140 0.41 1,001 – 10,000 16,086 65.66 70,130,151 4.05 11 OCBC Nominees Singapore Pte Ltd 4,494,642 0.26 10,001 – 1,000,000 3,600 14.70 129,471,415 7.48 12 DB Nominees (Singapore) Pte Ltd 4,308,257 0.25 1,000,001 and above 29 0.12 1,528,193,958 88.25 13 Yeo Kok Pin 3,544,000 0.21 Total 24,497 100.00 1,731,651,443 100.00 14 Chen Chun Nan 3,350,000 0.19 15 Societe Generale Singapore Branch 3,076,399 0.18 Substantial shareholders 16 OCBC Securities Private Ltd 3,007,657 0.17 17 Phillip Securities Pte Ltd 2,691,040 0.16 Number of shares Name Direct interest Deemed interest % of issued share capital (5) 18 DBS Vickers Securities (Singapore) Pte Ltd 1,802,990 0.10 19 Montefiore Neil 1,619,440 0.09 Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited – 977,314,814 (1) 56.54 20 Maybank Kim Eng Securities Pte Ltd 1,551,986 0.09 Singapore Technologies Telemedia Pte Ltd – 965,845,290 (2) 55.88 Total 1,513,607,651 87.57 STT Communications Ltd – 965,845,290 (2) 55.88 Asia Mobile Holding Company Pte. Ltd. – 965,845,290 (2) 55.88 (1) The shareholding percentage is based on the number of issued shares of StarHub excluding treasury shares. Asia Mobile Holdings Pte. Ltd. 965,845,290 – 55.88 Shareholding held in hands of the public Ooredoo Q.S.C. – 965,845,290 (3) 55.88 Based on the information available to StarHub as at 22 February 2017, approximately 33.40% of the total number of issued shares Ooredoo Investment Holding S.P.C. – 965,845,290 (3) 55.88 (excluding treasury shares) of StarHub was held by the public. Accordingly, StarHub has complied with Rule 723 of the SGX-ST Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation – 171,490,520 (4) 9.92 Listing Manual. NTT Communications Corporation 171,490,520 – 9.92 Notes: (1) Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited (Temasek) is deemed to have an interest in 977,314,814 shares of StarHub in which Singapore Technologies Telemedia Pte Ltd group and other associated companies of Temasek have direct or deemed interests. (2) ST Telemedia is deemed to have an interest in 965,845,290 shares of StarHub held by Asia Mobile Holdings Pte. Ltd. (AMH), a subsidiary of Asia Mobile Holding Company Pte. Ltd. (AMHC), which is in turn a wholly-owned subsidiary of STT Communications Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ST Telemedia. AMHC holds approximately 75% of the total issued share capital of AMH. (3) Ooredoo Investment Holdings S.P.C. (OIH) and Ooredoo Q.S.C. (Ooredoo) are deemed to have an interest in 965,845,290 shares of StarHub held by AMH. QIH holds approximately 25% of the total issued share capital of AMH. QIH is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ooredoo. (4) Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation (NTT) is deemed to have an interest in 171,490,520 shares of StarHub held by NTT Communications Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of NTT. (5) The shareholding percentage is based on the number of issued shares of StarHub excluding treasury shares. 206 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 207 Notice of Nineteenth Annual General Meeting STARHUB LTD (Incorporated in the Republic of Singapore) Co. Reg. No. 199802208C NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Summit 1 (via Meeting Special Business Room 321), Level 3, Suntec Singapore Convention & Exhibition Centre, 1 Raffles Boulevard, Suntec City, Singapore 039593 on 12 April 2017 at 10.00 a.m. for the following purposes: To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions which will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions: 7 That authority be and is hereby given to the Directors to: Resolution 8 Ordinary Business (a) (i) issue shares of the Company (“shares”) whether by way of rights, bonus or otherwise; 1 To receive and adopt the Directors’ Statement and the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year Resolution 1 and/or ended 31 December 2016 and the Auditors’ Report therein. (ii) make or grant offers, agreements or options (collectively, “Instruments”) that might or 2 To re-elect Mr Stephen Geoffrey Miller as a Director pursuant to Article 99 of the Company’s Resolution 2 would require shares to be issued, including but not limited to the creation and issue of Constitution and who, being eligible, will offer himself for re-election. (as well as adjustments to) warrants, debentures or other instruments convertible into shares, The profile of Mr Miller can be found in the Board of Directors section of the StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016. at any time and upon such terms and conditions and for such purposes and to such persons as the Directors may in their absolute discretion deem fit; and 3 To re-elect the following Directors, each of whom will retire and who, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election: (b) (notwithstanding the authority conferred by this Resolution may have ceased to be in force) issue shares in pursuance of any Instrument made or granted by the Directors while this Resolution was in force, (a) Mr Teo Ek Tor; and Resolution 3 provided that: (b) Mr Lim Ming Seong (non-independent member of Audit Committee). Resolution 4 (1) the aggregate number of shares to be issued pursuant to this Resolution (including shares to be The profiles of Mr Teo and Mr Lim can be found in the Board of Directors section of the StarHub Ltd issued in pursuance of Instruments made or granted pursuant to this Resolution) does not exceed Annual Report 2016. 50% of the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares) (as calculated in accordance with subparagraph (2) below), of which the aggregate number of shares to be issued other than 4 To approve the sum of S$1,727,857.00 (FY2015: S$1,699,428.00) as Directors’ Remuneration for the Resolution 5 on a pro rata basis to shareholders of the Company (including shares to be issued in pursuance of financial year ended 31 December 2016 comprising: Instruments made or granted pursuant to this Resolution) does not exceed 15% of the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares) (as calculated in accordance with (a) S$1,226,929.90 to be paid in cash (FY2015: S$1,227,681.00); and subparagraph (2) below); (b) S$500,927.10 to be paid in the form of restricted share awards (FY2015: S$471,747.00). (2) (subject to such manner of calculation as may be prescribed by the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited (“SGX-ST”)) for the purpose of determining the aggregate number of shares that 5 To declare a final dividend of five cents per ordinary share for the financial year ended Resolution 6 may be issued under subparagraph (1) above, the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury 31 December 2016. shares) shall be based on the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares), at the time this Resolution is passed, after adjusting for: 6 To re-appoint KPMG LLP as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to fix Resolution 7 their remuneration. (i) new shares arising from the conversion or exercise of any convertible securities or share options or vesting of share awards which are outstanding or subsisting at the time this Resolution is passed; and (ii) any subsequent bonus issue, consolidation or subdivision of shares; (3) in exercising the authority conferred by this Resolution, the Company shall comply with the provisions of the Listing Manual of the SGX-ST for the time being in force (unless such compliance has been waived by the SGX-ST) and the Constitution for the time being of the Company; and (4) (unless revoked or varied by the Company in General Meeting) the authority conferred by this Resolution shall continue in force until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date by which the next Annual General Meeting of the Company is required by law to be held, whichever is the earlier. 208 Hubbing at Your Service StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2016 209 Notice of Nineteenth Annual General Meeting 8 That authority be and is hereby given to the Directors to: Resolution 9 Resolution 8 Resolution 8 is to empower the Directors to issue shares and to make or grant instruments (such as warrants or debentures) convertible into shares, and to issue shares in pursuance of such instruments, up to a number not exceeding in total 50% of the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares), with a sub-limit (a) offer and grant awards in accordance with the provisions of the StarHub Performance Share of 15% for issues other than on a pro rata basis to shareholders. For the purpose of determining the aggregate number of shares that may be issued, the total number Plan 2014 (the “PSP 2014”) and/or the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan 2014 (the “RSP 2014”) of issued shares (excluding treasury shares) shall be based on the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares) at the time that Resolution 8 is passed, after (the PSP 2014 and the RSP 2014, together the “Share Plans”); and adjusting for (a) new shares arising from the conversion or exercise of any convertible securities or share options or vesting of share awards which are outstanding or subsisting at the time that Resolution 8 is passed, and (b) any subsequent bonus issue, consolidation or subdivision of shares. (b) allot and issue from time to time such number of ordinary shares as may be required to be Resolution 9 allotted and issued pursuant to the vesting of awards granted under the Share Plans, Resolution 9 is to empower the Directors to offer and grant awards and to allot and issue ordinary shares pursuant to the Share Plans provided that the aggregate number of ordinary shares allotted and issued under the Share Plans shall not exceed the limits specified in the rules of the Share Plans. Approval for the adoption of provided that the aggregate number of ordinary shares allotted and issued under the Share Plans shall the Share Plans was given by shareholders at an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on 14 April 2014. The grant of awards under the respective Share not exceed the limits specified in the rules of the Share Plans. Plans will be made in accordance with their respective provisions. 9 To transact such other business as may be transacted at an Annual General Meeting of the Company. NOTICE OF BOOKS CLOSURE AND FINAL DIVIDEND PAYMENT DATE By Order of the Board Notice is hereby given that, subject to the approval of the shareholders to the final dividend at the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting, the Register of Members and the Transfer Books of the Company will be closed on 20 April 2017. Duly completed registrable transfers received by the Company’s share registrar, M & C Services Private Limited, 112 Robinson Road, #05-01, Singapore 068902 up to the close of business at 5.00 p.m. on 19 April 2017 (“Entitlement Date”) will be registered to determine members’ entitlements to the final dividend. Subject as aforesaid, persons whose securities accounts with The Veronica Lai Central Depository (Pte) Limited are credited with ordinary shares as at 5.00 p.m. on the Entitlement Date will be entitled to the Company Secretary final dividend. Singapore, 21 March 2017 The final dividend, if so approved by shareholders, will be paid on 3 May 2017. Notes: Personal data privacy: 1. (a) A member who is not a relevant intermediary is entitled to appoint not more than two proxies to attend, speak and vote at the Annual General Meeting. Where such member’s form of proxy appoints more than one proxy, the proportion of the shareholding concerned to be represented by each proxy shall be By submitting an instrument appointing a proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to attend, speak and vote at the Annual General Meeting and/or any adjournment thereof, specified in the form of proxy. a member of the Company (i) consents to the collection, use and disclosure of the member’s personal data by the Company (or its agents or service providers) for the purpose of the processing, administration and analysis by the Company (or its agents or service providers) of proxies and representatives appointed for the (b) A member who is a relevant intermediary is entitled to appoint more than two proxies to attend, speak and vote at the Annual General Meeting, but each Annual General Meeting (including any adjournment thereof) and the preparation and compilation of the attendance lists, minutes and other documents relating to proxy must be appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by such member. Where such member’s form of proxy appoints the Annual General Meeting (including any adjournment thereof), and in order for the Company (or its agents or service providers) to comply with any applicable more than two proxies, the number and class of shares in relation to which each proxy has been appointed shall be specified in the form of proxy. laws, listing rules, take-over rules, regulations and/or guidelines (collectively, the “Purposes”), (ii) warrants that where the member discloses the personal data of the member’s proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to the Company (or its agents or service providers), the member has obtained the prior consent of such proxy(ies) “Relevant intermediary” has the meaning ascribed to it in Section 181 of the Companies Act, Cap. 50 of Singapore. and/or representative(s) for the collection, use and disclosure by the Company (or its agents or service providers) of the personal data of such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the Purposes, and (iii) agrees that the member will indemnify the Company in respect of any penalties, liabilities, claims, demands, losses and 2. A proxy need not be a member of the Company. damages as a result of the member’s breach of warranty. 3. The instrument appointing a proxy or proxies (a form is enclosed) must be lodged at the office of the Share Registrar of the Company, M & C Services Private Limited, at 112 Robinson Road, #05-01, Singapore 068902 (Attn: The Share Registrar) not less than 72 hours before the time appointed for the Annual General Meeting. Completion and return of the instrument appointing a proxy or proxies shall not preclude a member from attending and voting at the Annual General Meeting. In such event, the relevant instrument appointing a proxy or proxies will be deemed to be revoked. Explanatory Notes: Resolution 5 Resolution 5 is to approve the payment of an aggregate sum of S$1,727,857.00, as Directors’ remuneration for the non-executive Directors of the Company (including Mr Robert J. Sachs who resigned as a non-executive Director and ceased to be a member of the Strategy Committee on 30 December 2016, Mr Peter Seah Lim Huat who resigned as a non-executive Director and ceased to be the Chairman of the Nominating Committee (“NC”) and the Executive Resource and Compensation Committee (“ERCC”) on 1 January 2017, and Mr Sio Tat Hiang who resigned as a non-executive Director and ceased to be a Member of the NC, ERCC and Risk Committee on 1 January 2017) for the financial year ended 31 December 2016. If approved, each of the non-executive Directors will receive 70% of his Directors’ remuneration in cash and (with the exception of Mr Takeshi Kazami) 30% of his Directors’ remuneration in the form of a restricted share award. Mr Takeshi Kazami has declined the restricted share award grant and will only receive the cash component of his remuneration. See the section on “2. Remuneration Matters” in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report 2016 for the rationale in relation to the shares component of the non-executive Directors’ remuneration. The number of shares to be awarded will be based on the volume weighted average price of a share in the Company listed on the SGX-ST over the 14 trading days commencing on the ex-dividend date that immediately follows the Annual General Meeting. The number of shares to be awarded will be rounded down to the nearest hundred, with cash to be paid in lieu of the remaining shares arising. The restricted share awards will consist of the grant of fully paid shares, without any performance or vesting conditions attached. However, in order to encourage alignment of the interests of the Directors with the interests of shareholders, non-executive Directors who received the aforesaid restricted share award are required to hold shares worth at least (a) the prevailing annual basic retainer fee, or (b) the aggregate of (i) the total number of shares awarded as part of their remuneration for the financial year ended 31 December 2011 and each subsequent financial year thereafter and (ii) 50% of the total number of shares awarded from the financial year ended 31 December 2007 to the financial year ended 31 December 2010, whichever is lower. Non-executive Directors can dispose of all their shares one year after ceasing to be a Director. 210 Hubbing at Your Service IMPORTANT Corporate Information Proxy Form 1. Relevant intermediaries as defined in Section 181 of the Companies Act, Cap 50 of Singapore, may appoint more than two proxies to attend, speak and vote at the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting. STARHUB LTD 2. For CPF/SRS investors who have used their CPF/SRS moneys to buy StarHub Ltd (Incorporated in the Republic of Singapore) shares, this form of proxy is not valid for use and shall be ineffective for all intents and purposes if used or purported to be used by them. CPF/SRS investors should Co. Reg. No. 199802208C contact their respective Agent Banks/SRS Operators if they have any queries regarding their appointment as proxies. Board of Directors Executive Resource and Auditors Steven Terrell CLONTZ (Chairman) Compensation Committee KPMG LLP 3. By submitting an instrument appointing a proxy(ies) and/or representative(s), the member accepts and agrees to the personal data privacy terms set out in the TAN Tong Hai (CEO) TEO Ek Tor (Chairman) Public Accountants and Chartered Notice of the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting dated 21 March 2017. MA Kah Woh Stephen Geoffrey MILLER Accountants Nihal Vijaya Devadas KAVIRATNE CBE LIM Ming Seong 16 Raffles Quay #22-00 Rachel ENG Yaag Ngee Hong Leong Building I/We, NRIC/Passport/Co. Reg. No. TEO Ek Tor Risk Committee Singapore 048581 Stephen Geoffrey MILLER Stephen Geoffrey MILLER (Chairman) Partner-in-charge: ONG Chai Yan of (Address) LIM Ming Seong TAN Tong Hai (appointed w.e.f. 1 January 2016) LIU Chee Ming MA Kah Woh being a member/members of StarHub Ltd (the “Company”) hereby appoint: Nasser MARAFIH Subsidiaries Takeshi KAZAMI Company Secretaries StarHub Mobile Pte Ltd NRIC/Passport Proportion of Veronica LAI Kwai-Yi StarHub Cable Vision Ltd. Name Address Number Shareholdings (%) Audit Committee KONG Pooi Foong StarHub Internet Pte Ltd MA Kah Woh (Chairman) StarHub Online Pte Ltd Nihal Vijaya Devadas KAVIRATNE CBE Registration Number StarHub Shop Pte Ltd Rachel ENG Yaag Ngee 199802208C StarHub, Inc. and/or (delete as appropriate) LIM Ming Seong StarHub (Hong Kong) Limited Registered Address StarHub (Mauritius) Ltd Strategy Committee 67 Ubi Avenue 1 Nucleus Connect Pte. Ltd. Nihal Vijaya Devadas KAVIRATNE CBE #05-01 StarHub Green as my/our proxy/proxies to attend, speak and vote for me/us and on my/our behalf at the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) (Chairman) Singapore 408942 Associate of the Company to be held at Summit 1 (via Meeting Room 321), Level 3, Suntec Singapore Convention & Exhibition Centre, Steven Terrell CLONTZ Tel : (65) 6825 5000 SHINE Systems Assets Pte. Ltd. 1 Raffles Boulevard, Suntec City, Singapore 039593 on 12 April 2017 at 10.00 a.m. and at any adjournment thereof. Stephen Geoffrey MILLER Fax : (65) 6721 5000 I/We direct my/our proxy/proxies to vote for or against the Resolutions to be proposed at the AGM as indicated hereunder. LIM Ming Seong Investor Relations In the absence of specific directions, the proxy/proxies will vote or abstain as he/they may think fit, as he/they will on any LIU Chee Ming Share Registrar For enquiries on the Group’s business other matter arising at the AGM and at any adjournment thereof. Nikhil O. J. EAPEN M & C Services Private Limited performance, contact the Investor 112 Robinson Road #05-01 Relations team at email: ir@starhub.com No. Resolutions For * Against * Nominating Committee Singapore 068902 Ordinary Business Rachel ENG Yaag Ngee (Chairman) 1 To receive and adopt the Directors’ Statement and the Audited Financial Statements and the Steven Terrell CLONTZ Auditors’ Report therein TEO Ek Tor 2 To re-elect Mr Stephen Geoffrey Miller as Director 3 To re-elect Mr Teo Ek Tor as Director 4 To re-elect Mr Lim Ming Seong as Director 5 To approve the Directors’ Remuneration 6 To declare the Final Dividend 7 To re-appoint KPMG LLP as Auditors and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration Special Business 8 To authorise Directors to allot and issue shares 9 To authorise Directors to offer and grant awards and to allot and issue shares pursuant to, and subject to the limits specified in, the StarHub Performance Share Plan 2014 and the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan 2014 * If you wish to exercise all your votes “For” or “Against” the relevant Resolution, please tick (√) within the relevant box provided. Alternatively, if you wish to exercise your votes both “For” and “Against” the relevant Resolution, please indicate the number of Shares in the boxes provided. * Voting will be conducted by poll. Dated this day of 2017. Total Number of Shares Held All rights reserved. Some of the information in this report constitute “forward looking statements” which reflect StarHub’s current intentions, plans, expectations, assumptions and beliefs about future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which may be outside StarHub’s control. You are urged to view all forward looking statements with caution. No information herein should be reproduced without the express written permission of StarHub. All information herein are correct at the time of publication. For updated information, please contact our Corporate Office. Signature(s) or Common Seal of members IMPORTANT: PLEASE READ NOTES OVERLEAF 3rd fold here & fold flap Affix Postage Stamp STARHUB LTD 112 Robinson Road #05-01 Singapore 068902 Attn: The Share Registrar 2nd fold here Notes: 1. Please insert the total number of shares held by you. If you have shares entered against your name in the Depository Register (maintained by The Central Depository (Pte) Limited), you should insert that number of shares. If you only have shares registered in your name in the Register of Members (maintained by or on behalf of the Company), you should insert that number of shares. If you have shares entered against your name in the Depository Register and shares registered in your name in the Register of Members, you should insert the aggregate number of shares. If no number is inserted, the instrument appointing a proxy or proxies shall be deemed to relate to all the shares held by you. 2. (a) A member who is not a relevant intermediary is entitled to appoint not more than two proxies to attend, speak and vote at the meeting. Where such member’s form of proxy appoints more than one proxy, the proportion of the shareholding concerned to be represented by each proxy shall be specified in the form of proxy. (b) A member who is a relevant intermediary is entitled to appoint more than two proxies to attend, speak and vote at the meeting, but each proxy must be appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by such member. Where such member’s form of proxy appoints more than two proxies, the number and class of shares in relation to which each proxy has been appointed shall be specified in the form of proxy. “Relevant intermediary” has the meaning ascribed to it in Section 181 of the Companies Act, Cap. 50 of Singapore. 3. A proxy need not be a member of the Company. 4. The instrument appointing a proxy or proxies must be deposited at the office of the Share Registrar of the Company, M & C Services Private Limited, at 112 Robinson Road, #05-01, Singapore 068902, not less than 72 hours before the time appointed for the Annual General Meeting. Completion and return of the instrument appointing a proxy or proxies shall not preclude a member from attending and voting at the meeting. In such event, the relevant instrument appointing a proxy or proxies will be deemed to be revoked. 5. The instrument appointing a proxy or proxies must be under the hand of the appointor or of his attorney duly authorised in writing. Where the instrument appointing a proxy or proxies is executed by a corporation, it must be executed either under its seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised. Where an instrument appointing a proxy is signed on behalf of the appointor by an attorney, the letter or power of attorney or a duly certified copy thereof must (failing previous registration with the Company) be lodged with the instrument of proxy, failing which the instrument may be treated as invalid. 6. A corporation which is a member may authorise by resolution of its directors or other governing body such person as it thinks fit to act as its representative at the Annual General Meeting, in accordance with Section 179 of the Companies Act, Cap. 50 of Singapore. 7. The Company shall be entitled to reject the instrument appointing a proxy or proxies if it is incomplete, improperly completed or illegible or where the true intentions of the appointor are not ascertainable from the instructions of the appointor specified in the instrument (including any related attachment) appointing a proxy or proxies. In addition, in the case of a member whose shares are entered against his name in the Depository Register, the Company may reject any instrument appointing a proxy or proxies lodged if the member, being the appointor, is not shown to have shares entered against his name in the Depository Register 72 hours before the time appointed for holding the Annual General Meeting as certified by The Central Depository (Pte) Limited to the Company. 1st fold here A BIG Thank You! To the below StarHubbers & their little one who in no small part, have made this annual report a more vibrant and colourful one with their bright smiles and warm personalities. Chris Tan Rod Strother Acquires sports content for Pay TV. A man of simple pleasures who’s Plays a mean game of golf & cooks. developing our Digital Transformation footprints. Loves football & his three furkids. Rayana Pandey Responsible for overall content strategy Nicole Ong & includes managing the C-suite’s Leads the social media team. Loves traveling presence on social. off the beaten track and a good latte. LOCATION: LOCATION: LOCATION: LOCATION: StarHub Retail Store Call Centre Homes Curiousity Hub Plaza Singapore Branch Tai Seng Islandwide StarHub Green Chai Juan Wei Mycar C. Jen Hong Elias Khan Nicolas Bureau Nicholas Chee A Shop senior Taboada From Frontline Training A senior eCommerce An eCommerce & A Corporate consultant As a Hubbing who identify gaps for Analyst who looks after Online Lead who Counsel who who ensures the consultant, she’s existing operational the analytics section of provides a delightful when not assisting highest quality of role-playing as process & recommends the online store, providing online experience with legal matters customer service a customer to new processes and actionable insights and for customers and for our business is provided at understand their assist in developing helping stakeholders to increase the online units, is into running, all times. pain points. process flowcharts. make data-driven decision adoption for sales and movies & good wine. to improve business. post-sales transactions. Vida Z. Rosel Adrian Siew Guo Jiawei Ethan Koh Maria Kolesnikova Floor Manager, Retail Shop Hub Trooper IP System Engineer Young Hubber SEO Manager “Managing the shop operations “I’m a die-hard soccer fan “I love challenges and “I’m the one who watches the “I oversee the marketing and & coaching consultants keeps & loves outdoor sports. competitive activities; both most StarHub TV programmes development efforts for natural me busy. At home, I love Reading tech news puts a smile physical & mental. Music and at home. I also love the fast search. Outside of work, I’m to bake while listening to on my face too.” fitness bust my grooves too.” speeds on StarHub fibre on a journey to discover how alternative music.” broadband to access my to feel great through yoga, favourite apps & follow rugby meditation & healthy nutrition.” and golf games.” Shareholders’ Feedback If you would like to give us any feedback on this year’s Annual Report, please send your written comments to our investor relations team at StarHub Ltd 67 Ubi Ave 1, #05-01 StarHub Green, S(408942) or email to ir@starhub.com Inspired by Sedgwick Richardson Thank You! StarHub Ltd Reg. No.: 199802208C 67 Ubi Avenue 1, #05-01 StarHub Green, Singapore 408942 T 6825 5000 F 6721 5000 www.starhub.com
