COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS IMPLEMENTING UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES IN BIOELEKTRA GROUP S.A. SEPTEMBER 2016 – S EPTEMBER 2017 BIOELEKTRA GROUP ACTIVITY Bioelektra Group is a Polish company founded in 2010 and the owner of innovative RotoSTERIL technology of waste treatment. We remain active in areas of circular economy, waste management and recycling. Sustainable business is our main principle and we encourage our stakeholders, communities and local authorities to follow it. Our main goals are:  to recover every recyclable material from waste and fully eliminate waste landfills  to simplify waste collection systems as much as possible, so all the people worldwide will be easily able to participate in the system  to save the energy and reduce GHG s emissions, by producing green, renewable fuels and minimizing production from primary raw materials and fuels Bioelektra main office is located in Warsaw. We also own the facility of mechanical – heat waste treatment in Różanki (northern Poland), which is the first implementation of our technology and functioning example of the simplest and most effective waste management system. Bioelektra joined UN Global Compact in September 2015. Our main focus are environmental issues and sustainable development implementation in waste management in Poland and globally. We also have in mind all the CSR matters in our daily operations, above all excellent working conditions of our workers. Last year brought some new challenges and new successes to our company. We started several research and development project, as we aim to contribute to the water, air and earth protection in our region even more. We were chosen as the most inspiring, innovative solution, stimulating circular economy development in the international “The Circulars 2017” competition and were awarded the “Energy Globe National Award 2017” statue as the best Polish project for environmental protection and sustainable energy usage. Our company was also chosen by the Polish Responsible Business Forum as one of the leading companies implementing CSR principles and so called “good practices” in their activities. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS DAILY ACTIONS 1. Human Rights  We ensure healthy environment for our workers, both in the office and the waste treatment facility. According to the legal regulations, we conduct OSH (occupational safety and health) analysis and OSH training for our employees.  We respect and take care for employees’ working conditions, for example we ensure home working possibilities, provide fully equipped kitchen and sanitary facilities (including healthy beverages and snacks).  We ensure constant development for our employees, which includes participation in specific trainings and conferences.  We protect workers from any discrimination or workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats.  In our production plant: we eliminate people contact with waste, which is potentially harmful and onerous – waste treatment and segregation line is fully automatic, workers’ duties include only logistics, machines operation and quality control.  In our production plant: we take all measures to provide safe and suitable work conditions during the waste treatment process (elimination of potentially harmful ingredients or designs, ensuring sanitary facilities, protective clothing). 2. Labour  We implement in our facility employees-friendly shift system and do not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour  We ensure very good wage standards and the salary system which includes full set of social security and health insurance contributions  We respect employees’ right to rest and encourage them to take vacation regularly  We provide relevant and objective criteria for employment-related decisions 3. Environment  We eliminate any negative impact of waste treatment process on environment, which includes: o odors elimination (it results from the technology parameters: waste are sterilized in the first stage of the process, which aims to eliminate microorganisms and decay processes; un-treated waste is stored in closed space in hall) o pollution control (dust extraction systems, water recirculation, clean LPG as fuel) o proper waste treatment (all waste is sterilized, clean processed fractions are stored in separate containers, we ensure collection of the fractions for further recycling and recovery), o proper waste water treatment (waste water from waste dehydration is collected in hermetic tanks and collected by qualified, licensed company), o proper components utilization (all the waste components from technological line are treated in accordance with instructions)  We implement circular economy in the simplest waste management system with no need of separate collection, so we minimize the emissions from waste transport  We aim to reduce carbon footprint and GHGs emissions – in our process we produce clean secondary raw materials and biomass from waste which aims to be fertilizer, soil improver or green fuel. Recycling and recovering these fractions have positive impact on environment by reducing primary production, primary raw materials extraction and significantly saves energy.  We ensure emergency procedures to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health  We minimize the use and ensure safe handling and storage of chemical and other dangerous substances  We also take measures to relief the environment with ecological activities in our office, by: o energy – saving practices (low energy solutions in the office, new energy saving PCs, printers and other machines, procedure of turning of all the equipment during the nonoffice hours, videoconferences organization instead of travelling) o water – saving practices (usage of dishwasher) 4. Anti-Corruption  We ensure anti-corruption standards in contracts with our business partners  We ensure that internal procedures support the company’s anti-corruption commitment ADDITIONAL ACTIVITIES Bioelektra participated in the number of events which are part of our company’s policies for sustainable business maintenance, CSR rules meeting and circular economy implementation, which are:  Contribution to UN Global Compact Yearbook 2016 / 2017 – we focused on global recycling challenges and innovations, in terms of UE’s requirements.  Planned contribution to UN Global Compact Yearbook 2017 / 2018 – we aim to focus on the global change from linear economy to circular economy and its implementation possibilities.  Membership in the Circular Economy Team by Polish Ministry of Economic Development – we joined the working group in order to share our experience and actively discuss the best possible directions of CE implementation for Poland.  Participation in “The Circulars 2017” competition – we were the winner in The Dell Circular Economy People's Choice Award category – as the most inspiring, innovative solution, stimulating circular economy development.  Engagement in “Energy Globe” project – we were chosen as the best Polish project for environmental protection and sustainable energy usage and were awarded „ENERGY GLOBE NATIONAL AWARD 2017”.  Cooperation with Institute of Fluid-Flow Machinery (Polish Academy of Science) – we set up a project concerning purifying and full re-usage of water recovered from waste in order to contribute to the water resources protection in the scale of our region and in future – globally.  Research and development – we set up several projects concerning upgrading the technology influence on environment and raw materials quality improvement: e.g. biomass thorough cleaning, biomass usage as a substrate for construction materials, foamed glass production.  Dialogue with local and national authorities: we participate in conferences and meetings aiming to implement circular economy and proper waste management in Poland, e.g. strategic economy conferences, industry specialists’ meetings in administrative bodies. MEASUREMENTS OF OUTCOMES  No employees were dismissed due to diversity factors  No employees quit their job due to diversity factors nor bad work conditions  Rate of occupational diseases, injuries, and absenteeism remains minimal  No negative impact on environment was noticed from the process  Ecological effectiveness of the process remains very high: all the separated plastics, metals and glass were recycled, biomass was used for energy production  No corruption intentions were noticed in the company
