LOCAL ACTION FOR GLOBAL CHANGE Crown Worldwide Group Sustainability Report 2017 Our place in the world At Crown, we aim to do business in a way that positively impacts the communities in which we live and work. We are determined to be an asset in each of our locations, by establishing responsible policies, monitoring our impacts and continuously seeking improvements. Contents Who are we? 4 Supporting United Nations Global Compact 8 Living our values 10 Our people, our planet 12 Our birthday gift 16 How well we did 18 Our 2017 targets 20 Environment 22 Health and Safety 28 Data Privacy 30 Human rights and labor 32 Stakeholder engagement 36 Anti-bribery and Corruption 42 Who are we? 4 The Crown Worldwide Group is made up of several divisions that share a common quality – the experience and insight to accomplish anything, from the complex to the routine. Every day we help people relocate their lives, organizations manage their corporate data and art professionals handle and ship their precious collections. 5 Crown Worldwide Group | 2017 Sustainability Report Crown World Mobility provides strategic assignment Other Crown brands, Crown Wine Cellars and management for multinational companies and Crown Logistics, include more conventional logistics government organizations. Crown’s experts are services from storing and managing wine collections, available in 54 countries, supporting employees project management of oil and gas equipment, hotel and their families on assignment and on repatriation. refurbishments, warehousing and distribution of luxury goods. Crown Relocations helps individuals and families relocate both domestically and across the world. Our With offices in 266 locations, we are loyal to our Move Managers are located in 250 offices across the local communities and the environment. Crown globe, all dedicated to providing a personal service for leads a sincere and wide-ranging Corporate Social a successful relocation. Responsibility (CSR) program – supporting health, education and welfare. In addition, we continually Crown Records Management is a significant force in revise our efforts to improve the environmental corporate information management. With impressive performance of all our operations. facilities worldwide, Crown manages secure archiving and retrieval of information in physical and electronic The Crown Worldwide Group, headquartered format – helping clients maximize the value of their in Hong Kong, was established in 1965. corporate memory. Our commercial activities are balanced with Our care for people and important information is compassion and responsible actions to make the matched by our delicacy in handling unique, sensitive world a better place for future generations. Through and often priceless works of art. From centers environmental, charitable and employee activities, worldwide, Crown Fine Art’s experts provide planning, Crown helps sustain itself and the communities handling, shipping and storage services for fine art to it serves. art galleries, auction houses, private collectors and museums around the world. 6 Crown Worldwide Group | 2017 Sustainability Report Crown Worldwide Group | Fast Facts Privately held company Established in 1965 Global/APAC HQ 56 54 Hong Kong Hello Americas HQ New York Languages Countries EMEA HQ Prague $ Facilities Nationalities Employees over Revenue 266 56 5,000 $697m Warehouse Clients over space over Owned properties $623.5m 10,000 9.5m ft2 / worldwide corporate clients 883,000 m2 Revised March 2017 7 Supporting United Nations Global Compact Crown Worldwide Group | 2017 Sustainability Report In March 2015 Crown joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC), the world’s largest corporate citizenship and sustainability initiative. This achievement is a result of an ongoing effort to become a more caring and sustainable business. To reach this status, Crown’s Chairman, Jim Thompson, formally committed to the UNGC’s ten principles regarding human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Crown has agreed to set goals in each of these areas and be transparent and accountable in its performance by publicly reporting its progress every year. The following chart demonstrates how Crown’s sustainability initiatives align with the ten UNGC principles. Crown Environment Health Data Fair labor Community Stakeholder Anti-bribery initiative and privacy practices partnership engagement and safety corruption Human rights UN Global Compact principles 1. Support and respect the protection of human rights. 2. Make sure not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor 3. Uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of rights of collective bargaining. 4. Elimination of forced or compulsory labor. 5. Abolish child labor. 6. Elimination of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation. Environment 7. Precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8. Initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. Encourage development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10. Work against corruption in all forms, including extrotion and bribery. 9 Living our values Crown Worldwide Group | 2017 Sustainability Report Our commitment to enhancing and developing our employees, continuing to make the world we live in a better place, and ensuring we continue to operate in an ethically responsible manner that aligns with our corporate goals, remains our focus. Our teams continue to put giving back at the center of what they do. In 2016, we saw a 1 percent increase in the number of branches taking part in CSR activities. The CSR activities our teams take part in are tracked on our CSR Activity Database and are shared on internal communication channels. In doing so, we share ideas across our global business, inspiring and motivating each other to get involved. In 2016, we exceeded our target of increasing participation in CSR activities by 15 percent. We stood by our responsibility to being there for our staff and each other by introducing of a new set of training courses covering health and safety, personal development plus health and wellbeing. We also signed up for the Global Corporate Challenge – a global initiative that encouraged our employees to make small changes in their lives in order to improve both their physical and mental health. In 2016, 33 percent of Crown employees took part in the challenge with some very positive results. Our determination to limit our impact on the environment meant we were able to exceed our targets. In comparison to the previous year’s figures, we saw a 5.2 percent improvement in fuel efficiency and a 10 percent improvement in electricity consumption. In addition, we introduced new initiatives to further reduce our carbon footprint. Crown recognizes and values people’s differences and one of our key areas of focus in 2016 was on diversity and inclusion. Crown is, by its very nature, a culturally diverse organization, but we wanted to go one step further and ensure that all employees, irrespective of sex, race, religion and sexual orientation, felt and were represented. As a result, we introduced a Diversity and Inclusion Policy and a stand-alone training course. Plus we formed a women’s network – the Crown Coronets. Our next chapter As we move into a new period in our company’s history, we will continue to evolve and strengthen our approach guided by our values and aligning our activities with the UN Global Compact to which we are signatories. And as we look forward to the year ahead, we will continue to contribute to society while maintaining the long term success of our business and ensuring that CSR remains at the heart of everything we do. 11 Our people, our planet Crown Worldwide Group | 2017 Sustainability Report Crown branches are committed to making our organization a sustainable one. They continue to make changes to their operations with the goal of reducing their environmental footprint. In 2016, staff from 29 branches across the world took part in over 300 CSR activities, an increase of 15 percent from the previous year. Crown Phillipines donated blood for Crown Canada raised the Phillipines Red Cross money for Move for Hunger Crown UK introduced telematics to monitor and improve vehicle efficiency Crown Japan achieved their ISO14001 accreditation Crown Santiago purchased a new fuel efficient vehicle Crown Qatar took part in a “walkathon” to raise Crown Frankfurt money for a diabetes charity delivered toys to children at Christmas Crown Brisbane volunteered at a food bank Our employees are our greatest asset. The Crown CSR activities by type team continue to put CSR at the top of their agenda. In 2016, 87 percent of CSR activities they took part in supported our communities, the biggest motivator by 87% Community far. These activities included working with local non8% Employee Engagement governmental organizations to help street children 5% Environment in Calcutta, donating items to the Salvation Army in New Zealand, fundraising for young refugees on the run in Switzerland and hosting a Christmas party for disadvantaged children in London. Crown teams are really committed to making a difference in the communities in which they live and work. 13 Crown Worldwide Group | 2017 Sustainability Report Crown’s CSR stories of 2016 Mexico donates blood and medical equipment Crown Mexico put its best CSR foot forward by contributing to a blood and medical equipment donation initiative. The team members that could not give blood collected donations to purchase medical equipment for the traumatology hospital in Lomas Verdes, which lacks supplies needed to properly serve the number of patients it receives. UAE distributes break-fast meals for Ramadan In the spirit of Ramadan, Crown Abu Dhabi partnered with Al Ihsan Charity Association to help distribute Iftar packs containing food to those in need including motorists and laborers, close to the sunset prayer time. Iftar is the feast that breaks the daily fast and Muslims often share it with family and friends. LA raise money for pancreatic cancer Crown LA took part in Purple Stride Orange County at William Mason Regional Park in Irvine, California. The Purple Stride events are critical to raising awareness and funds that advance research and support patients in their fight against pancreatic cancer. This five-kilometer run and family-friendly walk is one of many signature events for the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network. The team raised almost US$ 500 and in total – it was a powerful and inspiring day. Johannesburg’s food fundraiser supports the local community Crown Johannesburg took inspiration from Nelson Mandela’s wise words: “We can change the world and make it a better place, it is in your hands to make a difference”, and embarked on a fundraising journey. The team sold snacks and bunny chows – a local meal of bread and curry, raising US$ 355. From the proceeds, they built hampers and delivered them to 25 families from The Children Their Faces (TCTF), a non-governmental organization that supports disadvantaged children and their families. 14 Crown Worldwide Group | 2017 Sustainability Report France supports its community Crown France took part in an organized clean-up of the Seine river bank in Acheres, a suburb of Paris – clearing 108 kilograms of waste. Additionally, teammates took part in the 15th annual Odyssea event in Vincennes, a race that is organized to support breast cancer prevention. Fund raised were donated to the Institute Gustave Roussy Research Against Cancer. Hungary help the community Crown Budapest supported a charity organization helping underserved communities by gathering clothing, shoes and basic foods plus donating US$ 200. Malaysia enjoy a day of fun with orphaned children Volunteers from Crown Malaysia spent time with children living at the Amal Al-Firdaus Orphanage Home, also known as Rumah Amal Al-Firdaus (RAAF). RAAF was established in 2010 to educate children and provide them with a stable environment. It also acts as a day care center and cares for children between two and eight years old. While some of the children come from unstable homes, the majority of them are orphans. Our team organized fun activities that showcased their talents and donated some small gifts. 15 Our birthday gift Crown Worldwide Group | 2017 Sustainability Report A year on from celebrating our 50th birthday, we reflect on what an amazing year 2015 was for Crown. Our employees embraced CSR, getting involved in Crown’s “Golden Relay” in which each country organized its own CSR event(s) to raise money for charity. We surpassed our original goal of raising US$ 50,000, reaching over US$ 100,000. An amazing achievement which shows how engaged and committed Crown’s employees are to making a difference. To harness our employees’ enthusiasm, we’ll be Underserved children and young adults have asking them to have their say in deciding how this always been at the heart of our CSR activities. Birthday Gift should be spent. Each of our branches To demonstrate our continued commitment to will be empowered to nominate a local charity from our communities, and to say a huge thank you to their country that is specifically involved with helping all of our employees who each dedicated so much underserved children, and that aligns with one of of their time and energy into raising such a remarkable Crown’s five core values. Of the suggestions, five amount of money, the Crown Foundation will be charities will be selected and the US$ 50,000 will be donating US$ 10,000 for each decade of Crown’s distributed to those charities equally. As we move into life. This totals US$ 50,000 – a “Birthday Gift” to 2017, we’ll keep in close contact with those charities further support the needs of future generations. to follow their journey, see how they’ve used the money and who it has helped. 17 How well we did Crown Worldwide Group | 2017 Sustainability Report In 2016, we continued to meet and exceed our previous year’s targets, showing our determination to put CSR at the front of our business choices. Environment Compliance Stakeholder Target 1: Target 1: engagement Redesign the reporting of our Achieve a 10 percent increase (supply chain) natural resource system for better in external certifications at further accuracy and ease of use. Crown locations. Target 1: Ensure that 100 percent of service Our achievement Our achievement partners have completed the Following reviews and feedback While additional Crown businesses CSR-related elements of Crown’s from system users, we now have a gained ISO14001 and ISO27001 qualification process. defined set of enhancements which accreditations in 2016, due to have improved usability, efficiency market conditions, some Crown Our achievement and speed of data availability. Our facilities faced closure and, thus, We evaluate responses to latest figures are the most accurate we didn’t reach a 10 percent all questions on our service that they have ever been. increase. partner questionnaire, including those related to CSR and only approve partners that have Target 2: Target 2: passed the criteria we have Improve fuel and electric efficiency Increase understanding and use set. The questions our service by 2 percent. of legal registers and improve partners are required to answer local practices in environment cover: health and safety, criminal Our achievement management. record checks, past involvement Fuel efficiency improved by in litigation, relationships with 5.2 percent and electricity Our achievement government officers, participation improved by 10 percent. Greater awareness of the in Crown organized community importance of the legal registers or environmental related events, means regulatory adherence and policy and education on anti-bribery Target 3: compliance is now assured at all and corruption and environmental Increase the number of CSR sites holding ISO certification. impact policies. activities to 300 events. Group site standards ensure compliance at sites without Our achievement Target 2: ISO certification. The number of events our teams Enhance due diligence to ensure took part in reached 336, meaning responsible conduct for the high-risk an increase of 15 percent. parts of the supply chain. Our achievement During 2016, we completed risk assessments on all service partners in the top 40 high risk territories as identified in the Transparency International “Corruption Index”. 19 Our 2017 targets Crown Worldwide Group | 2017 Sustainability Report Throughout 2017, we will continue to be committed to monitoring and reporting on all activities of our business in line with the requirements of the UN Global Compact. Environment Compliance We will continue to encourage and facilitate our We will continue to monitor vehicle fuel efficiency businesses across the world to maintain and gain and electricity consumption. Additionally, we will external certifications: begin to monitor and report on water and office paper consumption. Our target: Increase countries present on each certificate (ISO 1400, OHAS 18001 and ISO 27001) Natural Measurement Target by one country per standard. resource Vehicle fuel Km per liter 9 km per liter Stakeholder engagement average across = continued all vehicles, improvement We will continue to find ways of engaging our excluding and emissions employees to look after themselves and the world motorcycles reductions they live in. We will also look to find ways to engage with our supply chain and encourage them to do Electricity Per m2 in kwh 2.7 kwh per m2 business better. average = sustained and controlled Our employee target Water Average per 1,800 liters employee per = continued • Increase the number of employees or countries liter used improvement and taking part in CSR activities and reach for at least control 350 recorded activities. Office paper Per office 1.20 reams = • To have at least 1000 employees across the world employee improvement taking part in the Global Corporate Challenge. average encouraging technology Our supply chain target developments Introduce new e-Learning for our service partners in the following topics: • Health and safety • Environment • Induction to working with Crown 21 Environment Crown Worldwide Group | 2017 Sustainability Report Different ways of working are allowing Crown to control our impact on the environment, as too is technology. Going digital Improving facilities Reducing carbon In 2016, Crown Relocations We continue to look at different emissions launched its virtual consultation ways of powering our facilities, From 2010 to 2016, Crown UK service. This new service removes focusing on environmentally low planted nearly 15,000 new trees the need for our consultants impact alternatives. With every working with PATT, a tree planting to physically be in a customer’s new purchase, Crown learns charity in Thailand. While PATT home to conduct a survey, saving more about how to make these is no longer in operation, Crown’s time and money. We are also investments financially sustainable so that we can continue to expand goal for 2017 is to create a new reducing our emissions and fuel charity partnership that will allow consumption. Currently, virtual their use around our world. us to continue offsetting our consultations are being delivered carbon emissions. in some test markets and we hope In 2010, Crown London made to extend this list of countries a forward thinking decision to install a 25 kW PV (solar panel) Our “Big CO2” project for 2017 as we move into 2017. is the installation of LED lighting system. In a little under six years, this system has generated sufficient in some of our facilities around funds to cover the cost of the initial the world. This will see a reduction investment and we look forward of energy consumption of between to the benefits lasting upwards 50–75 percent and, with a bulb life of of 20 years. up to 10 years, this means our bulb waste will be significantly reduced. Our natural resource consumption and In addition, unlike fluorescent bulbs vehicle fuel efficiency databases enable containing hazardous materials, us to monitor our consumption rates, LED bulbs are less damaging to plus keep track of all environmental the environment when disposed. initiatives that each of our offices and facilities are involved in around the world. In 2017 we are drawing ISO accreditations plans to enhance these databases ISO 14001 is an externally audited to more easily monitor our natural international standard that specifies resource use and impact. requirements for an effective environmental management system. Crown is continuing to gain ISO accreditations across its operations and in 2016, four new branches gained their ISO 14001 accreditation. 23 Our people their goals Crown Worldwide Group | 2017 Sustainability Report Australia attain ISO 27001 Crown Australia has added a further string to their bow with the successful certification of ISO 27001 – Information Security. Over the past eight months their project team of Carl Pearson (National IT Manager), Melissa O’Connor (National HR Manager) and Peter Schacht (National Alliance and Quality Manager), have been working behind the scenes in preparation for this ISO 27001 accreditation. The project team underwent four days of intense auditing where SGS reviewed all Crown Australia’s processes in detail. We were able to demonstrate our true commitment to Information Security. This certification, together with certificates the branch already holds: ISO 9001, 14001, and 18001, allows us to fully demonstrate to all of our customers our total commitment to best in class processes and commitment to quality. 25 Crown Worldwide Group | 2017 Sustainability Report Tokyo attain ISO 14001 Santiago “drives” top quality In 2016, our Tokyo office spent many months planning standards and preparing to gain their ISO 14001 certification In correspondence with Crown’s initiative to reduce and, with the hard work of three Tokyo Environmental costs and increase competitiveness, Crown Santiago Committee members, they were successful. recently unveiled a brand new moving van. The previously unused Mercedes Benz Vito has a cargo As well as achieving their accreditation, Crown Tokyo capacity of up to six cubic meters of volume and has been actively participating in a number of CSR is optimized to give outstanding fuel economy and activities, including a beach clean-up where volunteers reduced emissions. This supports Crown’s initiative spent a half day cleaning one of the nearby beaches for to reduce our carbon footprint and optimizes our Mother Earth Day. The branch will continue to support resources for the operation of materials handling and this initiative in 2017. packaging for international moves. 26 Crown Worldwide Group | 2017 Sustainability Report Joint CSR event with one of More achievements for the Crown’s key accounts – Unilever United Kingdom and Ireland In September 2016, 11 Crown and Unilever employees For the second consecutive year, Crown UK&I has worked as a team by volunteering at the Society been awarded a Gold in The Royal Society for the for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA) Prevention of Accidents Occupational Health and Singapore. Their role was to help clean the animal Safety awards. Crown has taken part in this award shelter, walk rescue dogs and tend to some of the scheme since 2008, encompassing every branch in other animals. It was a fulfilling day for all volunteers the UK&I region. Crown’s Health and Safety Policy and demonstrates true partnership between Crown and Manual was written and is maintained in the UK, and their valued clients. therefore the same standard and approach is applied across each of our branches around the world. In 2016, Crown UK achieved Bronze membership of the Fleet Operator Recognition Scheme (FORS). FORS is a voluntary accreditation scheme that promotes best practice for commercial vehicle operators, driving best practice across the European fleet industry in terms of safety, efficiency and environmental protection. In gaining this certification in the UK and seeing the good practice and cost savings benefits, we are hoping to replicate this in other locations in which we operate. 27 Health and safety Crown Worldwide Group | 2017 Sustainability Report Health and Safety is relevant to every part of Crown’s businesses and in 2016 we developed additional ways to create a safe place for our employees to work. Sharing knowledge Accident reporting OHSAS certifications Crown has implemented a globally During 2016, we implemented a One of our goals for 2017 is to accepted Health and Safety Manual, globally-shared Accident Reporting expand our OHSAS 18001 health available to all employees and tool via SharePoint. All Crown and safety certification to additional accessed via the Crown SharePoint facilities must report complete locations. In doing so, we will site. The manual is the basis for details relating to an accident, further spread and embed safe our global OHSAS 18001 policy. including cause and prevention. work habits for our employees Following external audits from SGS We now have the power to read around the globe. (the world’s leading inspection, real time information regarding verification, testing and certification accident type, frequency and company), Crown has now retained benchmarking data. This allows us and grown to 32 certified sites, to determine whether our health up from 20 in 2014. and safety systems are supporting our objective of constantly To further embed good practices, improving Crown’s record as a safe we have improved access and environment for our employees knowledge of global processes, and customers. policy and standards in health and safety through the company’s internal SharePoint platform. This now gives our people better access to manuals, documents and local records to ensure the well-being of our employees. Certified sites can use this to manage required documentation; locations aiming for initial certification have access to guidelines enabling them to achieve certification. In addition, we continue to maintain easy-to-read pocket guides on general health and safety advice and on safe driving for all our employees. 29 Data privacy Crown Worldwide Group | 2017 Sustainability Report Being a responsible company means protecting customers’ and employees’ right to privacy. We do this by abiding to consistent policies and practices to safeguard their personal information. Crown’s Binding Corporate Rules (BCR) on data ISO 27001 is an externally audited information security privacy – which comply with international legislative standard that Crown has achieved and is extending to requirements and recommendations – are mandatory its businesses around the globe. At the end of 2016, privacy procedures for all our sites. we’d increased the number of Crown sites with this certification to 29, including our Hong Kong headquarters Crown’s standardized data processing rules help keep – this is an increase from 2015. Now our headquarters personal information safe and ensure prompt reporting have reached this goal, it will positively impact other to management if there is any data breach. We are Crown branches across the organization. During 2016, certified with the EU-US Privacy Shield Program which four new sites gained certification and we hope to further means handling of customer data according to EU increase this number in the coming year. requirements. In some cases, sensitive information is also handled by Crown’s service partners. Therefore our supply chain management system emphasizes compliance with data privacy policies through the qualifying and contractual stages of an engagement. This process is led by Crown’s Chief Risk Officer and a Group Compliance Officer, both appointed in 2014. 31 Human rights and labor Crown Worldwide Group | 2017 Sustainability Report We are committed to treating our employees fairly. In addition to complying with local employment laws, we support the labor principles of the UN Global Compact, which include: • Equal opportunity employment Where it all began • Prohibiting child labor In 1965 a young American man traveled to Yokohama • Prohibiting mistreatment by workplace bullying in Japan. With little spoken Japanese but a dream five • Prohibiting sexual harassment times bolder than his plan, he established Crown. The business has today expanded to 265 locations in • Prohibiting retaliation to employee seeking almost 60 countries, with employees of 74 nationalities to invoke his/her rights speaking 58 languages. These policies are detailed in our formal Code However diversity is more than just a collection of of Conduct that documents a zero-tolerance for people from different countries. Fifty years down the discriminatory practices, forced labor or the employment track, we’re proud of the fact that 41 percent of Crown of children under 16 years of age – all of which Crown employees are women; 41 percent of management views as violations of basic human rights. Our Code of positions are held by women and 43 percent of our Conduct is acknowledged annually by all employees; Executive Management Group (EMG) are women. any suggested violation of these principles will result in Today, we embrace diversity in all its forms: culture, investigation and corrective action. education, gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, nationality, disability, religious background, age, Crown’s Group Vice President of Human Resources experiences and ways of looking at things. and our global HR team maintain and manage these labor policies. While almost half of Crown’s EMG members are female, this does not translate across the organization. Diversity and Inclusion has been an area of strong Even in companies where women are in the majority, focus for Crown in 2016, seeing the creation of a they often need support to get in, get heard, take specific D&I Policy and the formation of the Crown career risks and take on new challenges. Crown is Coronets – a women only network. committed to ensure that women’s skills and insights are represented throughout our company. Crown Coronets was created in 2016 to support and inspire the growth of women working for Crown Worldwide Group. This voluntary, employee driven network helps with the exchange of ideas, experience, the sharing of best practices, and the development of leadership skills. Our goal is that Crown women, benefitting from a network of peer support, role modeling and a mentoring environment, will develop the confidence to drive their personal career development and ultimately, Crown’s success. 33 Thinking forward The real commitment Diversity is one part of the equation, but inclusion is Diversity is at the heart of Crown and will help us the real commitment. In 2017, we will be implementing to innovate as we grow through the next 50 years. unconscious bias training at all levels of the Inclusion is about leveraging this diversity to achieve organization. Plus, we’re looking at growing networks results. It is about creating an environment where for other diversity groups. everyone is valued, where everyone is safe to bring their differences to work each day and where they There are also some countries with legal and/or social can always contribute. barriers to certain types of diversity, the most common example is sexual orientation. Crown measures diversity in many ways: ideas, geographies, economic and cultural backgrounds, religion, disabilities, race, gender, work experiences, generational differences, sexual orientation, education and more. Tolerance, equality and fairness are a big part of this initiative. D&I increases innovation and creative problem solving. We want to focus on universal assumptions around D&I and there will be many ways in how we put it into practice. So, in 2017 we will also be enhancing our HR system to allow us to confidentially collect diversity data, which will ensure we can continue to keep diversity at the forefront of what we do. 34 “When Crown values employee diversity, we have a better balance of views, more effective decision making, it leads to innovation, and to put it simply, diversity makes Crown a better place to work.” – Barry Koolen, Executive Board 35 Stakeholder engagement Crown Worldwide Group | 2017 Sustainability Report Engaging our stakeholders is key to successful relationships with our employees, our clients and our services partners. In 2016 we implemented strategies enabling us to foster all of these relationships. 1. Developing our employees In 2016, our first challenge year, we gained some From the top down, every manager and employee amazing results: sets performance goals – including those aligned • One third of our workforce across the globe with Crown’s CSR goals. CSR goals help each registered to take part in the program employee reflect on the impact of their role and find measurable ways to improve their commitment • The same percentage of employees completed to CSR. Crown’s global Employee Volunteering the pre-GCC survey and post-GCC survey Policy encourages employees to get involved in • In comparing the results of pre versus post GCC making a positive impact to their local communities. journey, we found the following: Every single employee is provided with two paid 71 percent of staff reported a decrease in their volunteering days per year. This initiative: stress levels – either home or work • Enables volunteers to give back to the 57 percent reported an increase in productivity communities in ways that are personally and locally meaningful 89 percent said they were more aware of their exercise • Builds teamwork and strengthens relationships between colleagues 91 percent said they would participate again • Develops self-confidence by meeting new Equally important through tracking the overall challenges outside of the workplace data in GCC’s system, we found that 64 percent • Helps develop management and other skills that of employees increased their exercise levels to are professionally and personally beneficial 10,000 steps or more per day. Studies show that employees of companies involved We had some real success in 2016 and we want in CSR activities are more engaged in their workplace to apply that knowledge to make our participation and therefore more productive. in the 2017 campaign even better. CSR activities grew by 15 percent in 2016, which evidences the growing engagement of our employees. The health and well-being of our employees is also of great importance to Crown. In 2016 we took part in the Global Corporate Challenge (GCC), an annual challenge which sees thousands of employees from upwards of 1000 companies around the world getting involved and competing, over a 100 day period, to improve their mental and physical health. 37 Crown Worldwide Group | 2017 Sustainability Report 2. Engaging our employees Drivers with a decline from 2015 to 2016 are teamwork and relationship, inspirational leadership The Crown Employee Survey measures employee and making a difference. engagement throughout all levels and across all geographies. The survey was conducted for the Compared to last year second consecutive year in 2016. There was Comparing the engagement score of 81 percent a marked increase in response rate, up from with the active engagement score of 70 percent, 65 percent in 2015 to 80 percent, which is a differential of just 9 percent indicates that encouraging and something we want to continue employees are not only engaged with their job to improve on in the coming year. and team but also inspired by the company’s mission and leaders. The results The Employee Engagement score increased from Generally, employees are proud of Crown’s 79 percent in 2015 to 81 percent in 2016, based values, company culture, work environments, on four criteria – “Crown is a great place to work”, diversity and CSR. “I plan to be working for Crown in two years’ time”, “Crown is making a difference” and completion rate. “Crown is committed to bringing The Inspired Employees (Active Engagement) awareness and knowledge to all score increased to 70 percent in 2016, based on our staff. Through the next year four criteria – “Crown is serious about making the world a better place”, “Crown gives me our staff will have the opportunity the opportunity to make a difference”, “Crown and choice to belong to groups senior leadership team believes in and shares the company’s values”, and “I consider our senior that are important and meaningful leaders to be inspirational role models”. to them...a chance to self-reflect, learn, share wisdom, collaborate While there were some minor variations in the results, the three areas of celebration remained with others who have different the same as 2015 employees feeling they are skills, knowledge and perspectives, contributing to Crown success, building Crown values into everything they do, and enjoying a good and at the same time share the and safe working environment: same values and foundation.” Although there was improvement in the three Magali Delafosse, Group VP – HR lowest statements related to benefits, career discussion and praising employees, those remain the areas of concern and ones we will continue to monitor in 2017. 38 Crown Worldwide Group | 2017 Sustainability Report 3. Investing in our employees 4. Flexibility and support Professional development Crown has also developed a robust set of policies In 2016, we launched Crown’s Accredited Skills designed to provide flexibility and support to training courses, which aim to provide our our employees. employees with opportunities to continuously improve and develop their skills. Volunteering Our commitment to CSR means we encourage • In total 3052 accredited skills courses were our employees to positively impact local taken across all regions communities by volunteering time and talent. Our policy provides every employee with two • The top three courses were (1) Managing volunteering days per year. Stress (2) Team Working Excellence (3) Communicating Effectively Flexible working Crown recognizes that flexible working Employees can also learn from the 64 different arrangements can provide benefits to both courses on Crown University, where in 2016 the employer and employees. As part of its a total of 9387 courses were taken. commitment to providing a positive working environment, Crown is committed to enabling In 2017 we are releasing two new programs employees to achieve an appropriate work-life aimed at up-skilling and developing our managers balance. At the same time the guidelines will throughout the Crown network. These highly support managers in developing a more flexible participative programs will introduce our workforce in line with service needs. employees to management models and tools used to ensure that their teams progress and become Career break more productive in their approach. We will also Crown recognizes that some employees may wish be holding career development workshops open or need to take an extended break from work, to any employee who would like to take control for a variety of personal reasons, during the course of their career. of their employment. Developed in accordance with Crown’s policy on equal opportunities, Also in 2017, all employees will be using Insights it aims to provide a sympathetic response to Discovery, a self-development tool which allows employees wishing to take time away from work individuals to increase their self-awareness and and ensure that all employees are treated in a fair self-understanding. It will aid all areas of skills and consistent manner. development from communication to change through to leadership where the outcome will Code of Conduct improve employee engagement, productivity We also ensure that every employee at Crown and teamwork. reads and commits to Crown’s Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct governs the way we act As well as the above, we will also be developing in Crown: how we do business, our stance on and reviewing our e-learning tools and implementing discrimination and equal opportunities, our a new learning management system and a new commitment to fairness and ethical behavior, survey tool. our zero tolerance of bribery and how we communicate externally and internally – very important rules about the way we “conduct” ourselves. All Crown employees must confirm that they have read and accept the terms of the policy when they start with Crown and when the policies are reviewed and updated. Crown UKI has been awarded an Investors in People (IiP) Bronze Award. Securing this award means we’ve been recognized for our investment and commitment to “defining what it takes to lead, support and manage people for sustained success”. 39 Crown Worldwide Group | 2017 Sustainability Report 5. Recognizing our employees • Giving Back Award Marion Wright, our Personal Assistant in Sydney, Employee Awards Program chose to visit Crown London for winning the In 2015 Crown launched its Crown Worldwise Giving Back Award. Employee Awards Program, the objective of which is to measure employee performance against our five brand values. The scheme recognizes and rewards our brightest and best employees, across all divisions and throughout all regions. The awards take place every year (with winners announced at the end of the year). In its inaugural year and to celebrate Crown’s 50th anniversary, the 2015 winners were awarded inter-regional trips and in 2016, they were able to travel to a Crown location of their choice: • Outside the Box Award Hiroki Naoyoshi, our Operations Manager in • Great Communicator Award Tokyo, chose to visit Crown Sydney for winning Jane Margetts, our Marketing Manager in UKI & the Outside the Box Award as a result of his Northern Europe, chose to visit Crown Hong open-minded approach and outlook. Kong for winning the Great Communicator Award. • I’ll be There Award • Strive to Succeed Award Jacintha Ferrao, our Senior Move Coordinator Michelle Coughlin, our Director IT World in Bahrain, chose to visit Crown Paris for Mobility, won the Strive to Succeed Award winning the I’ll Be There Award. and is yet to take her trip. In 2016, the awards program’s second year, we once again received over 400 nominations and chose a number of regional winners, as well as five overall winners in each of the award categories that match our core values. Long-serving employees At Crown, we recognize the value of long-serving employees and believe in rewarding their commitment. In 2017 to bring consistency to our global practice, our Tenure Awards policy will be applied to all countries, across all brands and functions. 40 Crown Worldwide Group | 2017 Sustainability Report 6. Partnering with clients • Monitored the use of recycled and recyclable materials where appropriate. A focus of 2016 was to increase Crown’s partnerships with key clients and external • Analyzed our supply chain ownership in all stakeholders in CSR activities. Partnering with territories to support the local governments’ clients to help the community has the added benefit diversity efforts. of helping teams to communicate and function even • Improved contractual documentation to further more successfully in business activities. This will support Crown’s commitments to its clients continue to be a main focus in 2017. relating to employment practices. • Encouraged our supply chain to participate 7. Working with our supply chain in Crown organized events that support our Crown has embarked on a project, the objective community related activities. of which is to review the way we manage and monitor our external suppliers and how we govern Crown provides services considered high-risk, ourselves. This project will span all of our businesses that is, immigration services and customs and upon successful implementation, we can prove brokerage, to some high-risk territories. We apply that we apply the same strict criteria for measuring enhanced due diligence on all partners involved quality, performance and cost efficiencies to our in those service types and territories, particularly Crown offices, that we apply to external partners. where there is a financial and reputational risk by In the long term, this will ensure that in any instance association. Using a financial risk platform, in 2016 of continual failure to deliver satisfactory results to we completed risk assessments on all partners in our clients, we have the means and resources to the top 40 high-risk territories as identified in the identify the issue and make necessary changes. Transparency International “Corruption Index”. As part of our evolving supply chain management In 2017, we will extend this further and embark upon program, we continue to work with our service creating a Risk Profile for our service partners. Our partners and suppliers to ensure that their efforts aim is to establish a system where we can apply a risk are, and continue to be, aligned to Crown’s rating to all our partners based upon a number of sustainability goals. factors. This will ensure we mitigate any associated risks of using a service partner. Crown’s Service Partner Network is a collection of carefully selected companies in every country All Crown service partners, whether new or we work that help us provide services to our re-certifying, must meet certain criteria when clients. Technology used to manage Crown’s going through Crown’s qualification process, Service Partner network continues to develop. covering: It is the platform for the gathering of information • Health and Safety that enables us to assess the existing efforts within • Anti-Bribery and Corruption our supply chain in the existence of sustainable, • Environmental Impacts ethical and legally compliant management processes. Using this information, we provide feedback and All responses are evaluated and only partners guidance to our partners that encourages them that have passed the criteria are approved. This to continually improve their efforts. ensures that Crown is working with service partners who share its values and commitments. Over the past year we have: • Increased our service partners’ agreement to We will continue to expand our knowledge our codes of conduct relating to Data Privacy portfolio to further educate and engage our supply and Anti-Bribery and Corruption to 85 percent, chain where appropriate. resulting in better service delivery to Crown and our clients. Crown has mandatory e-Learning programs on Data Privacy and Doing Business without • Engaged a third-party specialist to manage our Bribery, which all of our service partners, hotline to aid reporting of any suspected code whether new or recertifying, must undertake. breaches, non-compliance and unethical behavior, which ensures our objective and impartial review. 41 Anti-bribery and Corruption Crown Worldwide Group | 2017 Sustainability Report It is Crown’s policy to conduct business with a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. Crown is committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in compliance with global anti-corruption laws. We continue to improve, implement and enforce systems to counter bribery and corruption in our business dealings and relationships. As with any global business, this Every year, Crown employees Also available to all our employees comes with challenges when doing receive training on our Anti-Bribery is a third-party hosted ethics and business in almost every country of and Corruption Policy; this also helps compliance hotline to anonymously the world. In 2015, Crown focused our people learn how to identify and report any suspicious activities. These on further assuring full compliance avoid supporting improper practices programs are driven by Crown’s in every country, including those of others. Chief Risk Officer and Group with less developed legislation on Compliance Officer, roles which anti-bribery and corruption (ABC). Employees also receive awareness work independently and impartially This requirement covers every training on our documented global to uphold our objective to work service segment, even those most Code of Conduct. This details against corruption in all forms. at risk. To facilitate 100 percent expectations of every employee compliance, all service providers when it comes to business integrity. BS 10500 is a new standard are being vetted, trained and sign Acknowledged by employees intended to help an organization our Service Partner Agreement annually through Crown’s to implement an effective (which includes a provision that we performance management system, anti-bribery management system. can audit their accounts/processes these include rules on appropriate Crown’s UK entity is the first at any time). This will enable us to practices related to: to gain accreditation. more easily conduct periodic audits, • Conflicts of interest especially in high-risk locations. • Securities and antitrust laws These enhancements are targeted • Agreements/collusion with to be fully implemented by the competitors, customers or end of 2016. Service partners licensees undergo training on anti-bribery and corruption through our “Doing • Relationships with public officials Business without Bribery” program. • Bribery, kickback and fraud In 2015, 23 percent of service • Sanctions and trade embargoes partners completed the course and in 2016, we had completion by 85 percent of partners. We are specifically targeting service partners in areas with low levels of existing corporate governance. 43 www.crownworldwide.com © 2017 Crown Worldwide. All rights reserved.
