Improving well-being by offering the best of nature Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 1_ Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 I ROQUETTE I FOREWORDI roquette In brIef Improving well-being by offering the best of naturE A leader in specialty food ingredients and pharmaceutical excipients. A family-owned Group serving customers globally, Roquette is a leader in specialty food ingredients and pharmaceutical excipients. The products and solutions developed by the Group deliver proven technological, nutritional and health benefits precisely tailored to the pharma, nutrition, food and selected industry markets. Roquette’s offer is produced from plant-based raw materials such as corn, wheat, potatoes and peas. Since its foundation over 80 years ago, the Group’s growth has been based on innovation, a passion for the job and a commitment to achieve. Roquette operates in over 100 countries, has a turnover of 3.2 billion euros and currently employs more than 8,000 people worldwide. 2_ 2_ Activity Activityand andSustainable Report2016 DevelopmentReport SustainableDevelopment 2016IIROQUETTE ROQUETTEII ITABLE OF CONTENTS p16 sourcing TABLE sustainably OF CONTENTS p22 innovating sustainably p30 biorefining sustainably p38 acting sustainably p48 reporting I ROQUETTE I Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 _3 Editorial EDITORIAL I In 2016, Roquette made investments designed to drive prospects, growth and meaning! What is your take on 2016? Jean-Marc Gilson, ER I To address the numerous global what do you consider as the most challenges to come, population growth, significant events of 2016? changes in and diversity of eating JMG I We positioned the Group as a habits, the emergence of new special top-performing player in its sector. diets, gluten-free, allergen-free or It is not an end objective as such, but vegetarian, Roquette has taken a bold it provides the means to accomplish step and is working on a significant our vision. We set up our new Global phase of future growth. For instance, Business Units (GBU) organization, the Group has decided to boost its which aligns our resources with our range of nutritional solutions and to strategic ambitions in each sector. We develop plant proteins. More than also reinforced our innovation centers Edouard Roquette ever, our mission is to help improve in Europe, the United States and more Chairman of the the nutritional well-being and health recently in Asia in order to develop Board of Directors of millions of consumers all over the specific products for the high-potential world. markets in South-East Asia. Is the family-owned dimension I would also like to highlight a new of the Group an asset? customer service approach based on a ER I Indeed, we engage in investment, highly-integrated organization that we research and development programs are going to gradually roll-out across that are fully consistent with a longthe Group. It not only entails addressing term approach. This makes Roquette customer needs, but addressing them a unique partner. We dare to position interactively, facilitating our relations ourselves on new markets, which and ensuring that our customer is others who are more focused on fully satisfied. We want the customer short-term performance wouldn’t experience with Roquette to be perfect necessarily do. The best example is from start to finish. the decision we made in late 2016 to In order to support our growth as establish ourselves in Canada in order well as that of our customers on a to build a new plant to process pea long-term basis, the Group has set protein. This investment will lead to the ambitious sustainable development establishment of the most significant goals for the years to come. We have pea protein production site in the world, always maintained an intimate bond serving the food, nutrition and health with nature. markets. It will have a profound impact on these markets. Jean-Marc Gilson Chief Executive Officer 4_ Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 I ROQUETTE I IEDITORIAL Executive Office Jean-Marc GILSON Chief Executive Officer Sustainable development is deeply set in the Group’s DNA, particularly as regards recycling plant raw materials. In addition, every year we set up bolder procedures, such as in the fields of energy and water. To this effect, in India we recycle all of the water in our plants. It’s a global first, which we wish to reproduce across the Group. Sophie ANCELIN Jeremy BURKS Driven by a growth dynamic and the Human Resources Global Business commitment of its employees, the Units & Commercial Roquette Group has asserted its position as a leading global producer of natural ingredients for the food, nutrition and health markets. Edouard Roquette concludes : “Acting and investing sustainably now makes sense more than ever!” Emmanuel de GEUSER Nathalie JOANNES Finance Group General Counsel Thierry MARCEL Gianfranco PATRUCCO Research & Global Operations Development I ROQUETTE I Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 _5 _5 INTERVIEW CORPORATE I 2016 places us in a position favorable for speeding up our growth dynamic. The business climate in 2016 was below 7%. Only India experienced some particularly beneficial to the Roquette jolts due to demonetization. Group, leading to a milestone The raw materials market experienced performance that positions it as a a fifth year of consecutive decline both global front-runner in its business in terms of wheat from Europe, or corn sector. Firstly, the Group benefits Emmanuel de GEUSER from the committed efforts made from the Americas or Asia. The only Executive Vice President Finance by its entire teams to better address difficulty recorded was in India, whose poor monsoon resulted in a sharp price customer demands consistently. increase for local corn. Its new organization for the Global Business Units endows the sales Energy, a key component of the division with a decisional capacity, as Group’s expenses, also experienced well as a new approach that is less a relative decline in prices, as the fall quantitative than in the past. in oil prices impacted gas prices. This coincides with a slight fall of the euro “What matters is not the volume but against the dollar (2%), after its strong the value created by the business,” depreciation in 2015, thus favoring highlights Emmanuel de Geuser, who Roquette’s positions. “Mostly, our notes a slight decline in turnover linked costs are in euros, while our export to trade-offs and concurrent speeding sales are in dollars,” says Emmanuel up of the specialties, super-specialties de Geuser, to whom the outstanding and ingredients with a high added performance in 2016 “places us in value for the food, nutrition and health a good position to speed up our sectors. profitable and sustainable growth Then, the macro-economic context of dynamic.” 2016 was beneficial to many fields. Global growth held steady at 3.1% with more reliable growth recorded in Europe, but accelerating. The United States, a high added-value market, remained above 3%, and Asia slightly 6_ Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 I ROQUETTE I ICORPORATE Key figures A presence over 100 countries Turnover 3.2 Billion euros World total Americas: 2 20 europe: 10 industrial sites asiA: 8 World total Americas: 550 8,000 europe: 4,950 employees asiA: 2,500 top 5 Starch processing industry More than 300 employees innovation dedicated to research 40 patents per year IIROQUETTE ROQUETTEIIActivity andSustainable Activityand SustainableDevelopment 2016 _7 Report2016 DevelopmentReport _7 CORPORATE I Our markets and our products Some examples Satisfying our customers and of applications developed anticipating their needs is the with our customers: Group’s number one priority. In order to provide them with the most appropriate solutions, we optimize all components of renewable raw materials (corn, wheat, potatoes, peas) by drawing on our botanical expertise. To this effect, we harness the technological and nutritional properties of these natural resources with the aim of offering a broad range of products and solutions in the fields of food, nutrition and health, as well as other industry sectors. As such, we offer over 700 products worldwide. Our industrial know-how, which is driven by a longstanding tradition of engaging in research and innovation, enables us to be at the cuttingedge of solutions. It guarantees the high quality of our products and services, appreciated by our Food & human customers around the world. nutrition Our plant-based solutions with nutritional and health benefits enable us to: • Offer solutions that are adapted to people with diabetes thanks to our ingredients with a low glycemic index: NUTRIOSE® soluble fiber, SWEETPEARL® maltitol, • Help prevent sarcopenia (muscle weakening) which affects seniors: NUTRALYS® plant proteins, • Reduce the sugar level in foods: SWEETPEARL® maltitol and NUTRIOSE® soluble fiber. 8_ Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 I ROQUETTE I ICORPORATE Pharma Excipients, raw materials and active ingredients make up a wide range of products with multiple uses for the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industry, which serve to: •S  ave lives: LYCADEX® PF pyrogen-free dextrose, a vital molecule of the human body, used in solutions administered through infusion for first-line treatment in emergency situations, • Facilitate medicine intake: dosage formulation, mannitol-starch combination, PEARLITOL® Flash for orodispersible tablets that do not require water and melt in the mouth. Animal nutrition Thanks to our expertise and in-depth knowledge of the market, we offer a wide range of products for animal nutrition, farm animals and pets, which help:  rovide nutritionally balanced and readily •P digestible solutions for cow feed: COREX® M200 corn gluten, •P  rovide top-quality energy sources for domestic animals, dogs and cats: VITEN® CWS hydrolyzed wheat gluten. Industry Our solutions derived from renewable plant matter are both effective and competitive. They meet changing market demands and serve to: •O  ffer an alternative to latex derived from petrochemicals for use in coating (technique used to obtain various paper weights) in stationery: STABILYS® thermally modified starch, • Provide proven technological benefits to performance plastics and thermosetting resins: POLYSORB® isosorbide. I ROQUETTE I Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 _9 CORPORATE I Roquette governance Didier de Menonville, Denis Delloye, Stéphane Baseden, Christophe Roquette, Carole Lajous, Edouard Roquette (Chairman), Jean-François Rambicur (Vice-Chairman), Sonia Artinian, Marc Roquette, Pierre-Emmanuel Lepers Governance keen on implementing The Board of Directors, a collegiate The highest good operating practices and combody mandated by all shareholders, standards mitted to ensuring the Group’s susmainly determines the strategic orientainable performance. tations of the Group, oversees its maof governance nagement and ensures the efficient With a capital entirely held by over 250 shareholders who are descendants of Dominique and Germain Roquette, running of the subsidiaries. More specifically, in the course of 2016, 10 members in the the brothers who founded the comgiven the digital changes and related Board of Directors pany in 1933, the family continues to aspects, the Board of Directors adapfirmly pursue changes in its model of ted its operating methods by establigovernance based on the best stanshing a secure platform for electronic edouard roquette dards recommended by the Code of exchanges and launched discussions Chairman the AFEP-MEDEF professional bodies, to better anticipate the risks of using while adapting them to the specificities the new technologies and collaborative 5 of an unlisted family-owned group. tools which will be gradually set up as Family part of the digital strategy of the Group. Directors The Governance, which remains stable since the last appointments, has been In addition, the Board pays particular successfully evolving to maintain faattention to the quality and clarity of + mily control through generations. It the information submitted to shareholserves, for a rising number of shareholders, and to ensuring an accurate per5 ders and spouses, to better anticipate ception of the issues that are signifiIndependent future challenges and to ensure the cant to the Group. Directors decision-making organs are aligned with each other. 4 committees 10_ Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 I ROQUETTE I In addition to the annual general meeBased on this determination to foster is headed, the shareholders must ting which is an ideal time for comcorporate spirit, a Roquette family unibe able to reflect on the challenges munication and discussions between versity (UFR) is held every two years in that lie in the future and the choices the company, its management and alternation with site visits. Its objective that these upheavals will entail. To shareholders and the two briefings, is to enable the shareholders and their this end, this shared vision approach in 2016 the shareholders had the opspouses to “reflect together on what anchors the company in a long-term portunity to participate in two training they wish to become together.” perspective and strengthens cohesion sessions through webinars. and sustainability of the family shareholders, which represents a considerable asset for the Group and These new tools offer easy access, enable better information sharing and Family shareholders, its future development. have promoted commitment among a considerable asset the younger generations. Visits of for the Group and various sites of the Group are also arranged; thus, in 2016, the shareholits future development. ders met in Benifaió in Spain. The visits present an opportunity for the family To this effect, and in view of the 2017 members to discover the investments UFR, a vision project was launched in required to ensure the Group’s comDecember 2016. petitive edge, as well as to share and exchange ideas with the local teams in Besides figures and strategy, to a friendly atmosphere. better understand where the Group 1 Appointments and Salaries Committee 2 Strategy Committee Christophe Roquette, Sonia Artinian, Jean-François Rambicur (Chairman), Jean-François Rambicur, Stéphane Baseden (Chairman), Edouard Roquette, Marc Roquette Denis Delloye, Edouard Roquette 3 Ethics and Sustainable Development Committee Didier de Menonville, Carole Lajous, Marc Roquette (Chairman), 4 Audit Committee Didier de Menonville, Christophe Roquette (Chairman), Carole Lajous Denis Delloye, Pierre-Emmanuel Lepers I ROQUETTE I Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 _11 CORPORATE I major events of 2016 BRAIN, AnalytiCon and Roquette sign a strategic partnership for the development of next generation natural sweetening solutions In August 2016, the three partners formed the DOLCE consortium in order to meet challenges in terms of sugar and sugar alternatives for numerous markets and applications. This collaboration makes it possible to combine the R&D expertise of BRAIN and AnalytiCon with the know-how of the Roquette Group in terms of formulation and production. Roquette commits to supporting the development of the protein sector In October 2016, Roquette signed a joint commitment with the French government along with other agribusiness stakeholders grouped together in a consortium named “Protéines France”. Its goal is to develop the proteins sector particularly by supporting and promoting R&D and industrialization projects related to plant-based proteins. The Vecquemont site (France) celebrates 60 years In October 2016, the only potato starch processing plant of Roquette that is located in Vecquemont (France), celebrated its 60th birthday. This served as an occasion for the site to open its doors to the public. Created in 1956, the Vecquemont plant is the main starch processing plant in France and employs over 250 staff. Roquette’s commitment to the Biopharma market In 2016, Roquette decided to develop an offer to meet the demands of the biopharma sector (pharmacy branch involved with preparing biological products). This is a growing market which represents the future of the pharmaceutical industry. The new range of high-quality products broadens the offer and helps keep patients alive and ensure their well-being. 12_ Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 I ROQUETTE I ICORPORATE Roquette inaugurates the first deep geothermal power plant near its Beinheim site (France) Roquette inaugurated on June 7, 2016 in Ritterschoffen, near its Beinheim site (France), the operations of the first deep geothermal power plant for industrial activities. The inauguration took place in the presence of Ségolène Royal, the French Minister of Environment, and Edouard Roquette, Chairman of the Board of Directors. The only one of its kind in the world, the plant serves as a genuine model in terms of renewable energies. Three sites of the Roquette Group rewarded by “Starch Europe” for their safety performance In October 2016, Starch Europe presented safety awards to 3 Roquette sites: Beinheim (France), Vecquemont (France) and Amilina (Lithuania). They were rewarded for their commitment to safety and the absence of work accidents with stoppage for an entire year. A very large capacity drying unit in Gokak (India) In December 2016, the site in Gokak (India) built a new drying unit in order to boost the starch production capacity while improving the hygiene, quality and comfort of the employees. Established with the support of other sites of the Group and through knowledge and expertise sharing, the facility is one of the largest drying units in the starch processing industry. Roquette receives the Special Jury Prize at the Risk Management Awards In March 2016, Roquette received the Special Jury Prize at the 4th edition of the Risk Management Awards organized by Crowe Risk Consulting and IFACI (French institute of auditing and internal control). Roquette distinguished itself through its structured and effective risk management approach, stemming from the impetus provided by the Chairmanship and the Executive Management, as well as its pragmatic approach to steering risks. I ROQUETTE I Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 _13 CORPORATEI Droits de l’ hom Respecting io me rrupt (p ag e o la c s1 4re 15 ont ) c the 10 principles Lutte of Global Compact 21, 42 à 47) es 19 à Roquette has been a member of the UN Global Compact since 2009. Norm (pag ent es d m u ne The UN Global Compact brings together businesses, tra iron organizations, UN agencies, labor stakeholders and civil va v En society around ten universally recognized principles il (p designed to build companies that are more stable and age s1 more inclusive. Within a framework of voluntary 4 à commitment, an international reference system, an action 5, 32 and exchange platform, the Global Compact is the largest ) -1 35 global initiative in terms of social responsibility with over 12,000 participants in 170 countries. Roquette has been a member of the UN Global Compact since 2009. Every year, this Sustainable Development and Activity Report offers us an opportunity to describe our actions in support of these ten principles. zoom E-learning code of conduct In 2015, the Roquette Group established a new code of this code which they might deal with on a day-to-day basis of conduct, the operational application of the ethics while practicing their professional activity. The contents of charter. It defines the conduct to adopt, attitudes to the e-learning sessions are entirely based on practical cultivate and those which must be avoided. The code is not situations. a substitute for the various regulations, standards, directives Very easy to access and accessible at any time, many and procedures. managers used this e-learning tool to raise awareness in In 2016, e-learning sessions (online training) were set up to their teams. allow each employee to understand the essential principles 14_ Activity 14_ Activityand andSustainable Report2016 DevelopmentReport SustainableDevelopment 2016IIROQUETTE ROQUETTEII ICORPORATE Human Rights Businesses should: P14 Support and respect Make sure the protection that they of internationally are not complicit proclaimed in human rights human rights, abuses. Labour Businesses should: P14 P40 TO P43 Contribute to the Uphold the freedom of Contribute to elimination of Contribute association and the the elimination discrimination in to the effective effective recognition of of all forms respect of abolition of the right to collective of forced and employment child labour, bargaining, compulsory labour, and occupation. Environment Businesses should: P18 TO P21 P32 TO P37 Support Encourage the Undertake initiatives a precautionary development and to promote greater approach diffusion of environmental to environmental environmentally friendly responsibility, challenges, technologies. Anti-Corruption Businesses should: P14 Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. I ROQUETTE I Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 _15 Our Performance commitments indicators 1Source sustainably We fully optimize all of our raw materials. They are derived from agriculture By encouraging local supply and as and optimizing means of such annually transportation to combine renewable. economic profitability and low environmental footprint. in 2025 we are committed to ensuring that 2 20% of our supplies be certified Improve or rated continuously as “sustainable our raw material and responsible”. quality By clearly specifying our needs, strictly selecting our suppliers and reinforcing quality control chain from fields to biorefineries. 3 Strengthen relationship with our raw materials suppliers By building partnerships with breeders and farmers to select and use more suitable agricultural resources. 16_ 16_ Activity Activity and and Sustainable Report 2016 Development Report Sustainable Development 2016 II ROQUETTE ROQUETTE II sourcing sustainably IIROQUETTE ROQUETTEIIActivity andSustainable Activityand SustainableDevelopment 2016 _17 Report2016 DevelopmentReport _17 INTERVIEW SOURCING I We want to procure supplies in a sustainable and responsible manner. Given the annual consumption of over in order to respond to customer and eight million tons of raw materials, consumer needs,”says Massimiliano Roquette must manage its supplies Benso. based on a vision of sustainability, a commitment which the Group fosters To this end, specific specifications around three pillars, year after year. have been established, while the First, “We want to procure supplies control chain has been strengthened Massimiliano Benso in a sustainable and responsible and consistently adapted from source to plant, especially with regard to Head of Raw Material & Energy manner, and locally where our specialized sectors such as the Purchasing and member of the plants are located”. This optimizes potato, pea or special corn. In addition, Sustainable Development Committee transportation means and helps combine profitability and reduced the Group is renowned for its strict e nv i ro n m e nt a l i m p a c t ,”s t a t e s approach in terms of health conditions. Massimiliano Benso, Head of Raw Third pillar of continuous improvement, Material & Energy Purchasing. This long-term relationships with suppliers, approach promotes local ecosystems especially those who supply agricultural and employment by using proximity products. This long-term consistency suppliers, under a well-controlled serves to enrich knowledge and process. “Our ambitious goal is to techniques, including sharing them have 20% of plant-based raw materials based on mutual trust, with the aim certified as sustainable by 2025,” adds of obtaining raw materials of the best Massimiliano Benso. quality possible, while improving yields Consumption capacities Second pillar, quality of the products. and optimizing the supply chain. “A winby plant-based raw material Corn win goal,” highlights Massimiliano Benso. This entails a strategic element for 5 (millions of tons) the plant raw materials mainly used in priority sectors such as food and Wheat pharma. “We not only want a raw material, but also quality assurance Potatoes 2.3 Peas 1 0.08 2016 18_ Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 I ROQUETTE I ISOURCING Management of sustainable and responsible supplies Each year, Roquette transforms over eight million tons of plant raw materials. Corn, wheat, potatoes and peas supplies come from over one million hectares of farm land, and facilitates long-term relationships with suppliers. Potatoes Who doesn’t know potatoes? They are used in animal nutrition due to their very high nutritional balance. Grown in over 150 countries and the third most consumed crop by man in the world, potatoes were the first raw What are the advantages of starch production? materials to be processed by Roquette. Starch production entails many environmental benefits. What do we do with potatoes? First, it is a low-pollutant in terms of air or water emissions. Continuously recycled water is used in the extraction of Roquette extracts starch (complex glucose chain) from starch and its purification, thus limiting the use of clear potatoes. It stands out by its great level of purity, its neutral water from external sources. Secondly, vegetation water taste and its lack of smell, which makes it very useful in for potatoes, once concentrated, serves as an excellent many food applications. Thanks to starch, the Roquette fertilizer for local farmers’ fields, thanks to its high nutrient Group provides its customers around the world with highlevel. end solutions that possess known properties for the food, pharmaceutical and industrial sectors. As such, potatoes are an interesting raw material that is continually used for an increasing and varied number of How is starch obtained? applications, especially in the field of nutrition and health. First, the potatoes are grated, then they go through a separation phase, followed by a sieving phase, and lastly, they are refined thus obtaining starch.Through this 5,000 manufacturing process, other products are obtained such as fibers and solubles. zoom ON Vecquemont In 2016, the Vecquemont plant, one of the four to deliver the 5,000 tons of starch potatoes industrial sites of Roquette in France, celebrated transformed by the plant, with the help of seasonal its 60th birthday. Built in 1956, it is the one and workers added to the permanent staff of the plant. only potato starch processing plant of the Group The latter only uses local production within a and the main starch processing site in France. On 70-km radius. the occasion of this event, many people got the The plant is a benchmark site in terms of field opportunity to discover the plant while in service. to plant performance (storage optimization, cost The families of the employees as well as external cutting) and respect for the environment (water service providers and producers were also invited. reclamation, recycling). Every day, over 1,000 farms use a cooperative I2016IRADD _3 IIROQUETTE ROQUETTEIIActivity andSustainable Activityand SustainableDevelopment 2016 _19 Report2016 DevelopmentReport _19 SOURCING I Awareness campaign on food safety in Lithuania In order to meet recommendations concerning plant protection products, Roquette’s Lithuanian site and its external partners organized a nation-wide awareness campaign on these products and their residue. Good practice models were presented to the local farmers and retailers. First, they were informed about the possibilities in terms of rational use of plant protection products, then they were invited to participate in meetings with experts. The latter helped them to understand the risks arising from disinfection practices as well as to consider solutions without an impact on health. Additionally, articles on safety linked to using various substitute products in agriculture were published in local newspapers. Lastly, brochures describing five key principles were distributed to the local communities. They described the importance of using responsible means against parasites by choosing high-quality harmless insecticides, without forgetting to respect the instructions. Developing relations with corn suppliers in India The Roquette Group consistently seeks to build an informed and motivated community. Prevention applied Corn is the only plant raw material used in Roquette’s to safety especially for members of the community is one plants in India. As a result, it is vital for the Group in India of the priorities of Roquette in Lithuania. to ensure lasting relations with suppliers from the farming community. To this end, the company holds meetings in order to: •H  elp them meet the required quality demands; •E  ncourage the suppliers to develop fair and responsible commercial practices; • Share knowledge on best agricultural practices, especially when visiting farms. Subsequently, the Roquette Group wishes to support the socio-economic development of the corn-farming communities by making them aware of the importance of post-harvest good practices. Such practices help obtain better yields and encourage farmers to grow corn. In October 2016, the Gokak plant (India) received local farmers. A French team attended the meeting and held discussions at length with the farmers and suppliers. Various issues were discussed, e.g. best agricultural practices to optimize yields, the various policies and codes of the Roquette Group or the impact of poor quality corn on the end product. “Strengthening links with our raw material suppliers” is one of the commitments of the Roquette Group which acquires real meaning in India. 20_ Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 I ROQUETTE I ISOURCING Reducing the A significant expense item for the impact of logistics Group, logistics procurement is mainly composed of maritime, rail and road transport, or a combination of these transportation modes, known as multimodal transportation. 45,000 In 2016, a global approach for maritime transportation enabled the procurement and logistics teams to optimize transport. For the first time, a worldwide tender offer was initiated involving over 70 maritime companies. containers annually Maritime transportation is an essential link in terms of guaranteeing service to customers. Thanks to the in volume establishment of framework agreements and periodic performance reviews with suppliers, the company is now in on the rise a position to better monitor the overall service levels offered and therefore focus on the improvement areas. Key and main figures characteristic of maritime transportation at Roquette: • A volume of over 45,000 containers annually, • Great diversity of origin (with departures from countries in Europe, Asia and the Americas) and destinations, • Different container types and sizes used. zoom Dual-energy trucks One of the Group’s partners has invested in the first particulate matter, and as a result lowers impact on dual energy 44-ton tractors (liquefied natural gas/ air quality. diesel) and has chosen Roquette to develop this This budding but very promising technology, technology. will ultimately lead to a transition from the diesel The dual-fuel engine functions like a conventional currently in use to energy that is cleaner and less diesel engine. The gas supplies 70-80% of the noisy, with a much lower environmental and societal tractor’s power, while the diesel takes over once the impact. The green transportation revolution is gas reserves have been consumed. underway! This innovative technology helps reduce CO 2 emissions by 15-30% as well as strongly reducing I2016IRADD _3 IIROQUETTE ROQUETTEIIActivity andSustainable Activityand DevelopmentReport Report SustainableDevelopment 2016 _21 21 I2016IRADD 2016 __3 Our Performance Commitments indicators 1Understand customers’ needs Innovating for our customers is in our genes. and anticipate consumers’ IN 2025 we are committed expectations to ensuring that By developing pharma, nutrition, food and industrial innovative solutions that help improve our consumers’ health and well-being. 70% of our projects 2 meet the criteria of “sustainable” chemistry and that Develop a sustainable development journey inspired 80% of the new solutions offered to our customers by customers’ from the expectations same projects meet the By offering them environment-friendly, Sustainable innovating, sustainable and Development Goals competitive solutions. of the UN. 3 Strengthen sustainability in our innovation processes By including sustainable development criteria as a key element in our innovation projects. 22_ Activity 22_ Activityand andSustainable Report2016 DevelopmentReport SustainableDevelopment 2016IIROQUETTE ROQUETTEII INNOVATING sustainably I IROQUETTE ROQUETTEIIActivity andSustainable Activityand SustainableDevelopment 2016 _23 Report2016 DevelopmentReport _23 INTERVIEW INNOVATING I The entry point is always the customer need. Innovation is in Roquette’s genes as The commitments of Roquette also it consistently produces new plantinvolve the willingness to make based products and solutions. The customers themselves benefit from Group now integrates sustainable sustainability, which is embodied by development right from the initial a new indicator. “It’s an issue that we Jean-Marc Corpart stages of innovation. “We do start had not been working on until now. Head of Chemistry Research & off with natural resources, but we Yet, sustainability is a global issue that Development and Member of the transform them to better respond to the needs of our customers and is part and parcel of their needs. One of our indicators is based on three of Sustainable Development Committee consumers. We are therefore keen the 17 Sustainable Development on ensuring that our processes Goals of the United Nations signed align as much as possible with the in September 2015: improvement principles of sustainable development,” of well-being and health, access and states Jean-Marc Corpart, Head of improvement of water treatment as Chemistry Research & Development. well as more responsible consumption “Approximately a third of the carbon and production,” states Romain Joly. footprint of the end products is in our “There is currently a major trend in hands,” emphasizes Romain Joly, Head terms of demand for healthy products of Customer Innovation Excellence. of natural origin,” adds Jean-Marc This commitment, embodied by Corpart, who highlights the example of concrete indicators, also serves to the demand for complementary plantraise the awareness of and challenge based offers as an alternative to animal all teams. “In our projects, we not only protein. “The entry point is always the apply research and development but needs of the customer and of the also marketing, sales, production, consumer, for whom sustainable supply chain, regulatory services ... and development becomes essential.” other key functions of the company,” adds Jean-Marc Corpart. Romain Joly Head of Customer Innovation Excellence 24_ Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 I ROQUETTE I IINNOVATING The expertise of Roquette’s scientific community in support of the Group’s growth Roquette’s development is based on a long history of technology and industrial expertise, and equally on its long-term partnerships with customers. Roquette’s research and development priorities are worldwide, as close as ever to customers and the markets, determined by the market needs, which are increasingly as well as through internal events to promote knowledge focused on nutrition, health and the selected industrial and expertise sharing. applications. Always attentive to customers, Roquette constantly develops more innovative and competitive food and nutritional solutions, bioactive ingredients and solutions for effective materials. These innovative offers are designed to meet the key challenges related to health, changes in food consumption and the environment. They aim to respond to the increasingly characterized consumer expectations in terms of sustainable development. Roquette’s R&D adopts a continuous innovation approach, particularly involving exploring new needs and trends. This is demonstrated by the launch of new R&D centers zoom On the global R&D Science and network Technology Forum In order to meet specific customer needs in every in Lestrem (France) region around the world, Roquette has deployed An internal forum bringing together all teams R&D centers in Europe, and more recently in the involved with innovation projects took place at United States and in Asia. The latter centers build Roquette’s Lestrem site (France) in December on the historical center based in Lestrem (France) 2016. This participatory event encouraged the and are at the heart of new markets that bear sharing of experiences between the researchers, high potential for the Group. They have been the Customer Technical Service teams and the entrusted with the mission of assisting with the project managers. development of products and solutions, building It helps the Group to bolster its capacity to work networks with local partners and institutes in a network setting, consolidate its expertise and exploring new opportunities linked to the and align its global ambitions to customer emerging trends in these regional markets. needs. I ROQUETTE I Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 _25 INNOVATING I Innovative solutions for the food, nutrition and health markets CREATILICIOUS™ BAR, towards healthier lifestyles The CREATILICIOUS™ BAR, a tasting stand at trade fairs, is Among the 9 concepts developed with the application an attractive and efficient means of proving the benefits experts of the customer technical service: of the plant-based ingredients of the Roquette Group based • The delicious pancake made for sportsmen/women and on creative and delicious food concepts. By experimenting elderly people. Easy to prepare, the mixture combines with the CREATILICIOUS™ BAR, visitors can evaluate and several sources of proteins, including the NUTRALYS® taste the innovative solutions applied to Roquette products. pea protein. • The Virgin Mojito, a refreshing drink without sugar which facilitates intake of the daily recommended fiber amount thanks to the NUTRIOSE® soluble fiber. It also served as the opportunity The CREATILICIOUS™ BAR drew considerable interest among visitors during the past event of Health Ingredients to demonstrate Roquette Group’s Europe (Frankfurt, November 2016). Following this event, commitment to customers, not only an online survey was conducted; the feedback was very positive: as a supplier of ingredients • 100% of the visitors rated Roquette’s solutions as but also of solutions. “convincing” or “very convincing” after testing the food concepts. • 8 7% would recommend Roquette to friends and colleagues. • The most preferred concepts were #1 the protein-filled pancake and #2 the Virgin Mojito. *Based on 17 responses received from people who visited the Roquette stand during the 2016 HIE 26_ Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 I ROQUETTE I ROQUETTEIIActivity IIROQUETTE Activityand andSustainable SustainableDevelopment DevelopmentI2016IRADD Report2016 Report _27 _27 2016 _27 INNOVATING I Innovative solutions for the food, nutrition and health markets BIOPHARMA: a key growth market Biopharmaceutical products are becoming the heart of the pharmaceutical industry. These drugs from the biopharma sector (pharmacy branch linked to the preparation of biological products) have proven their revolutionary capacity by enabling the remission of rheumatoid arthritis and by facilitating the treatment of many cancers. Biopharmaceutical products are experiencing the highest growth in the pharmaceutical industry. The turnover is estimated as I 278 billion dollars I by 2020, i.e., over 24% of the current pharmaceutical market or double traditional pharmaceutical products (Persistence Market Research 2015, Evaluate Pharma 2016). This growth is due to the remarkable efficiency of these products and to the few associated side effects when used in a clinical context. The Roquette Group is a leading company in the pharmaceutical excipients and ingredients market. The new range of high-quality BioPharma products broadens the offer and helps keep patients alive, ensure their wellbeing and as such meets the priorities of the Roquette Group. To meet the expectations of the biopharmaceutical market, significant developments were made in 2016 by the Roquette Group. Recently, several new products were launched in the European, American and Japanese markets, with the Quality documentation and packaging specific to BioPharma. • LYCADEX® BioPharma dextrose In order to satisfy all of its customers, the Group ensures • PEARLITOL® BioPharma mannitol procurement safety thanks to vertical integration, tests during production, optimal management of raw mate• NEOSORB® BioPharma sorbitol rials, reduction of any variability and ensuring a secure, reliable and traceable logistics chain. 28_ Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 I ROQUETTE I IINNOVATING Natural solutions for many technological applications For industrial markets, Roquette offers innovative, sustainable and biosourced solutions. Biosourced performance for cars Roquette products are used in many application to assist They offer technological solutions both in terms of you on a daily basis, e.g. in your toothpaste or the paper thermoplastics (polyesters, polycarbonates and TPU for your magazines. Did you know it is possible to find a Thermoplastic Polyurethanes) and resins (such as Roquette product in your car? polyurethanes, etc.) Indeed, the Roquette Group manufactures components In addition to its natural source and many technological of the materials used in the dashboards of new cars with assets, it has been demonstrated that POLYSORB® innovative designs, presented during the 2016 Paris Auto isosorbide is not harmful to health. Show. Created by a Japanese company, the material used is partially biosourced as it is derived from POLYSORB® isosorbide. It resists bumps and scratches while offering a shiny finish without paint. Produced in Lestrem (France), POLYSORB® isosorbide is a polyol obtained from sorbitol, a derivative of starch. Roquette is the leading global isosorbide producer, thanks to a patented process that ensures a high purity level of the product created. POLYSORB® isosorbide and its derivatives are used in a wide variety of materials to improve their technical properties. New biosourced solutions for water treatment Used daily, water is a vital natural resource. In order to conserve it, Roquette proposes efficient and sustainable biosourced solutions, in many fields including water treatment and particularly for its clarification. Roquette develops many solutions through its NAIACLEAR® brand. zoom CUSTOM-MADE SOLUTIONS IN TURKEY In Turkey, Roquette recently began working This application is called Emulsion Breaking with with a local firm which had been researching NAIACLEAR® 200FA. It is a unique solution for innovative water treatment applications that the textile industry and serves to avoid heavy are environment friendly. metals or chemical products during water treatment. The initial research helped validate a promising solution for future developments with a high Roquette, through the NAIACLEAR® series, added value. therefore offers custom-made solutions for its customers’ needs. I ROQUETTE I Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 _29 Our Performance commitments indicators 1 Optimize our energy Our industrial performance is at the heart of our concerns. consumption By installing energy-efficient In 2025 we are committed solutions and using to ensuring that, relevant compared to 2015, renewable energies. our energy efficiency improves by 2 10% and our water consumption per product ton Preserve reduces by 20% water By optimizing our processes to minimize consumptions and installing efficient treatment technologies. At the same time, 3 we are committed to implementing technical installations that produce less CO2 thereby preventing Further reduce 1 million tons of CO2 emissions other environmental by 2025. impacts By implementing the most relevant solutions based on local specificities. 30__ Activity Activity and and Sustainable Report 2016 Development Report Sustainable Development ROQUETTE II 2016 II ROQUETTE BIOREFINING sustainably II ROQUETTE ROQUETTE II Activity and Sustainable Activity and Sustainable Development 2016 _31 Report 2016 Development Report _31 INTERVIEW BIOREFINING I Small streams make big rivers, even in industry. Just because Roquette creates How to proceed? “It is a continuous value for all components of planti m p rove m e n t p r o c e s s w h i c h based materials does not mean it incorporates progress. Roquette cannot do better! It is due to this designs its plants itself to ensure that belief that for nine years the Group the new tools meet consumption has been publishing its actions and its goals. This also involves continuously Jean-Luc Gribot impact in its activity and sustainable improving our efficiency through better Head of Global Health, Safety & development report. monitoring, better maintenance and Environment and Member of the “At the Group, we have decided to equipment upgrades,” says Jean-Pierre Sustainable Development Committee endow our actions and projects with Duda, Head of Expertise & Support. more vision and coherence. We defined Sustainable development also commitments which were published involves initiatives in support of the in 2015, and completed in 2016 by communities near our various sites key indicators, to be met by 2025,” around the world. “We are always describes Jean-Luc Gribot. striving for a balance between the three pillars: the planet, people and The method is hinged on consistent profit. Let us reduce our CO2 emissions, transparency and progress. It let us reduce our environmental impact; is backed by cross-functional, that will contribute to improving our multicultural and operational task productivity. Small streams make big forces. Specific indicators have been rivers, even in industry,” concludes set up based on each of the Group’s Jean-Luc Gribot. commitments: Sourcing, Acting, Biorefining and Innovating. Roquette’s ambition is to reduce its energy intensity by 10% by 2025, while encouraging the use of renewable energy, i.e. an expected overall economy of one million CO2 tons. The Group also intends to reduce its consumption of water drawn from a Jean-Pierre Duda natural environment by 20%. Head of Expertise & Support and Member of the Sustainable Development Committee 32_ Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 I ROQUETTE I IBIOREFINING Committing to the Environment Every day, the Roquette Group commits to minimizing the impact of its activities on the environment. For each one of the Group’s industrial sites, the environmental approach is based on ISO 14001 and four plants are certified. Lianyungang (China), Benifaió (Spain), Panevezys (Lithuania) and Pantnagar (India). An approach on improving the energy performance (ISO 50001) was initiated in Europe in 2015, and Benifaió (Spain) was the first site to obtain certification. In 2016, the four sites in France were certified. Air: improving its quality Roquette strives to limit major impacts on the atmosphere Concerning NOx emissions, all gas boilers in the French by its plants. plants have been equipped with new state-of-the-art low NOx burners, thus allowing Roquette to stay at the cutting Dust emissions are closely monitored by the Roquette edge of technology and to reduce atmospheric emissions. Group and many installations are equipped with highperformance dust control systems. In addition, the Lestrem site (France) has equipped its pilot plant with isosorbide with a biofilter that allows treatment New investments were made in India at the Gokak site of residual VOCs (Volatile Organic Compounds) on a peat which take into account technical best practices to limit bed. dust. The same goes for the Wuhan site (China). The replacement of coal boilers with gas boilers has helped reduce dust and CO2 emissions. Waste: minimizing and recycling them The activities of the industrial sites of the Roquette Group This perfectly illustrates this cycle towards upstream generate little waste. Indeed, as plant raw materials are local agriculture and thus serves to reduce use of chemical the very engine of the Group’s production, maximization fertilizers and to improve the economic gains of the entire of material efficiency is fundamental and they are fully sector. In 2016, to further improve application manarecycled. gement, a filter-press was installed in the Lestrem site (France) thereby reducing the amount of water in the proBesides reducing other waste at the source, Roquette sites duct and limiting the use of lime. are grounded in a territory and an ecosystem which counts numerous recycling cycles, thereby applying the concept of As regards the remaining waste, the sites regularly improve a circular economy. the quality of source recycling and are consistently seeking recycling means that are more effective and environment Many practices illustrate this principle such as effluent mefriendly (composting, recycling, energy recovery). thanization which generates energy or use of effluents rich in fertilizer materials to improve farm land. I ROQUETTE I Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 _33 BIOREFINING I Water: a resource to conserve Water is a precious resource and the Roquette Group is committed to conserving this vital resource in terms of extracting the various components of the raw materials used. Investments have been made, especially in Italy and in Lithuania, in order to secure the supply of drilled water at these sites. The optimization of water consumption and respectful use of this resource is a constant commitment of a responsible industrial firm. For instance, at the Lianyungang site (China), condensed water from the air conditioning circuits is reused in the cooling towers circuit. At the same time, Roquette continues to implement actions to reduce the environmental impact of its emissions. For example, at the Lestrem site (France), two major investments with a reach well beyond regulatory values, have been established in order to reduce the amount of phosphorous and nickel in water. To this effect, the site was assisted by the Artois Picardie water agency. Increasing recycling zoom Recycled water: m3/day A challenge facing water in India 700 600 In 2016, the Gokak site (India) suffered the effects of drought due to poor monsoon. 500 To address this major challenge, the site 400 established the following principle: “reduce, recycle, reuse”. 300 The introduction of equipment such as 200 new aerobic rotating treatment system for effluents of 10,000 m3 and the installation 100 of a multi-purpose evaporator for solubles helped improve effluent treatment. This also 0 optimized the reverse osmosis installation in 2013 2014 2015 2016 Dec. 16 order to recover clean water and re-channel it Gokak site (India) for use in boilers and cooling circuits. The site achieved zero emissions in 2016. 34_ Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 I ROQUETTE I IBIOREFINING Water is a precious resource IIROQUETTE ROQUETTEIIActivity andSustainable Activityand SustainableDevelopment 2016 _35 Report2016 DevelopmentReport _35 BIOREFINING I Committing to renewable energy Keenly aware of the impact of its business operations on the environment, the Roquette Group contributes to limiting global warming by using new and renewable energy. What are the types of renewable energies? Drawn directly from natural resources, renewable energy the earth’s surface, for the site in Beinheim (France) (see is primary, non-degraded energy, which is inexhaustible zoom). in the long run. It comes in many forms: living strength of water, wind energy, solar radiation, but also geothermal As such, these renewable energies are recovered through energy, heat from firewood, etc. These energies help reduce the production of electricity, heat or both, thanks to cogreenhouse gas emissions and use of fossil energy. generation systems and/or traditional boilers. To this effect, the Group, through its commitment to a sustainable development approach, has been using various These energies help types of renewable energies such as biogas and biomass. From this year, Roquette has also been using geothermal reduce greenhouse energy, a process that serves to produce thermal or electric energy through the heat within the layers beneath gas emissions. How does the Group use zoom these energies? A one-of-a-kind geothermal power Biogas (methane) is used as a substitute for natural gas, either directly in the boilers or in co-generation plant in Beinheim gas turbines. It is produced from equipment for treating Roquette inaugurated on June 7, 2016 aqueous effluents from the plants. About ten methane in Ritterschoffen, near its Beinheim site digesters are installed on the Group’s industrial sites. (France), the operations of the first deep As regards biomass, it supplies many boilers: that is geothermal power plant for industrial particularly the case in India, China, France and Lithuania. activities. The boilers use wood or rice husk. Supplying production This power plant, created in conjunction sites with biomass boilers can meet up to 100% of the with Electricité de Strasbourg and Caisse required amount of steam and therefore contributes to des Dépôts, is unparalleled in the world limiting global warming. and serves as a genuine model of For example, the Beinheim site (France) uses a biomass renewable energy for the industry. boiler besides geothermal energy. Use of firewood from The power plant uses steam from a radius of approximately 100 km allows the plant to geothermal water at 165°C drawn from a produce over 50% of the steam required for its industrial depth of over 2,500 m. As such, it supplies activities. the plant with the equivalent of 24 MWth This equates to avoiding the emission of 75,000 tons of every year, corresponding to the heating fossil CO2 into the atmosphere each year. needs of 27,000 households. This helps reduce its CO2 emissions by 39,000 tons (equal to 25,000 cars in a year). With non-intermittent geothermal energy available 8,000 hours per year, the site possesses a reliable energy source at a controlled cost. 36_ Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 I ROQUETTE I IBIOREFINING … and for industrial excellence A new momentum was initiated in 2016 to accelerate the improvement of the Roquette Group’s results in terms of customer satisfaction, costs and quality. TWO MAJOR KINDS LAUNCH OF AN OF STRUCTURAL PROJECTS: INTERNAL ACADEMY “Reduction of foregone output” In order to speed up and ground these changes, an academy was launched to train most of the operational A production line always experiences stoppage or resources on the use of these new management tools slowdowns: preventive maintenance, product change, and associated methodologies, designed to contribute to cleaning, breakdown, variability of raw materials, etc. This reaching the expected performance level. corresponds to energy and production losses. Roquette is therefore committed to reducing them in order to improve Roquette holds central and local sessions to adapt the customer satisfaction: securing product delivery and training to a culture and to ensure better efficiency. competitiveness. Managing process variability The complexity of steering business lines as well as the variability of organic matter work entails a certain measure of variability in production. It generates additional costs in order to always guarantee impeccable quality for customers. Roquette, through a reinforced central team, is setting up new tools and working methods to achieve even more in terms of these improvements. zoom Energy performance in GURNEE (USA) Respecting the environment while improving thanks to ventilation units which have been performance is one of the priorities of the modified to limit heat input. The plant joined Roquette Group. Between 2013 and 2015, the forces with external partners and has received Group established a new project which helped external assistance to finance its investment. reduce costs and improve performance at the The project has improved the energy plant. performance of the site while cutting costs. The greatest energy consumption at the Gurnee An economy of 12% of the overall energy use plant comes from the air conditioning used for was achieved, which served to promote the powder sorbitol. continuous improvement and environmental commitment of the Roquette Group. The The Roquette Group therefore committed Gurnee plant also won an award in the to optimize energy consumption in order to “performance improvement” category for this minimize its environmental impact. project during the 2016 World Manufacturing This project was achieved thanks to new Days, an event internal to the Roquette equipment that recycles heat dissipated and Group. I ROQUETTE I Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 _37 Our Performance commitments indicators 1Put Health, Safety and well-being at the heart Safety is one of our priorities. In 2025 we are committed of our concerns to achieving a Frequency Rate 1(*) of 0.5 By continuing the implementation of world-class HSE (Health, Safety, Environment) management 2 system and developing a culture in which people safety is a core value. and a Frequency Rate 2 (**) of Empower employees 1.5 3 By promoting dialogue, fostering engagement and developing skills. Every year, we implement our commitment to local populations and communities by supporting Build on a minimum of 20 our diversity 4 By valuing our differences and promoting the sharing of best practices in a multi-cultural network. projects or activities. number of accidents with work Develop (*)  stoppage per million hours worked our activities (**) number of accidents notified with the local per million hours worked communities By partnering with our local communities and contributing to their development through sustainable relationship. 38_ Activity 38_ Activityand andSustainable Report2016 DevelopmentReport SustainableDevelopment 2016IIROQUETTE ROQUETTEII ACTING sustainably II ROQUETTE ROQUETTE II Activity and Sustainable Activity and Sustainable Development 2016 _39 Report 2016 Development Report _39 INTERVIEW ACTING I Human Resources are a key lever for driving the positive development of the Roquette Group. Lynn Krattiger joined Roquette in June with real participation in the decision2016 as the new Head of Human making process. Resources of the global supply chain Roquette also intends to boost its function, in Switzerland as well as of Lynn Krattiger a Global Business Unit. Prior to this, interactions with local communities. Head of HR – Global Supply Chain, Lynn had been working at a firm that “We work increasingly harmoniously with the communities near our Switzerland and Foundation globally markets natural and organic industrial sites,” states Lynn Krattiger, and Member of the Sustainable cosmetic and well-being products, who cites the example of the Development Committee. a brand that is well-known for its involvement of the Group’s staff in sustainable commitments. This is a Keokuk (USA) on Earth Day in cleaning commitment she now firmly sustains the city. under the Roquette banner. Another crucial issue for Roquette: In an international Group strengthened safety of people. In 2016, the number by new talents and endowed with a of accidents without stoppage declined renewed organization, the challenge and the seriousness of the accidents at hand is considerable: “The Group with stoppage significantly declined. is undergoing an extremely dynamic These two indicators are at the best growth phase. Many employees have level ever in the Group’s history. been present for a long time and have exceptional skills. Others like myself, “The frequency rate of accidents with who arrived recently from very different stoppage per million hours worked is backgrounds, have other skills. They 2.2. That is three times less than the should all be combined and used to average in the American food industry,” drive this very positive development!” indicates Jean-Luc Gribot, Head of says Lynn Krattiger. This is one of Global Health, Safety & Environment. the goals of the new collaborative “Our ambition is for this indicator to platform, “ONE”, through which be less than 1 by 2020, then quickly employees can find a lot of information to the level of the best companies linked to the Group’s activities, discuss worldwide!” among themselves and ask questions. Another example: the Sustainable Development Committee convenes the representatives of the main global functions every two to three months, 40_ Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 I ROQUETTE I IACTING Encouraging listening skills and dialogue The collaborative mode: facilitating exchanges and driving projects The Group continues its development while revolutionizing Three pillars: communication, collaboration and personal its working methods. efficiency. Changes in working methods and cooperation is at the heart The communications teams along with the IT and HR of the Group’s development. teams have defined and set up a communication, training and support program on how to use this new tool. It To support the transition of the business towards a global consists of driving the development of collaborative business, where all functions share their information, applications at Group level and enabling employees to streamline their practices, where collaboration is easier, enhance their digital skills. The company thus set up help voicing opinions is encouraged and where every individual sessions open to all. All of this has created a dynamic feels responsible, the business needed to endow itself with around these new digital tools and grounded the good a collaborative platform to match its ambitions. practices of “collaborative life.” Launched in June 2016, the ONE digital platform provides The digital turn had been adopted in 2012 with the roll-out all staff members with immediate and seamless access of Office 365. The ONE portal has boosted individual and to information about the Group and to shared tools, with collective performance by instilling coherence between the the aim of simplifying communication and collaboration, tools. ensuring data reliability and securing document sharing. Developed in cloud mode, the portal is accessible from anywhere and from any device, enabling The digitalization of Roquette each person to be autonomous in order boosted by the experience and to contribute to the life and success of the satisfaction of its employees! Laurent SZCZEPANIAK, Global Project Leader business. I ROQUETTE I Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 _41 ACTING I Training and transferring knowledge Training – human investment in knowledge and skills – forms a key aspect of the professional and personal development of employees. It constitutes a real investment for the company with instant positive returns in terms of work organization and performance. At the crossroads between what the company needs and the people who form it, it makes it possible to respond to the requirements of internal and external change (technological, organizational, professional, etc.) and to support the company’s development, while optimizing and developing employee skills. The Roquette Group implements training actions desktop skills, personal development (speaking, time that correspond to its immediate or future needs for management, etc.). skills. These can be mandatory, such as in the framework of These are divided into major categories: professions and certification or authorizations, in areas such as safety and techniques, managerial development, foreign languages, quality. zoom Efficient senior-junior collaboration Developing knowledge based on experience and facilitating its transfer, entails acting on the training process, work organization and collective dynamics of a company. When an employee retires after spending their entire career at Roquette, it usually entails the loss of knowledge and experience concerning operations or Manufacturing Awards video clip on knowledge transfer procedures. Therefore, the Group has set up actions to enable seniors, nearing retirement, to share their knowledge with juniors. This is namely the case in Vecquemont (France), where a senior manager of a purification plant shared his knowledge with a junior. This exchange led to a KEY FIGURE: 22.5 book, describing all of the information necessary for the proper functioning of the purification plant in general. The document was then shared with all of the other production sites of the Group. This methodology was reproduced for other average hours procedures, such as for wheat starch processing. of training per employee 42_ Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 I ROQUETTE I IACTING Promoting diversity The Roquette Group, driven by its 8000 employees across the world, embraces diversity as a major strength. Indeed, it is a genuine source of wealth for all. Diversity is also a real performance lever to promote: each profile is an asset for the Group. To this effect, regardless of origin, age, capacity, etc. the employees of Roquette are united by a common passion: a passion for the job. “Viewing disability differently” campaign For almost nine years, in France, about fifteen employees have been part of a group known as SACHa (knowing how to assist each disability), based on the theme of disability in the workplace. In 2016, SACHa established a quarterly newsletter in We would like to mobilize the means order to: necessary for demystifying disability • Raise awareness about Roquette’s ambitions in terms of disability; and to create a trust-based • Testify about the concrete actions implemented with atmosphere by encouraging employees regard to disability; to express their opinions on the subject. • Raise awareness among all employees. Angélique CAPELLE, member of SACHa Another activity during the year was the “viewing disability differently” conference, which was facilitated by some of the members of SACHa and enabled employees to be introduced and informed about this issue. KEY FIGURE: 5.3% percentage of workers with a disability in France I ROQUETTE I Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 _43 ACTING I Supporting local communities Earth Day: Sharing a key environmental event & smiling On April 23, 2016, the city of Keokuk came together for In Spain, in hospitals in Valencia, Roquette volunteers, the ninth edition of its annual event: cleaning the city. accompanied by professional clowns, visited sick children to bring a smile to their faces. The clowns are part of a Aimed at protecting the environment, this event brings non-profit association called Payasospital: they mainly together volunteers to collect garbage and recyclable visit hospitals with children with cancer and other illnesses materials in the city on the occasion of Earth Day. The that require long hospital stays. Roquette Group co-sponsors the event annually and employees of Roquette’s Keokuk plant have been This social measure conducted by Roquette employees participating in the event annually since its creation. This every year-end helps distract about a hundred children action demonstrates the Group’s general commitment in three different hospitals in Valencia. The bright colors, i.e. to work in harmony with local communities. puppets, red noses and laughter help transport these children to another realm for a brief time. To this effect, approximately 250 volunteers including 30 Roquette Group employees and their families met at Every year in Spain, employees of the Roquette Group a local park to sign up and receive safety instructions and share a special emotional moment, which thrills the equipment, then went on to clean the affected areas in children. the city’s center for a period of two hours. The volunteers collected a large container full of garbage, a load of recyclable elements and another one with tires. This event around sustainable development brought together volunteers for a day filled with sharing and good cheer! 44_ Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 I ROQUETTE I IACTING Inaugural Open Days in China From September to November 2016, the Roquette production site in Lianyungang (China) held open days for the public. They were designed for representatives of local residences, university students and professors, as well as pre-school children. The local media and official authorities also participated in the events. About 250 people visited the central laboratory, the different manufacturing plans and the offices on the Roquette site in Lianyungang. These people discovered the cutting-edge technologies used in the production lines, standardized quality and safety control at the site. They also had a chance to discover the range of products and their applications, as well as the high-level quality control practiced at the site. After this visit, the feedback was very positive. The visitors now have a better understanding of the history and culture of the Group. They learned about the broad range of their everyday products that contain Roquette ingredients. As such, in China, the Roquette Group is establishing trust-based relations with the local community. An initiative shared with children with hearing impairments In Ahmedabad (India), Roquette partnered with local NGO “Umang Education and Research,” a center for people with hearing impairments. The school’s ambition is to offer the best possible education to children with hearing impairments. It helps them become active members of society and to lead an independent and fulfilled life. The school receives hearingimpaired children aged between 15-18, regardless of their religion, social status or gender, from Ahmedabad and surrounding areas. Employees of the Roquette Group help the school on a volunteer basis, in addition to the financial support offered by the Group. On August 26, 2016, Sophie Ancelin, Senior VicePresident Human Resources, Amitabh Tiriar, Head of IMEA Area Coordinator, and Marc Dilly, Head of Integration & Strategy for IMEA, visited the premises of the school. A team made up of employees from different departments of the Roquette Group also held a talent competition. The hearing-impaired children were thrilled to participate and it served as an opportunity for all to share a cheerful moment together. In India, in line with the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Roquette implements many actions along with the local communities. I ROQUETTE I Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 _45 ACTING I Safety Each member of the Roquette community contributes to the zero accident goal! In 2016, Roquette was keen on demonstrating on a daily basis that health and safety are essential for each employee and contribute positively to the sustainability of the Group’s overall ambitions. 2016 results: in the field, which helped define •The Manufacturing Awards various prevention and risk mitigation (competition launched in 2016 at 2016 was consistent with 2015. measures. the company) was quite a success: Indeed, the Group confirmed the 32 entries were submitted in the HSE significant improvement in terms of • The managerial teams increased (Health, Safety and Environment) the frequency rate of accidents with visits on safety conduct. They were category. The “Gemba Walk” project or without stoppage (TF2): 4.99 in also conducted by the Management of Cassano received the HSE Award, 2016 vs. 5.24 in 2015. However, teams (Gemba Walk) thus enabling a and a very ingenious project from the battle has not been won. A stronger management presence in Beinheim was rewarded by a Special slight deterioration was noted in the the field. Jury Prize. number of accidents with stoppage • In early 2016, Roquette developed a in 2016 compared to 2015. Although All of these progress measures, new approach for all its employees to the seriousness of these accidents included in the Group’s HSE strategic help identify hazards: the STOP 5. This significantly declined, 31 accidents plan, contribute and will contribute to tool was the object of a workshop with stoppage among the 8,000 raising Roquette to the level of the for the main managers of the Group employees of the Group were recorded. best companies in the world in terms during the Roquette Management of health & safety. The Group is convinced that each Forum. employee plays an essential role in • “S a fet y ” b o a rd g a m e s we re terms of their own safety and that of developed and presented during their colleagues. the Manufacturing Days (internal Some examples of prevention event). “One Lock-One Life” aims to measures to progress towards Zero make people familiarize themselves KEY FIGURE: 2.24 Accidents: with the best consignment practices (leading cause of our most serious • Progress training on the impact of accidents). “Risk Control” is a game each person’s conduct. This initiative whose goal is to classify incidents concerns over 1,400 managers and and accidents based on their real staff in the 4 regions. The latter were encouraged to be actively involved in consequences and especially to ACCIDENTS with stoppage the day-to-day safety at their sites. establish their potential seriousness. per million hours worked in 2016 • An overall measure led every site in Europe to stop working for two hours. The time spared as a result was used for discussions between managers and operational staff 46_ Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 I ROQUETTE I IACTING How does it work? I see an incident I take a photo of it I comment my photo I send it using the application zoom in Lithuania: An innovative and ingenious tool for smartphone In 2016, the Panevesys site in Lithuania The location is recorded as well as a photo obtained efficient results in terms of safety: no depicting the anomaly. It is then immediately accidents with stoppage were recorded during submitted to the team leader who analyzes the entire year. To this effect, it was rewarded it immediately and seeks the necessary by the European association of the starch competent resources. industry, Starch Europe. The use of this tool motivates all Lithuanian This result is the fruit of many measures employees to be responsible for each other and established at the Lithuanian site. For example, to act fast in case of a risky situation. a useful application for smartphones called This ingenious and innovative application was “Workplace Safety” was launched in late 2015 shared as a good practice within Roquette’s and can be used by every employee. It is used global network of plants. to anonymously report a risky situation that could potentially lead to an accident in the future. I ROQUETTE I Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 _47 environmentAL REPORTING I dATA 2016 2015 GRI Fossil energy used Electricity GWh 2,401 2,357 G4-EN3 Natural gas GWh 7,629 8,073 G4-EN3 Domestic heating oil m3 121 163 G4-EN3 Coal + Petcoke kt 366 352 G4-EN3 Renewable energy used Wood kt (100%DM) 109 114 G4-EN3 Rice husk kt 195 94 G4-EN3 Energy produced Electricity GWh 1,529 1,503 G4-EN3 Biogas GWh 79 86 G4-EN3 Pumped water Process water 106 m3 59.20 61.60 G4-EN8 (rivers, aquifers, urban network) Water returned 106 m3 40.00 46.50 G4-EN22 Ratio water returned/pumped water % 68% 75% COD discharged t/kt of starch 1.45 1.47 G4-EN22 Air CO2 emissions G4-EN16 Scope 1 & scope 2 teq CO2/kt of starch 795 753 SO2 emissions t/kt of starch 0.30 0.50 G4-EN21 NOx emissions t/kt of starch 1.00 0.66 G4-EN21 Dust t/kt of starch 0.26 0.24 G4-EN21 Waste Hazardous t/kt of starch 0.27* 0.13 G4-EN23 Non-hazardous t/kt of starch 11 12 G4-EN23 Recycled (except spreading) t/kt of starch 32 38 G4-EN23 Spreading teq 100%DM/kt of starch 39 41 G4-EN23 * increase due to regulatory changes for certain types of waste in China 48_ Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 I ROQUETTE I Performance IREPORTING indicators 2016 2015 2025 Goal Biorefining Indicators Energy efficiency Ratio 0.98 1.00 0.90 Specific water consumption Ratio 1.24 1.24 1.00 CO2 tons avoided annually teq CO2 avoided 706,035 702,274 1,000,000 Sourcing Indicator % of “sustainable” raw materials % 6% Not calculated 20% Innovating Indicators % of projects meeting “sustainable chemistry” % 53% Not calculated 70% criteria % of solutions offered to our customers meeting % 62% Not calculated 80% the Sustainable Development Goals of the UN I ROQUETTE I Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 _49 REPORTING I Social data 2016 2015 GRI Comments Workforce (Entire Group – total permanent staff+fixed-term contract staff as of Dec. 31) Per geographic region Europe 4,955 5,012 G4-10 America 532 494 G4-10 Asia 2,522 2,464 G4-10 Group 8,009 7,970 G4-11 Professional equality (Entire Group – total permanent staff+fixed-term contract staff as of Dec. 31) Male Employees 6,314 6,364 G4-LA12 Including % of managers 15.9% 12.0% G4-LA12 Figures excluding India in 2015 Female Employees 1,695 1,606 G4-LA12 Including % of managers 12.4% 12.3% G4-LA12 Figures excluding India in 2015 Ratio of Women/Men 26.8% 25.2% G4-LA12 Hires/retirements*(Entire Group) Hires 650 246 G4-LA1 Figures excluding India in 2015 Resignations 247 162 G4-LA1 Figures excluding India in 2015 Layoffs 127 178 G4-LA1 Figures excluding India in 2015 Death 13 9 G4-LA1 Figures excluding India in 2015 Retirement 38 139 G4-LA1 Figures excluding India in 2015 Other departures (common agree87 22 G4-LA1 Figures excluding India in 2015 ment, transfers to other sites, etc.) Training (Limited scope) Hours/employees 22.5 20.5 G4-LA9 Integration of workers with disabilities (France scope) Workers with disabilities 181 187 G4-LA12 Figure approved in 2016 Safety (Entire Group) Days lost 1,108 1,992 G4-LA6 Severity rate 0.08 0.14 G4-LA6 Performance indicators 2016 2015 2025 Goal Acting Indicators Frequency rate of work accidents with stoppage (TF1) 2.24 1.80 0.5 Frequency rate of work accidents with and without stoppage (TF2) 4.99 5.24 1.5 50_ Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2016 I ROQUETTE I REPORTING Since 2008, the Roquette Group has been publishing a Sustainable Development & Activity Report. Reporting method The perimeters To ensure the reliability of our information, the Roquette Several perimeters have been defined, based on the Group applies several methods prepared by the Group indicators. Social indicators: the Group perimeter includes the Human Resources and Industrial Divisions. legal entity ROQUETTE FRÈRES and all its sites controlled directly or indirectly with a stake of more than 50% at These documents define the perimeters and provide, December 31 of the year of reference. in a manner that is precise and easy to understand, the definitions of the indicators chosen in this report and in the The restricted perimeter includes the legal entity Roquette management reports. Frères and all its industrial sites integrated into the Roquette Group for at least two years at January 1 of the year of Under the application of the French law known as Grenelle II reference, controlled directly or indirectly with a stake of (article 225), extra-financial reporting became a requirement more than 50%, and employing a workforce of more than for the company in 2013. 50 employees. To this effect, the indicators and the information published Environmental indicators: the perimeter defined concerns in the management report are reviewed by one of our all industrial sites integrated into the Roquette Group independent external auditors, KPMG. Much of the for at least 3 years at January 1 of the year of reference, information is also listed in this report. controlled directly or indirectly with a stake of more than Lastly, Roquette was inspired by the ‘‘G4 Guidelines’’ of 50%, and for which the energy consumption is above 1,000 the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and our indicators are tons equivalent petroleum (TEP) per year (and above 5,000 listed according to the GRI classification (workforce indicators TEP/year for the two last years that preceded the fiscal year G4-10 and G4-11, for example). for the three performance indicators). www.roquette.com Thanks to all our contributors! Corporate Contacts: Anne LAMBIN – Sustainable Development This report was prepared with the help of many Carole PETITJEAN – External Communication employees worldwide, as well as other stakeholders outside the Roquette Group. We thank each of them Photo Credits and Interviews for their valuable collaboration and contribution to the Roquette development of this 2016 edition. David TRINH (nam.art.photography) Franck DUNOUAU (Hikari Corporate) Our internal communication correspondents Olivier DUCUING Graphic design Les Enchanteurs TRANSLATION Roquette Linguistic team Legal information: To the best of our knowledge, all information contained in this document is accurate. However, all indications, recommendations and suggestions are provided without any guarantees. Furthermore, none of the information provided should be considered as permission or an incitation to infringe on any existing patents. Partial or total reproduction of this report is forbidden, unless prior written authorization is obtained from Roquette Frères. ® and ™ indicate registered trademarks of Roquette Frères. IIROQUETTE ROQUETTEIIActivity andSustainable Activityand SustainableDevelopment 2016 _51 Report2016 DevelopmentReport _51 Improving well-being by offering the best of nature Tel: +33.3.21.63.36.00 www.roquette.com
