The Ten Principles of the Global Compact Supporting the Global Compact Human Rights: For the 6th year, we are renewing our commitment to the in the UN Global Compact principles, as Principal 1: businesses should support and respect the despite the hard circumstances that Syria is going protection of internationally proclaimed human right; and through, and all what follows from economic Principal 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human crisis to insecurity, and market weaknesses, we right abuses. stayed committed to these principles, because we believe from the start in these messages and Respect and loving others are one of the basics in the culture values, and we consider it very important values, of our company, it is clearly manifested when seeing the as we are committed from the start and until General Manager: diversity of cutlers and backgrounds of our employees, as our Maya Patsalides company believes in and respects all human rights, it treats its now to the ten principles of the four fields: employees according to them, and it pushes them to also treat • Human Rights each other according to these rights. • Labor • Anti-Corruption • Environment And again, we emphasize the importance of these principles to all Syrian companies, and their need to them, especially during the Syrian crisis where companies need this mentality while working in a country with crisis, in order to give it back strength and sound economy. Labor Principal 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right of collective bargaining; Principal 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principal 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and Principal 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. During the hard circumstances caused by the Syrian crisis, Direct Line always took into consideration the bad conditions of its employees, as it was so flexible with its rules and system, to fit with and support each person’s situation. As also the war led to employment instability and irregularity, leaving hundreds of thousands of talented We believe Syrians jobless, with little income and stability, and so, Direct Line supported young talented Syrian by offering job and training opportunities they will rebuild The atmosphere in Direct Line is filled with diversity, as its employees are from all religions, with different cultures backgrounds, social classes, political views and opinions. Direct Line was part of PR & Publicity conference, as we offered our expertise and knowledge in this domain, as a part of our strategy to present ourselves as a leader in positive and prosperity on our community. Direct Line always work on helping and supporting SYRIA communities and associations through different activities, one of our activities was a video we created 1ST May labor day about Al Farah Choir’s trip to France, which aimed at spreading awareness about the message of peace and love that the Choir shared in the name of Syria. Environment Anti-Corruption Principal 7: Businesses should support a Principal 10: Businesses should work against precautionary approach to environmental corruption in all forms, including extortion and challenges; bribery. Principal 8: Undertake initiative to promote We offer a flexible, transparent atmosphere, as we greater environmental responsibility and; strengthen the relationships between each other, Principal 9: Encourage the development and aiming to get rid of every cause of the corruption, diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. as our company have never encountered any kind of corruption, extortion or bribery at all during Despite the struggle we feel by being unable to the last period. change the reality of growing pollution, we still want to do anything no matter how small and simple it is, so we continue spreading awareness about the environment and the importance of taking care of it. We also keep living in a way that keeps the environment clean and sound, inside our offices. In addition to that, and to replace the negative with the positive, we planted seedlings with each Mortar shell that fell in our region, to plant hope, and fight the surrender, in a way that helps our environment, in the middle of the devastation. َ ‫ﺷﺮ َف َأو َأ َﺟ ﱠﻞ‬ ‫ﻣﻦ اﻟﱠ ﺬي‬ َ ‫ﻠﻤﺖ َأ‬ َ ‫َأ َﻋ‬ ُ ‫ﺊ َأ‬ ‫ﻧﻔﺴ َو ُﻋﻘـﻮﻻ‬ ُ ‫ﻨﺸ‬ ِ ‫َﻳﺒﻨﻲ َو ُﻳ‬ ‫أﺣﻤﺪ ﺷﻮﻗﻲ‬ ‫ﻋﻴﺪ اﻟﻤﻌﻠﻢ‬ Final notes We would like to point out that we request the following from the Global Compact network members and board: • Facilitate the acceptance of Syrian refugees in your countries, and support them by offering education and experience, so they can positively contribute to the community they are within. • Raise awareness and stand against racism toward Syrians. • Be a part of a positive change to the Syrian economy, as many are trying to further devastate and pressure it down. To all respected and kind members of the Compact, Best Regards. Tel : + 9 6 3 1 1 2 1 3 4 6 1 6 Fax : + 9 6 3 1 1 2 1 3 4 6 1 5 Damascus Free Zone info@directlineme.com w w w. d i r e c t l i n e m e . c o m /directlineme
