Report Information The 2016 Communication on Progress for Sustainable 02 Address from Our Chairman Content Development (hereinafter referred to COP ) is the eleventh 04 Sinopec Corp. Overview sustainability report from China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation (hereinafter referred to as Sinopec Corp. , the 06 2016 Honours Company or We ). The theme of this year's COP is Undertaking 07 Material Issues Responsibility of Our Era, Promoting Sustainability Together. The COP introduces our efforts promoting economic growth, social development and environment protection, and highlights how we responded to stakeholder expectations in 2016. Putting people first 08 laying a solid foundation for sustainable development Report Description This COP covers our business activities from 1 January to 31 Deepening reform December 2016. The information herein comes from internal data, materials from our subsidiaries, and official documents and 10 improving quality and efficiency to upgrade development statistical reports. The Company's Board of Directors approved the Report on March 24, 2017. The report is available in Chinese and English. If there is any conflict or inconsistency, the Chinese Propelling innovation-driven development version shall prevail. 18 creating a dynamic development engine References Pursuing green development This COP is prepared in accordance with Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the criteria of the 22 constructing a safe and green enterprise Global Compact Advanced Communication on Progress, the Guideline on Environmental Information Disclosure by Listed Advancing openness and win-win cooperation Companies of Shanghai Stock Exchange( SSE ), and the Environmental, Social and Governance Reporting Guide of Hong 30 promoting sustainable growth in the value chain Kong Stock Exchange. Pursuing shared development Disclaimer 36 serving the people for better life This COP includes certain forward-looking statements with respect to the results of our business operations and certain plans and conditions. All statements that address activities, events or developments that we expect will or may occur in the 46 Outlook future, other than statements of historical fact, are 47 Key Performance forward-looking statements and by their nature involve risk and uncertainty. This means that actual results may differ materially 50 Index from those indicated in the forward-looking statement due to a number of factors and uncertainties. The Company undertakes 52 Feedback no obligation to update these forward-looking statements unless required by an appropriate regulatory authority. 02 Sinopec 2016 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Address from Our Chairman 03 Address from Our Chairman Dear friends, business. We also cooperated with relevant international We have invested RMB 105 million in infrastructure industries. Yanbu Aramco Sinopec Refining Company Ltd, construction, education, health care, industrial assistance, First of all, on behalf of the Board of Directors of Sinopec which is established as a joint venture between Sinopec occupational trainings in targeted poverty areas. We Corp., I would like to express our heartfelt thanks for your Corp. and Arabian-American Oil Company (Aramco), came believe this helps people in poverty-stricken areas and attention and support. into operation in 2016. We aspire to achieve localisation promotes sustainability. We has invested RMB 6.58 billion and win-win cooperation through our business and in 2016 in local community development, culture and education, 2016 marked the beginning of the 13th Five-Year Plan in we cooperated with 14 provinces and cities, promoting and medical and health care. China. Sinopec Corp., guided by new national development natural gas business and driving local economic growth. concepts, formulated the company's 13th Five-Year RMB 22.8 billion of social capital was inspired to invest into Big enterprise undertakes greater responsibility. Looking Development Plan, outlining how we implement our five the natural gas pipeline project from Sichuan to East China. to the future, during the key period when China builds development strategies (value-oriented, innovation-driven, Reforms of our marketing company progress smoothly a moderately prosperous society in all respects, we will integrated resource allocation, open cooperation, and green and we are pursuing strategic cooperation with the postal continue to implement our five development strategies and low-carbon growth) to create competitive advantages industry and shipbuilding industry. We are optimising our and observe basic state policies of energy conservation in sustainability. refinery and petrochemical operations, building production and environmental protection. We will focus on promoting bases, and developing medium and high-end products, supply-side structural reforms, and carrying forward Over the last year, Sinopec Corp. has faced severe expecting to cooperate with our stakeholders. traditions of prudency, circumspection and practicability challenges from low oil prices and the market. However, in order to transform development models and adjust I am pleased to report that our management teams We seek new advantages in innovation. In recent years, our development structure, and improve the quality guided our staff to overcome these challenges, achieving we have made breakthroughs in five areas including and efficiency of our operations. We see humans as an outstanding performance. We promoted supply-side inventing a series of shale gas exploration and extraction aspirational beings and we use that understanding as a structural reform, improving our economic position and technologies, developing and integrating low-cost guiding principle for our development. We will continue assets utilisation efficiency, and delivered petroleum technologies for exploiting clean oil products, qualifying to undertake responsibility to promote harmonious and petrochemical products to society, building a solid the National V emission standards, developing a series of development among enterprises, society and the foundation for development. In 2016, our operating revenue new coal chemical technologies for the industry chain, and environment. was RMB 1.93 trillion, profit recorded RMB 79.9 billion and industrialising a complete set of in-house-technology on we produced 195 million tonnes of refined oil products and ethylene facilities at the million tonnage level, which has Dear friends, as the Chinese ancient saying goes, Victory 69.96 million tonnes of chemical products. Our declared accelerated our elimination of outdated and inefficient reached advanced world level. We have also established is ensured when people pool their strengths; success is dividends were RMB 30.1 billion to shareholders and we capacity. Our chemical segment continued to develop world-class industrial unit applying high efficient and secured when people put their heads together . We hope paid RMB 316.1 billion in taxes and fees. basic and high-end products, increasing the ratio of environmental friendly Aromatics Package Technology that we can jointly take responsibility of our era to promote high-end products that we produce from synthetic resin, which is of independent intellectual property rights, sustainability and contribute to our beautiful homeland. In 2016, we promoted supply-side structural reform. synthetic fiber and synthetic rubber (the Three Synthetic reaching the top level in the world. At the S&T innovation We strengthened upstream operations to navigate the Materials). We enhanced R&D for new products and meeting held in 2016, we deployed the future innovation harsh winter in oil markets, and improved the efficiency supported the integration of production, sales, and plans. We will continue to motivate company-wide and reduced high-cost crude oil production. Efficient oil research to provide our customers with better all-around innovation and develop a new batch of core technologies exploration and extraction was a top objective in 2016 and solutions. Focusing on the market, our sales segment used that can transform our company and inspire new initiatives we took steps to improve our overall energy structure. We their network advantages to increase retail outlets scale to promote sustainability. increased the natural gas production, producing 21.6 billion and to promote CNG vehicle operations, providing society cubic meters inside China. Fuling shale gas field, China's with clean and eco-friendly products. The non-fuel trade As a corporate global citizen, we are committed to first large-scale shale gas field, now has an annual capacity business, providing unrivalled one-stop services, grew with performing responsibilities. We put people first, enhance of 7 billion cubic meters. We also increased natural gas the turnover increasing by 41%, marking the progress in our approach to safety management, implement new Wang Yupu supply to the Yangtze River economic belt and the Beijingbecoming a comprehensive service provider. measures to protect employee's rights and interests, Chairman Tianjin-Hebei region. To meet market demands, our aiming to promote decent work. Over the past three years We continue to promote open cooperation and facilitate March 24, 2017 downstream companies maintained the medium and highwe have invested RMB 20.9 billion in Blue Sky and Clear end supply of products and quality services. We optimised win-win development with business partners and Water environmental protection campaign and reduced structure of our products in the oil refining segment, stakeholders. We participated in the construction of the Belt major pollutants emissions, increasing our capacity for integrating new technology and upgrading the quality of and Road, developed our overseas oil and gas exploration green development. We value the protection of biological our refined oil to ensure oil products supply qualified with and extraction activities, and upgraded our refinery and diversity and are working to reduce the negative impact on Beijing VI and National V emission standards. We also petrochemical business as well as international trade the environment. We welcome supervision from society. 04 Sinopec 2016 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Sinopec Corp. Overview 05 Sinopec Corp. Overview Sinopec Corp. is equipped with comprehensive Sinopec Corp. ranks first in global refining capacity. refined oil products sales network. Sinopec Corp. has the capacity and technology to build At the end of 2016, our primary distillation capacity of At the end of 2016, 30,603 service stations carried refining facilities at the ten-million tonnage level, and crude oil was 295 million tonnes annually. Our primary the Sinopec logo. ethylene facilities at the million tonnage level. facilities are located in China and we invest in Yanbu Aramco Sinopec Refining Company Ltd. joint venture Marketing and Distribution Technology R&D in Saudi Arabia. In 2016, we processed 236 million tonnes of crude oil. Refining Exploration and Production Chemicals International Trade Sinopec Corp. is a large Chinese petroleum and petrochemiSinopec Corp. is the first in China and fourth globally in Sinopec Corp. owns 13 wharfs of more than 200,000 DWT, cal enterprise. ethylene production capacity. We supply consumers with with a discharge capacity of 326 million tonnes. In 2016 we At the end of 2016, our proven petroleum and natural gas necessities for daily living. Our main products include imported 206 million tonnes of crude oil. reserves totaled 1,552 million barrels and 203.3 billion cubic synthetic resin, synthetic fiber and synthetic rubber. meters respectively. We produced 11.06 million tonnes of ethylene in 2016. The national shale gas demonstration zone, Sinopec Fuling shale gas field with a production capacity of 7 billion cubic meters annually, is the largest shale gas field in the world Declared dividends Taxes and fees paid Social contribution per share outside North America. 64.9% 414.6 428.8 436.6 Our main oil and gas assets are located in China and in our 56.4% 327.4 292.3 316.1 3.505 3.542 3.606 four overseas projects in Kazakhstan, Russia, Colombia and 50.2% Angola. 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Dividend payout ratio (according to ASBE) Taxes and fees paid (RMB billion) Social contribution per share (RMB/share) Social contributions (RMB billion) Calculated according to the definition in the Guideline on Environmental Information Disclosure by Listed Companies of SSE. 06 Sinopec 2016 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Material Issues 07 2016 Honours Material Issues The trust and support of our stakeholders is a fundamental driver of Sinopec Corp.'s approach to sustainable development. We make progress through our partnerships with all stakeholders jointly pursuing core values such as prosperity, Sinopec Corp. received National Special Mr. Dai Houliang, Vice Chairman and Prize for Progress in Science and President of Sinopec Corp., was democracy, civility, harmony, freedom, equality, justice, the rule of law, patriotism, dedication, integrity and friendship. Technology of 2015 for developing high granted National Outstanding Scientific We promote a sustainable development strategy based on economic growth, protecting the environment and building a efficient and environmental friendly and Technical Personnel. harmonious society. Aromatics Package Technology. Sinopec Corp. received Special Through continued communication Contribution Award from Lifeline with authorities, we outlined material Express Council for 12 consecutive issues related to economic growth, Sinopec Corp. was named Chinese years. innovation, safety, ecological Model of Low Carbon Performance for protection and poverty alleviation. 6 consecutive years. Sinopec Corp. was named a Pioneer Enterprise of SDGs Realisation at the Lighting a Better Future 2016 China Through daily communication, Sinopec Corp. was honoured as Most Government Through communication with Summit of Achieving SDGs by the interviews and surveys with Responsible Enterprise in 2016 at the investors, we outlined material issues Global Compact Network China. customers, we outlined material 11th International CSR Forum. related to sustainable development issues related to product and shareholder returns. diversification, quality and service. Customer Investor Sinopec Corp. received Best Listed Sinopec Corp. received Level-A rating Sinopec Company and Best Board Secretary of in the SSE’s 2015 information Through communication with NGOs Listed Companies awards at the 2016 disclosure assessment of listed Through Sinopec Open-day and rating organisations, we outlined China Securities Golden Bauhinia companies. activities, we outlined material issues material issues related to risk Awards. related to community rights and management, human rights, safety, NGO Community environmental protection and local residents’ rights protection. greenhouse gas emission. Sinopec Corp. won Excellent Board of Sinopec Corp. won 2016 Golden Bull Directors from Directors & Boards Strongest Profitability Company Award magazine at the 2016 Gold Roundtable from China Securities Journal. Awards. We have aligned the business operations with 17 Goals (SDGs) in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (UN 2030 Agenda) and Global Opportunity Report 2016 issued by UNGC. Considering all the above material issues as well Sinopec Corp. received Best Global Sinopec Corp. was named Best as the features of the energy and chemical industry, we outline the following twelve material issues that we shall report. Image and Enterprise of Chinese Investor Relations, Best Corporate Enterprise Global Image Alliance with Website and Best Investor Relations Special Contribution awards at the Professionals by Institutional Investor Chinese Enterprise Global Image magazine. Summit 2016. Sustainable development management P08 Occupational health P38 Risk management P17 Energy conservation and emission reduction P24 Innovation P18 Addressing climate change P25 Shareholder returns P04 Biodiversity P27 Product quality and service P14 Human rights protection P38 Safety production P24 Social contribution P40 Material issues 08 Sinopec 2016 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Putting people first 09 Putting people first laying a solid foundation for sustainable development In 2016, we strengthened our core values by integrating sustainability and construction of a green and efficient Sinopec Corp. executes its responsibilities as a global enterprise into our corporate culture. This reiterates the corporate citizen by conducting business that serves importance of putting people first, operating responsibly, society. We integrate a people-oriented approach to upholding integrity, pursuing excellence, advancing corporate culture and practices. innovation and achieving win-win developments. Our diversified portfolio includes We operate honestly and transparently We commit to realising sustainable People Responsibility Integrity energy resources such as crude oil and pay taxes in accordance with the development of the company and We put people first when developing We are committed to both bettering We honour our commitments and and natural gas, refined oil products law to contribute to national revenue upholding stable and continuous our company. people’s lives and contributing to comply with laws and regulations. such as gasoline, diesel and kerosene, and boost social development and dividend pay-out policy to return to society. and thousands of brands and prosperity. shareholders all over the world. petrochemical products that contribute Guided by the needs of our clients and Our employees carry forward the We view integrity as the cornerstone of to social and economic development. our stakeholders, we focus on enterprise spirit of “loving our country our growth, and operate in a Our products serve hundreds of providing first-class products and and revitalising the petrochemical law-abiding, honest and disciplined millions of families. services. Sinopec Corp. employees industry” and are committed to helping manner to build a reputation that is drive our company and we work hard the company grow. We contribute to grounded in respect. to provide them with a good working our host countries by fulfilling our environment and career development corporate responsibility and focusing opportunities for a better life. on economic, legal and social betterment. Excellence Innovation Collaboration On the way of achieving the We provide a good working We engage in local communities by We strive for excellence in everything We are striving to become a We believe collaboration enables company’s sustainability, we focus on environment and optimise career safeguarding community safety, we do. benchmark company for innovation in common growth and is mutually leading and cooperating with our development channels that show protecting the environment, our industry. beneficial to those involved. partners along the upstream and respect for our employees and participating in local economic downstream industrial chain, aiming to promote decent work. development projects, carrying out We advocate to work with prudence We follow an innovation-driven Our business activities are based on achieve win-win results. poverty alleviation programmes and and meticulous attention to detail. We strategy that pushes our development the principles of inclusiveness, sincere sharing our corporate development pursue precision in all our business and growth forward, and we cooperation and mutual harmony. We with local residents. activities, be it production and incorporate forward-thinking strategies respect international and regional laws, operations, or management and that encourage technological regulations and cultures. We strive to technology, and we always strive to innovation, improved management and provide value to our customers. Our improve our approach to management. a cutting-edge business model, to long-term goal is to achieve win-win build an outstanding enterprise. cooperation and common prosperity with all stakeholders. Deepening reform 11 Deepening reform improving quality and efficiency to upgrade development Our challenges and opportunities UN 2030 Agenda calls for ensuring access to affordable and clean energy, promoting economic growth, and reducing corruption and bribery. The global economic recovery remains weak and new economic growth points have not yet been formed. China has been tackling these challenges by transitioning to a new normal that accumulates economic power through a new development model and economic structure. This means that China is primed to grab new strategic opportunities. In 2016, China's economy maintained a growth rate of 6.7 percent, and was among the front-runners in economic growth in the world. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels 12 Sinopec 2016 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Deepening reform 13 Our action Case study In 2016, facing severe challenges from low oil price and a complex and volatile operating environment, our management teams guided the staff and made significant achievements by overcoming these challenges. We Developing Sinopec refining and chemical bases implemented value-orientation and integrated resource allocation strategies, improved the quality and efficiency During the period of Sinopec 13th Five-Year Development Plan, we will build four competitive world-class refining of our operations and transformed our development model. The new approach injected momentum into our and chemical bases in Maozhan, Zhenhai, Shanghai and Nanjing, all located in the Yangtze River Delta Region and development, and new advantages to our upstream, midstream and downstream operations, resulting in solid the Pearl River Delta region. The four bases uphold our principle of pursuing win-win cooperation with local regions, performance to contribute to the physical economy. and meeting petroleum product quality upgrading requirements. The bases will continue to upgrade our production of chemical raw materials, and optimise the product structure, quality and efficiency to facilitate growth in medium and high-end businesses. We will use the most advanced international production techniques and standards for Revitalising the physical economy through supply-side energy conservation and emissions reduction when building these bases. Our goal is to promote base-centered structural reform and integrated refining and chemical operations in China that contribute to local and national economic growth, transforming and upgrading the Chinese petrochemical industry. In 2016, Sinopec Corp. focused on improving the quality and profitability of corporate growth, by promoting supplyToday, the preliminary stages of construction at Zhenhai, Shanghai and Nanjing bases focus on tapping the side structural reform. We also took measures to transform our development model and structure. Our commitment potentials of existing units. The Maozhan base has accelerated and upgraded its construction, and on December to market development, optimisation, cost reduction and risk control resulted in increased productivity. 20, 2016, the Zhongke Refinery and Petrochemical project in Maozhan came into full operation. Upstream segment We reduced high-cost crude oil production and improved the efficiency. Efficient exploration and extraction was our top objective and we improved our production of natural gas to form The Belt and Road Initiative offers development opportunities strategically viable operations. We advanced the construction of Fuling shale gas field which has a Sinopec Corp. actively provides high value-added products to countries along the Belt and Road. Our business production capacity of 7 billion cubic meters annually. covers investment in oil & gas resources, refining & chemical operations, and the international trade of oil & gas We made improvements to the natural gas production, products, equipment and materials. During the 12th Five-Year Plan period, we imported 519 million tonnes of crude trade, warehousing & transport, and sales, to provide oil and exported 13 million tonnes of refined oil products. Our import and export turnover for equipment, materials clean fuel to regions in the Yangtze River economic and chemical catalysts amounted to USD 17 billion. We have established long-term partnerships with petroleum and belt. Our engagement with social investors contributes petrochemical companies in Russia, Kazakhstan and Saudi Arabia, developing oil & gas exploration and extraction to our diversified operations in the Sichuan to East and oil refining & chemical businesses in these countries. In 2016, we imported 206 million tonnes of crude oil. Gas Pipeline Project, which provides momentum and Yanbu Aramco Sinopec Refining Company Ltd. has come into operation. energy for the future development of the pipeline. Mr. Dai Houliang, Vice Chairman and President, inspects the Company's subsidiary. Refining segment Our four refining and chemical bases in Maozhan, Zhenhai, Shanghai and Nanjing have made significant progress, with the Maozhan already implementing its Zhongke Refinery and Petrochemical project. We also accelerated the refined oil quality upgrading and supplied gasoline of National V emission standards across the country. We have also adjusted our product structure and boosted production of much-needed gasoline, especially high-grade products. Chemicals segement We have optimised the structure of production and operations, raw material and products, and shifted our focus to high-end and fine chemical engineering. We have increased our ratio of high-end products made from the Three Synthetic Materials, enhanced the R&D of new products and improved the integration of production, sales, research and application to provide comprehensive solutions for customers. Marketing segment We have kept a steady increase in sales volume and retail scale, expanded our supply of high-grade petroleum products, improved the marketing network, and promoted the construction and operation of gas stations which increased the sales volume of CNG by 25%. The non-fuel trade business, as a new growth point, grew 41% in the turnover, providing abundant products and quality service to society. We has seen a rise in development opportunities from the Internet Plus and built e-commerce platforms such as EPEC and ChemEmall, which enhanced resource allocation capacity, customer services and risk prevention and control. 14 Sinopec 2016 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Being a comprehensive service provider to all customers Sinopec Corp. always operates with integrity and in compliance with laws and regulations. We advocate fair competition and obey the laws and regulations such as the Product Quality Law. We also comply with local antitrust and anti-money laundering regulations to prevent bribery, extortion, fraud and money laundering. Inheriting craftsmanship and improving product and service quality Improving the quality of our products and services is a top priority for Sinopec Corp. We always put quality first and comprehensively control and monitor the quality of raw materials procurement, production and sales, which conveys the high quality of our brand. In 2016: ●●  he marketing company enhanced the quality management of oil sources and completed the construction of T laboratory information management system. By monitoring quality data in the procurement, warehousing & transport and sales processes, we ensure the quality of every drop of oil is monitored . In 2016, more than 20,000 samples were spot checked by authorised organisations with all passed the inspections. ●● The chemical sales company focused on making improvements in 2016, designing customised programmes for customers. We emphasise customer service and value creation in all aspects of our sales, production and R&D in order to meet or exceed the demands for products and services. Meeting customer needs through diversified operations ●● The lubricant company took measures to improve the quality of products and services from the source and monitor the entire production process. By executing Supplier Management Procedure, the company Sinopec Corp. has implemented diversified operations, turning gas stations Non-fuel turnover (RMB) guaranteed the quality of raw materials. In 2016, the company produced 34,240 batches of lubricants, with into comprehensive service stations and motor lodges . We integrated 35.1 100% passing factory inspections. In spot checks conducted by authorised organisations, 104 batches were our oil and gas refuelling operations, convenience stores, automobile inspected with all passed. services, fast food and finance business, and achieved non-fuel turnover of billion 35.1 billion in 2016, a year-on-year increase of 41%. ●●  e conduct cross-industry cooperation and marketing services with W Insurance outlets Case study 5,000 insurance companies, banks and e-commerce companies. The number of insurance outlets that we cooperate reached 5,000 and the number of automobile service stations increased by 573, providing customers Craftsmanship escorts Shenzhou space crafts with convenient one-shop services. On October 17, 2016, the Shenzhou-11 manned spacecraft was ●● We offer products featuring local characteristics. Through our 25,000 Increased automobile service stations successfully launched and docked with the orbiting space lab Tiangong-2. nationwide Easy Joy convenience stores, we facilitate the sale of local 573 As the exclusive lubricant supplier, Sinopec Lubricant plays a vital role in products through our supply-side operations, contributing substantially the control, probing and docking systems of Shenzhou-11. to local economic growth. Meanwhile we sell commodities that meet the daily needs of our customers through our demand-side operations. As the long-term partner of China Aerospace, Sinopec Lubricant has contributed to many projects, including the Two bombs and One Satellite, the Long March Launch Vehicle Family, the Chinese Manned Space Engineering Project, and the Chinese Lunar Exploration Programme. The company designs products for every space mission, providing unrivalled service that lives up to the craftsman spirit. Sinopec Lubricant also solves lubricant problems that affect the space programme such as huge temperature differences, ultra-high vacuum (UHV) regimes and intense radiation. Nowadays, these aerospace-grade technologies have been applied in other industries and high quality products for civil use. 16 Sinopec 2016 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Deepening reform 17 Passionately serving customers Enhancing standardised operations In 2016, Sinopec Corp. tracked comments and suggestions from customers in an effort to improve the quality of the products and services. Our marketing company sent 100,000 questionnaires to customers to get feedback on our management and services. Our chemical sales company sent 3,800 questionnaires and analysed feedback, the Advancing the law-based operation year-on-year customer satisfaction rate was increased by 1.6%. The customer satisfaction rate of Sinopec lubricant Sinopec Corp. has always operated in accordance with the laws, whether in the reform and development or products also achieved a 4.1% year-on-year increase. The above companies are now using the results to optimise corporate governance system and operation management. In 2016, we focused on the simultaneous arrangement, their own operations and are implementing measures that will improve their product and service quality. deployment and operation of legal, technical and economic verifications, with 23 of Class A fixed asset investment projects being verified as legitimate and compliant with all regulations. While cooperating with the countries alongside the Belt and Road, we inspected the legality of all projects relating to oil & gas exploration and extraction, oil refining and international trade. We also took steps to protect and improve the management of our brand and intellectual property rights. Improving the auditing and supervision system to prevent risks Sinopec Corp. conducts regular audits related to economic responsibilities, financial revenues, internal assessments, and engineering investments, improves the efficiency of supervision protocols and business transparency, and boosts corporate governance and standardised operations. In 2016, we conducted 1,053 audits, receiving and implementing 2,333 suggestions from those involved. Our subsidiaries also conducted 613 efficiency supervision projects, which resulted in 3,260 pieces of supervision-related advice. Promoting anti-corruption and advocating clean governance Sinopec Corp. complies with all national laws and anti-corruption regulations, and all laws and regulations in countries where we operate. We keep promoting anti-corruption measures and advocating clean governance. We have made improvements to our corporate systems and revised our punishment and prevention mechanism in order to ensure a clean Sinopec Corp. Indicator 2014 2015 2016 ●●  e strengthen our supervision measures via patrol inspections, petition letters, facility visits and phone calls. In W Degree of customer satisfaction with lubricant products (%) 80.8 80.9 85.0 2016, we detected 506 problems and proposed 156 corrective suggestions. ●● We strengthen anti-corruption and self-discipline rules and regulations study to promote employee compliance. Degree of customer satisfaction with chemical sales (%) 94.3 89.7 91.3 In 2016, we compiled and printed Typical Cases of Law and Regulation Violation to increase awarneness on the Proportion of customer complaints for lubricant products solved (%) 100 100 100 rejection and opposition of corruption. Proportion of customer complaints for chemical sales solved (%) 100 100 100 Proportion of customer complaints for refined oil products solved (%) Risk management 100 100 100 Guided by our comprehensive risk management system and polices, we have integrated risk management into our internal control system and established a comprehensive risk management working group. Relevant departments Protecting customer privacy are responsible for controlling and mitigating strategic and commercial risks across the company, for example safety, environmental protection, finance, legal affairs, anti-corruption and overseas public safety processes. We Sinopec Corp. complies with local laws and regulations and protects customers' privacy. In 2016, we prepare the report on significant and major risks quarterly. At the beginning of 2016, we analysed both the domestic enhanced our customer service inspection system and internet application system, determined safety and foreign macroeconomic environment and predicted trends in the petroleum and petrochemical industries. We protection grades, and improved the data centers protection. We also organised operational maintenance categorised external and internal risks and identified preliminary risks that could impact us. Our assessment helped initiatives and self-inspected our fuel card system, non-fuel system, computer rooms and core networks. us identify major risks to strategic planning, environmental protection, and safe production, and resulted the creation These measures help us ensure providing comprehensive privacy protection to our customers. of contingency plans. Propelling innovation-driven development 19 Propelling innovation-driven development creating a dynamic development engine Challenges and opportunities UN 2030 Agenda puts forward the requirement to foster innovation. Today, innovation is the primary engine of development. Increasingly, innovative and scientific advancements like artificial intelligence are shifting the economic paradigm and pushing countries and companies to look at new ways to facilitate growth. China is now transitioning to a new normal , placing innovation at the heart of the country's development agenda in an effort to accelerate supply-side structural reform and activate domestic power and energy for future growth. Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation 20 Sinopec 2016 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Our action By implementing the innovation-driven strategy comprehensively, Sinopec Corp. is trying to create a new engine for development by utilising innovative technology, products and services, and a new business model. Improving the quality and efficiency of traditional industries through technological innovation In 2016, Sinopec Corp. formulated and implemented regulations and specific rules for technological projects, expenditure, achievement transformation & promotion, and incentive mechanisms. Focused on developing our enterprise and contributing to the society, we upgraded our technical operations for the exploration and efficient extraction of oil and gas, optimised refined oil products, implemented measures to lower the cost of basic chemicals, improved high-end chemicals proportion, and produced quality products. In 2016, Sinopec Corp. promoted a batch Boosting integration of industrialisation and informatisation to of new technologies for lowering the ratio of diesel to gasoline, increasing the output of jet fuel and so on. We also upgrade the traditional manufacturing industry developed a series of new flexible and eco-friendly polypropylene products with high strength, and lowered the production cost of chemicals per tonne for three consecutive year. Made in China 2025 , Internet Plus and big data technology contribute to the integration of industrialisation and informatisation in China, driving our traditional manufacturing industry towards high-end, intellectual and green development. Indicators 2014 2015 2016 ●●  ur intelligent pipeline management system is put into operation, O Intelligent plants to be constructed Number of National Technology Invention Awards 2 2 4 realising the digitalisation and visualisation of long-distance and during the 13th Five-Year Plan period 10 Number of patent applications 4,968 5,246 5,612 interplant pipelines more than 30,000 kilometres. This helps us quickly respond to natural disasters, eradicate hidden problems, and improve Number of granted patents 3,011 3,769 3,942 the delicacies of varying management levels. ●● We embarked on research into the Petrochemical Industry Intelligent Total number of domestic and overseas granted patents 14,580 18,349 22,291 Plant Standards and finalised construction plans of intelligent oil Operational costs to be lowered 20 and gas field. The utilisation rate of advanced control systems and Investment in R&D (RMB billion) 5.62 5.65 5.93 the automated collection of production data from four intelligent pilot Number of R&D personnel 9,997 10,964 12,470 enterprises increased by 10% and 20%, respectively, which enhanced % our safety and environmental protection, energy conservation and emissions reduction, efficiency and cost reductions. Tackling technological difficulties to upgrade the quality of During the 13th Five-Year Plan period, we will construct three to five demonstration oil and gas fields and 10 intelligent plants. We will conclude construction of the intelligent pipeline system, lower operational costs of refined oil products intelligent oil and gas fields and intelligent plants by 20%, and increase labour productivity by 20%. We will also realise a 6% decline in comprehensive energy consumption per RMB 10,000 output value of intelligent plants. We use technological innovation to upgrade the quality of our oil products and provide society with clean oil products. In 2016, we enhanced our efforts on innovation to tackle the technological problem of solid acid alkylation, a technology used in the production of clean oil products and one of the toughest problems in the Establishing an informationalised business ecosystem petrochemical industry. We upgraded the quality of our gasoline and diesel for vehicles to meet the National V emission standards. Our subsidiaries upgraded their facilities and units for desulfurisation and hydroBy integrating customer data with our material purchase system, chemical sales, lubricant, and fuel oil, desulfurisation of gasoline to provide Beijing with oil products that meet Beijing VI emission standards and we have established uniform e-commerce and customer relation management (CRM) platforms, including that has been supplied for Beijing since March 1, 2017. EPEC (for chemical product purchase), ChemEmall (for chemical product sales), Lubricant CRM, Fuel Oil Ship Network, and Sales CRM. We have constructed a corporate cloud platform to provide cloud resource services, and established customer, product, and order centres—along with other sharing service platforms— which provide technical support for the establishment of a customer big data analysis model, the exploration of potential customers, and the implementation of precision marketing. Pursuing green development 23 Pursuing green development constructing a safe and green enterprise Challenges and opportunities UN 2030 Agenda calls for making cities and human settlements sustainable, combating climate change, improving energy efficiency and protecting eco-environment. Global citizens are increasingly aware of the importance of mitigating negative impacts on safety, water resources, air quality and the environment. The Chinese government has proposed to construct a clean, low carbon, safe and highly efficient modern energy system, and focused on guaranteeing the safety of people’s livelihoods. China's 13th Five-Year Plan also states that it is important to enhance the protection of ecological environment, increase resource utilisation rate, and provide more quality ecological products for the people . The aforementioned presents higher requirements for enterprises to guarantee safe production and environmental protection. Ensure availability Ensure access to and sustainable affordable,reliable, management of water sustainable and modern and sanitation for all energy for all Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, Ensure sustainable resilient and consumption sustainable and production patterns Take urgent action to Conserve and sustainably combat use the oceans, seas and climate change and marine resources for its impacts sustainable development Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss Pursuing green development 25 Sinopec clean management of production and consumption processes Comprehensive utilisation Side products Production Apply new technologies or green The upgraded refined oil reduces techniques to prevent the emission of sulphur, nitric or minimise pollution Clean products Consumption oxide, carbon monoxide, emission; use efficient hydrocarbons and particulates. desulfurisation and dearomatisation technologies to Flue gas: The flue gas is disposed of desulphurisation, produce clean oil Wastes dedusting, and denitration and oil gas is recycled to reduce the products emission of SO2,NOX,PM,VOC etc. Wastewater: Sewage is treated and recycled to reduce COD emission and sewage discharge. Circular economy Waste residue: Waste residue is disposed harmlessly, reduced the quantaty and turned into resources. Our actions Combating climate change Tackling climate change requires social attention and participation. Sinopec Corp. is transitioning to lower-carbon Maintaining safe and stable production and operation economic model and has integrated carbon reduction measures to its production and operations. Sinopec Corp. complies with laws and regulations In 2016, Sinopec Corp. cleared safety hazards detected Substantially developing clean energy in 2015, we started to build commercial production unit including the Safety Production Law and adheres to the in all oil and gas pipelines and promoted hazard detection We promote natural gas exploration and extraction to with an annual capacity of 100,000 tonnes in 2016. idea that development must not come at the expense and elimination of the tank fields. We enhanced improve our output. Fuling shale gas field has built up of safety . We have implemented HSE management communication with governments and pipeline patrol Enhancing carbon management an annual capacity of 7 billion cubic meters. system, designed a safety index appraisal system, and inspectors to prevent overstocks from occurring. In In 2016, we continued to conduct carbon accounting built an emergency management and command system. 2016, we invested RMB 290 million in safety training. Carbon capture and methane recycle and verification. We participated in carbon emission We also enhanced our identification, prevention and We organised training programmes on occupational We continue to implement CO2 flooding pilot tests and trading, built a trading team, upgraded carbon control of risks, and have taken steps to assess and health and safety and public safety for safety directors promote methane recycling from associated gas, test assets management, and optimised carbon trading manage potential safety hazards. We regularly introduce and safety inspectors. We promoted safety emulation oil and gas, oil gathering and transportation systems strategies, facilitating environment protection and initiatives to increase employees' awareness on safety training measures and have constructed a training camp and gas stations. In 2016, we injected 300,000 tonnes resource conservation. We finished the carbon footprint and to prevent accidents and protect our employees and for frontline workers. We also held public safety trainings of CO2 , which resulted in 50,000 tonnes crude oil, and research on asphalt, aviation kerosene, lubricant, and local residents. for overseas employees to improve their risk response recycled 200 million cubic meters of methane. caprolactam, and finalised carbon quota distribution capability. baseline research for products such as ethanol, arene, Promoting the commercialisation of bio-jet Fuel pure terephthalic acid and ethylene glycol. Shengli Following the first bio-jet fuel-powered commercial flight Oilfield waste heat recovery project applied for CCER, Responding to climate change and promoting environmental reducing carbon emissions by 5,000 CO2-equivalent protection Case study tonnes per year. Sinopec Corp. implements the green and low-carbon growth strategy and obeys Environmental Protection Law and other related laws and regulations. We integrate energy conservation, emissions reduction and carbon reduction management systems to tackle climate change and promote clean production and environmental protection initiatives Action Plan of Transporting Natural Gas to Yangtze River economic belt to build an efficient and green enterprise. In 2016, we continued to support the Global Compact Network China and We promote natural gas development and plan to double the annual production capacity of 40 billion cubic meters participated in organising the SDGs-China Summit, playing a key role in encouraging Chinese enterprises to follow a by 2020. We have constructed important resource bases along the Yangtze River economic belt and have also sustainability roadmap. We have enhanced our management system and revised regulations focusing on the pollution accelerated the construction and connectivity of our pipeline network facilities. Through our natural gas pipeline from prevention of industrial wastewater, flue gas and waste residue, and have upgraded our environmental monitoring Sichuan to East China, clean energy will be continuously transported to the Yangtze River economic belt, benefiting management and environmental contingency management systems. We have set specific 2020 goals for energy more than 70 cities in six provinces and two municipalities, covering over 200 million residents. conservation, environmental protection and carbon reduction. Our investment in environmental protection measures was approximately RMB 6.4 billion. Pursuing green development 27 Reducing waste residue disposal In 2016, we enhanced our waste residue treatment and disposal. Our oilfield subsidiaries integrated methods to prevent slurry falling onto the ground in the process of well drilling, and recycled waste slurry from drilled wells in ecologically vulnerable areas. The detritus was utilised for general hardening, brickmaking and hardening roads, realising harmless treatment and resource reuse. The refinery and petrochemical subsidiaries also implemented a sludge drying project. 100% of our waste residue meets all relevant requirements after treatment. Protecting biological diversity Sinopec Corp. complies with all laws and regulations covering the protection of biological diversity such as the Environmental Protection Law. In construction projects that may affect the environment, we evaluate their impact by assessing ecological reserves, forests and wetlands as well as fauna and flora, and formulate measures to mitigate or eliminate their impact during the preliminary project appraisal process, construction and operation. In 2016, our subsidiaries assessed biological diversity in major projects, analysed the impact on the fauna and flora in Ecological Red Line Areas, forests and wetlands, and then implemented the environmental friendly project plan. Case study Case study In October 2016, we concluded our three-year Blue Sky and Clear Water environmental campaign. During the campaign, we implemented 870 projects, investing RMB 20.92 billion. It's estimated that additional 3,400 tonnes of COD, 4,900 tonnes of ammonia nitrogen, 42,000 tonnes of sulphur dioxide, 71,000 tonnes of nitrogen oxide and When our natural gas branch deployed the Qingning Gas Transmission Water City and 25,000 tonnes of VOCs will be reduced annually. Pipeline Project (a major gas transmission pipeline connecting Shandong conservation county-level and Jiangsu province with about 553 kilometers), they analysed fauna districts reserves and flora in national reserves and 9 city and county-level reserves, 7 Managing pollutant emissions water conservation districts, 51 ecologically vulnerable rivers, Ecological Red Line Areas, and areas within 500 meters of the project. They then conducted a thorough examination of the pipeline routes, looking at the 7 9 width of the construction work belt and assessing the construction period Ecologically vulnerable rivers Sinopec Corp. has improved the production techniques, processes and equipment to control pollutant emissions. to determine which approach would most minimise adverse impacts on the 51 We recycle flue gas, wastewater and waste residue to bolster circular economy. In cases where wastes cannot be natural environment, vegetation, and wild animals. recycled, we use harmless processes to mitigate any adverse impact on the environment. Reducing wastewater discharge In 2016, our subsidiaries upgraded and revamped sewage treatment plants, improving their treatment system, The Baling branch organises community teen volunteers to participate in the Finless Porpoise protection activities. introducing an anaerobic denitrification function and installing Advanced Oxidation Process (AOPs) equipment. In areas where water resources are scarce, they installed ancillary sewage recovery equipment and hyperhaline water treatment equipment to meet a zero discharge rate. Our discharge of sewage meets relevant requirements, with a 3.86% decline in COD emissions and a 3.48% decline in ammonia nitrogen compounds. Reducing flue gas emission In 2016, we enhanced our prevention and treatment of air pollutants. We strengthened the reconstruction of desulphurisation and denitrification by upgrading catalytic cracking, sulphur recovery units, the heating furnaces and coal-fired boilers in our refining subsidiaries to meet ultra-low gas emission requirements. As a result, sulphur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide emissions were reduced by 4.07% and 4.53%, respectively. We formulate a comprehensive treatment plan for volatile organic compounds (VOCs). The refining subsidiaries treat flue gas by focusing on the storage and blending of organic materials and the loading, wastewater recovery and treatment, and industrial controlled emissions. We use a range of environmental management modules including online monitoring and statistical analysis, and leakage detection and recovery modules to achieve goal. Our sales subsidiaries have also been promoting the revamp of oil depots and service stations to reduce VOC emissions. 28 Sinopec 2016 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Saving energy and reducing consumption Energy conservation projects Sinopec Corp. focuses on saving energy and reducing consumption in all business operations. Seven refining and petrochemical subsidiaries have 418 completed their energy management systems and integrated it with the laboratory information management system, the production information management system, and the customer relations management system. By examining the cost of energy in our combustion systems, quantifying the Energy saved pollutants we discharge and measuring our carbon dioxide emissions, we 565,000 can make economic benefits appraisal, assess the environmental impact of our activities and optimise our combustion structure. In 2016, we reduced our consumption of comprehensive energy by 1.59% per RMB 10,000 of tonnes of standard coal production value. Enhancing energy conservation monitoring and advancing Energy Conservation Plan In 2016, we enhanced measures to monitor our energy utilisation rate in large-capacity machine units and power equipment in refineries and petrochemical subsidiaries. We upgraded the water injection systems, oil pump systems and transmission systems in all oilfield subsidiaries. We also Case study constructed an energy benchmarking system. Our subsidiaries continued to reduce their carbon and pollutant emissions by implementing energy conservation measures at the source. In 2016, we implemented 418 energy conservation projects, saving the equivalent of 565,000 tonnes of Zhenhai Refinery and Petrochemical Branch promotes energy standard coal. efficiency The Zhenhai Refinery and Petrochemical Branch ( Zhenhai Refinery ) formulated a three-year rolling plan for energy conservation projects and implemented Total Productive Maintenance (TPM). 216 proposals were submitted to the management, covering daily operations and management, operational management of energy-saving facilities, electricity management, and steam system operation management. After implementing the suggestions Zhenhai Refinery saved the equivalent of 71,000 tonnes of standard coal. Zhenhai Refinery ranked first in an Energy-efficiency leaders competition held by China Petroleum and Chemical Industry Association that examined the comprehensive energy efficiency of ethylene products. According to a global ethylene unit appraisal report released by the Solomon Performance Appraisal Institution, the performance of ethylene unit at the Zhenhai Refinery ranked the first top group in the world. Enhancing water resource management In 2016, we enhanced the analysis and examination procedures for water Decline percentage of industrial resources, water intake, water utilisation and water saving measures, and water consumption sought to simultaneously design, construct and operate industrial water saving facilities in all major projects. We enhanced water saving management across our entire production process, and implemented water utilisation plans and target-based management. We also improved our industrial water 1.1 % recycling rate and wastewater (sewage) recovery rate and reduced fresh water consumption. The demand for industrial water was down by 1.1% yearon-year. Advancing openness and win-win cooperation 31 Advancing openness and win-win cooperation promoting sustainable growth in the value chain Challenges and opportunities UN 2030 Agenda calls for global cooperation and joint efforts. Economic globalisation provides strong power for global economic growth and promotes commodity and capital flows as well as S&T and cultural progress. However, due to the impact of the global economic downturn and increasing trade protectionism, the demand for more openness, win-win cooperation and mutual development is increasing for all countries. China has implemented Going Global strategy and proposed the Belt and Road Initiative to respond to these calls, aiming to build an open global economy that promotes the liberalisation of trade and investment and facilitates further openness, communication, integration and development. Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development 32 Sinopec 2016 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Advancing openness and win-win cooperation 33 Our actions Assuming our responsibilities with partners in value chain Sinopec Corp. provides services that impact people's livelihoods. We proactively implement the open cooperation Sinopec Corp. embraces responsibility culture and promotes quality management and HSE management in strategy, stick to the integration with local economy for win-win cooperation, steadily promote diversified ownership its value chain. We require a 100% qualification rate for project contractors, sub-contractors and carriers of reform, and strengthen cooperation with our partners including contractors and suppliers in the value chain, aiming hazardous chemicals and conduct credit-based assessments for all contractors and suppliers to assess their safety to jointly propel the sustainable development. management. We assess suppliers to ensure they are in compliance with ISO 14000 and ISO 18000 standards, and check whether their safety production contingency management system are qualified. We also evaluate their social responsibility performance and the degree to which they handle emissions and waste disposals.We have built a Building an open, just, transparent and honest value chain safety assessment model that covers logistics systems for hazardous chemicals and established KPIs to supervise all carriers' safety mechanism and promote safe operations. Sinopec Corp. advocates the pursuit of shared values with its contractors, suppliers, purchasers and operators. By promoting the use of our construction project e-trading system, we can monitor our business operations, management, trading, assessment and appraisals via an online supervision system. We also implement Business Case study Ethics Agreement which shall be signed at the same time with the business contract. In October 2016, Sinopec Corp. disclosed information on its oil and gas pipeline facilities and opened its available Our self-discipline Our position Our initiatives facilities with remaining capacities to third-parties. Our admittance standard outlines the necessary conditions that (excerpt from Business Ethics (excerpt from Letter to Suppliers (excerpt from White Paper of EPEC must be met in safety, environmental protection, and employee care etc. The main requirements are as follows: Agreement) by Sinopec Corp.) E-commerce Platform Operation) ●●  espect and agree with HSE concepts of Sinopec Corp, build and improve its HSE management system, and R Do not claim or accept Stick to openness, fairness, Uphold the philosophy of discounted fee, agency fee, justness and integrity quality first , customers first achieve good safety performance. commissions, cashes, securities, and credit first ●● Be responsible for employees and put people first; provide premium products and services to customers; be Promote and will improve the payment vouchers, and other responsible for environment and attach importance to environmental protection. construction of a market credit Comply with the company’s valuables offered by Party B system, and cooperate with integrity incentives and Do not claim any expenses from suppliers to create a healthy dishonesty punishment Party B that should be paid by business ecosystem; forbid mechanism, and create an Party A or its individuals commercial bribery and e-commerce operating dishonesty environment based on honesty, Do not seek unjustified interests self-discipline, trustworthiness for spouses and/or children of Firmly fulfil social responsibiliand mutual trust Party A from Party B ties Enhancing cooperation in the industrial chain In 2016, Sinopec Corp. promoted the integration of upstream and downstream industrial chains to achieve mutual development through win-win cooperation. We cooperated with 14 provinces and cities to boost the development of our natural gas business, and focused on the market-oriented reform. We introduced social capital to the natural gas pipeline project from Sichuan to East China. Reforms of marketing company go smoothly. we are pursuing strategic cooperation with the postal industry and shipbuilding industry. We are optimising our refinery and petrochemical operations, building production bases, developing medium and high-end products, expecting to cooperate with our stakeholders. Advancing openness and win-win cooperation 35 Case study The Sinopec EPEC e-commerce platform To meet the needs of companies in supply chain, Sinopec Corp. built the Total registered suppliers 32,000 EPEC e-commerce platform to connect the industrial chain and supply chain via the Internet and contribute to national supply-side structural reform. The EPEC platform utilises procurement advantages accumulated over 12 years to provide tailored services to customers. From quality supervisions to trade dispute settlement, the platform provides one-stop service for Kinds of goods for online sale customers. The EPEC platform cooperates with financial institutions to help upstream and downstream enterprises gain access to low-cost and convenient financing channels, creating shared value and growth. 726,000 By the end of 2016, 32,000 suppliers and 2,821 purchasers (84% are Promoting growth in the value chain external purchasers) were registered on the EPEC platform. More than 726,000 kinds of goods were available for online sale and 107,000 Total transaction value (RMB) Sharing resources and promoting growth in the industrial chain customers were registered. The total transaction value was about RMB 50 billion with RMB 2.64 billion of purchase amount from external enterprises. 50 billion As a response to the 'Internet Plus' strategy, Sinopec Corp. leverages Sinopec Corp. shares information and access to more than 30,000 multiple leading internet technologies to build the EPEC platform. EPEC suppliers with companies in the industrial chain and has built its EPEC will build a bridge between resource management, tendering and bidding e-commerce platform that encourages social enterprises to use online and quality control, and create an open win-win market environment. As a procurement. We present fair and just business opportunities for suppliers result, the long-term success of Sinopec EPEC can be guaranteed while through specific standards and fair procedures. collaborative cooperation and mutual benefits can be promoted between enterprises in the supply chain. Promoting the identification and prevention of Stephen Hinson China Operations Leader of GE Oil & Gas, EPEC supplier risks in supply chain Sinopec Corp. keeps track of the supply quality and progress. When major problems are detected, we issue a letter of notification to suppliers and take steps to help them control risks. We have set up goods supply risk warning system to help customers raise awareness on the importance of Tender and bidding training risk prevention and control. The ability for risk identification and prevention programs for construction projects in the value chain has been improved. 5,278 person times Carrying out training sessions in the value chain Sinopec Corp. holds training sessions for contractors and suppliers to facilitate communication on related laws and regulations, tenders and bidding management and corporate business. Through enhanced two-way Supplier training communications, we promote the identification of values and help build 4,000 capacity for economic, environmental and social sustainable development. In 2016, a total of 5,278 person times and over 4,000 person times were recorded in our tender and bidding training programs for construction person times projects and supplier trainings respectively. Pursuing shared development 37 Pursuing shared development serving the people for better life Challenges and opportunities UN 2030 Agenda calls for closer global cooperation to eradicate poverty and to create opportunities of decent life and equality for all human beings. Today, more than 700 million people suffer from extreme poverty across the world. China, by pursuing its people-oriented development and taking development-oriented poverty alleviation measures, has lifted 700 million rural poor out of poverty. The country prioritises the right to life and the right to development, and has set a goal to realise the rural poverty elimination and construct a prosperous society by 2020 so as to support people’s well-being. End hunger, achieve food security and improved End poverty in all its nutrition and promote forms everywhere sustainable agriculture Ensure inclusive and Ensure healthy lives equitable quality education and promote well-being and promote lifelong learning for all at all ages opportunities for all Promote sustained, Achieve gender inclusive and sustainable equality and economic growth, full empower all women and productive and girls employment and decent work for all 38 Sinopec 2016 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Pursuing shared development 39 Our actions Career development and training Sinopec Corp. has built diversified growth channels for its talent teams, Off-job training 898,000 including operations management personnel, technical professionals and Our principles for human rights technicians. In 2016, our corporate headquarters trained 4,505 person times in high-level personnel training. In order to enhance the new managers' Sinopec Corp. complies with all related laws and regulations on human rights and the National Human Rights Action overall quality and capacity of performing their duties, we carried out series person times Plan. We forbid child labour and forced labour, and oppose discrimination in any forms. We provide employment of training programmes, including training for managers and seminar on opportunities, protect employees' rights and interests, provide social insurance and ensure democratic negotiation to innovation and development. The total training for senior management Job training promote decent work. Sinopec Corp. values communication with local residents in communities where it has projects personnel reached 1,514 person times. We also organised 1,922 person 1.086 and actively participates in public welfare services to benefit the people. times online theme trainings on the new development philosophy for managers. In order to solve the key problems in R&D and production, we held workshops for leading experts in the field of oil and gas exploration million person times Protecting employees' rights and interests, and promoting and experts in oil refining field, and seminar on customer value-oriented marketing capability. The training for high-level professionals and technical employees' growth personnel reached 905 person times. Themed with exemplary role, skill Cases 500 inheritance and improvement, we also carried out chief technician training and skilled talents training in 5 types, including oil-gas gathering and Protecting employees' rights and Creating a favourable labour transporting, catalytic cracking, etc., and 164 people get trained. Based interests relationship on the actual situations, all subsidiaries carried out diverse trainings in different levels and fields, with off-job training 898,000 person times and We have established the workers congress system In accordance with the principles of equality, free will, various job trainings 1.086 million person times, including basic skill training. and labour union committee. We have formulated and unanimity through consultation , Sinopec Corp. We continued to promote the construction of job training course system, a consultation and negotiation system between signs labour contracts with its employees and complies developing about 500 cases. We also improved our remote training system employees represented by the labour union and the with the terms of the labour contract. We value employee and set up courses on macroeconomics, operations management, job skills, company to protect employees' rights and interests. In diversity and gender equality. We create a favourable safety, environmental protection and psychological health and related case 2016, our subsidiaries collected 5,938 proposals and working environment for our employees, supporting studies. registered 3,151 cases with the employee congress. their rights to regular work, rest and vacation. Our salary 1,417 proposals were related to production and distribution system mainly ensures that salaries are paid operations, reform and corporate management, 822 in accordance with job performance, and we advocate were related to salary and welfare, and 586 were related equal pay for equal work. We have created a multi-level Case study to safe operations and harmonious development. All system that integrates our social guarantee system, of the proposals received a quick response from the commercial insurance, and enterprise supplementary subsidiaries. insurance policies. Training sessions for specialists of catalytic cracking unit In 2016, Sinopec Corp. organised training classes for specialists in catalytic cracking industry, hiring 10 Enhancing occupational health management academicians and more than 30 experts to give lectures. Sinopec Corp. emphasizes the occupational health of its employees and stipulates that occupational disease After a year of study, the training class formulated prevention facilities must be designed, constructed, and put into production and operation simultaneously with the one unit data brochure, one collection of cases, 4 company's main projects. We employ occupational health management professionals and provide capacity buildings for special research reports and 36 special reports. While them. Our subsidiaries monitor hazardous factors such as dust and noise at operation sites annually, assess the status developing talent and improving our occupational of occupational diseases every three years, evaluate the impact and risk of occupational diseases and implement capacity, we also developed theoretical and practical prevention measures. We keep records on our employees' occupational health, and regularly organise health applications for the petroleum refining industry. examinations. We also perform timely examinations, evaluations and work shifts and provide disease diagnosis and medical treatment for our employees when signs of disease are detected. Our health training sessions are designed to increase employees' knowledge on health protection and introduce health and hygiene knowledge. 40 Sinopec 2016 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Valuing communication and serving society We understands that our growth does not operate in a vacuum and that we must strive to positively impact the public. To this end, we implement measures to help needy people. Our targeted poverty alleviation measures contribute to poverty relief, and we also participate in public welfare services, care for disadvantaged people, and offer services that help those in need solve problems. We also take the initiative encouraging other enterprises to contribute to sustainable development. Infrastructure Platform service Industrial development Poverty Alleviation Case study Medical care Education support Promoting poverty alleviation and lighting the Tibetan region Labour training Baingoin County is one of the poorest counties in Tibet with 30% of local farming households living under the poverty line. To alleviate poverty in the region, Sinopec Corp. has spent about RMB 300 million in Baingoin county, and implemented 111 assistance programmes to help them develop the local economy. Implementing targeted poverty alleviation ●● C  onstructed a cultural activity centre and farmers' market, paved roads and built bridges to enhance local We uphold the principle of blood-making style and blood–transfusion style poverty alleviation, Investment in poverty alleviation infrastructure; and help the needy people improve their capacity for sustainable development. In 2016, Sinopec (RMB) ●● Implemented a housing project to provide cosy and safe houses for farming households; Supported education, using one third of its poverty alleviation fund to develop local education facilities and 106.66 Corp. paid great attention to targeted poverty alleviation, and persisted in targeted objects, ●● targeted project planning, targeted utilisation of funds, targeted measures based on households, approaches to teaching; targeted personnel based on village and targeted poverty elimination effect. Focusing on poor million ●● Developed processing products for livestock and supported the production of Tibetan blankets to develop villages and households, we implemented targeted poverty elimination plans in rural industry special industries with Baingoin characteristics; development, infrastructure construction, labour output trainings, poverty relief and education ●● Supported professional skills training initiatives to improve the skill level of local residents. assistance. We also increased our investment, enhanced capital management and supervision Investment in targeted poverty protocols to ensure the effectiveness of the plans. alleviation (RMB) In 2016, Sinopec Corp. invested RMB 15 million to improve the quality of available medical services and hospital 105.45 facilities. One of our subsidiaries also invested in the Zhuoma Spring drinking water project, which resulted in a 97% In 2016, Sinopec Corp. invested RMB 106.66 million in poverty alleviation, with RMB 105.45 year-on-year increase, lifting sales revenue to RMB 730 million, and significantly contributing to regional economic million in targeted poverty alleviation. We helped 27,775 registered people out of poverty and million development. aided 2,797 students. The headquarters of the company continued to implement Tibet and Qinghai aid programmes, and invested RMB 24.35 million in 8 projects. Sinopec Corp.'s housing project substantially transformed the nomadic way of life in the region, delivering increased Investment in Tibet and Qinghai profits to the local farming industry, and elevating children's enthusiasm for school. In 2017, we will continue to enhance our efforts on targeted poverty alleviation and efficiency from the headquarters (RMB) improvements. We will implement the Five Batches of People project to eradicate poverty by Nyima Dorjee, Mayor of Khyung Town, Baingoin County developing production, relocation, ecological compensation, education, as well as by guaranteeing basic living standards. 24.35 million 42 Sinopec 2016 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Pursuing shared development 43 2016 targeted poverty-alleviation work statistics form 10,056 489 27,775 Unit: RMB 10,000 Funds Goods and materials converted Number of registered poor people lifted out of poverty The investment breakdowns include money raised from the outside of Sinopec Corp.by our Investment breakdowns employees of subsidiaries in specific poverty alleviation projects. Poverty elimination through industrial Poverty alleviation through development Poverty elimination through labour transfer Poverty elimination through education health care Categories of poverty alleviation programmes through industrial development √ Poverty alleviation through agriculture and forestry development Poverty alleviation through tourism development 227 2,733 1,589 315 2,797 248 624 √ Poverty alleviation through e-commerce Investment in professional Participants of professional Number of registered poor people Investment in assisting poor Number of students who received Investment in education Investment in medical and health skill training skill trainings (person time) helped with finding jobs students assistance resources in poverty-stricken care resources in poor areas √ Poverty alleviation through assets income areas √ Poverty alleviation through science and technology development √ Others Poverty elimination Poverty alleviation through ecological Guarantee basic living standard through relocation protection √ Conduct ecological protection and construction 208 3,842 Develop ways for ecological protection and compensation 146 829 44 424 Number of poverty Investment in poverty alleviation projects through √ Set up ecological charity posts alleviation programmes industrial development 94 121 Others Investment in left-behind children, Number of left-behind children, Investment in assisting poor Number of poor people with Number of Investment in women and senior people women and senior people people with physical disabilities disabilities assisted relocated poverty assisted people helped alleviation 179 12,269 with finding jobs projects through Investment in ecological Number of registered poor people lifted out of poverty relocation protection Poverty alleviation through social projects Other projects 2 709 6 220 4,497 15,506 Investment in coordinated Investment in targeted Charity funds for poverty Number of projects Total investment Number of registered poor people poverty alleviation in East poverty alleviation alleviation lifted out of poverty and West China programmes 44 Sinopec 2016 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Pursuing shared development 45 Focusing on community communication and development Implementing Warm Station public welfare activity Establishing diversified communication channels Assistance provided Each year, as the Spring Festival draws closer, hundreds of thousands Through company activities such as the Sinopec Open Day and social monitor surveys, Sinopec Corp. enhances its of migrant workers in the Pearl River Delta take their family members 400,000 communication with stakeholders through face-to-face talk, corporate newspaper, sustainable development reports, the on motorcycles and travel nearly a thousand kilometres to return to their official corporate website, Weibo and WeChat. hometown. We implement Warm Station public welfare activity to assist those heading home. In 2016, 5,500 volunteers were organised in 218 person times The Sinopec online museum Sinopec Open Day Sinopec gas stations along eight travel routes, providing assistance of 400,000 person times and repairing more than 10,000 motorcycles. In 2016, Sinopec Corp. opened its online museum to On April 22, 2016, we held the 5th Sinopec Open Day the public. The six virtual exhibition halls in the museum under the banner of Promoting a green and simple Sinopec gas stations that provides integrate the transmission of scientific knowledge, lifestyle, using resources economically and intensively . assistance Driving economic development in operating regions interactive activities and expositions through multimedia In 2016, 5,975 participants attended over 100 activities. through beneficial and inclusive actions and VR technology to facilitate visitors to learn about Statistics show that 71.28% of participants said they 218 In 2016, Sinopec Corp. cultivated a range of special commodities in eight provinces, and helped these local products to expand the market through its own channels and drive local economic development. We invested RMB the petroleum industry and Chinese petrochemical enterprises. gained a better understanding of Sinopec Corp. and its business operations, while 80.97% said they were willing to invite friends to attend future events. 62.98% said they hoped to become promoters of future activities. 6.58 billion to improve regional infrastructure, support local education and health care, and improve people's livelihood. We promoted the localisation of employees in overseas operations, providing more jobs to serve local Inviting the public to engage in feasibility studies on major projects economic growth. Local employees account for more than 97% of our employees in projects in Russia, Kazakhstan and Columbia. The four worldWe attach significant importance to our communication with local residents. We invite local residents to discuss how class refining and chemical bases invested by Sinopec Corp. during the 13th our project will impact the environment when we implement new construction projects. In 2016, we solicited public Five-Year Plan period will substantially promote downstream investment opinion on four projects through newspapers, online notices, announcements in local communities, and questionnaires and increase growth in the manufacturing industry. Our action will boost local and published the feedback on the official website of Ministry of Environmental Protection, gaining support from the economies and contribute to the national economy which, we believe, will local residents. facilitate the stable and healthy development of Chinese economy. Key Performance 47 Outlook Key Performance As the ancient Chinese saying goes, The world moves on in a never-ending process of the new replacing the old. Looking to the future, Sinopec Corp. has formulated the 13th Five-Year Development Plan and Economic performance has set up development goals and key tasks for the next five years. The Company will continue practicing the five key development strategies focusing on improving our quality and efficiency and upgrading Indicators 2014 2015 2016 to ensure our stable performance, and we will actively promote supply-side structural reform. While developing approach to the enterprise's sustainable development, the Company commits to providing Total assets (RMB billion) 1,455.6 1,447.3 1,498.6 cleaner oil products and better services, contributing to the society to safeguard and improve people's Total liabilities (RMB billion) 804.5 657.7 666.1 livelihood, implementing Green Enterprise Action Plan to develop green development advantage and to construct a green and efficient energy enterprise, and working together with partners, aiming to build Revenue (RMB billion) 2,827.6 2,020.4 1,930.9 a highly responsible and respectable enterprise. We will always undertake responsibility of our era and promote sustainability together with our shareholders. Net profits attributable to shareholders of the Company (RMB billion) 47.6 32.28 46.42 Dividends declared (RMB billion) 23.83 18.16 30.15 Dividends pay-out ratio (%) 50.2 56.4 64.9 Taxes and fees paid (RMB billion) 292.3 327.4 316.1 Natural gas to barrels of oil equivalent (million barrels) 480.22 471.91 431.29 Crude oil output (million barrels) 360.73 349.47 303.51 Natural gas output (billion cubic feet) 716.35 734.79 766.12 Crude oil processing volume (million tonnes) 235.38 236.49 235.53 Ethylene output (kilotonnes) 10,698 11,118 11,059 Sales volume of refined oil products (10 kilotonnes) 18,917 18,933 19,484 Sales volume of major chemical products (10 kilotonnes) 6,079 6,287 6,996 48 Sinopec 2016 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Key Performance 49 Safety performance Society Indicators 2014 2015 2016 Indicators 2014 2015 2016 Employee occupational health examination coverage (%) 98.8 98.9 98.9 Total number of employees 358,571 351,019 451,611* Health check-up and health file coverage (%) 98.8 98.9 98.9 Number of new employees during the reporting period 2,873 2,633 17,897* Number of newly diagnosed cases of occupational diseases 21 6 19 Percentage of female employees (%) 29.66 29.46 35.95* Safety training coverage (%) 91.3 100 100 Percentage of female managers (%) 26.41 26.74 12.88* Number of deaths 8 7 2 Collective contract coverage (%) 100 100 100 Social insurance coverage (%) 100 100 100 Annuity coverage (%) 100 100 100 Environmental performance Percentage of employees with membership of labour union (%) 100 100 100 Donations (RMB 10,000) 12,490 11,185 13,288 Indicators 2014 2015 2016 Number of patients cured under the Lifeline Express Programme 3,006 3,286 3,248 Compliance rate for wastewater discharge (%) 99.30 99.77 99.8 Contributions to cultural education, community development and Change in industrial water consumption (%) -1.1 -1.0 -1.1 675,323 675,388 658,378 medical service (RMB10,000) Change in COD in wastewater (%) -2.5 -4.14 -3.86 * In 2016, the Company implemented a reform of the employment system, and the statistical calibre was changed. Change in SO2 emission (%) -8.1 -4.84 -4.07 Change in nitrogen oxides emission (%) -3.9 -4.19 -4.53 Change in ammoniac nitrogen emission (%) -4.2 -3.97 -3.48 Investment in environmental protection (RMB billion) 5.4 5.8 6.4 50 Sinopec 2016 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Index 51 Index Scope Criteria for UNGC Advanced Level Sinopec Information Update for 2016 Criterion 1: Key aspects of the company’s advanced level sustainability P02-03,P08-09,P17 strategy in line with Global Compact principles Strategy, UNGC 10 Principles Checklist Governance and Criterion 2: Effective decision-making processes and systems of governance for corporate sustainability P08-09,P17,P20,P24-25,P32-33 Engagement Criterion 3: Engagement with all important stakeholders P07,P08-09,P13,P32-35,P38-45 Scope UNGC's 10 Principles Sinopec Information Update for 2016 Scope Criteria4:for UNGC Advanced UN Goals and Issues Criterion Actions taken in support ofLevel broader UN goals and issue Sinopec Information Update for 2016 P07,P11,P19,P23,P31,P37 1.Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Criterion human rights; and P08-09,P23-29,P38-45 Criterion 1: 5: Key aspects Robust of the company’s commitments, advanced strategies or policieslevel sustainability in the area of human rights P02-03,P07-08,P38 P02-03,P08-09,P17 strategy in line with Global Compact principles Human Rights Strategy, 2.make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. P38,P44 Governance and Criterion Criterion 2: 6: Effective Effective decision-making management systems processes and systems to integrate the humanof rights principle P07-08,P24,P38-45 P08-09,P17,P20,P24-25,P32-33 governance for corporate sustainability Human Rights Engagement 3.Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition Implementation Criterion 7: Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of human P38 Criterion 3: Engagement with all important stakeholders P38-45 P07,P08-09,P13,P32-35,P38-45 of the right to collective bargaining; rights integration 4.the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; P38 UN Goals and Issues Criterion 8: 4: Key Actions taken inofsupport outcomes the human rights integration of broader UN goals and issue P24-29,P39-45 P07,P11,P19,P23,P31,P37 Labor 5.the effective abolition of child labor; and P38 Criterion 9: 5: Robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of labor human rights P02-03,P08-09 P02-03,P07-08,P38 6.the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. P38,P44 Criterion 10: Effectivemanagement 6: Effective systemstotointegrate managementsystems integratethe thehuman labor principle rights principle P38-39 P07-08,P24,P38-45 Labor HumanPrinciples Rights 7.Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges P23-25 Implementation Implementation Criterion 11: Effectivemonitoring 7: Effective monitoringandandevaluation mechanismsofofhuman evaluationmechanisms the labor P38-39 principle integration P38-45 rights integration Environment 8.undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and P23-29 Criterion 12: 8: Key outcomesofofthe Keyoutcomes thehuman labor principle integration rights integration P38-39 P24-29,P39-45 9.encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. P25-29 Criterion 13: Robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of P02-03,P24 Criterion 9: Robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of labor P02-03,P08-09 environmental stewardship Anti-Corruption 10.Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Criterion 14: Effective management systems to integrate the environmental P14,P17,P32 Criterion 10: Effective management systems to integrate the labor principle P24-25 P38-39 Environmental Labor Principles principle Stewardship Implementation Criterion 15: 11: Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for of the labor P16 P38-39 Implementation environmental stewardship principle integration Criterion 16: 12: Key outcomes of the environmental principle integration labor principle integration P24-29 P38-39 UNGC Advanced Level Criteria Checklist Criterion 17: 13: Robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of P02-03,P17,P32 P02-03,P24 anti-corruption environmental stewardship Criterion 14: Criterion Effective management management systems 18: Effective systems to to integrate integrate thethe environmental anti-corruption P17,P32 P24-25 Anti-Corruption Environmental principle principle Scope Criteria for UNGC Advanced Level Sinopec Information Update for 2016 Implementation Stewardship 15: Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for the Criterion 19: P17 P16 Implementation integration environmentalof anti-corruption stewardship Criterion 1: Key aspects of the company’s advanced level sustainability Criterion 20: P17,P32 P02-03,P08-09,P17 16: Key outcomes of the anti-corruption principle integration environmental principle integration P24-29 strategy in line with Global Compact principles Strategy, Governance and Criterion 2: Effective decision-making processes and systems of P08-09,P17,P20,P24-25,P32-33 Value Chain Criterion 17: Robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of Criterion 21: Implementation of the Global Compact principles in the value chain P02-03,P17,P32 P31-35 governance for corporate sustainability anti-corruption Engagement Implementation Criterion 18: Effective management systems to integrate the anti-corruption Criterion 3: Engagement with all important stakeholders P07,P08-09,P13,P32-35,P38-45 Criterion 22: The COP provides information on the company’s profile and P17,P32 Anti-Corruption principle context of operation Report Information,P04-07 Implementation Criterion 19: Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for the UN Goals and Issues Criterion 4: Actions taken in support of broader UN goals and issue P07,P11,P19,P23,P31,P37 Transparency and Criterion 23:ofThe integration anti-corruption COP incorporates high standards of transparency and disclosure P17 P50-51 Verification Criterion 5: Robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of human rights P02-03,P07-08,P38 Criterion 20: Key outcomes of the anti-corruption principle integration P17,P32 Criterion 24: The COP is independently verified by a credible third-party Criterion 6: Effective management systems to integrate the human rights principle P07-08,P24,P38-45 Value Chain Criterion 21: Implementation of the Global Compact principles in the value chain P31-35 Human Rights Implementation Implementation Criterion 7: Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of human P38-45 Criterion 22: The COP provides information on the company’s profile and rights integration Report Information,P04-07 context of operation Criterion 8: Key outcomes of the human rights integration P24-29,P39-45 Transparency and Criterion 23: The COP incorporates high standards of transparency and disclosure P50-51 Verification Criterion 9: Robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of labor P02-03,P08-09 Criterion 24: The COP is independently verified by a credible third-party Criterion 10: Effective management systems to integrate the labor principle P38-39 Labor Principles Implementation Criterion 11: Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of the labor P38-39 principle integration Criterion 12: Key outcomes of the labor principle integration P38-39 52 Sinopec 2016 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Feedback Respected Readers, Thank you for reading this Report. Your opinions and suggestions are important to us and can help us improve the preparation of future reports. Please help us by completing the following Feedback Form and sending it to the following address: Secretariat of the Board China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation No.22 Chaoyangmen North Street, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100728, PRC Your Information Name: Employer: Title: Contact Tel: Fax: E-mail: Content Very good Good Fair Poor Very poor This Report completely and accurately describes the significant impact of Sinopec Corp. on the economy, society and environment. This Report responds to and discloses information about the concerns of stakeholders. The information, indicators and data disclosed by this Report are clear, accurate and complete. This Report’s logic line, content, text and wording, and layout are well designed. Open-ended questions 1. What do you find most satisfying in this Report? 2. What other information do you think should be included in this Report? 3. What suggestions do you have for our preparation of the sustainable development progress report in the future?
