Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 Editorial Policy Contents Editorial Policy and Contents 1 The Mitsubishi Logistics Group (the “Group”) has issued Top Message 2 this Environmental and Social Report each year since fiscal 2007 to fulfill its accountability about the effects of Introduction of Businesses 4 its business activities on society and the environment. To disclose the goals, details and achievements of its Promotion of CSR CSR activities from the perspectives of the Group’s CSR Manifestation of The Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business 6 management, this Report describes precisely and in an Management Philosophy and the Code of Conduct, etc. easy-to-understand manner the promotion of CSR as well Promotion of CSR for every employee; Emphasis on communication 9 as each of the seven core subjects described in the Confirmation of major CSR activities 10 “Guidance on Social Responsibility” (JIS Z 26000, ISO 26000). This Guidance is a global standard for CSR Organizational Governance established by the Japanese Industrial Standards (JIS) and Corporate Governance; Promoting the realization of our corporate 12 the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). philosophy and strategies; Review of goals, standards, etc. Entrenchment of the compliance of standards, etc.; 13 Boundary of the Report and Reporting Period Confirmation of the implementation of action plans Boundary of The Report covers Mitsubishi Logistics Respect for Human Rights the Report: Corporation (the “Company”) and its group Improvement of awareness of human rights; Respecting 14 companies. human rights through business activities Reporting This Report covers our business activities for the Period: period from April 1, 2015 to March 31, 2016. To Appropriate Working Environment ensure comprehensive disclosure, however, Respect for labor-management relations; Employment and 15 certain relevant information regarding events that the importance of the employment relationship occurred prior to and/or after this period have Rewarding and friendly working conditions 16 been included. Ensuring the security of workers 19 Human resources development and training 20 Publication Date (Previous publication date: February 2016) Environmental Conservation February 2017 Reduction of CO2 emissions as a measure for reducing climate change 23 (Next planned publication date: February 2018) Use of renewable resources; 26 Contribution to the recovery of the eco-system Reference Guidelines Fulfillment of Sincere and Fair Business Activities ■ JIS Z 26000: 2012 (Guidance on Social Responsibility) ISO Prohibition of unfair advantage in competition and 27 26000: 2010 (Guidance on Social Responsibility) promotion of fair and open competition ■ Ministry of the Environment: Environmental Reporting Guidelines (Fiscal Year 2007 Version) Provision of Safe, High-Quality and Useful Services ■ Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): Sustainability Reporting Provision of socially and environmentally beneficial high-quality services 28 Guidelines Version 4.0 Promotion of disaster measures to maintain service functions 30 Contacts for Inquiries Regarding the Environmental and Social Report Coordination with Local Communities and International Society CSR · Compliance Team, General Affairs Division, Contribution to cultural activities 31 Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation Contribution through donations, etc. 32 Nihonbashi Dia Building, 19-1, Nihonbashi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo Statement Supporting the UN Global Compact 103-8630, Japan Practice of the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles 34 TEL: +81-3-3278-6657 Company Profile 35 FAX: +81-3-3278-6694 You may view some of the relevant data and the reference table for Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): Web Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 4.0 on Mitsubishi Logistics’ web site. “Extended version.” http://www.mitsubishi-logistics.co.jp/english/csr/pdf/extended_version.pdf HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version “GRI Guidelines reference table” http://www.mitsubishi-logistics.co.jp/english/csr/pdf/griguideline.pdf HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>GRI Guidelines reference table Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 1 Top Message Akio Matsui President Mitsubishi Logistics Group focuses on global environment-friendly activities and engages in sincere and fair business activities, contributing to the realization of an affluent and sustainable society. Introduction company-owned property. Of especial note, the involvement of our logistics operations in every Mitsubishi Logistics continues to uphold its corporate industry countrywide provides a key function in the philosophy, which states, “Engage in sincere and fair economic foundation as a highly public social business activities to secure appropriate profits and infrastructure not only in peacetime but also in case promote steady growth, appropriately compensating of natural disasters or other emergencies. We our stakeholders while contributing to the realization continue to make the utmost effort to support the of an affluent and sustainable society.” To realize this daily lives of people everywhere and the business corporate philosophy, the Group has stipulated the activities of our customers at every level of product Code of Conduct. procurement, production and sales. Our Group companies work in cooperation to carry out our logistics business both in Japan and First Year of the Management Plan (2016–2018) around the world, organically and comprehensively managing each business area through our information network, starting with our core The current fiscal year is the first year of the warehousing business, and including overland Management Plan (2016-2018), which started in April transportation, port and harbor operations, and 2016. Overseas, the U.S. economy continued to international transportation. Our real estate business recover and a continuous moderate recovery was focuses on leased buildings constructed on seen in Europe. The economy in China maintains 2 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 stable growth. The Japanese economy is expected an affluent and sustainable to recover gradually while employment and income society. To firmly instill this conditions continue to improve, given the effects of stance throughout the entire government policies. Group, we have clarified that In these circumstances, this plan is designed to we promote CSR activities as a move forward with measures already under way, specific strategy in the without changing the fundamental concept of management plan, and have pursuing the growth potential in overseas businesses incorporated such initiatives in while ensuring profitability in the domestic specific measures. businesses. Our logistics and real estate business activities The management plan has defined the ideal are deeply connected to society. To earn recognition image of the Mitsubishi Logistics Group three years for the value of our existence as a member of society from now that we ought to pursue as follows. and continue to grow in the future, the Group needs to steadily implement the goals set forth in the plan. In particular, taking into account the increased “To be a problem-solving partner of demand for reducing natural disaster risk stemming customers backed up by trust and from the global increase in natural disasters, we are brand power.” promoting the construction of Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Warehouses equipped with reinforced disaster-prevention functions and enhanced global environmental measures, as well as DisasterResistant and Eco-Friendly Office Buildings that have Initiatives for CSR management similar functions. As part of this initiative, in September 2014, the Nihonbashi Dia Building (of which the lower floors are used as the Company’s With the establishment of our Code of Conduct in Head Office and trunk rooms) was completed. We 1997, we have clearly demonstrated our stance and also intend to continue initiatives for global approach toward further enhancing our level of environmental measures from the perspective of adherence to relevant laws and regulations, biodiversity. disclosing appropriate corporate information, addressing and resolving global environmental Conclusion issues, and providing safe, high-quality and socially useful services. In addition, the Company approved and declared in May 2014 its support for the UN As the Mitsubishi Logistics Group continues to place Global Compact, which is a set of universally top priority on sincerity and fairness, supporting accepted CSR-related principles. The Company customers’ value creation with a focus on global considers complying with internationally accepted environment-friendly activities while fulfilling our norms in the areas of human rights, labor, the responsibilities to society with stable growth, we ask environment and anti-corruption as fulfilling its social for your continued understanding and support. responsibility in its business activities and leading to Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 3 Introduction of Businesses Residences Office buildings The Mitsubishi Logistics Group provides high-quality services to Retail facilities support people’s affluent lives and corporate activities through the Logistics segment businesses centering on the warehousing and distribution business and the Real Estate segment businesses centering on the leasing of buildings. Real estate development and leasing Air transportation Warehouses and distribution centers Harbor transportation Domestic Ocean transportation Trunk room service Overland transportation Trucking and railway transportation Logistics information system Logistics services Warehousing and Distribution Business Overland Transportation Business We are able to meet a broad range of customized logistics needs through In Japan, we extend and reinforce the optimal distribution system for each customer the full integration of warehouses and distribution centers, which are located through a tactical combination of our national, trunk-line transit network, which is at major ports and key inland transportation areas nationwide; our supported by Ryoso Transportation within the Group and excellent local counterparts, transportation and delivery networks; and the logistics information systems and independent collection and delivery services linking local areas. We have that organically link them. In this business, fixed temperature storage and expanded our transportation service for small-quantity, joint delivery needs especially refrigerated warehouses for pharmaceuticals and fresh and processed foods for foods and pharmaceuticals. In addition, we offer cargo feature-specific, diversified are sufficiently offered in addition to ordinary warehouses for room transportation/delivery services including ocean freight container transportation for temperature storage to ensure the provision of safe and efficient storage/ import and export cargo and the transportation of heavy goods such as plant facilities. distribution processing/delivery services using our original information Moreover, we endeavor to realize eco-friendly, safe and secure transportation services technology and the latest facilities. by drawing on our information technology and promoting green management. Meanwhile, we strive to reduce the Furthermore, with the start of the DP-Cool Service, a high-quality pharmaceuticals environmental impact by promoting green delivery service with temperature control provided by Dia Pharmaceutical Network management. Furthermore, we are active in Co., Ltd., our subsidiary that specializes in the delivery of pharmaceuticals, we strive the construction of advanced facilities that to realize the further sophistication of transportation quality. aim to coordinate with local communities under the concept of Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Warehouse equipped with a solar power generation system and emergency power generators. One such model warehouse is Misato Warehouse No. 2, which was completed in March 2013. 4 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 Real Estate Business We are involved in the real estate business in all six major cities of Japan—Tokyo, Yokohama, Nagoya, Osaka, Kobe and Fukuoka. In addition to the redevelopment of properties based on the optimum application of each property’s features and the leasing of approximately 50 real estate facilities (offices, retail facilities and residences), totaling almost 900,000 m2 of total floor space, we are involved in the leasing of condominiums. We are also active in developing Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Office Buildings, which will help our customers enhance their business continuity and reduce their environmental burden. Air transportation Import/Export Overseas Shipping Agent Customs clearance Ocean transportation Harbor transportation Overland transportation Shipping-related Trucking and operations railway transportation Harbor Transportation Business International Transportation Business We provide secure high-quality logistics services including In response to increasingly diversifying customers’ logistics container terminal operations for integrated containerized needs, we propose optimum transportation routes door-toshipments at all major Japanese ports, namely Tokyo, door worldwide tailored to every customer’s request by taking Yokohama, Nagoya, Osaka, Kobe and Hakata, to meet every advantage of our global network and a variety of transportation kind of customer need. We also offer a wide range of other means such as vessels, aircraft, railway and trucks. marine shipping related services such as importing/exporting Meanwhile, our overseas operating bases provide of vessels, ship registration, and agency operations for comprehensive logistics services such as cargo transportation, special ships such as oil-drilling rigs. customs clearance and storage of goods, as well as logistics related support services such as consulting on legal systems and procedures in the respective areas for customers who plan to launch into foreign markets. Furthermore, we intend to not be limited to transport operations but to further promote worldwide our logistics know-how, which the Company has accumulated over its history of more than 120 years. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 5 Promotion of CSR The Mitsubishi Logistics Group utilizes the “Guidance on social responsibility,” complies with the “seven principles of social responsibility”* in the practice of its social responsibility and strengthens various activities categorized under the seven core subjects of social responsibility. Each core subject is of equal priority, and is equally important. * See the chart on the right. The Mitsubishi Logistics Group streamlines an integrated mechanism (with components such as philosophy, principles, policies, systems, dialogue and confirmation) to ensure that a socially responsible corporate culture exists within the Group and is conducted through the practice of CSR-based activities, aiming to increase its corporate value. Manifestation of The Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business Management Philosophy and the Code of Conduct, etc. Mission, Vision, Sense of Values, Principles and the Code of Conduct The Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business Management Philosophy (“Sankoryo”) The Mitsubishi Sankoryo is a managerial creed articulated by the fourth president of the Mitsubishi organization, Koyata Iwasaki. The spirit and values of this Sankoryo remain alive and current today as a basic philosophy of an internally and externally open group being shared by the constituent Mitsubishi Group companies that are independent from each other. The Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business Management Philosophy “Shoki Hoko” “Shoji Komei” “Ritsugyo Boeki” Corporate Responsibility to Society Integrity and Fairness Global Understanding through Business Strive to enrich society, both Maintain principles of Expand business, based on materially and spiritually, transparency and an all-encompassing global while contributing toward openness, conducting perspective. the preservation of the business with integrity and global environment. fairness. Code of Conduct We have established the following Code of Conduct to realize our corporate philosophy (see page 2: Top Message) based on the spirit of the Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business Management Philosophy. Code of Conduct We engage in business activities to secure appropriate profits and promote steady growth, appropriately compensating our employees and stockholders while contributing to the realization of an affluent and sustainable society. 1. We shall comply with laws, ordinances and rules that enable us to honestly and fairly carry out business activities without deviating from social norms. 2. We shall appropriately disclose corporate information in a timely manner to enhance broad communications with society. 3. We shall continue to have no contact or relations with any antisocial forces that might pose a threat to the public order and safety of civil society. 4. We recognize the importance of environmental issues and shall actively cooperate with diverse activities for environmental preservation. 5. We shall provide people with safe, high-quality and socially valuable services, and endeavor to conduct social contribution projects as a “good corporate citizen” while taking into account coordination with local communities and international society. (Established on December 16, 1997, and revised on August 29, 2005) Each subsidiary shall establish its own Code of Conduct in compliance with this Code of Conduct. 6 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 Seven Principles of Social Responsibility Seven Core Subjects of Social Responsibility and Their Expressions in the Group An organization An organization should be Coordination with should respect human transparent in its decisions Local Communities and Holistic rights and recognize Respect for and activities that have International Society approach Respect for Transparency Human Rights both their importance human rights impact on society and the Community and their universality. environment. Involvement Human and Rights Accountability Development An organization Organizational should respect Respect for An organization An organization Governance international norms of behavior, while international should be Ethical should behave Observance of Provision of Safe, Consumer Organization Labor Appropriate accountable for its High-Quality and Issues Practices Working adhering to the norms of impacts on society behavior ethically at all these principles Useful Services Environment times. principle of respect behavior and the for the rule of law. environment. Fair Operating The An organization should Respect for An organization should Practices Environment accept that respect for Respect for respect, consider and stakeholder Fulfillment of Sincere and the rule of law is the rule of law respond to the interests of Fair Business Activities Environmental mandatory. interests its stakeholders. Interdependence Conservation (Source: Edited by the Company based on the “Guidance on Social Responsibility (JIS Z 26000)”) (Source: Prepared with partial modification by the Company based on the “Guidance on Social Responsibility (JIS Z 26000)” chart) Environmental Policy The Mitsubishi Logistics Group has formulated the Environmental Policy to clearly present its Group-wide stance on consideration of the global environment based on our Code of Conduct. Environmental Policy The Mitsubishi Logistics Group recognizes the importance of environmental issues, promoting activities for environmental preservation through corporate activities that are friendly to the environment while contributing to the realization of a sustainable society. 1. We comply with laws and regulations relating to the environment. 2. We endeavor for the training and enlightenment to raise the awareness of executives and employees about the environment and positively commit ourselves to environmental preservation activities with the recognition that involvement in environmental issues is indispensable to our corporate activities. 3. We strive to restrict our environmental impact by efficiently utilizing the resources and energy that are essential to our business activities, implementing eco-friendly logistics equipment and facilities, purchasing eco-friendly goods and promoting the reduction of waste volume and recycling. 4. We regularly verify our initiatives regarding environmental issues to continually improve our involvement. 5. We make the Environmental Policy known to all parties affiliated with the Group and disclose it publicly. (Established on December 29, 2006) Environmental Voluntary Plan We have formulated the MLC (Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation)-Group Environmental Voluntary Plan as “concrete guidelines” regarding the Environmental Policy to review and implement specific measures in view of “measures to cope with future tightening of regulations” and “maintaining and ensuring the competitive edge of our businesses.” The specific measures of the guidelines include efforts related to facilities and equipment such as implementation of solar and wind power generators and greening of rooftops and walls, and efforts related to handling equipment and vehicle including enforcement of idling-stop practice and eco-driving, as well as selection of environmentconscious suppliers. Based on these measures, the Group promotes Group-wide environmental measures including appropriate responses to laws and regulations. Our Declaration of Quality Our Group has formulated “Our Declaration of Quality” to be an enterprise that grows by gaining the trust of stakeholders including customers in accordance with the Code of Conduct. Our Declaration of Quality Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation works hard to ensure that our corporate activities help to create an affluent and sustainable society. Providing services that are safe, high quality and of benefit to society is one of the most important pillars supporting our corporate activities. It is with this in mind that we strive continuously for quality improvement. 1. We always think from the customer’s standpoint and listen to the customer with sincerity, working to provide quality services that will win the trust and satisfaction of all our customers. 2. We abide by the relevant laws and regulations, and by conducting periodic inspections and implementing improvement efforts daily in the areas of safety and quality, our Group-wide quest is to achieve constant quality improvement. 3. We value communication and endeavor to provide an energetic work environment in which each member of the Company can be motivated by sincerity and pride to strive for quality improvement. (Established on September 1, 2008) Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 7 Promotion of CSR Management plan (2016–2018) (Basic Policy) The current fiscal year is the first year of the three-year Management Plan. Mitsubishi Logistics Group has formulated the following four items of Basic Policy to reinforce foundations for its growth potential and profitability. The Group intends to increase its corporate value and achieve future growth by executing each of these diverse measures in accordance with the Basic Policy. Basic Policy 1. Improve and expand our logistics business to adapt to the change of the global supply chains of customers in Japan and around the globe 2. Reinforce and expand the revenue framework of the real estate business 3. Enhance the service quality of Group services and the promotion of CSR 4. Select and concenter of management resources The outline of the management plan is as follows: 1. Ideal image The management plan has defined the ideal image of the Group to be pursued as a corporate group in compliance with the four-item Basic Policy. (see page 3: Top Message). 2. Plan period Consolidated operating revenue Consolidated operating income FY2016–FY2018 (covering three years) (Unit: ¥billion) (Unit: ¥billion) 3. Performance targets 300 20.0 Figures of consolidated business results 250 240.0 17.5 15.5 (Unit: ¥billion) 206.8 15.0 Operating Operating Ordinary Net 200 12.5 11.3 revenue income income income* 150 10.0 Actual results 7.5 206.8 11.3 14.0 9.3 100 for FY2015 5.0 50 Targets for 2.5 240.0 15.5 17.5 11.6 FY2018 0 FY2015 FY2018 0 FY2015 FY2018 * Referring to “Profit attributable to owners of parent” 4. Investment plan During the plan period, the Group plans to make investments totaling ¥60.0 billion (¥30.0 billion in logistics and ¥30.0 billion in real estate). In-house Decision Making Responses to Stakeholders’ Expectations Corporate governance system Stakeholders recognized by the Mitsubishi Logistics Group (Chart of corporate governance system) (Chart of stakeholders) Enhance our commitment General Shareholders Meeting to customer satisfaction, Provide ideal working earning our customers' environments while Board of Corporate Board of Corporate Independent trust through high-quality ensuring the safety and Directors Auditors Auditors Auditor logistics and real estate Customers Employees professional growth of services. the employee. Corporate Auditors’ Chamber Aim to manage internal Perform fair information strictly and Shareholders Mitsubishi Public business activities disclose information at by complying with Executive Committee (Consultative body consisting of directors Chairman of the Board President the appropriate time & investors Logistics administration laws, rules and and in the appropriate social norms. with special titles) Managing Directors manner, in accordance Group Internal Control with the law. Respective Divisions, and General Managers’ Chambers of the Head Office Committee Local Meeting Suppliers 6 branches Internal Audit CSR and Develop common communities Sincere and fair business Department Compliance Committee interests with local activities based on 57 subsidiaries (including communities as a good mutual trust. Group Management corporate citizen. Meeting 20 overseas subsidiaries) Risk Management 15 affiliates Committee 8 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 Web You may view the news releases on the actual performance data on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” Promotion of CSR for every employee HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version CSR & Compliance Handbook Information disclosure The Group prepared the Mitsubishi Logistics Group Our IR information site is open on the Company’s Web CSR & Compliance Handbook (63 pages in A5 format) site. We strive to transmit information by providing to nurture the awareness of each employee on CSR “Management planning and policy,” “Stock and compliance. The handbook was information,” “IR calendar,” “Financial data” and “IR distributed to all executives and information” (Flash report, Annual report and Results employees within the Group in briefing). January 2012 for their daily reference. For the convenience of foreign shareholders and We position the handbook as a investors, English-version sites are also available to starting point to help them address disclose significant information thereto. small questions and significant issues in their routine business operations. Dialogue between shareholders/investors, CSR & Compliance Handbook analysts and top management Easy-to-understand shareholders’ meetings CSR and Compliance Awareness Survey When we hold a shareholders’ meeting, we strive to provide easy-to-understand information for the The Company and domestic Group companies provide convenience of attending shareholders by using video Web-based surveys on awareness based on the business reports with narration. Mitsubishi Logistics Group CSR & Compliance Results briefing Handbook and the Environmental and Social Report to Company holds results disseminate the understanding of CSR and compliance. briefings twice a year (May The surveys aim to increase employees’ awareness by and November) for investors providing occasions in which every employee thinks of and analysts. In addition to familiar issues and finds the answers. the explanation of the settled accounting results, the top Results briefing for analysts management of the Company Training on CSR and Compliance explains management policies and the progress of management plans, conducts Q&A and transmits a variety As measures to address the status of compliance with the Code of management information. We are active in encouraging of Conduct and any issues noted in the internal audit results, we dialogue with market players not only through transmission endeavor to establish good working environments by of the information desired by investors and analysts but disseminating and entrenching our corporate philosophy and the also by integrating the feedback of useful views therefrom Code of Conduct and promoting CSR. in our actual business judgment. As for compliance, we hold training sessions concerning You may view the materials for the results briefing on compliance with the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Web Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in the IR Information page. Proceeds, etc. to Subcontractors with an emphasis on training and confirmation regarding the methods for managing and HOME>INVESTOR RELATIONS>IR Information>Presentation handling relevant documents, and the obligations and prohibitions of the main subcontracting enterprise. Actual performance data on the CSR and compliance awareness Internal reporting system Web survey and the training on CSR and compliance can be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” To ensure early detection of actions that violate legal HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social ordinances or corporate regulations, as well as actions that are Report>Extended version in danger of violating such rules, the Mitsubishi Logistics Group has established a corporate ethics help line (Contact: CSR·Compliance Team, General Affairs Division) as an internal Emphasis on communication whistleblowing and consultation mechanism to reinforce compliance management. To raise the degree of recognition and encourage use of Timely and appropriate news releases the system, at the time of the “Check of the Compliance of the Code of Conduct” in December 2015 we checked whether all As the Group emphasizes the principles of social executives and regular employees of the Group were familiar responsibility such as accountability and transparency with our internal reporting system and whether they intended in organizational decision making, news releases on to use the system. Consequently, it was confirmed that almost business activities are disclosed at the appropriate time all the respondents expressed an affirmative opinion, and in the appropriate manner. suggesting widespread recognition of the system. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 9 Promotion of CSR Confirmation of major CSR activities The Group is committed to CSR activities so that socially responsible behavior will be disseminated among employees as a voluntary corporate culture. Checklist for the confirmation of major CSR activities Core subjects Tasks Objectives/Goals Promoting the realization of our corporate Organizational philosophy and strategies Reinforce CSR and compliance Governance Review of goals, standards, etc. Respect for Human Improvement of the awareness of human rights Respect human rights Rights Demonstrate every employee’s personality and competence, Rewarding and friendly working conditions undertake necessary security procedures, and support the coexistence of employees’ working life and home life Appropriate Working Ensuring the security of workers Ensure the security of workers Environment Develop competent human resources who meet the Human resources development and training requirements of global human resources and who can manage global operations Reduction of CO2 emissions as a measure for Further reinforce environmental countermeasures reducing climate change Environmental Preserve resources by reducing the environmental Conservation Use of renewable resources impact Global environmental measures from biodiversity Contribution to the recovery of the eco-system perspectives Fulfillment of Prohibition of unfair advantage in competition and Reinforce CSR and compliance Sincere and Fair promotion of fair and open competition Upgrade information security management Business Activities Provision of socially and environmentally beneficial Improve service quality Provision of Safe, high-quality services High-Quality and Useful Services Promotion of disaster measures to maintain service Maintain infrastructure in case of disasters functions Coordination with Contribution to the community’s cultural activities Contribute to cultures in local communities Local Communities and International Society Contribution through donations, etc. Support to victims of disasters 10 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 We summarize hereunder the setting of “Objectives/Goals,” the planning of “Activity process” and the confirmation of “Achievements/Results” with regard to major CSR activities that are categorized under the Seven Core Subjects in accordance with the “Guidance on Social Responsibility” guidelines. Division/Chamber/ Activity process (Plan) Achievements/Results Branch and/or Group companies in charge Briefing meetings on our Management Plan held at each branch by Managing Director in charge of personnel and planning. General Affairs Division Disseminate the corporate philosophy and the management plan. Worksite meeting held every month (dissemination of our corporate philosophy Personnel Division Deliberate how to promote CSR at the CSR and Compliance Committee. and our Management Plan). Planning & Business Strive to improve the understanding of the Code of Conduct and the awareness Mar. 2016: Held the CSR and Compliance Committee meeting (for CSR promotion). Coordination Division of compliance. FY2015: Check for compliance with the Code of Conduct; Number of participants: 4,179. Other Divisions, Chambers FY2015: Compliance Awareness Survey; Number of participants: 3,310 (Web-based check). and Branches Strive to disseminate the awareness of respect for human rights among all employees by establishing a dedicated promotion system. FY2015 Human Rights Enlightenment Training held with 48 participants. Personnel Division Conduct education on human rights. Streamline the personnel system in the pursuit of creating worksites where Self-declaration once a year and interviews for appraisal conducted three times a employees can demonstrate their personality and competence. year. Execute industrial safety and health-related measures to maintain and enhance employees’ health. Conducted “Health Promotion” seminars and annual health checkups. Personnel Division Beneficiaries of the child-care leave system: 13; beneficiaries of the care leave Promote a work-life balance to support the sound development of the nextsystem: 27. generation children. Work on industrial safety and health-related activities among operating bases Monthly convening of Industrial Safety and Health Committee. Personnel Division in an aim to prevent industrial accidents. Number of serious industrial accidents in the Port and Harbor Operation Business: Harbor Transportation Promote the prevention of industrial accidents and conduct periodic disaster zero. Business Division prevention drills and meetings in the Port and Harbor Operations Business. Branches FY2015 onsite logistic capability training with 188 participants. Endeavor to develop human resources that can contribute not only to corporate growth but also to social development. Training for midlevel workers at subsidiaries and affiliates held with 26 participants. Personnel Division Chinese national staff training held with 9 participants. Promote the construction of Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Warehouses and Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Office Buildings, which focus on Technical Division ensuring business continuity in case of a disaster and considerations for the FY2015: The existing lighting devices (around 300 units in total) at our warehouses Real Estate global environment. were changed to LED lighting. Division Enhance the shift of existing lighting devices to LED lighting by utilizing Branches governmental subsidy funds. We promote the implementation of large-scale solar power generation FY2015: Solar power generation facilities with total energy output of 100 kW facilities in existing facilities in line with the government’s policy of enhancing the use of renewable energy. started operation at the extended space of the Nagoya Tobishima Warehouse. Technical Division Expand the use of “i-MiEV,” Mitsubishi Motors’ electric vehicles. Mar. 2016: The Eitai Dia Building was certified as a “Near-Top-Level Facility” under Branches the Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental Security Ordinance. Promote the reduction of waste. Conduct reforestation through volunteer activities and donations as a partner General Affairs Division of reforestation of Kanagawa Prefecture. Oct. 2015: Reforestation activities held with 24 participants. Tokyo Branch Yokohama Branch FY2015: Compliance with the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Hold training sessions for the compliance of the Act against Delay in Payment Proceeds, etc.; Number of participants: 1,900 (Web-based check). General Affairs of Subcontract Proceeds, etc., and the prevention of insider trading. FY2015: Newcomers’ training on Prevention of Insider Trading; Number of Division Distribute information security questionnaires to disseminate the awareness participants: 44. Information of security. Number of respondents to the FY2015 Information Securities Questionnaire: 2,978. Systems Division Regular quality improvement conference held. Take specific initiatives for quality improvement at each of the operating sites, Quality education at monthly safety conferences and information exchanges at Planning & Business subsidiaries and affiliates. regular conferences with customers conducted. Coordination Division Reestablish our information systems for warehousing and distribution center Since Mar. 2014, a new warehousing and distribution center operations system Warehousing and Distribution operations to improve the quality of logistics. (G-MIWS) has been implemented on Branches, and the implementations are Business Division scheduled to be complete during the first half of FY2017. Information Systems Division Deepen people’s understanding of the logistics of relief supplies in case of General Affairs Division large-scale disasters. Warehousing and Pursue additional designations of our facilities as support/relief goods logistics Total number of support/relief goods logistics base facilities: 11. Distribution Business base facilities, which is a concept primarily advocated by the Ministry of Land, Division Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. Branches Aug. 2015: Held the “Charity Ennichi (Street Fair).” Aug. 2015: Held the “YBQ (Yokohama Bay Quarter) Radio Exercise.” Real Estate Division Hold supporting events for reconstruction from the Great East Japan Dec. 2015: Held the YBQ Christmas event “White Elephant Gift Exchange.” Yokohama Dia Earthquake. FY2015: Held YBQ Touch the green events “Oniwa de Asobo!”four times. Building Hold activities that aim to coordinate with local communities and international Installed flower beds in the greenbelt near Nagoya Station. Management society. Cooperated with rituals related to restitution of Kasagis (part of the Torii) that had Corporation belonged to shrines in the Aomori prefecture, Tohoku region, and were washed Nagoya Branch away by tsunamis in the Great East Japan Earthquake. June 2015: Provided relief funds for the Central Nepal Earthquake victims. General Affairs Division Raise and provide relief funds for disasters that happen in Japan and Nov. 2015: Provided relief funds for the rainstorm that hit Eastern Japan (rainstorm Other Divisions, Chambers overseas. damages from disasters such as Typhoon No. 18 in Sept. 2015). and Branches Group companies Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 11 Organizational Governance To ensure socially responsible positive decision making, it is necessary to establish organizational processes to optimally utilize the Group’s philosophy, strategies and standards. As for organizational governance, the Group recognizes and strengthens such issues as “Promoting the realization of our corporate philosophy and strategies,” “Entrenchment of the compliance of standards, etc.,” “Confirmation of the processes of implementation for action plans” and “Review of goals and standards, etc.” Corporate Governance management plan the following Basic Strategy and Detailed Strategy (excerpt) and endeavors to disseminate it at worksite meetings and other occasions. Basic stance Basic Strategy and Detailed Strategy (Excerpt) Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation recognizes the enhancement 1. Foster a corporate culture that supports new of corporate governance as a significant business issue that challenges. will enable us to carry out our social mission and 2. Promote service quality improvement activities. responsibilities as a publicly listed company and to aim for 3. Reinforce risk management including natural sustainable growth and development. Accordingly, we are disaster countermeasures and security measures. 4. Pursuit of thorough compliance by reinforcing the endeavoring to boost corporate governance through multiple in-house check system. initiatives, such as: enhancing the function of the board of 5. Implement CSR activities based on the UN Global directors and board of auditors by appointing outside Compact’s 10 principles. directors and auditors; establishing an internal control system 6. Continue to implement global environment-friendly through drafting the rules of conduct for our executives and business activities. employees, setting up the Internal Control Committee and 7. Continue to develop technologies and facilities the CSR and Compliance Committee, and enhancing an based on the concept of “Disaster-Resistant and internal audit system; instituting a risk management system Eco-Friendly Warehouses” and “Disaster-Resistant via the Risk Management Committee; and, finally, by and Eco-Friendly Office Buildings.” reinforcing disclosure through the early publication of financial statements. (See page 8: the chart of corporate governance In executing the Basic Strategy and the Detailed Strategy system) above, the Group complies with the seven principles of social responsibility under the Guidance on Social Responsibility. Promoting the realization of our The Group companies have stipulated the Code of Conduct in line with the seven principles, and their employees strive to corporate philosophy and strategies self-check and confirm their behavior by using the CSR & Compliance Handbook. Disseminating the corporate philosophy and the management plan (Basic Strategy) Review of goals, standards, etc. The Group has expressed the goal of “contributing to the realization of an affluent and sustainable society” in its Deliberating at the CSR and Compliance corporate philosophy (see page 2: Top Message) to make its intent of strengthening social responsibility known to every Committee (meetings held in March) party concerned within the Group. To promote CSR activities in the Group, the CSR and To facilitate this goal, the Company formulated in its Compliance Committee was established in September 2006. Worksite meeting (Head Office) Worksite meeting (Yokohama Branch) 12 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 In fiscal 2015, the committee met in March and auditors and provides them with internal audit information to deliberated on the reports and revisions regarding CSR cooperate with the corporate auditors’ audits. activities in accordance with the Guidance on Social Responsibility, which is used as the basis for the Environmental and Social Report, as well as on the improvement of compliance based on the self-check of the Confirmation of the status of complying with the Code of Conduct. implementation of action plans Confirming the appropriateness of Entrenchment of the operations via internal control compliance of standards, etc. The Board of Directors of the Company resolved the “Basic Policy on the Improvement of an Internal Control System” to Disseminating the awareness of ensure the appropriate execution of duties by executives and compliance regular employees and the appropriateness of corporate affairs. The Group endeavors to disseminate the awareness of Furthermore, the Company improves the systems compliance based on corporate ethics in every employee necessary for ensuring the appropriateness of financial through the employee’s self-check on the status of complying reporting and prepares and submits the Internal Control with the Code of Conduct, which was formulated as the Report regarding the evaluation of the effectiveness of internal social norms for employees in executing their duties, as well control relating to financial reporting in accordance with the as by thoroughly promoting training on compliance. Financial Instruments and Exchange Law. The self-check on the status of compliance previously targeted the Company and domestic Group companies. Confirming the process for bonded operations, etc., Effective from fiscal 2013, the scope of the self-check has under the Authorized Warehouse Operators’ Program been extended to cover overseas Group companies using English texts. The Authorized Warehouse Operators’ Program is a system Web Actual performance data on the compliance situation of for certifying managers of bonded warehouses and bonded the Code of Conduct may be viewed on Mitsubishi factories as authorized warehouse operators after they meet Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” set conditions concerning compliance and other regulations, HOME> CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social in accordance with the Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) Report>Extended version guidelines of the World Customs Organization (WCO). These authorizations ensure preferential treatment such as simplified Business processes are confirmed via procedures and exemptions from permit fees, etc. the internal audit Company received approval as an authorized warehouse The internal audit of the Company is performed mainly by the operator and further enhanced compliance activities in Audit Division in accordance with the internal audit regulations customs-related processes and all other import/export and the internal audit plan. The audit operation is supported services. In April 2016, the authorization has been renewed, by branch auditors and audit assistants positioned at Head and we will continue to strive to provide highly reliable and Office and respective branches. The purpose of the internal dependable logistics services for our customers. audit is to precisely grasp the status of corporate affairs and Meanwhile, Monryo Transport Corporation and Keihin the financial position so as to be of help for management’s Naigai Forwarding Co., Ltd., both of which are Group prevention of fraud, errors and faults, and rationalization such companies, acquired certification as Authorized Customs as improvement of business operations and raising operating Brokers as of September 2012, and June 2014, respectively. efficiency. The Audit Division reports the results of audits An authorized customs broker is a customs clearance regarding the Company and subsidiaries to the management operator subject to various preferential privileges, which is team. The General Affairs Division supports the follow-up authorized by the customs office to arrange for security checks on any issues noted in the audit results, if any, and management and compliance regarding cargo. The Company reports the results to the management team. is scheduled to acquire the same certificate, and strives to The Audit Division keeps close contact with the corporate further improve the quality of customer service going forward. Worksite meeting (Nagoya Branch) Worksite meeting (Kobe Branch) Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 13 Respect for Human Rights Respecting human rights is the basis for complying with laws and regulations and fulfilling social responsibility. Regarding the respect for human rights, the Group recognizes and addresses such issues as “Improvement of employees’ awareness of human rights.” Improvement of the The Company considers that this outsourcing can help more physically challenged people to work on a continuous awareness of human rights basis and play active roles in society while having independent lives. Striving to disseminate the awareness of Slogan on human rights (some of slogans Submitted to the Company) respect for human rights with every employee by establishing a dedicated promotion system Slogan on human rights (Employees’ section) The Company is committed to enlightening of human rights issues among employees with the aim of creating a “positive So many men, so many minds. Each worksite atmosphere in which every employee’s human rights personality supports one another to form are respected and personal competence and personality can one great power be fully demonstrated.” Specifically, every year the Company offers a human rights enlightenment course of 1–2 hours in the stratified training curriculum under the established human rights Slogan on human rights (Family section) training promotion system. Let us search, for all the unique good In fiscal 2015 a total of 48 employees participated in the training, which targeted new comers. qualities that each and every one of us At the training sessions, participating employees not only possesses. received lectures but also exchanged views on diverse concrete examples to deepen their understanding. The Company endeavors to raise the awareness of VOICE human rights by inviting slogans on human rights enlightenment even to loaned or dispatched staff members. In parallel with this approach, we have established a harassment-dedicated counseling contact that takes initiatives Reflection on the Human to prevent or resolve various worksite harassment cases. Rights Training Actual performance data on human rights training can Kaho Igarashi Web be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in Ohi Office, Tokyo Branch “Extended version.” ased on the theme of “Corporate and Human HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social B Rights,” we learned through group discussions Report>Extended version using actual cases and exemplary cases. In recent years, we have been hearing various problems including sexual harassments and power Respecting human rights harassments. From actual cases, we learned the points through business activities we should remind ourselves. I came to understand that, instead of restricting our languages and behaviors or over-reacting to such matters, mutual respect and Outsourcing works to a provider of continuous appropriate exercise of our rights are the keys for creation employment support service, where physically of a friendly working environment. challenged people are working Furthermore, during group discussions, I learned that different opinions and perceptions can come out of people The Company outsources digitizing works of in-house even of the same generation. Understanding this, I realized documents and data to Japan Church World Service, Inc., that it is important not to be constrained by prejudice or Tokyo Itabashi Welfare Factory where continuous my own subjectivity and to put myself in other people’s employment support service is provided to physically shoes when having communications with other people. challenged people, who may have difficulties in conventional work settings. 14 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 Appropriate Working Environment An appropriate working environment serves to stabilize employees’ living standards, is the source of meaning in employees’ lives and is indispensable for safety and health, productivity growth, human resource development and so forth. Regarding the appropriate working environment, the Group recognizes and addresses such issues as “Respect of labor-management relations,” “Employment and the importance of the employment relationship,” “Rewarding and friendly working conditions,” “Ensuring the security of workers” and “Human resource development and training.” Respect for laborEmployment and the importance management relations of the employment relationship Having close communications with the Endeavoring to ensure human resources labor union systematically and stably while respecting equal The collective labor agreement entered into between employment opportunities and diversity the Company and the Mitsubishi Logistics Union In recruiting employees, our basic policy is to respect stipulates the responsibility of the Company and that of equal employment opportunities and diversity. the union as follows on the stance of laborIn our recruiting activity, we have introduced an management cooperation. open entry system without making any distinction as regards the school of graduation or faculty that takes into account the fair employment of applicants from a 1. (Company’s Responsibility) The Company shall proactively strive to maintain long-term perspective to systematically and stably and improve the working conditions and promote ensure human resources. the welfare of employees to improve the status of We offer a wide range of opportunities to both new employees and ensure stable livelihoods. and professional or experienced applicants by making 2. (Union’s Responsibility) the most of the Company’s Web site and various kinds The labor union shall strive to maintain public order of PR media. at the worksite and promote the working capabilities of its affiliated employees, as well as fully cooperate with the Company for the growth of Status of employees (as of the end of March 2016) the Company’s business based on democratic Item In fiscal 2015 foundations. Number of regular 4,499 employees (consolidated) Labor-management consultations and negotiations are handled at the Management Conference, which is Number of temporary 2,416 attended by representatives of both parties. employees (consolidated) There are two types of Management Conference: the Central Management Conference, which is held * Group companies have no statistical data regarding employees’ between Head Office and the union’s headquarters, average age and years of service. and the Operating Site Management Conference, Number of regular employees which is held between each branch and each lodge. 845 (553 men and 292 women) (non-consolidated) Each conference meets once per month. Average age 39.9 years (non-consolidated) Average years of service 16.9 years (non-consolidated) Number of temporary employees 692 (non-consolidated) Management Conference Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 15 Appropriate Working Environment Rewarding and friendly Execute industrial safety and health-related measures to enhance employees’ good health working conditions To effectively fulfill its obligation of safety, which is Strive to improve the environment in which both required of every corporation, the Company proactively takes initiatives to maintain and promote employees’ employees and the Company can raise mutual values health. The basic philosophy of the Company’s personnel Regular medical checkup policy is to assist its employees to grow and improve A medical checkup is conducted once a year that their work-life balance and to assert that both focuses on tests for lifestyle-related diseases. Although employees and the Company can raise mutual values long working hours have become a social problem in through the sustainable growth of the Company. recent years, the Company has implemented a To realize this philosophy, the Company endeavors framework to minimize the health risks of employees to improve worksite environments so that employees due to a heavy workload through enhanced interview can demonstrate their individuality and competence to guidance from industrial physicians to those with long the utmost with improved motivation and better working hours. workplace environments, through a variety of personnel Health promotion and educational systems. Health promotion seminars are held for the purpose of maintaining good health and improving the lifestyle of employees. At these seminars, in addition to lectures Streamline the personnel system in the pursuit (on mental health and eating habit guidance) given by of creating worksites where employees can experts, simple aerobics dance programs are offered demonstrate their individuality and competence to encourage employees to engage in light physical exercise. The Company strives to improve worksite environments in which every employee can fully demonstrate his/her individuality and competence. Involvement in mental health activities focusing Self-declaration system on “prevention and recurrence prevention” According to the self-declaration system, the Company’s employees declare their satisfaction rating The Company considers it important to support every with their current duties and career plan among others, employee in having a purposeful life by ensuring once a year. The declaration includes the desired systematic and constant care for his/her mental health. conditions of their next workplace, etc., so that the To promote mental health care in accordance with Company may pay attention not only to employees’ the “Guidelines for maintenance and promotion of business duties but also to every employee’s life plan. mental health for workers” of the Ministry of Health, The content of the declaration is actually used for Labor and Welfare, the Company has taken a variety of personnel transfers and the career development initiatives such as reinforcement of in-house education program. and training, cultivation of dedicated staff in charge at operating sites, implementation of the stress check Evaluation and treatment of employees system following the Partial Revision of the Industrial The Company treats employees in accordance with Safety and Health Act and improvement of networks fair, transparent and well-received appraisal systems. via collaborations with external professional Direct interviews between managers and subordinates, organizations. which are held three times a year (at the time of target setting, midyear retrospection and year-end retrospection) are especially emphasized. The evaluation results are used for an appropriate division of labor within the business unit and advice on career planning. 16 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 VOICE Promoting the work-life balance to support the sound development of the next-generation children Pursuant to the implementation of the Act on Having Taken Care Leave Advancement of Measures to Support Raising NextMiyuki Sato Generation Children, the Company formulated the General Affairs Dept., Nagoya Branch “Ordinary Business Owner Action Plan” and have four children, who implemented the “Child-care leave system,” the I are fourth, second and first graders in “Shorttime regular employee system,” the “Nursing primary school and one in nursery school. care leave system,” the “Care leave system” and the My children were prone to illness when they “Family care leave system” to assist with the were younger and were repeatedly hospitalized. It coexistence of employees’ working life and home life. was really a relief to have the care leave system. Furthermore, the Company encourages the enhanced Even though that was a hard time physically and use of annual paid vacations to reduce working hours mentally with piled-up chores at home, child-care in a year and has introduced a systematic granting and work, the warm support and understanding system (six days per year) of annual paid vacations from everyone at work helped me ride out the under labor-management collaboration. tough time. When a child is sick, he/she feels insecure and VOICE his/her parent is fed up with worries. I believe that the care leave system links the sick child’s feelings to his/her parents like a bridge. Having Taken Child-care Leave As my children now developed physical strength Tomoko Rokuda and do not fall sick as often, I take one day care Technical Dept., Kobe Branch leave per month to take them to rehabilitation. Even though I was filled with guilt upon taking took child-care leave twice I three years apart, once for my elder son and the day off when children fall sick suddenly or when the nursery school calls, but to know that such an once for my younger son. understanding and such a system exist in the I was able to extend my leave period when I Company is a very important psychological support could not find a nursery school for my sons by the to a working mother. scheduled date of my reinstatement. I also had opportunities to have talks regarding my work after reinstatement. With such great supports from my work site, I could spend quality time with my sons while watching over their growth in their babyhoods. Although my sons are now five and two years old, they still need much care. I would like to keep working actively while keeping a good work-and-life balance. Acquisition results for various systems Results (number of beneficiaries) System Description FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Leave of absence is allowed for a desired period Child-care leave 9 6 7 8 13 until a child becomes 2 years old. Short-time regular Service hours may be reduced by up to 2 hours 16 17 17 18 17 employee per day for nurturing a child. Leave of absence is allowed for a desired period Nursing care within one year to take care of a family member in 0 1 0 0 0 leave need of nursing care. Paid leave for nursing care of a child (up to 10 Care leave 33 27 31 27 27 days per year) Family care leave Paid leave for nursing care of a family member in 3 1 1 0 0 (newly established in FY2010) need of nursing care (up to 10 days per year). * The number of beneficiaries in the child-care leave and nursing care leave are calculated based on the year they started taking their leaves. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 17 Appropriate Working Environment Promoting welfare measures to help To ensure employment opportunities for the employees store up the energy to work elderly, motivated retiring employees are provided A variety of systems are available in compliance with with places to demonstrate their competence the three catchphrases of “Provision of security,” In terms of employment opportunities for the elderly, the “Recreation” and “Promotion of residential house Company has strived to guarantee the employment of acquisition” for the promotion of employees’ welfare. employees up to 62 or 63 years old before the establishment of the related laws through measures such as a job placement service to help them be reemployed Major welfare programs of the Company: by subsidiaries or affiliates and the reemployment of those 1. Provision of security with expertise in certain business fields. Retirement benefits, corporate pensions, family In response to the establishment of the relevant laws, allowance, housing allowances, condolence we established our continuing employment system to money, celebration of a birth, the ESOP (Employee ensure that applicants can continue to work up to 65 Stock Ownership Plan) association, group years old under certain criteria, and the system has been insurance, the reserve for pension and asset applied to 80%–90% of those applicable. formation, multipurpose accommodation loans and the granting of company-owned houses to employees via job transfers Improving access in the work environment to increase 2. Recreation the employment of physically challenged people Recreation facilities, in-house sports events (baseball, tennis and futsal), the Mitsubishi firms’ There are physically challenged employees who work in martial arts tournament, refresh leave (long-service diverse operations of the Company. As of June 1, 2015, and midlevel workers) the Company filled its legal employment quota of 3. Promotion of residential house acquisition physically challenged employees as a result of the Reserve for house acquisition and asset formation, aggressive execution of various initiatives. We will continue in-house loans and tie-up loans to steadily strengthen improvements of the worksite environment in which physically challenged persons can easily demonstrate their capabilities and competence. Employment ratio of physically challenged employees June June June June June 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Number of physically 16 18 17 16 16 challenged employees (actual) Employment ratio (%) 2.06 2.30 2.15 2.05 2.05 VOICE Participated in the Mitsubishi Firms’ Track-and-field Tournament Ryo Tanaka Ohi Cold Storage Office, Tokyo Branch itsubishi Firms’ Track-and-field Tournament brings M together track-and-field lovers from all Mitsubishi Group companies, building friendship through competing in track-and-field games. This is the first time for the Company to participate in this event. From the Company, I was the only one that participated in individual races, where I achieved first place in the men’s 100m race and second place in the men’s 400m race. In-house recreation event (Women’s cutter club, All-branches It was a meaningful event where we were able to baseball tournament) extend communication across the boundary of companies through sports and hobbies. I will participate in the relay races in the next tournament, and want to show the amount of effort comparable to the Japanese Olympics team. 18 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 Ensuring the security of workers share the intent with all workers. We are making efforts to improve working environment and grasp situations by taking measures for the ever-changing Striving to conduct industrial safety and health environment, including reviewing the format of regular security activities via collaborations among operating bases patrols. In this manner, we will always in the pursuit of prevention of industrial accidents look for new ways to improve safety and health, actively implement Each branch has an “Industrial Safety and Health Committee” (and a ordinary safety promotion activities Health Committee at Head Office) to share information with operating and continue daily enlightenment bases including operation-commission and cargo-handling activities. We believe that those efforts companies to which operation is outsourced with regard to diverse will help prevent industrial accidents initiatives related to industrial safety and ensure the safety of workers. and health. In addition, we strive to Specific initiatives executed at the prevent industrial accidents by respective ports are summarized in conducting safety and health the table below. Safety patrol (Minamihonmoku education and safety patrols inside No. 1 Office, Yokohama Branch) and outside the facilities. Industrial Safety and Health Description of specific initiatives taken at the respective ports Committee (Tokyo Branch) and results/achievements Description Overland transportation: Strengthen ensuring We hold a briefing meeting before the ship operations to confirm the safety with safety measures and the prevention content of the intended operation, check the work uniform including the fluorescent vests and call workers’ attention to safety (daily). of accidents in the transportation field A safety and health meeting is held jointly with the relevant suppliers Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd. (an overland transportation-dedicated (monthly). company in charge of the overland transportation business of the We implemented safety patrols at operating sites jointly with the relevant Company), aims to increase the security of transportation and ensure suppliers (monthly). safety through concerted efforts with the recognition that ensuring (Quarterly joint patrols are conducted with the participation of superiors.) the security of freight transportation is the pillar of our business We regularly confirm and replenish safety gear (safety belts for high-place management. operations, fluorescent safety armbands, emergency stretchers, etc.). In addition, fully recognizing the public nature and importance of Information such as cases of accidents is shared with other operators the trucking business apart from compliance with relevant laws and operating at the same harbor terminal at operators’ liaison meetings, regulations such as the Motor Truck Transportation Business Act and etc., and the content is shared at safety conferences at our worksites and with suppliers. the Road Traffic Act, in Ryoso Transportation, they check operations at all times from a safety viewpoint. As initiatives for daily accident We promote the speed limit for dedicated, in-yard trucks, which are preventive activities, they also hold safety conferences conduct driven within the container yards (via the successive installation of excessive speed lamps). safety patrols and head office and all-branches marketing staff conferences, and conduct thorough checks at all car-allocation We participate in outside workshops and training sessions (as needed). bases using a high-performance alcohol detector unit to check at the Results/Achievements roll call whether any crew members have been drinking. No serious industrial accidents were reported in fiscal 2015. In addition, they implement initiatives for industrial safety and health via appropriate instructions and education given to crew VOICE members based on the results of regular medical checkups, to which tests for lifestyle-related diseases have been added, and regular diagnosis of the driving competence of the truck crews is conducted. Strengthening the Task Harbor transportation: Promote the prevention of Ensuring Safety of industrial accidents and conduct periodic Naoji Kimizuka General Manager, Sales Division, disaster prevention drills and meetings. Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd. The port and harbor operations inevitably involve a great variety of s a trucking business operator, we strive to ensure safety and cargo handling work in association with various receipts and A security as part of our social responsibility. On the other hand, in deliveries at ports. For smooth and safe cargo handling operations, order to raise awareness of its importance, we implemented safety meetings we implemented various activities based on the countermeasures and education regarding safety control and conducted safety patrols in prepared by each operating site. each operating base including cooperative stores. Furthermore, we hold regular beforeWe provide appropriate guidance on health management to the crew work meetings and monthly safety at roll calls and checks using an alcohol detector. We also installed driving and health meetings jointly with recorders and in-vehicle ETC units for business use in view of improving relevant suppliers at which we analyze transportation quality and accomplish occupational safety, and strive to industrial accidents and cargo achieve safe and effective logistic management based on route information. accident cases in order to raise Safety and health meeting (Minamihonmoku  (Group company of Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation) awareness of safety and health and No. 1 Office, Yokohama Branch) Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 19 Appropriate Working Environment Extending the Scope of In-House Lecturers Human resources development and training for the Onsite Logistics Capability Training Endeavor to develop human resources that can contribute At the onsite logistics capability training, the lecturers not only to corporate growth but also to social development are dispatched from among active employees so that employees assigned to posts at logistics sites can Ideal image of desired human resources improve their necessary expertise and skills. With the Code of Conduct in mind, every employee This time, lectures regarding related laws and aims to undertake a role not only in corporate growth information system, and business activities and but also in the development of society by conducting marketing related lectures were held with 188 himself/herself in the following manner. participants coming from the Company and also subsidiaries and affiliates. From now on, we will cultivate in-house lecturers 1. Keep faith in others, and conduct yourself with integrity and a and strive to increase practical learning opportunities sense of fairness. 2. Conduct yourself autonomously. regarding logistics as a whole, not limited to on-site 3. Respond flexibly to environmental changes. logistics. 4. Demonstrate expertise and act with a sense of creativity. 5. Have a good teamwork spirit and cooperate with your Conducting training for young staff colleagues. members before their overseas dispatches Targeting young staff who participate in the young staff Training system overseas dispatch program, we provided training on The Company focuses on developing human resources deepening the understanding in the international that can precisely respond to internal and external transportation business. With practical training needs. contents including the explanation of the Company’s The Company therefore strives to upgrade position and role in the international transportation employees’ business skills and the organization’s business, lecturers in-house and from outside build the strength through training by service year of training program for participants to make a smoother employment. At the same time, the Company offers start for their overseas OJTs. Furthermore, we several training programs to raise employees’ expertise proactively invite participants from the Group such as management capabilities, readiness for companies and affiliates and utilize this training globalization and operational capability to enable program for the international transportation business employees to acquire professional skills in response to training in the whole Mitsubishi Logistics Group. the content of their business duties. VOICE Reflection on the Onsite Logistics VOICE Reflection on the Onsite Logistics Capability Training (Information system) Capability Training (Marketing) Kenji Matsuda Mona Yatabe Ibaraki Office, Osaka Branch Daikoku Office YLP Centre, Yokohama Branch took the course, “our information system took the course, “Marketing for the Service I overview and information system trend in the I Industry.” logistic industry.” I have knowledge of the I first received explanations regarding the logistics system to an extent limited to its uses in daily definition of “service” which was a broad ranging business operations. Through this course, I understood theme. I also learned the types of services which were the whole picture of the Company’s logistics system categorized according to the definition as well as the and its ceaseless efforts for development and type under which the warehousing industry falls, and maintenance in line with the trends of the time. its characteristics. In recent years, shippers have a strong demand for At last, I received detailed explanations using other information systems, BCP (Business Continuity Plan) companies’ cases, on how they conduct their services and DRP (Disaster Recovery Plan). It was a great (quality management). excitement to know that the Company has established It was a fresh theme to me, since the sense of a separate data center as a measure against disaster, “what service is” wasn’t quite prevalent during daily and that we have been taking on the challenge of operations. However, since the lecture was provided building a structure that uses a wearable device, which by in-house lecturers, it was very approachable, and it is a hot topic of the moment. was impressive how familiar examples were used to I will endeavor to implement the knowledge I support the explanation. Furthermore, I believe that gained from this training course into my daily business this course gave me fundamental knowledge to be activities, keep challenging new things, as well as used when I need to increase customer satisfaction provide and propose ideas from my work site. based on the characteristics of warehousing industry. 20 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 Training at the 2nd year Training at the 6th year The middle level staff training Conducted Chinese national staff Conducted training targeting midlevel training workers of subsidiaries and affiliates As a part of “Strengthening of the management foundation” in In accordance with the Management Plan, we accordance with the Management Plan, with aims including conducted training for the midlevel staff of subsidiaries disseminating the corporate philosophy and the Management and affiliates at the Sengokuhara Training Center, on Plan to the Group employees and increasing the management February 18-19, 2016 for the purpose of improving the capabilities of national staff, we held a training for the senior management capability of the entire Group. management staff of our overseas subsidiaries in China from These training programs, 26 persons attended from June 29, 2015 to July 2, 2015 in Tokyo. the Company’s subsidiaries and affiliates, focused on After receiving various lectures including the importance of the Group’s overview, the roles of midlevel employees, sharing the Group’s management policy and Management the way to demonstrate the leadership and the skills Plan, participants learned the Group’s corporate philosophy, needed for instruction and cultivation of junior management policies, strategies, and the Group’s service employees. quality through a series of lectures by in-house lecturers and These programs helped participants interact with site visits. Communication employees from other Group companies and helped between participants was enhance the motivation of each participant. also enhanced through dialogues with executives and exchange between executives and employees. Chinese national staff training VOICE Reflection on the Chinese VOICE Reflection on the Training targeting midlevel national staff training workers of subsidiaries and affiliates Yan Jianzhen Itchouda Hiroshi Mitsubishi Logistics China Co., Ltd, General Affairs Division Touryo Kigyo Co., Ltd. he four-day training was packed with programs that it t this training, I learned the Group’s overview, the T was hard to digest all at once. It included explanations A roles and actions of midlevel employees, of the Company’s whole business operation and of the leadership, and the skills needed for the instruction Management Plan, tours to the Mitsubishi Archives, dialogues and cultivation of junior employees. with executives, leadership training, tours to our facilities in At the grouped workshops, I was slightly worried that Tokyo and Yokohama. agreement over opinions could not be achieved within our I was able to understand the whole picture of the group members due to our differences in industry and businesses in the Mitsubishi Logistics Group, and how Asian position. However, I was able to hear opinions that I would countries, especially China, contribute to the entire Group. I never have thought of, and ideas that could be generated was also able to renew my pride as a member of the Mitsubishi only by people from a specific industry. I thought if there Logistics Group by understanding “The Three Principles of were any “scales fell from my eyes” moments this would Mitsubishi’s Business Management Philosophy,” which is the certainly be it. DNA of the Company, and reaffirming the quality-driven policy From this training, I have developed a genuine which I had only understood vaguely until the training. understanding that the role of a midlevel employer is to I would like to make an effort in conveying what I had communicate with my team members and manage the learned to colleagues working together, and furthermore, to organization. I will strive to digest all that I have learned customers through our services. (Group company of Mitsubishi from this training and make an effort in implementing them. Logistics Corporation) (Group company of Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation) Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 21 Appropriate Working Environment Human resources (training) systems National-type employee development course: Basic role: Engage in a wide variety of corporate operations as core executives who facilitate business growth and management in a variety of regions including overseas. Development policy: Have the participants experience a variety of roles and duties. For 12 years after joining the Company, transfers are conducted at intervals of about four years, in principle. Health SelfStrengthen management capability Enhance readiness for globalization Upgrade operational capability Stratified training promotion, etc. development Training for (Deputy) (Objective of the common stratified training) ∙ Acquire skills necessary for Life plan General Managers Management training for employees seconded to subsidiaries different levels seminar ∙ Clarify the Company’s DNA by ∙ Recognize the role required for reflecting on the corporate each level history of Mitsubishi Logistics Health ∙ Raise organizational management capability promotion Training for Department and Office, seminar Team managers Onsite logistics capability training English conversation course Chinese conversation course Emerging countries’ legal and labor affairs and accounting training (as needed) Global mind development training (as needed) National staff training (as needed) ∙ Leadership, etc. (Applicable to Executives) Correspondence education ∙ Improve onsite operating capability Training for newly appointed Department The middle level staff training ∙ Acquire knowledge on safety and health, etc. and Office, Team managers ∙ Acquire operating knowledge on distribution ∙ Acquire basic management skills ∙ Understand the management centers, transportation, etc. ∙ Improve perspectives via action policy and management skills ∙ Acquire knowledge on logistics improvement, etc. learning, etc. ∙ Nurture problem-solving capabilities at worksites, etc. Newcomers’ Training at the 6th year Management training by theme worksite instructors Training via ∙ Nurture leadership and training dispatching to followership (Compulsory) Leadership subsidiaries or ∙ Acquire basic marketing ∙ Improve nurturing capabilities, etc. (Compulsory) Labor management capability as affiliates Training at the 2nd year Young staff overseas dispatch program (Compulsory) Accounting worksite instructors (Selective) Marketing ∙ Improve logical thinking capability (Selective) Motivation management ∙ Acquire legal expertise on logistics, etc. (Selective) Critical thinking Training by division Newcomers’ second-half training Newcomers’ first-half training ∙ Learn basic knowledge on general corporate operations Registered customs ∙ Learn basic knowledge on trading practices specialist examination ∙ Visits to logistics and real estate facilities of the Company course ∙ Acquire business manners as a member of society, etc. Region-type employee development course: Upgrade operational capability Stratified training Health Selfpromotion, etc. development Basic role: Become familiar with and (Objective of the common stratified training) understand the characteristics ∙ Acquire skills necessary for Life plan or features and local business different levels seminar ∙ Recognize the role required for duties of a certain region in each level Health preparation for the smooth promotion fulfillment of corporate Onsite logistics capability training seminar operations. ∙ Improve onsite operating capability Development policy: Nurture employees via OJT∙ Acquire knowledge on safety and health, etc. ∙ Acquire operating knowledge on distribution Correspondence education focused training and rotate jobs centers, transportation, etc. Training on regional employees so that employees can become ∙ Acquire knowledge on logistics improvement, etc. ∙ Grasp one’s own strengths and weaknesses familiar with operating knowNewcomers’ worksite ∙ Improve communication capabilities how in various areas. instructors training ∙ Improve nurturing capability as worksite instructors Training at the 2nd year ∙ Acquire knowledge on logistics, etc. Training by division Newcomers’ second-half training Newcomers’ first-half training ∙ Learn basic knowledge on general corporate operations Registered customs ∙ Learn basic knowledge on trading practices specialist examination ∙ Visits to logistics and real estate facilities of the Company course ∙ Acquire business manners as a member of society, etc. 22 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 Environmental Conservation Environmental issues are not only local issues of the region where our business bases are located but are also globally interconnected. Environmental accountability is a global-level social responsibility that affects the future of people. The Mitsubishi Logistics Group strengthens such environmental issues as the reduction of CO2 emissions as a countermeasure for climate change, the use of renewable natural resources and contribution to recovery of the eco-system. Reduction of CO2 emissions as a Through obtaining the Green Management Certification, we are promoting environment-friendly business activities. measure for reducing climate change The Group obtained the Green Management Certification*2, which pursues profitability and environmental conservation by Certified under the Logistics Efficiency promoting environment-friendly business activities from the Improvement Act*1, we are integrating logistics certification registration organization Foundation for bases and reducing the environmental burden. Promoting Personal Mobility and Ecological Transportation (abbreviated as “Eco-Mo Foundation”). Obtaining the same certification under the following seven business plans, we made transportation and distribution systems more efficient by integrating 1. Certification acquisition status of the Company logistics bases for customers who used to employ All offices of the Warehousing Business Division multiple logistics bases, thereby reducing the number Port and Harbor Operations Division of delivery trucks. By collecting customers’ freight and (Part of the container terminals of the Port of implementing joint delivery, we reduce emissions of Yokohama and the Port of Kobe) greenhouse gases (CO2), contributing to a reduction of 2. Certification acquisition status of the Group the environmental burden. Truck transportation business (Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd., and Kyushu Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd.) and warehousing business (Chubu Trade Warehousing Co., Ltd., Kusatsu Soko Co., Ltd., and the 1. Osaka Branch, Sakurajima Warehouse No. 2, North Warehousing Business Division of Monryo Transport Corporation) Building (Started operation in November 2005) 2. Osaka Branch, Sakurajima Warehouse No. 3 *2. The Foundation for Promoting Personal Mobility and Ecological Transportation is a public utility foundation that has been certifying and (Started operation in April 2008) registering business operators making efforts to reduce the 3. Nagoya Branch, Tobishima Warehouse (Started environmental burden at a level exceeding the standards outlined in operation in November 2008) the Green Management Promotion Manual since October 2003. 4. Tokyo Branch, Misato Warehouse No. 1 (Started operation in December 2008) We ensure compliance with the Law 5. Osaka Branch, Ibaraki Warehouse No. 3 (Started Concerning the Rational Use of Energy, etc. operation in October 2012) As a “Designated Business Operator” under the Law 6. Tokyo Branch, Misato Warehouse No. 2 (Started Concerning the Rational Use of Energy, the Company is operation in March 2013) obliged to reduce per-basic unit energy use more than 1% on 7. Nagoya Branch, the extended space of Tobishima an annual average on a mediumto long-term basis at Warehouse (Started operation in September 2015) facilities we own and rent. Moreover, we submit a regular report on energy saving and a mediumto long-term energysaving plan to the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. *1. The Logistics Efficiency Improvement Act (Act on Advancement of Integration and Streamlining of Distribution Business, implemented on The values we reported to the Ministry in fiscal 2015 (the October 1, 2005) actual results for fiscal 2014) show that our energy-saving The purpose of this law is to promote operations conducive to efficient measures resulted in a more than 10% reduction of per-basic logistics and reducing the environmental burden by integrating logistics unit energy use compared with the base year fiscal 2010. We bases and conducting transportation, distribution, storage and logistics processing comprehensively. Business plans under this law are are also striving to reduce CO2 emissions at our real estate approved as a comprehensive efficiency plan and supported by the facilities subject to the Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental authority. Security Ordinance. In addition, the same law has been amended in May 2016 in view of further integrating and streamlining the logistics industry with the Web The actual results of our environmental conservation concern of labor shortage. Aiming to support measures such as modal efforts and our total CO2 emissions reduction directive shift and cooperative delivery that are conducted by cooperation of under the Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental Security related parties including logistics companies and shippers, it is Ordinance can be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web scheduled to be effective in fall 2016. site in “Extended version.” HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 23 Environmental Conservation Conducting compliance with the Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons According to the “Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons*1” (implemented in April 2015), it is required of users that inspection on commercial refrigerators and air conditioners etc. using fluorocarbons (Class 1 specified products), or the report of the leakage amount of fluorocarbons from the aforementioned products when it exceeds a specified level. The Company is appropriately responding to the law by preparing the systems and operational guidelines related to inspection and leakage control. In FY2015, the first year of the implementation of the Reach Stacker Act, the Company’s calculated leakage amount of fluorocarbons was 1,027 [t-CO2], and since it was over the level of 1,000 [t-CO2] and deemed subject to reporting leakage amount, a report was submitted to the Minister of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (the minister having jurisdiction over the warehouse industry). *1. Overview on “Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons*1” (implemented in April 1, 2015) The Act requires users (owners, in general) of “Class 1 specified products” (commercial air-conditioners, refrigerators and freezers, etc.) to implement “simple inspection of all specified products” and “periodic inspection by a person with specialized knowledge.” Furthermore, it also requires users to report the calculated leakage amount of fluorocarbons if the amount exceeds the specified level of 1,000 [t-CO2] per year. Actual data of the calculated leakage amount of Top Lifter Web fluorocarbons may be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ web site in “Extended version.” HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version Implementing eco-friendly loading equipment in the Harbor Transportation Business Division In accordance with the Environmental Voluntary Plan, the Company has preferentially implemented eco-friendly loading equipment at the Minamihonmoku Office MC-3 terminal in Yokohama Branch. We also equipped RTG*2 with high-capacity lithium-ion batteries and downsized the engines, resulting in a 60% decrease in CO2 emission compared to conventional models. Tractor head *2. Rubber tired gantry crane: Transfer crane Promoting renewal of the existing lighting system Loading equipment introduced to LED lighting to achieve significant energy saving. RTG (10 units) Reach Stacker (1 unit) To save energy and reduce CO2 emissions with regard to the lighting Top Lifter (3 units) Tractor head (18 units) systems inside the Company’s warehouses, we are promoting renewal of the existing lighting systems nearing the end of their lives, to high-efficiency lighting equipment. In fiscal 2014, the Company renewed a total of 2,800 existing lighting units to LED lighting at warehousing facilities (Tokyo Branch, Ohi Warehouse B; Yokohama Branch, Atsugi Warehouse E; Nagoya Branch, Kinjoh Warehouse; Osaka Branch, Sakurajima Warehouse No. 1, 2F and 4F; Kobe Branch, Rokko Warehouse D; and Fukuoka Branch, Hakozaki Warehouse A). In fiscal 2015, a total of about 300 lighting units were renewed to LED lighting at three facilities (Yokohama Branch, Detamachi Warehouse; Osaka Branch, Ibaraki Warehouse No.12; Fukuoka Branch, Tachinoura Warehouse B). A reduction of approximately 920 thousand kWh in electric energy, which corresponds to approximately 1.9% of the annual electric energy consumption at the Company’s warehousing facilities, is expected by renewing the existing lighting to LED lighting (6,200 RTG units in total). 24 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 We are promoting solar power Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd. obtained Green generation. Management Certification in its trucking In line with the governmental policy of enhancing the use of business, striring for environmental conservation. renewable energy to cope with global warming and other Addressing environmental issues issues, the Company is promoting the adoption of large-scale For trucking business operators, addressing solar power generation facilities at its existing warehousing environmental issues is one of the highest priorities. facilities using the Renewable Electric Energy Feed-In-Tariff Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd. (“Ryoso (or fixed-price purchase system of electricity from renewable Transportation”) has obtained the Green Management energy). Certification*1 at all six of its branches (seven In fiscal 2015, solar power generation facilities were operational bases) starting in 2005, striving to reduce completed and started operation at the extended space of environmental burden. Nagoya Tobishima Warehouse for total output of 100 kW. In fiscal 2015, Ryoso Transportation improved gas mileage by 7.0% compared with fiscal 2006. The Eitai Dia Building was certified as a “NearSpecifically, in their efforts to promote eco-driving to Top Level Facility” under the Tokyo Metropolitan improve gas mileage and reduce emissions of air Environmental Security Ordinance. pollution substances, they are conducting vehicle inspections and maintenance with their own high The Eitai Dia Building was certified as a “Near-Top Level standards. They also adopt low-pollution vehicles that Facility” under the Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental Security meet the latest restriction regulations for gas emissions. Ordinance, in March 2016, under the Green Building Program Promotion of “Green Purchasing” for “Top-Level Business Facilities in Measures Against Global Ryoso Transportation is also striving to purchase Warming” certification system.*1 products and services with less environmental burden. The “Certified Top-Level Business Facilities in Measures At Ryoso Transportation, they are aggressively Against Global Warming” are “business facilities that have purchasing retread tires,*3 eco-stationery, etc. made outstanding progress in the implementation of measures against global warming” recognized by the Tokyo *3. A retread tire has new rubber pasted on a used base tire, thereby Metropolitan Government as offices complying with the restoring the tire’s original functionality. standards designated by the Tokyo Metropolitan Government under the Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental Security Change of total gas mileage at all operational sites (fiscal 2006 to fiscal 2015) (Unit: km/L) Ordinance. Under the mandatory targets for reduction in overall greenhouse gas emissions and an emissions trading Fiscal year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 program, less stringent reduction targets are applied for the Vehicles for certified facilities.*2 2.45 2.53 2.59 2.63 2.58 business Although the Eitai Dia Building, which was completed in (100.0) (103.1) (105.6) (107.5) (105.5) use 1991, is quite aged, the proper renovations, renewal and maintenance of the facilities and equipment were highly Fiscal year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 evaluated and certified as a Near-Top-Level Facility in fiscal Vehicles for 2010, and a Top-Level Facility in fiscal 2014. 2.59 2.52 2.48 2.53 2.62 business In fiscal 2015, the governor has strengthened the (105.7) (102.9) (101.3) (103.4) (107.0) use standards, and demands regarding environmental consideration have increased. However, through updating the Parentheses indicate index numbers setting the mileage for fiscal 2006 as 100.0. air-conditioning heat source for computer rooms to a high114 112 efficiency version, conducting performance verification 110 107.5 (commissioning) of the adopted facilities and equipment and 108 105.5 105.7 107.0 105.6 continual improvement of the building management in 106 103.1 102.9 103.4 104 cooperation with the tenants of the building and a building 102 100.0 101.3 management company of the group, we were able to 100 certified as a Near-Top-Level Facility again. 98 96 At the Tokyo Dia Building, which was certified as a Near94 Top-Level Facility in fiscal 2011, and at other facilities of the 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Fiscal year) company as well, we will make aggressive efforts to further reduce the environmental burden by promoting renovations and renewals of facilities and equipment to environmentfriendly versions, and improving management and operation. *1. The Tokyo Metropolitan Government certified 34 business facilities as Top-Level Facilities and Near-Top-Level Facilities (15 Top-Level Facilities and 19 Near-Top-Level Facilities) in fiscal 2015, the first year after the strengthening of standards. Out of these facilities, five were newly certified facilities, while 29 were renewed certified facilities. *2. The mandatory targets for reduction in overall greenhouse gas emissions for Top-Level Facilities are reduced by half and those for Near-Top-Level Facilities by a quarter. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 25 Environmental Conservation We are promoting environmental conservation with regard to information system equipment. Contribution to the recovery of the eco-system In adopting information system equipment, we select Conducting reforestation through volunteer models that use less energy. In fiscal 2015, we adopted activities and donations as a partner of 307 selected units at our operating bases. reforestation of Kanagawa Prefecture We are promoting environmental conservation not To address the global environment from the perspective of only at our operational sites but also at our offices. preservation of biodiversity, we participated in a partnership program of reforestation of Kanagawa Promotion of summertime energy saving Prefecture and initiated related activities in April 2011. We strove to save energy during the summertime (May In October 2015, the fourth reforestation activity was through October 2015) by participating as a Group in held at the prefectural forest in Tanzawa Lake. Participants the Cool Biz campaign, which calls for offices to set included 24 executives and employees from Head Office, their air-conditioning thermostats at a warmer-thanTokyo Branch and Yokohama Branch, and with the usual temperature of 28˚C. instructions from the Kanagawa prefecture certified forest Promotion of Green Purchasing of stationery instructor and the support from the Prefectural Nature and other office supplies Conservation Center, we performed tree thinning works When the Group companies purchase office supplies, and took a walk along the mountain trails. we not only consider quality and price but also choose Participants were divided into 4 groups, and in products with less environmental impact—Green accordance to safety instructions, they trimmed trees by Purchasing. hand. During lunch time, the instructor gave a talk on nature conservation, which helped participants increase the Use of renewable resources awareness of environmental issues. We are expanding the use of the electric car i-MiEV manufactured by Mitsubishi Motors Corporation. As one measure under the Environmental Voluntary Plan that the Company formulated, we are promoting the replacement of gasoline cars, which consume gasoline and emit much CO2, with electric cars that emit no CO2 exhaust. We have formulated an electric car introduction plan considering the use of various subsidies for electric cars and the completion status of the relevant infrastructure including high-speed charger equipment for adopting such cars. Participants In fiscal 2015 no new electric vehicles were introduced in our head office and all branches, but 27 electric vehicles are now in use. Thinning works i-MiEV at Head Office Web The data on the status of introducing electric cars can be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version A walk through nature 26 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 Fulfillment of Sincere and Fair Business Activities We earn trust from society by fulfilling our responsibilities regarding ethical activities. By conducting fair and open competition in our activities, we can showcase our compliance to society. To fulfill our sincere and fair business activities, we recognize the issues of appropriate management of information and compliance with laws and regulations such as the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc. and the insider trading prevention law and strive to establish a foundation of trust from society. Prohibition of unfair advantage in competition and in December 2015 (1,528 persons from subsidiaries and affiliates) thereby raising the and promotion of fair and open competition awareness of information security among the cumulative 2,978 people who answered the We conduct training concerning compliance with questionnaire. the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Web Actual performance data on execution of questionnaire with regard to Information Security can be viewed on Proceeds, etc. and the prevention of insider trading. Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” In March 2016, we conducted training concerning the HOME> CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Report>Extended version etc., covering the Company and its domestic group companies. Approximately 1,900 employees who are in charge of implementing the Act against Delay in Management of Information Security Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc., and related 1. Security of customer information (personal associates from each division attended the training and information) learned the purpose of the law, the scope of 2. Security of intellectual property rights applications, responsibilities and prohibited matters 3. Confidentiality obligation using related questions on our Web site. In February 4. Compliance with laws and regulations, obligation 2016, we conducted training related to the prevention of compliance with regulations and penalties of insider trading for a total of 44 newcomers and 5. Management of information assets verified their understanding using related questions on 6. Formulation of security measure standards our Web site. (Development standard, management standard, outsourcing standard) Web Actual performance data of the training concerning thorough compliance with the Act against Delay in 7. Monitoring and supervision Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc. and prevention 8. Protecting systems from computer viruses of insider trading can be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ 9. Access authority control Web site in “Extended version.” 10. Information security education HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version We focus on information security to Management of Network Security 1. Management of connection to ML-net (In-house provide high-quality and secure services network) for customers. 2. Rules for e-mail use To provide the best services for our customers, the 3. Rules for dispatching information Company formulated various rules related to 4. Rules for connection with networks outside the information systems. We have disseminated our Company information security policy to all employees. To ensure the smooth business activities of the Company, we formulated specific compliance matters Also, part of the operations of the Tokyo Branch as to the use and management of our in-house trunk room office and Dia Systems Corporation (our network. Also, we appoint a LAN manager from each subsidiary to develop and manage our information branch’s information system section and OA promotion system) both acquired ISO27001 certification, an staff from the relevant section of each division that uses international information security management system the network, ensuring safety and the effective use of standard, and receive periodic evaluation by a certifying our in-house network. organization-approved third-party organization, thereby In fiscal 2015, we conducted a web-based attesting to our efforts to improve our information questionnaire with regard to information security in July security. 2015 (answered by 1,450 persons from the Company), Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 27 Provision of Safe, High-Quality and Useful Services To fulfill our mission as a logistics and real estate business operator relied on by society, we intend to promote measures to focus on disasters to continue to provide socially and environmentally useful and high-quality services and maintain service functions even during emergencies. Provision of socially and environmentally The Warehousing Business Division has quality management groups. beneficial high-quality services At the Warehousing Business Division, for the purposes We will continue to promote the improvement of of maintaining and improving the quality of business activities of the entire Division, the Head Office and all quality, aiming to be a company that enhances branches have a quality management group. We the quality of our customers’ products. complete operational documents and share information on various measures. We will continue to aim to The Mitsubishi Logistics Group continues to promote enhance customer satisfaction. its various efforts tenaciously to improve the quality of services to get acknowledged by customers as a constantly reliable partner. Each operating site and affiliated company We aim for high quality from the customers’ conducts specific quality improvement measures. perspective. To offer high-quality services, the Mitsubishi Logistics To become a corporation that is continuously chosen Group conducts daily efforts to improve the quality at by customers, we conduct business activities based each operating site and affiliated company. The content on ideas and actions from the customers’ perspective. and results of such efforts are horizontally developed To achieve customer satisfaction, we have broadened across the Group. Some of these measures are as the framework of quality enhancement to include the follows. quality of operations, business duties and the corporation itself. Moreover, to ensure trust from customers, we will build on our efforts at ensuring good quality to become a corporation that can boast “quality” as its strength. Our Quality Declaration has been disseminated. We put up an “Our Quality Declaration” notice at each worksite, distributed the “Our Quality Declaration” cards to all employees of the Mitsubishi Logistics Group and explained about it during stratified trainings, etc., to further disseminate the information. (See page P7: Our Declaration of Quality) We connect employee satisfaction to customer satisfaction. To offer high-quality services to customers, we regard Employee Satisfaction (ES) as an indispensable element. We strive to enhance the motivation of each employee. We believe that creating a good work environment where employees can engage in business activities with confidence and contact customers with a smile will eventually lead to Customer Satisfaction (CS). Warehousing facilities patrol conducted and meetings held by the 4S Activities Promotion Committee 28 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 Measures taken at divisions or branches and Group companies Divisions or Branches and Content of measures Group companies Warehousing and Held meetings attended by managers from all Distribution the operating bases to share information on Business Division improvement of quality. Determined issues on operational procedures by Tokyo Branch monitoring the interior of warehousing facilities. The 4S Activities Promotion Committee Yokohama Branch patrolled the warehousing facilities and made evaluations on each checklist item. Promoted 4S activities in all work places. The Promotion Committee checked the status of Kobe Branch Office where the G-MIWS was adopted implementation every month and conducts commendation. (Rokko Office, Kobe Branch) Conducted a safety patrol at all the operational Ryoso sites including the business sites of the Transportation delivery subcontractors to prevent accidents Co., Ltd. and raise awareness of safety. Kyokuryo Warehouse Conducted a safety patrol inside the premises Co., Ltd. every day to prevent accidents. Shinryo Koun Co., Provided full technical training to improve Ltd. workers’ technical capability. Improved and implemented the human Mitsubishi Logistics resources development system at all the China Co., Ltd. Group companies in China. Collected accident-related information at each Shanghai Linghua division and department, analyzed the tendencies Logistics Co., Ltd. and gave feedback to all managerial staff. Yokohama Dia Collected information on complaints from customers G-MIWS screen Building Management through outsourced companies and shared the Corporation information at meetings with the tenants. VOICE Established the Quality Management Division Dia Buil-Tech Co., and formulated a manual for standard Ltd. procedures of building management operation. Installing the G-MIWS system To further improve the quality of logistics operations, we are Kanako Hasegawa Rokko Office, Kobe Branch adopting the G-MIWS (a new information system related to -MIWS was installed and warehouse storage operation and delivery center operation). G put into use in October 2015 at our office. As a successor model of the current system, MIWS/ Since the date of the installation, the questions MESH (Mitsubishi Intelligent Warehouse System/ concerning daily operations have been solved by Mitsubishi Efficient and Speedy Handling System), the receiving support from the follow-up system mainly Company developed a new system, G-MIWS, of which led by the information system division. As a result, I the first full-scale operation took place at the Aomi was able to streamline my work by constructing Office, Tokyo Branch, in March 2014, followed by the data processing as I desire it to be. start of operation of the system at the Ohi Office of the Performing data processing more detailed than same branch in September 2014. Installation works ever, we can now correspond to customers’ needs smoothly progressed afterwards, and our goal is to more promptly. complete the installation of the G-MIWS by the first half Even though there may be problems arising of fiscal 2017. The “G” of “G-MIWS” signifies “global,” from the use of G-MIWS, I would like to keep aiming to expand the Company’s logistics business to improving it and strive to provide high-quality integrate nationwide and overseas logistics, which was services. included in the Basic Policy of the previous Management Plan. Our system is available in English and Chinese for overseas use and is designed to be effective in standardizing operations, improving service quality and reducing costs. By exporting various types of logistics-related data, we will analyze operations, formulate sales strategies, provide useful information for customers’ decision making in a timely manner and provide even higher-quality logistics services than ever to fully support customers’ business development from the aspect of logistics. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 29 Provision of Safe, High-Quality and Useful Services Promotion of disaster measures to We are strengthening our information system crisis management structure to focus on disasters maintain service functions and other crises. We are working on crisis-preventive measures To ensure continuous use of the information system even during an and measures to focus on crises promptly emergency, we established a disaster countermeasures center in the Kansai region to back up data and implemented a duplicate and effectively in case of such occurrence. information system for our The basic purpose of our crisis management measures in-house network and the Internet is to predict various crises that can seriously affect environment. In addition, the corporate management, prevent such crises and, in Company has formulated a case of occurrence, focus on the crisis quickly and manual focused on information effectively to minimize human and material damage system disasters and other that affects corporate management and restore the measures as countermeasures normal operational structure quickly. Especially, with an taken during operation of such aim to become disaster-resistant in software and systems against information Disaster countermeasure center hardware, we have developed “Disaster-Resistant and system accidents and failure. in the Kansai region Eco-Friendly Warehouses,” “Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Office Buildings.” The Company’s 11 facilities are support/relief goods logistics base facilities designated by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. To fulfill our corporate social responsibility, we intend to: 1. Ensure the safety of employees, their families and related people; The Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, learning from its 2. Preserve corporate facilities (e.g., the Company’s warehouses, reflection on the Great East Japan Earthquake, held an advisory conference, buildings and facilities) and the freight received; and attended by experts, logistics business operators and people related to 3. Strive to quickly restore and continue operation. industry organizations, among others, to compile the “Basic concept on the support/relief goods logistics system,” which aims for the efficient and smooth To respond to trust in our corporation from society, we will: delivery of support/relief goods to afflicted areas at the time of a disaster. 1. Strive to avoid adverse effects to stakeholders The General Manager of the Warehousing and Distribution Business (customers, shareholders and business partners), and Division of the Company assumed a position as a committee member 2. Contribute to the quick stabilization of local communities. representing warehouse operators, requested by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, and actively commented from the perspective of a warehousing business operator. These discussions concluded with the shared recognition that for the delivery of support/relief goods at the Reinforcing the emergency and disaster time of a disaster, it is essential to fully utilize the expertise and facilities of measures system private logistics operators. In fiscal 2011, 395 private facilities nationwide, mainly in the Kanto, Tokai As an emergency measure, we implemented largeand Tonankai regions, where a large-scale earthquake is foreseen in the near scale disaster measure training with mandatory future, were designated as support/relief goods logistics bases, including the employee participation. The training involved use of a Company’s seven facilities located in the Kanto, Tokai and Hanshin regions. In mobile phone safety confirmation system, going or fiscal 2012, two other facilities of the Company (in Fukuoka and Saga) were coming to a work site by walking and checking newly designated as relief supplies and material facilities. restoration procedures from disaster damage, etc. In fiscal 2013, the further addition of two warehouses in Tobishima and In addition, communication training on the use of Honjoh (both in Aichi Prefecture) brought the number of the Company’s transceivers was conducted monthly in the Group facilities to 11. We will thoroughly prepare to fulfill our public role as a companies to acquire the knowledge of its use, so as warehousing business operator so that the designated 11 facilities of the to strengthen the disaster measures system. Company can function well during a future large-scale disaster. Moreover, by increasing the number of offices Web Data on our 11 facilities designated as support/relief implementing the Earthquake Early Warning system, goods logistics base facilities can be viewed on we strive to promptly collect information needed to Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” ensure employees’ safety. HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version Transceiver (MCA radio) Earthquake Early Warning System Daikoku Warehouse C, Yokohama Branch Sakurajima Warehouse No. 1, Osaka Branch 30 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 Coordination with Local Communities and International Society To contribute to the development of local communities and international society, we must focus not only on the site where our business base is located but also understand our relationship with society and recognize our common interests with society. To maintain harmonious relationships with local and international societies, we will contribute to cultural activities and health services and make donations. Yokohama Bay Quarter received the Contribution to cultural activities “Yokohama Hito Machi Design Award” We conducted a charity auction and a Yokohama Bay Quarter received the Yokohama Hito charity fair. Machi Design Award (townscape division) on April 24, 2015. At the Yokohama Bay Quarter, the Company’s This award is given to townscapes, buildings and commercial real estate facilities in Yokohama, we held town activities that contributed to the creation and our charity fair on Sunday, August 23, 2015. On this conservation of beautiful urban scenery. The targets fifth charity fair, popular traditional fair games such as are entered publicly. shooting games and yo-yo fishing were enjoyed by The curved open terrace at Yokohama Bay Quarter, three generations of people. Employees from facilities which is projecting out to the sea, is an iconic design. management company Yokohama Dia Building Borrowing the view of Minato Mirai 21 district, the Management Corporation wore Happi costumes and building has created a new scenery at the Yokohama acted as salespersons in this handmade event, and it waterfront. Furthermore, the establishment of the was lively with a lot of visitors despite the scorching hot Seabass terminal which serves as a means of marine weather. Furthermore, many visitors came dressed in transport linking the area to Yamashita Park and Minato Yukata, so the venue was filled with a merry festival Mirai 21 district has helped increase visits to the area atmosphere. and made it a lively zone. These points contributed to The revenues from the event were donated to the the evaluation of the facility as a successful example of Great East Japan Earthquake relief fund via the waterfront redevelopment. Japanese Red Cross Society. We will continue to hold the events that can entertain visitors, aiming to make a facility indispensable to the regional community. Certificate Charity fair Panoramic view of the Yokohama Bay Quarter Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 31 Coordination with Local Communities and International Society Providing the venue for the Kasagi Returning Ceremony Contribution through donations, etc. In the Great East Japan Earthquake in 2011, Kasagis (part Making donation to an orphanage at our of the Torii) that belonged to shrines in the Aomori overseas subsidiary in Vietnam prefecture, Tohoku region were washed away by tsunamis to Oregon in the American West Coast. Investigation At our overseas subsidiary in Vietnam, we visited and efforts on the site identified small amounts of words on the made donations to an orphanage in Ho Chi Minh City, Kasagis that proved they were from Japan, and thus the and deepened our interactions with children by folding returning of the Kasagis was decided. After four years from Origami and drawing, etc. the earthquake the Kasagis that have drifted across the vast Pacific Ocean were returned to Japan without damage. They were treated as “the proof of U.S.-Japan friendship” on newspapers. The Kasagis returned to Yokohama port and were temporarily placed at Yokohama Bay Quarter in September 2015. The main plaza of the facility was provided for free as a public venue. Caroline Kennedy, the United States Ambassador to Japan, participated in the ritual performed by priests from the Tsurugaoka Hachimangu in Kamakura. In this project, we bore the costs including the lending out of the plaza for free, the costs for setting up the venue and security expenses involved in the ritual. Interacting with the children It was phenomenal that such an international exchange We conducted a public benefit tree event took place in one of our facilities and that we were part planting event in China. of the event. Going forward, As part of our CSR activities in China, a public benefit we will further deepen our tree planting event like last year was conducted on cooperation with international Sunday, March 6, 2016, in collaboration among communities. Ambassador Kennedy Mitsubishi Logistics China Co., Ltd., Shanghai Lingyun Global Forwarding Co., Ltd., Shenzhen Lingyang Global Forwarding Co., Ltd., Shanghai Branch, Shanghai Linghua Logistics Co., Ltd., and Fuji Logistics (China) Co., Ltd. This event helped enhance the environmental awareness of the employees and their families and provided an opportunity outside work for them to interact with each other to build friendships. Ambassador Kennedy and Chairman Okamoto from the Company Ritual ceremony Tree planting activity 32 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 We conduct social contribution activities as a We participate in locally rooted member of the Mitsubishi Group and participate in volunteer activities the Mitsubishi Social Contribution Liaison Council. At Yokohama Bay Quarters, for 7 days during the As a social contribution activity within the Mitsubishi school summer vacation season in August, radio Group, we donate to academic and charitable exercises were held at the main plaza. 2015 marks the enterprises and conduct various volunteer activities. second year of organizing this event, all managed by Also, as a member of the Mitsubishi Social Contribution employees of Yokohama Dia Building Management Liaison Council made up of the companies within the Corporation. Despite the early start at 7 o’clock in the Mitsubishi Group, we report on our related activities morning, over 40 participants, including senior couples and exchange information. living close by, small children with their fathers before work, joined the event every day. On the last day, we had more than 80 participants. We are cosponsoring Diamond Cup Golf We also participated in local cleanup activities as a community contribution. voluntarily. Participating companies within the Mitsubishi Group cosponsored a notable golf tournament, Diamond Cup Golf, which contributes to local communities and helps nurture junior golfers through charitable activities. Valuing the underlying concept and purposes of this tournament, the Company cosponsored this event as one of the participating companies. Radio exercises (photo from the Cleanup activities at the Head Office Installed flower beds in the greenbelt event two years ago) near the Nagoya Station Our Nagoya Branch responded to the request from the Meieki Development Council, made up of landowners around Nagoya Station, to install flower beds to liven up and bring color to the front of the Nagoya Station owned by Nagoya City. VOICE Yokohama Bay Quarter Radio exercises in the early morning Since fiscal 2011, we have been contributing to the Shuhei Onodera beautification of the environment in front of the Nagoya Sales Division, Station by planting flowers two times a year in spring Yokohama Dia Building Management Corporation and autumn. t Yokohama Bay Quarter, we held the radio A exercise event in mid-August starting at 7 am. Despite early morning, participants increased day by day, and during the 8 days of the event, over 400 participants, mainly children below primary school age, had joined our event. Employees from our company stand at the front to lead the others, performing radio exercises while the familiar music flows from the radio cassette. The flower bed in spring/autumn When a regular who had participated with his/her grandchildren called out to me saying “Hi, I came <Contents on the signboard of the again.” I was really pleased. flower bed of hospitality> Going forward, I’d like to bring further This flower belt is managed by the excitement to the community while helping this help of flower supporters with the aim shopping mall to become a place where our of creating a community with lots of The flower bed of customers from the neighborhood feel closeness flowery colors. hospitality and have fun with their family. (Group company of Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation) Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 33 Statement Supporting the UN Global Compact. The Group promotes its CSR activities pursuant to the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles. Practice of the UN Global UNGC’s 10 principles Compact’s 10 principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of The Group agreed to adhere to the UN Global internationally proclaimed human Compact (hereinafter “UNGC”) and endorsed approval Human rights; and in May 2014. Rights The UNGC is a voluntary Principle 2: Make sure that they are not corporate responsibility complicit in human rights abuses. initiative for businesses that are aiming for sustainable Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the growth as a responsible freedom of association and the member of society. The UNGC effective recognition of the right to asks companies to voluntarily collective bargaining; participate in creating a global Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of framework to take creative Labor forced and compulsory labor; leadership. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child At the World Economic Forum in Davos, labor; and Switzerland, in 1999, Kofi Annan, then SecretaryPrinciple 6: The elimination of discrimination in General of the United Nations, proposed that respect of employment and companies should observe the 10 principles in the occupation. areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption to solve various problems that could Principle 7: Businesses should support a occur due to internationalization and the global precautionary approach to expansion of businesses. In July 2000, the UNGC was environmental challenges; launched at the UN Headquarters in New York. As of July 2015, more than 13,000 companies and Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote organizations around the world were members of Environment greater environmental UNGC. responsibility; and Based on its Code of Conduct, the Group will strive Principle 9: Encourage the development and to practice the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles as a diffusion of environmentally good member of international society. friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against Anti-Corruption corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Web Global Compact Network Japan’s web site http://www.ungcjn.org/index.html 34 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 Company Profile (As of March 31, 2016) Company name Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation Head Office Nihonbashi Dia Building, 19-1, Nihonbashi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-8630, Japan Establishment April 15, 1887 Capital ¥22,393 million Revenue (fiscal 2015) Consolidated: ¥206.8 billion Nonconsolidated: ¥144.3 billion The number of employees 4,499 of the Mitsubishi (excluding 59 workers on leave to work outside the Group, 1,379 temporary staff and 1,037 Logistics Group employees on loan/dispatched from outside the Group) The number of 845 employees of the (excluding 152 employees on leave to work for other companies, 123 temporary staff and 569 Company employees on loan/dispatched from inside and outside the Group) Branches Tokyo, Yokohama, Nagoya, Osaka, Kobe, Fukuoka Major Businesses Logistics Warehousing; trucking; port and harbor operations; international transportation; marine freight transportation; customs clearance; development, sales, management and administration of logistics information systems; etc. Real Estate Buying, selling, leasing and management of real estate; contracting of construction work, its design and supervision; operation of parking lots; etc. Companies in the Consolidated subsidiaries (52 companies) scope of Tohoku Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd., Sairyo Service Co., Ltd., Dia Pharmaceutical Network Co., Ltd., consolidation Tokyo Dia Service Co., Ltd., Dia Systems Corporation, Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd., Unitrans Ltd., Keihin Naigai Forwarding Co., Ltd., Touryo Kigyo Co., Ltd., Fuji Logistics Co., Ltd., Tokyu Juki Transport Co., Ltd., SII Logistics Inc., Fuji Logistics Operations Co., Ltd., Fuji Logistics Support Co., Ltd., Kinko Service Co., Ltd., Chubu Trade Warehousing Co., Ltd., Meiryo Kigyo Co., Ltd., Ryoyo Transportation Co., Ltd., Kyokuryo Warehouse Co., Ltd., Hanryo Kigyo Co., Ltd., Shinryo Koun Co., Ltd., Naigai Forwarding Co., Ltd., Kyushu Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd., Monryo Transport Corporation, Hakuryo Koun Co., Ltd., Seiho Kaiun Kaisha, Ltd., Saryo Service Co., Ltd., Mitsubishi Logistics America Corporation, Mitsubishi Warehouse California Corporation, Mitsubishi Logistics Europe B.V., Fuji Logistics Europe B.V., Mitsubishi Logistics China Co., Ltd., Shanghai Linghua Logistics Co., Ltd., Shanghai Qingke Warehouse Management Co., Ltd., Shanghai Lingyun Global Forwarding Co., Ltd. Fuji Logistics (China) Co., Ltd., Fuji Logistics (Dalian F.T.Z.) Co., Ltd., Fuji Logistics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Mitsubishi Logistics Hong Kong Ltd., Fuji Logistics (H.K.) Co., Ltd., Mitsubishi Logistics Thailand Co., Ltd., P.T. Mitsubishi Logistics Indonesia, P.T. Dia-Jaya Forwarding Indonesia, Fuji Logistics Malaysia SDN.BHD., Dia Buil-Tech Co., Ltd., Yokohama Dia Building Management Corporation, Chubo Kaihatsu Co., Ltd., Nagoya Dia Buil-Tech Co., Ltd., Osaka Dia Buil-Tech Co., Ltd., Kobe Dia Service Co., Ltd., Kobe Dia Maintenance Co., Ltd., T’ACT Co., Ltd. Subsidiaries and Affiliates Accounted for by the Equity Method (3 companies) Nippon Container Terminals Co., Ltd., Kusatsu Soko Co., Ltd., Jupiter Global Limited Financial Data Business results (Consolidated) (Unit: ¥billion) Assets (Consolidated) (Unit: ¥billion) Operating revenue Operating income Ordinary income Total assets Net assets 250 15 15 14.5 14.5 500 300 14.1 14.4 14.0 13.6 433.0 263.0 257.5 203.6 204.3 206.8 12.5 12.3 413.2 12.1 12.1 396.2 250 200 192.2 198.1 12 11.4 11.3 12 400 375.1 227.8 236.6 175.8 350.4 353.2 205.8 211.5 200 150 9 9 300 150 100 6 6 200 100 50 3 3 100 50 0 0 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (fiscal year) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (fiscal year) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (fiscal year) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (fiscal year) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (fiscal year) CSR·Compliance Team, General Affairs Division, Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation Nihonbashi Dia Building, 19-1, Nihonbashi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-8630, Japan TEL: +81-3-3278-6657 FAX: +81-3-3278-6694 Extended version The following are some data related to the Environmental and Social Report 2016, which was collected at the end of fiscal 2015. The environment Environmental conservation activity data (by business) *Basic unit denominator (figures from Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy, etc.) uses figure that have strong correlations with each business. Unit Basic unit denominator CO2 emissions Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 CO2 emissions basic unit Thousand m2 <Floor area> 1,370 1,372 1,424 Warehousing and distribution Thousand t-CO2 37.1 36.4 34.1 business kg-CO2/m2 27.1 26.5 23.9 Thousand tons <Handling tons> 30 71 28 Harbor transportation business t-CO2 15.0 8 7 kg-CO2/thousand tons 504.2 112.7 246.8 Million km <Total transportation distance> 3.9 4.1 3.9 Overland transportation Thousand t-CO2 3.6 3.7 3.5 business kg-CO2/thousand km 921.1 911.8 889.3 Thousand m2 <Operational area> 684 681 716 Real estate business Thousand t-CO2 41.0 42.6 41.1 kg-CO2/m2 60.4 62.6 57.4 CO2 emissions Thousand t-CO2 82.0 82.8 78.7 Environmental conservation data (by usage, by emission type) Water use (water supply, sewage) Electricity use Fuel use (City gas, LP (Liquefied Petroleum) gas, kerosene, heavy oil, diesel oil, gasoline) Heat use (Heated water, cold water, vapor) (Thousand m3) (Million kWh) (Thousand GJ) (Thousand GJ) 1,000 916 932 960 200 200 100 151.5 80.1 74.9 75.3 750 150 136 136 138 150 140.7 75 99.0 500 100 100 50 250 50 50 25 0 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 (Fiscal year) 2013 2014 2015 (Fiscal year) 2013 2014 2015 (Fiscal year) 2013 2014 2015 (Fiscal year) CO2 emissions Waste emissions (tons) Waste emissions (m ) 3 (Thousand t-CO2) (Thousand tons) (Thousand m3) 100 4 20 82.0 82.8 16.1 17.2 78.7 75 3 15 2.1 1.9 1.9 50 2 10 4.7 25 1 5 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 (Fiscal year) 2013 2014 2015 (Fiscal year) 2013 2014 2015 (Fiscal year) *Calculation standard ● Volume related to electricity, fuel and heat uses, CO2 emissions and basic unit denominator from the warehousing and distribution business, the harbor transportation business and the real estate business are based on the reported values in the Company’s report based on the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy. ● The international transportation business is included in the warehouse and distribution business, given the small number of operating sites. ● Although the overland transportation business is not under the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy, fuel, CO2 emissions and basic unit denominator were calculated for one of the Company’s major trucking subsidiaries based on the standard in the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy. ● Business sites for the harbor transportation business were restricted to two places where the Company is in charge of transportation referenced to the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy. ● For electricity usage and CO2 emissions, the reported amounts for the Company’s subsidiary in the logistics business (the one company under the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy) were added. ● The CO2 emission volume was calculated based on the electricity, fuel and heat volume used under the guidelines of the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy. ● For water use, the volume of water used by the Company is indicated. The waste emission volume shows the volume of waste emitted by part of the Company (excluding the real estate business, etc.) and a number of the Group companies. Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental Security Ordinance Large Status of introducing electric cars scale companies CO2 emissions Unit: t-CO2 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Emissions Total number of 5 4 5 5 3 5 0 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 cars introduced standard (Using cars) (5) (9) (14) (19) (22) (27) (27) Tokyo Dia Buildings 33,531 31,661 29,593 26,607 24,419 Eitai Dia Building 10,132 5,558 5,836 5,341 5,227 Calculated leakage amount Ohi Cold Storage Office 4,394 3,645 3,645 3,620 3,100 of fluorocarbons Unit:t-CO2 Total 48,057 40,864 39,074 35,568 32,746 Fiscal 2015 Reduction 7,193 8,983 12,489 15,311 Leakage 1,027 amount romotion of CSR Number of persons participated in awareness surveys and trainings aimed at disseminating the ber of news releases Unit: case corporate philosophy and better understanding of CSR and compliance.  Unit: persons Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 achievements achievements achievements achievements achievements achievements istics 2 3 2 Awareness surveys concerning l Estate 1 1 0 CSR and compliance 9 7 5 In-house 1,596 1,586 1,462 R 3 3 3 Domestic group companies 3,017 2,943 1,848 er 2 4 4 Total 4,613 4,529 3,310 al 17 18 14 Group training concerning CSR and compliance In-house 133 60 — Domestic group companies 44 69 — Total 177 129 — rganizational Governance ber of persons participated in check aimed at dissemination wareness of compliance Unit: persons Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 achievements achievements achievements ck on status of compliance Code of Conduct n-house 1,433 1,556 1,416 omestic group companies 2,938 2,671 2,684 verseas group companies 72 90 79 otal 4,443 4,317 4,179 espect for Human Rights ber of persons participated in human rights enlightenment course for mination of employees’ awareness of human rights Unit: persons Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 achievements achievements achievements man rights 49 39 48 ghtenment course ulfillment of Sincere and Fair Business Activities ber of persons participated in compliance lecture for prevention Number of persons participated in compliance lecture for the Act against sider trading Unit: persons Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc. Unit: persons Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 achievements achievements achievements achievements achievements achievements ouse 40 40 44 In-house 903 807 757 ber of respondents to information security questionnaire Domestic group companies 962 1,019 1,143 Total 1,865 1,826 1,900 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 achievements achievements achievements ber of questionnaires conducted Three times Three times Twice ber of respondents (Persons) 4,352 2,679 2,978 rovision of Safe, High-Quality and Useful Services ber of persons participated in training for earthquake measures Support/relief goods logistics base facilities at a glance Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Area used for Year/month of achievements achievements achievements Block Branch Facility name transportation of construction cution period February 2014 March 2015 — support/relief goods Head Office, Head Office, Tokyo Aomi Warehouse No. 1 1997.6 1,000m2 ce — Kobe Branch Tokyo Branch Kanto Daikoku Warehouse B 1988.1 1,000m2 Yokohama ber of participants (Persons) Around 60 Around 50 — Daikoku Warehouse C 1994.4 1,000m2 Kinjoh Warehouse 1994.5 1,000m2 Tokai Nagoya Tobishima Warehouse 2008.11 1,000m2 Honjoh Warehouse 1992.1 1,000m2 Osaka Sakurajima Warehouse No. 1 1998.3 1,000m2 Kinki Rokko Warehouse D 1988.1 1,000m2 Kobe Rokko Warehouse E 1993.10 1,000m2 Chuo Futo Warehouse 1995.10 1,000m2 Kyushu Fukuoka Tosu Warehouse 2003.4 1,000m2 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 GRI Guidelines version 4 (G4) reference table (Listed only indicators for Core level) General Standard Disclosures Reference Item Indicators Contents page number Strategy and Analysis Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, G4-1 or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the 2~3 Top Message organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. Organizational Profile G4-3 Report the name of the organization. 35 Company Profile G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. 4~5 Introduction of Businesses G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. 35 Company Profile Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where G4-6 either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability 35 Company Profile topics covered in the report. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. 35 Company Profile Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of G4-8 35 Company Profile customers and beneficiaries). Report the scale of the organization, including: ∙ Total number of employees ∙ Total number of operations G4-9 35 Company Profile ∙ Net sales ∙ Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity ∙ Quantity of products or services provided a. Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. G4-10 e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are 15 Status of employees legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. − − G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. 4~5 Introduction of Businesses Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: ∙ Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions G4-13 − − ∙ Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operation ∙ Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination Commitments to external initiatives Initiatives for quality G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 28~30 improvement and disaster measures Top Message, List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives G4-15 3, 34 Statement Supporting to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. the UN Global Compact List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: ∙ Holds a position on the governance body G4-16 − − ∙ Participates in projects or committees ∙ Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues ∙ Views membership as strategic Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. G4-17 b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or 35 Company Profile equivalent documents is not covered by the report. a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. Editorial Policy, G4-18 1, 6~9 b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. Promotion of CSR Confirmation of major G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 10~11 CSR activities Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016 Reference Item Indicators Contents page number For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: ∙ Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization ∙ If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select Introduction to CSR G4-20 one of the following two approaches and report either: 12~33 Activities The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material ∙ Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: ∙ Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization ∙ If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or G4-21 − − elements for which the Aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identified ∙ Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons G4-22 − − for such restatements. Formulation of new G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. 2~3, 12 Management Plan Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 6~11 Promotion of CSR G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 6~11 Promotion of CSR Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement G4-26 by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was 6~11 Promotion of CSR undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how G4-27 the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 6~11 Promotion of CSR Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report Profile Boundary of the Report G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. 1 and Reporting Period G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 1 Publication Date G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). 1 Publication Date Contacts for Inquiries Regarding the G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 1 Environmental and Social Report GRI Content Index a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. G4-32 − − c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. Assurance a. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. G4-33 − − c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Governance Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. G4-34 8 In-house Decision Making Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. Ethics and Integrity The Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business Management Philosophy, Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of G4-56 6~7 Code of Conduct, Environmental Policy, conduct and codes of ethics. Environmental Voluntary Plan, Our Declaration of Quality Specific Standard Disclosures Reference Item Indicators Contents page number Disclosures on Management Approach a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. Initiatives for Seven Core c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: G4-DMA 6~33 Subjects of Social ∙ The mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach Responsibility ∙ The results of the evaluation of the management approach ∙ Any related adjustments to the management approach Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2016
