Sustainability Report Mission (Our reason for being) CONTENTS Editorial Policy .​..................................................... 1 Creation of Foods .........................................​ 26 Overview of the Fuji Oil Group ...........................​ 2 Safety, Security and Quality of Foods ​......... 29 Message from the President and CEO ................ ​4 Sustainable Procurement ............................. 30 The Fuji Oil Group seeks to develop Focus Environment .................................................​ 32 Pioneering the Future of Food: Hitozukuri (Fostering People) ​..................... 34 the potential of food ingredients. The Wellspring of the Fuji Oil Group ..................​ 6 Consolidated Financial Highlights​..................... 10 Risk Management ​........................................ 35 We will contribute to the happiness New Mid-Term Management Plan Towards a Further Leap 2020​............................ 12 Third-Party Opinion ........................................... 36 Corporate Governance​ ....................................... 18 Company Profile/Major Group Companies ​....... 37 and well-being of the people by CSR Management​ ............................................... 23 offering delicious and healthy food. Editorial Policy With this report, we aim for further progress by giving our stakeholders an understanding of the • Scope of Coverage Fuji Oil Group’s efforts to contribute to society with delicious and healthy food, and by receiving Activities of the Fuji Oil Group their frank opinions. • Company Names The printed version of this report presents activities that have a particularly high degree of Company names are presented as follows: materiality, whereas the online version more comprehensively fulfills our accountability to a broad Fuji Oil Holdings: Fuji Oil Holdings Inc. (holding range of stakeholders. company) Fuji Oil Co., Ltd.: Regional headquarters in Japan Since our founding, we have opened new doors for the deliciousness and enjoyment of The Fuji Oil Group/the Group: All group High food with new ideas and original technology development. Printed Version companies in Japan and overseas, including Fuji Oil Holdings Inc. Materiality for the Published A selective report on topics Today, our planet faces many problems in areas such as the environment, food resources booklet version with high materiality. • Period Covered FY 2016 results for Fuji Oil Holdings Inc. and Fuji Oil Group and health. Full online Sustainability Report group companies in Japan (April 1, 2016 version March 31, 2017) and for group companies We want to support people’s health and happiness using the power of our innovation Sustainability Report 2017 outside Japan (January 1, 2016 December 31, Materiality for Published July 2017 that has created delicious and healthy foods in the oils and fats and soy businesses. stakeholders High 2016). Details of some prior and more recent activities and initiatives are also included. The Fuji Oil Group makes full use of its business foundation in development, Full Online Report A comprehensive report giving an overall perspective on the Fuji Oil • Date of Publication Group’s activities. July 2017 (Japanese version), manufacturing and sales with the aim of contributing to society by creating the future CSR Activities: http://www.fujioilholdings.com/en/approach/ September 2017 (English and Chinese versions) of delicious and healthy foods. • Reference Guidelines Ministry of the Environment, “Environmental Disclaimer regarding Forward-Looking Statements Reporting Guidelines 2012” Fuji Oil Group Management Philosophy Forward-looking statements such as earnings forecasts of the Fuji Oil Group and other projections GRI (Global Reporting Initiative), In October 2015, we established the Fuji Oil Group Management Philosophy to preserve, further evolve and pass on the DNA that has been contained in this report reflect the Group’s current analysis based on information available at the time “G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines” crucial to our group since its founding. To grow sustainably while fulfilling our social responsibilities, the Management Philosophy sets forth of publication. Please be aware that actual results may differ from these forward-looking statements our Mission (Our reason for being), Vision, Values (The values that inform our actions) and Our Principles. due to various factors such as economic trends and the Group’s operating environment. 1 Overview of the Fuji Oil Group The Fuji Oil Group leverages its technological, production and sales capabilities in the three business areas of oils and fats, confectionery and bakery ingredients, and soy protein. We listen to the opinions of our customers as we create new value in the world of food. We will continue to meet the demands of individuals and society through ceaseless innovation to contribute to the future of delicious and healthy foods. The Fuji Oil Group in FY 2016 Years in business 67 “How we should be in 2020” （founded in 1950） Mid-Term Management Plan “How we want to be in 2030” Consolidated revenue ¥292.5 Towards a Further Leap 2020 A company that billion Carry out reform of the cost structure to Global company that supports contributes to society by Group companies1 32 creating the future of attain competitive advantage globally people’s health Number of employees (consolidated)2 5,056 Expand global management structure Become No. 1 in the world/each region by advancing the core technologies we delicious and healthy food have cultivated Number of patents3 2,573 See page 12. 1. Fuji Oil Holdings Inc., 30 subsidiaries and 1 affiliate 2. As of March 31, 2017 for group companies in Japan, and as of December 31, 2016 for group companies outside Japan 3. Total for Fuji Oil Holdings Inc. and Fuji Oil Co., Ltd. for 1950 to March 2016 Business Process ● Hard butters for chocolate Based on the know-how we have been cultivating since our foundation, we ● Confectionery oils and fats have developed a variety of oils and fats for chocolate, frying and other Hard butters for chocolate (CBE)5 Procurement of Oils and fats applications. We give shape to our customers’ wishes through ingredients that ● Frying and spraying oils Customers ● Fats for frozen confectionery In the top three in global share4 raw materials contribute to the enjoyment of food in a wide range of situations. and others (Main raw materials) ● Coating chocolate/glazed chocolate Food manufacturers ● Chocolate for ice cream coating We use our know-how in oils and fats to develop chocolate, whipping cream, Confectionery ● Whipping cream Industrial use chocolate margarine and other products that combine functionality and deliciousness. We Retail and and bakery meet the needs of various industries with confectionery and bakery ingredients ● Margarine/shortening No. 1 share in Japan4 convenience stores ● Fillings (custard cream, chocolate, etc.) ingredients and cooking ingredients that help people enjoy delicious moments. ● Frozen pie dough/béchamel sauce No. 4 share globally4 Cacao Food service and home and others replacement meal industry ● Soy protein isolate Confectionery shops and The Fuji Oil Group believes that soybeans will contribute to a sustainable society bakeries ● Textured soy protein and has been pursuing their potential as a food ingredient for more than half a Soy protein ingredients Soluble soy polysaccharides ● Soluble soy polysaccharides Palm oil Soybeans Soy protein century. We have developed products that contribute to people’s health, such as ● Soy protein food products Beverage manufacturers No. 1 share in Japan4 No. 1 share globally4 textured soy protein with a mouthfeel like meat and premium soy milk products ● Premium soy milk products that make the most of the inherent deliciousness of soybeans. and others and others 4. Fuji Oil Group survey (March 2017) 5. CBE: Cocoa butter equivalent 2 FUJI OIL GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 3 Message from the President and CEO Becoming an Indispensable Presence Worldwide with Delicious and Healthy Food Management for People – Conscientious Management Looking ahead to the coming era of We are vigorously strengthening our Promotion of CSR and discontinuous disruption, we have begun major global foundation and promoting innovation to become a company that reforms with a firm resolve to raise our growth strategies toward “How we want creates the future of foods and contributes growth trajectory to be in 2030” to society over the next 50 years and beyond Looking around, it would seem that the world has changed “Renaissance Fuji 2016,” our previous Mid-Term Management We believe that creating a culture of change is essential for dramatically overnight. With the prospect of global population Plan, set forth “How we want to be in 2030” and “How we achieving sustainable growth to become “How we want to be growth, there is a rush to solve problems in areas such as the should be in 2020.” “How we want to be” entails growing in 2030.” The key to doing so is CSR and diversity. environment and food. At the same time, society and industry into a global enterprise that supports consumers’ health and We have adopted “Work for people” as a value that guides are facing an unprecedented paradigm shift as Industry 4.0 uses its core technologies to become number one worldwide our actions in the Fuji Oil Group Management Philosophy and (the fourth industrial revolution) becomes a reality, as and in each region. Furthermore, “How we should be” in believe that the essence of CSR is responding to the demands exemplified by artificial intelligence (AI) and the Internet of order to become “How we want to be” involves gaining a of society and people through our core business. Increasing Things (IoT). This is the advent of an era of disruption typified competitive advantage globally by reforming our cost structure attention is being paid not only to food safety and security, by discontinuous change. What was once common sense no and expanding our global management structure. but also to the potential of ingredients in areas such as longer applies. However, we realize that we cannot reach “How we want additive-free and low-allergen foods, nutritional foods for the To accelerate our growth strategy with an accurate to be in 2030” by simply continuing to grow our existing elderly and medical foods. We will contribute to our customers understanding of these drastic changes, we formulated business at its current rate. The basic policy of the new Midand to society by providing new value through delicious and “Towards a Further Leap 2020,” our new Mid-Term Term Management Plan “Towards a Further Leap 2020” is to healthy food. Management Plan. Prior to that, we set forth our Vision to establish the foundation and create the new businesses As society aims for sustainability, ESG has also become an contribute to society by creating the future of delicious and necessary to bridge the gap that separates us from our 2030 important management requirement. In particular, we healthy foods in the Fuji Oil Group Management Philosophy, goal by 2020. recognize that shaping a corporate culture that makes the which was established concurrently with our shift to a holding First, without delay we will strengthen our global most of diversity in areas such as gender, nationality, culture company structure in October 2015. A company is a member foundation, which is a prerequisite for being a company that and values leads to multifaceted value creation and helps to of society and must continue to create value for society. competes throughout the world. Because cost efficiency, make a company more competitive. I am convinced that Through our Group Management Philosophy, we expressed to speed and localization are crucial for global management, we advancing diversity by promoting the development of a society our clear and steadfast intention to be of service to plan to make management information visible on a worldwide workplace environment that is welcoming to women, seniors, people at all times and to be a company with a global basis, and to vigorously promote enhanced governance and young people and non-Japanese people ultimately leads to presence. Moreover, to ensure we grow steadily as we respond delegation of authority to local operations. Lately, the age work style reform. to the major changes of the era of disruption, I am deeply when a product’s functions alone gave it value has ended, and In addition, looking beyond “How we want to be in 2030,” convinced of the need for decisive reforms unlike any we have the question has become how that product benefits society. we established the R&D Division for Future Creation with a undertaken before. Therefore, we will create value together with society through belief in the importance of accelerating the development Although we set a new record high for profit in FY 2016, our pursuit of delicious and healthy food using “Kachizukuri” capabilities that are in our group’s DNA. The division will we started the new Mid-Term Management Plan with the (creating value) that adds the consumer-oriented marketing resolutely take on challenging research themes that are not recognition that we can no longer postpone reforms. From its approach of “Kotozukuri” (creating movements) to simply an extension of our past endeavors, thus spurring founding to the present, the Fuji Oil Group has consistently “Monozukuri” (creating products), which is the source of our discontinuous innovation that creates new added value. The Fuji been a trailblazer owing to its innovative ideas and competitive advantage. For our growth strategy, we will Oil Group will press forward with the aim of being a company technologies. With this DNA and a historical perspective that continue to advance toward “How we want to be” through that creates the future of food – a company that can continue looks ahead to the next generation, I am determined to lay reinforcement of our core competence, growth of our soy to contribute to society through delicious and healthy food over the foundation for a new Fuji Oil Group that can envision a business and development of business in functional highthe next 50 years and beyond. path through the next 50 years. value-added products. Hiroshi Shimizu President and CEO Fuji Oil Holdings Inc. 4 5 Focus Pioneering the Future of Food: The Wellspring of the Fuji Oil Group Bringing Out the Potential of Ingredients through Technological Innovation from this concept, we not only obtained completely new oil that support us in this regard (The values that inform our Our Founding Spirit Created a and fat materials, but also created a number of innovative Creating Value for People actions), we put “Safety, quality and the environment” first Technology-Oriented Fuji Oil new products. We were first in the world to succeed in and foremost. We also added “Work for people” and commercial production of hard butter similar to cacao butter The global population is projected to increase to 9.5 billion by continue to espouse “Challenge and innovation” while In 1950, Fuji Oil was founded with full investment by ITOCHU using sunflowers as a raw material by combining 2050, and potential solutions to the urgent issues of resource remaining mindful of “Speed and timing.” We will deliver Corporation. The 67 years since then have been a history of interesterification technology that recombines oils and fats at depletion and food problems are being expedited. In the food value to people worldwide with our unique approach, through continuous technological innovation. the molecular level using enzymes and fractionation industry, in addition to demands for safe, secure and healthy deliciousness and health. To achieve this, we will generate Our initial focus was on solid fats from tropical regions. At technology. This sent major shock waves through the products, such as foods that are additive-free or low in new value in response to social issues, a process we call the time, established edible oil manufacturers in Japan chocolate industry. For soybeans, we developed a allergens, global attention is focused on ingredients that are “Kotozukuri” (creating movements), in combination with dominated the supply of liquid oils from sources such as soybeans manufacturing method to separate and extract high-purity soy environmentally friendly, suitable for the elderly, nutritionally “Monozukuri” (creating products) as our employees join and rape seeds, and there was no room in the market for protein from defatted soybeans using our original technology, enhanced, or address other concerns. Under these together to take on the challenge of “Kachizukuri” (creating latecomers such as us. Nevertheless, based on our founding and obtained patents for the manufacturing method in 10 circumstances, management that can adapt to “value” that value) that changes with the times. belief that “possessing the originality to explore new areas of countries. We have developed a series of technologies that changes with the times is crucial for Fuji Oil to grow into a business rather than following other companies would lead to were the first in Japan or first in the world, such as the 1993 truly global leader. Moreover, we recognize that value our continuous development”, we were the first in Japan to efficient extraction of soluble soy polysaccharides from constantly changes with both time and place, and that Operating profit by segment successfully extract coconut oil using expeller pressing. Fuji Oil soybean curd residue using our proprietary high-temperature responding to change by ascertaining the trends of the times (Billions of yen) 20 19.7 took its first step as a unique manufacturer of edible oils and fats. pressurized extraction method. creates value, a process we call “Kachizukuri.” Specifically, we Unlike liquid oils, solid fats are solid at ambient temperature, Just like our commitment to originality, our ambition to will make a major shift in the orientation of our management, 16.8 15.2 6.4 but liquefy when heated. Our engineers who took note of this contribute to society by offering healthy and delicious food away from products toward solutions. In addition, we believe 15 14.2 14.2 change in properties due to temperature had the idea of using has remained unchanged since our founding. Since 1950, Fuji that adopting a strict policy of putting customers first, and 4.5 6.4 3.3 different melting points to separate oils and fats with different Oil has obtained 2,573 patents (as of March 2016; total for 5.3 finding and providing value that they are not yet even aware 10 physical properties. We then succeeded in establishing a Fuji Oil Co., Ltd. and Fuji Oil Holdings). Premium soymilk made of, will lead to contributions to people’s health and to society. 10.6 production system using solvent fractionation technology for with the world’s first ultra soy separation (USS) manufacturing Furthermore, to continue creating the future of food, we 9.3 9.7 9.2 oils and fats, which is our core technology. Thus, we laid the method has a delicious taste and functions that are 5 8.7 established the Fuji Oil Group Management Philosophy to 2.7 1.5 1.0 1.3 foundation for highly original raw materials, technologies unattainable with regular soymilk, and it is attracting attention make clear the values and principles to be shared by our 0.2 as a groundbreaking new ingredient that expands the potential 0 and products. employees worldwide. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) This separation technique is closer to the essence of our of soybeans. In addition, our newly developed stabilized DHA In the past, we have created new foods through technologies ■ Oils and fats materials and is a starting point that could be called our and EPA successfully suppress the odor of fish at its source, that no one can imitate, ideas that no one else thought of, ■ Confectionery and bakery ingredients “technological philosophy.” Using technologies developed opening a new door for their use in various food products. and proposals that resonate with everyone. As for the Values ■ Soy protein Establishment of enzymatic Development of low-trans fatty acid Developed USS, the world’s first soy separation and interesterification technology technology using interesterification fractionation technology History of We began full-scale biotechnology research in There are strong demands worldwide for reduction We developed and obtained a patent for the USS* manufacturing method, the 1970s. From our research into lipid of trans fatty acids due to their impact on health. which separates soybeans into soymilk cream and low-fat soymilk in a Technological Innovation production using yeast, we established an We applied conventional enzymatic manner similar to the separation method for raw milk. It is attracting enzymatic interesterification technology that interesterification technology to develop a attention for breakthrough new ingredients that retain the components recombines oils and fats at the molecular level. technology for reducing trans fatty acid that and savory taste of soybeans, and has begun to be used in foods in a wide In the mid-1980s, we successfully conducted realizes ideal functions and stability. We are making range of cuisine including Japanese and Italian. Based on this technology, we also succeeded in developing the world’s first commercial production of cocoa a major contribution to people’s health through oil a cheese-like ingredient from soybeans, further expanding the potential of soybeans as food ingredients. butter equivalent (CBE) using this technology. and fat products with low-trans fatty acid content. * USS: Ultra Soy Separation 1955 1967 1980 1993 2005 2012 2016 Start of Japan’s first hard Start of production of soy protein isolate Development of soluble soy Development of butter production at a at the Osaka Plant polysaccharide production technology stabilized DHA and EPA solvent fractionation plant As our competitors abandoned advanced research on We took a closer look at the soluble fibers contained in DHA and EPA are attracting attention for their We completed the first solvent applications of defatted soybeans, we continued to apply soybean curd residue. As a result of extensive research into function in enhancing cognitive ability. We succeeded fractionation plant for oils and fats in trial and error and succeeded in using isoelectric point their use as a food ingredient, we developed soluble soy in developing and commercializing stabilized DHA Japan and began producing hard butter precipitation to separate and extract soybean protein polysaccharide production technology using highand EPA with a reduced fishy odor by using a (similar to cacao butter) from palm while retaining its ability to form a gel. Employing this temperature pressurized extraction. As a functional food proprietary new technology that disperses slightly kernel oil. innovative manufacturing method, for which we ingredient, this product can be used in various applications, soluble antioxidant ingredients in oil. It has received obtained patents in 10 countries, we started production including for stabilizing acidic milk drinks and preventing good reviews as a way to ingest DHA and EPA without of highly pure soy protein isolate at the Osaka Plant. cooked rice and noodles from becoming sticky. affecting flavor when added to foods and beverages. 6 FUJI OIL GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 7 Focus Pioneering the Future of Food: The Wellspring of the Fuji Oil Group Deliciousness and Health for the World China since the 1980s. Currently, 27 companies, including as global enhancement of the supply chain for oils and fats Overseas Expansion from an Early Stage regional headquarters, in 10 countries are engaged in local Shift to a Holding Company Structure to and chocolate. with a Trading Company Approach production and sales activities. Our strengths overseas include Accelerate Global Management Good health is a value that all people of the world share. For hard butters for chocolate, oils and fats for infant powdered Fuji Oil, which has a vision of contributing to the happiness and Although Fuji Oil is a manufacturer, it has the DNA of a formula, functional oils and fats, industrial use chocolate, and We have set forth “a global company for supporting the health well-being of the people by offering delicious and healthy food, trading company, and therefore it entered overseas markets confectionery and baking ingredients such as vegetable of people” as “How we want to be in 2030.” To achieve this, contributing to health is an important objective that must be from its earliest days. In 1953, when the scars of war were still whipping cream. In the United States, we expect growth in we consider it important to expand our global management met. Due to the aging population and concerns about food fresh, we started looking into new raw materials in Southeast soybean-related products in addition to oils and fats and structure and attain a competitive advantage globally as “How safety and security, demand from the field of medical foods, Asia, together with the Oils and Fats Section of ITOCHU chocolate due to increased health consciousness, with we should be in 2020.” Therefore, in October 2015 we shifted including health foods and liquid diets, is also rising globally. Corporation. At that time, our focus on palm kernels, which regulations on the intake of trans fatty acids out of concerns to a pure holding company system, and established regional Fuji Oil will contribute to delicious and healthy food with a had never been used for oil extraction in Japan, led to the over their impact on health, and the rise of flexitarians (people headquarters in Asia, China and the Americas and a representative proactive global rollout of its soy protein business and its manufacture and sale of hard butter, the starting point of our whose diets are oriented toward vegetables but who company in Europe to manage group companies in each area. functional high-value-added products business, including originality. Japan was entering a period of high economic occasionally eat meat or fish). In China, the Westernization of We aim to create products and services rooted in local markets stabilized DHA and EPA, and polysaccharides. growth, and many Japanese manufacturers were engaged in diets is accelerating, with notable growth in the confectionery by ascertaining our customers’ issues from the perspectives of overseas production for import and sale back in Japan. Our and bakery market. deliciousness and health, and also minimize exchange rate risk management at the time believed that true internationalization Fuji Oil wants to help resolve food issues on a global scale by conducting development, production and sales all within Percentage of operating profit from overseas business meant creating markets overseas and establishing production and to be the best partner for creating new food value with its each region. (%) bases there for business development. In the 1970s, we built a customers. We established FUJISUNNY PLAZA as a base for In addition, to develop businesses that take advantage of 50 series of bases in Malaysia and the Philippines. However, we creating new products and new menus through communication distinctive regional characteristics, we are strongly promoting 38 were forced to withdraw temporarily due to differences of with customers. To address the diverse needs of each country or delegation of authority to each area while focusing on 40 34 opinion with the national governments and local partners. region, there are eight plazas, located in Japan, China and strengthening our governance structure, promoting diversity and 28 Nevertheless, we focused on developing overseas markets, elsewhere in Asia. In addition, we opened the Asia R&D Center cultivating global human resources. To increase management 30 driven by our conviction that expansion into local markets is the in Singapore in 2015 as our research base in Asia. We are speed, we are upgrading our global management structure and 29 only way to grow as a global company. As a pioneer in the era, conducting unique research and development that applies the reinforcing our management foundation. Specifically, we are 20 we developed into a corporate group with an overseas network wide range of knowledge we have accumulated to the laying the foundation for the adoption of global standards, 16 that spans from raw material procurement to production and distinctive needs of the Asian market. For sustainable growth, including alignment of fiscal periods, global unification of core 10 sales in the Asian region. we opened the Fuji Science & Innovation Center in 2016 as the systems and the consequent visualization of management Fuji Oil’s overseas development has been characterized by headquarters of the Group’s global research and technology information. We will also steadily respond to the demands of 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) local production and local consumption around the world, with development network. We are accelerating the creation of the growth markets by displaying group synergies in areas such expansion into Southeast Asia, the United States, Europe and future of food globally. Establishment of Fuji Vegetable Establishment of Asia R&D Center and Establishment of Fuji Science & Oil, Inc. in the United States Shift to a Holding Company Structure Innovation Center under a Pure Holding Company System History of Opening Established with a view toward full-scale Brings together knowledge and technology business development in the United States, Opened our first overseas research and from inside and outside the Group as the Markets Overseas the world’s largest consumer market. A development facility in Singapore to consolidate research and development headquarters of plant in Georgia that produces specialty our development functions in Asia and conduct the Fuji Oil Group. With the Asia R&D Center fats has also been constructed and is research and development tailored to Asian and Tsukuba R&D Center, it completes the operating. Has earned a good reputation needs. Also in 2015, we shifted to a holding tripolar global research and development among major multinational food companies company structure under a pure holding system we have built to create food for its technical and proposal capabilities. company system to conduct global management. ingredients with value. 1981 1987 1992 1994 2015 2015 2016 Establishment of Fuji Oil Establishment of Vamo-Fuji Establishment of Jilin Fuji Protein Addition to the Group of Harald (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Specialties N.V. in Belgium (currently Co., Ltd. in Jilin Province, China Indústria e Comércio de Alimentos Established as a core base for our overseas Fuji Oil Europe) Since the 1980s, Fuji Oil has been providing S.A., Brazil’s Largest Manufacturer of strategy. Manufactures specialty fats, mainly Established as a joint venture with Belgium’s technical guidance in Jilin Province in Industrial Use Chocolate hard butters for chocolate. Began actively long-established oils and fats manufacturer anticipation of the prospects and growth Harald is a widely recognized and trusted company in exporting to regions other than Japan soon Vandemoortele N.V. as part of our plans to enter potential of the Chinese market. Established Brazil with approximately 70,000 Brazilian bakeries after the start of operation, with exports to Europe. Expanding sales to the United Kingdom, the company amid expanding consumption of as customers and a large share of domestic sales. We more than 50 countries. Western and Eastern Europe and Russia, driven by ham and sausage. Began full-scale production will build and develop our strategy for Central and technological support from applications and ideas and sales of soy protein isolate as a raw South America here, leveraging the strength of the developed in the Japanese market. material. company’s brands and sales network. 8 FUJI OIL GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 9 Consolidated Financial Highlights Operating Profit by Segment Net income Soy protein attributable to owners 13.7% Confectionery and Revenue Operating profit of the parent ROE Oils and fats bakery ingredients Soy protein ¥292.5 billion ¥19.7 billion ¥12.1 billion 8.3 % Confectionery and ¥6.4 billion ¥10.6 billion ¥2.7 billion (+1.7% year on year) (+16.9% year on year) (+31.2% year on year) (+1.9 pts year on year) bakery ingredients Oils and fats (+0.3% year on year) (+15.3% year on year) (+112.9% year on year) 53.8% 32.6% Revenue/Cost of sales ROE/ROA Equity ratio (Billions of yen) (%) (%) 300 287.5 292.5 10 75 253.0 271.9 63.3 65.1 239.4 8.3 250 236.6 232.2 224.4 230.3 231.3 7.6 7.4 58.5 55.4 214.1 213.2 222.7 8 6.8 60 53.3 198.4 194.8 205.2 6.4 200 176.0 176.8 188.1 166.7 6 7.3 7.3 45 6.7 6.3 150 5.8 4 30 100 50 2 15 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) ■ Revenue ■ Cost of sales ● ROE ● ROA Operating profit/Operating profit margin Free cash flow Cash conversion cycle (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (Days) 25 10 12 150 8.4 10.1 7.4 6.7 10 20 8 120 110 6.1 6.0 5.9 8 6.9 98 102 103 5.5 95 15 4.8 18.0 5.2 6 6 90 16.6 19.7 3.6 14.1 15.2 16.8 4 10 13.0 14.2 4 2.8 60 11.5 2 5 7.7 2 0.5 30 0 (18.8) 0 0 (20) 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) ■ Operating profit (Left scale) ■ Operating profit margin (Right scale) Net income/Net income per share PER Dividends per share/Payout ratio (Billions of yen) (Yen) (Times) (Yen) (%) 15 141 150 20 18.90 18.51 50 50 125 12.1 12 10.7 114 109 107 120 9.8 96 97 95 16 13.92 17.63 40 32.6 40 87 9.3 9.2 31.2 9 7.5 8.3 8.3 8.2 90 15.05 27.6 12 30 25.8 27.4 30 6 60 8 20 44.0 20 3 30 30.0 35.0 25.0 26.0 4 10 10 0 0 (0.8)(1.0) 0 0 0 (3) (30) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) ■ Net income (Left scale) ■ Net income per share (Right scale) ■ Dividends per share (Left scale) ● Payout ratio (Right scale) Note: From FY2015, Net income is presented as Net income attributable to owners of the parent. 10 FUJI OIL GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 11 New Mid-Term Management Plan Towards a Further Leap We aim to become a company that contributes to customers and society with delicious and healthy foods by transitioning from a conventional product-out Background to the Formulation of the New Mid-Term Management Plan to a solution-oriented business. The new Mid-Term Management Plan “Towards a Further Leap accelerating our global business development are measures to External Environment Our Challenges 2020” looks toward “How we want to be in 2030” and “How bridge the gap that separates our current state from “How we Paradigm shift • Comparatively slow pace of global we should be in 2020” to lay the groundwork for getting there, want to be in 2030.“ That means that the Fuji Oil Group needs When what was once common sense no longer applies business development based on our vision of seeking to contribute to society by to take a step up from the B-to-B food ingredient manufacturer • Strengthening of marketing creating the future of delicious and healthy foods. Looking with its origin in Japan that it has been until now to become a •AI, IoT, logistics •CSR in resources, the environment, human rights back, the Fuji Oil Group has grown from its founding to where global enterprise that supports the health of consumers. •World affairs •Changes in dietary culture • Building the foundation for growth it is now as a B-to-B food ingredient manufacturer by using its In the new Mid-Term Management Plan, there are three basic technology as the source for responding to the wishes of its concepts that form the basis for approaching this new stage. customers. However, we feel a sense of crisis about whether we First, “Deliciousness and health” is the Fuji Oil Group’s core can realize “How we want to be in 2030” on our current principle for contributing to society. Next, “Kachizukuri” growth vector. Eliminating this sense of crisis is the fundamental (creating value) means the creation of high added value from principle of “Towards a Further Leap 2020.” synergy between “Monozukuri” (creating products) through Basic Strategy In Japan, the food market as a whole is shrinking in technological differentiation and “Kotozukuri” (creating New Mid-Term Management Plan proportion to the decline in the population. Moreover, movements) derived from marketing that addresses customers’ Portfolio shift generating hit products is difficult in a time when consumer apparent and latent needs. We will meet the needs of the times Towards a Further confidence is low. Consequently, we must consider seriously by providing solutions to issues. The third basic concept, “SelfBasic policies Leap 2020 what our customers really want, and on top of a solutionreform,” entails the major reforms to our awareness that will be (1) Reinforcement of core competence Growth oriented business model that actively weaves together story necessary to move up to a new stage. We must stop dwelling strategy propositions, a competitive advantage will be essential to on the successes we experienced backed by Japan’s former high (2) Growth of soy business Region succeed globally. In other words, strengthening marketing and economic growth. (3) Development of business in No modification of Mid-Term Management strategy Plan until 2020 to clarify the goal functional high-value-added products “Complete our innovation” •Strengthening our global (4) Cost reduction and Strengthening Profit foundation unification with of the management Financial structure Basic Policies of the New Mid-Term Management Plan strategy global standards foundation reform Complete our mission to become a globally competitive company •Soy business and functional The new Mid-Term Management Plan lays the foundation for (3) Development of business in functional high-value-added Develop global Strong financial rapid progress toward “How we want to be in 2030,” and sets products: We will leverage the unique technologies of the Fuji high-value-added products Cost reduction management structure structure forth the following four basic policies as concrete measures to Oil Group to vigorously advance into the field of nutrition and Establish as a next-generation main business for 2020 and beyond “Kachizukuri” bridge the gap separating us from this ideal. health foods. Our originality in areas such as the polysaccharide Basic concepts Deliciousness and health (Creating value) Self-reform business and commercialization of stabilized DHA and EPA has (1) Reinforcement of core competence: We will strive for stable already attracted a great deal of attention. We plan to stabilize growth mainly by expanding our business in hard butters for group earnings by actively developing business in functional chocolate and chocolate products, areas in which the Fuji Oil high-value-added products. Management Objectives (FY 2020) Group has market-beating technologies and a global presence. To reliably promote these three basic policies, it is important Starting from these competitive strengths, we aim to be one of to improve the productivity of the entire Group and to ROE EPS Operating profit growth Shareholder return the world’s top three companies in terms of sales volume of reorganize for their execution. Hence, our fourth basic policy, industrial use chocolate. (4) Cost reduction and unification with global standards: This CAGR1 CAGR1 Payout ratio (2) Growth of soy business: We will take a fresh look at the soy policy focuses on improving productivity through cost business we have been engaged in since our foundation and 10 8 6 30 -40 reductions and building a strong financial structure. In addition, grow it into a major pillar of earnings by developing products as part of our management foundation, we plan to rebuild the % % and new menu offerings that help to resolve issues for the % % % Fuji Oil Group’s corporate brand and raise our visibility among health of people and the earth. or more or more all our stakeholders. 1. Compound annual growth rate 12 FUJI OIL GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 13 Towards a Further Leap 2020 Growth Strategy: (1) Reinforcement of Core Competence Generate group synergy to meet the needs of growing markets Candidate site for new Our core competence consists of chocolate, hard butters for produces both chocolate and hard butters for chocolate. chocolate business chocolate, and confectionery and bakery ingredients. In the We will position hard butters for chocolate and chocolate as a chocolate industry, competitiveness is essential due to the trend strategic business unit to concentrate resources through toward increasing oligopolistic control by major global selection and concentration of our portfolio. At the same time, companies, and the Fuji Oil Group has the substantial we will use Asia as a foothold for future regional expansion into advantage of being the only company in the world that China, India, the Middle East, North Africa and North America. Key Points Equator China South America Compound chocolate is the In addition to existing demand for chocolate and hard butters Harald Indústria e Comércio de Alimentos S.A. of Brazil, which mainstream in hot countries and developing countries Candidate site for new oils and for chocolate, sales of fillings such as custard cream, as well as became a group company in 2015, handles mainly compound fats processing business Oil and fats business site margarine and other products, are growing substantially due to chocolate using hard butters for chocolate. We will strive to Confectionery and bakery ingredients business site growth of China’s bakery market. We will establish a new base develop new hard butter products for chocolate, which are a in Guangzhou to meet demand in the South China region. specialty of the Fuji Oil Group, and strengthen group synergies and supply chains using our original technologies. North America South America Europe Middle East Asia China Japan North America Business expansion Expand business Demand is extremely high in North America for lowand Europe Increase production via GCB Specialty coverage to include Increase capacity non-trans fatty acid products as well as for hard butters for The Fuji Oil Group has a subsidiary in Ghana as a raw material Strengthen supply Renew Harald facilities, capacity, generate Investigate as a Chocolates products from through renewal of chain for oils and chocolate. In addition to establishing a new production base, procurement base. We will use this supply chain to expand sales improve revenue synergy with oils potential market (Malaysia), which emulsified and facilities, expand fats and chocolate we will strengthen the supply chain to generate synergy throughout Europe and take on the challenge of capturing the and fats business became a group fermented ingredients market share between oils and fats and chocolate. mass-market segment. company in 2016 to chocolates Basic Policies and Measures of “Towards a Further Leap 2020” Expand existing businesses Businesses for further advancement Growth Strategy: (2) Growth of Soy Business ​(3) Development of business in functional ​(1) Reinforcement of core competence (2) Growth of soy business high-value-added products • Steadily expand markets and product lineups • Final stage of structural reform • Develop business in polysaccharides and Due to demand for health foods and nutritional foods backed fermented these products to make a breakthrough ingredient in strong fields • Expanding USS2 products stabilized DHA and EPA by the aging of society and other factors, soy protein similar to cheese. We will energetically promote their rollout in • Expand business in nutrition and health foods ingredients that are easy to process and eat have huge the growing plant protein market to create new value with potential. We will re-affirm the value of soy by returning to its “Kotozukuri” (creating movements) centered on premium Renew facilities, consider a new base for Expand USS products, increase profitability of Japan ​Expand business in polysaccharides and FST3 essence and expedite selection and concentration within the soymilk products and soy meat made using the USS chocolate protein ingredients soy business. manufacturing method. China Construct second factory Enter the health field ​Expand business in nutrition and health foods In recent years, “flexitarians” have emerged among In our existing soy protein business, we will expedite High growth expected millennials in Europe, the United States and elsewhere. consolidation and reorganization from the viewpoint of Asia Divest aging facilities Flexitarians, a term coined by combining “flexible” with increasing the efficiency of management resources and work to “vegetarian,” are people who are oriented toward reduce the cost of products that are already being North America Establish new production base Consider how to develop the USS business Global development of FST vegetarianism but also consume meat and fish depending on commoditized. We intend to complete structural reforms to the circumstances. Their diets are characterized by a focus on improve profitability and prioritize investment in high-valueStrengthen synergy between oils and fats South America highly nutritious vegetables, fruits, unprocessed grains, legumes added businesses such as soy polysaccharides. and chocolate and other foods in consideration of healthy eating habits and the global environment. In the United States and Europe Europe Strengthen chocolate business Global development of polysaccharides “veggie burgers” made with vegetable protein have proved S​ earch for new regions through which to very popular, and in this and other ways a market has formed ​IMEA1 for plant protein, centered on developed countries. expand sales channels Using its patented Ultra Soy Separation (USS) manufacturing M&A (prepare ¥50 billion in funding) method, the Fuji Oil Group succeeded in making soymilk cream and low-fat soymilk from soybeans in a manner similar to Cheese-like soymilk ingredients Mabodofu made with soy meat 1. India, Middle East and North Africa 2. Ultra Soy Separation 3. Fuji Stabilization Technology producing cream and skim milk from raw milk. We also 14 FUJI OIL GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 15 Towards a Further Leap 2020 Growth Strategy: (3) Development of Business in Functional Financial Strategy High-Value-Added Products The close relationship between food and health continues to widely used in processed rice and noodle foods, frozen bread Aim to transform ourselves to achieve a strong global financial structure by deepen with rising health consciousness worldwide, including and other foods, and its use in lactobacillus beverages is progress in China toward creating a law for foods for special expected to accelerate due to its ability to suppress coagulation creating cash flows from sustained profit growth, improving capital efficiency medical purposes. and precipitation of protein. With the growing trend of drinking and strengthening financial governance DHA and EPA are attracting attention as ingredients that can be lactobacillus beverages in Europe and China, we are actively expected to improve cognitive function and decrease dementia promoting a global rollout and have also started developing Strengthen financial function based on four pillars risk, and the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare’s Dietary polysaccharides from materials other than soybeans. Reference Intakes for Japanese (2010 edition) recommends a Establish a strong global financial structure combined daily intake of one gram or more. However, conventional forms of DHA and EPA easily deteriorate with oxidation and their characteristic fishy odor poses an obstacle to their use in processed food. Using a new technology, the Fuji Oil Group 1 2 3 4 developed stabilized DHA and EPA with a suppressed fishy odor. Sustained profit Maintaining financial Improving capital Strengthening financial This makes it possible to use DHA and EPA in various types of growth soundness efficiency governance food processing. We plan a launch in 2017, and are anticipating worldwide demand of 1,500 tons in 2020. We will rapidly establish production bases and set up a system for global supply. Consolidated operating profit: Maintain stabilized financial Improve capital efficiency to Promote standardization of Furthermore, due to rising health consciousness, demand in CAGR of 6% or more structure based on business the level necessary for financial management (allowing EPS growth rate: characteristics and risks sustained growth and in line us to compare and verify global the polysaccharides business is also growing worldwide. The CAGR of 8% or more with global competitors financial operations) enabling the Fuji Oil Group developed proprietary technology to extract reduction of financial risks and soluble fibers contained in soybean curd residue and improvement of operational successfully commercialized soluble soy polysaccharides. Adding efficiency a small amount of this product to foods can substantially change their physical properties – for example, it increases the •Shorten CCC by 10 days; •Net sales margin ratio: •From individual/regional •Equity ratio: 50％ or greater in dispersion stability of milk protein in acidic milk drinks. It is “Vege-blend” mixed vegetable and fruit beverage containing stabilized DHA and EPA Operating CF: Total of FY 2020 Approx. 5% in FY 2020 optimum to overall optimum ¥100 billion over 4 years •D/E ratio: Manage within an •Total asset turnover ratio: •Awareness reform toward •Through asset mobilization upper limit of 0.5 in FY 2020 Approx. 1.15 times in FY 2020 global integration •Through Cash Management •Financial leverage (Total •Strategic talent allocation and System assets/shareholders’ equity): assignment, training and Approx. 1.8 times in FY 2020 development, and acquisition Strengthening of the Management Foundation Appropriate balance Fuji Oil Group Creation and sheet management ROE improvement Financial Policy & allocation of cash flow in line with to 10％ Operational Standards Hitozukuri Technology Corporate risk and return (Fostering People) Management Brand The Fuji Oil Group’s current competitors are global food growth is expected, we will establish a solid global financial To be in demand around the world as Since its foundation, the Fuji Oil Group Until now, the Fuji Oil Group has had a companies. To succeed in global competition, creating cash structure to ensure stable business continuity. Moreover, growth a company that supports consumers’ has earned a strong reputation behind-the-scenes presence as a flow from sustained profit growth is key. Therefore, we have at the same rate as our global competitors will require an health, it is important to promote and worldwide for its superior B-to-B food ingredient manufacturer. made the cash conversion cycle (CCC) a core financial indicator. improvement in capital efficiency to an equivalent level. By cultivate talented human resources technological capabilities. To further However, to take our place as a global We have set an FY 2020 target of shortening the CCC by 10 expanding group synergies from Japan to the global level, we will who can act globally. By promoting accelerate the evolution of our company that contributes to resolving days through measures such as a more sophisticated balance capture demand in growth markets while achieving cost reductions reform of working style centered on technologies, we opened the Fuji issues of deliciousness and health, we between appropriate inventory and production and sales based through profit structure reform, with a target ROE of 10%. diversity, we will create an Science & Innovation Center in 2016. decided to rebuild our corporate brand on supply and demand forecasts, and optimization of the The Fuji Oil Group considers the return of profits to its environment that fosters people who As a source of creation for the future, from the perspective of global turnover period for accounts receivable and trade payables. shareholders to be one of its most important management can proactively take on challenges the center will develop new products branding. Targeting our 70th In addition, as we work to secure global sources of profit by tasks. Our basic policy is to distribute profits appropriately worldwide. We will also spread the that contribute in the areas of anniversary in 2020, we will reinforcing our core competence and creating new businesses, from a long-term perspective while maintaining internal values of the Fuji Oil Group globally to deliciousness and health as it develops inaugurate a new Fuji Oil Group with we will strengthen financial governance to become a truly global reserves necessary for strengthening the management contribute to society with delicious innovative production technologies to the aims of increasing awareness integrated enterprise with a shift from what is best on an foundation and for our growth strategy. We have set a payout and healthy foods. further raise our advantage in among all stakeholders and individual company level to what is best for the Group overall. ratio of 30% to 40% as a target for FY 2020 and intend to technology management. maximizing brand value. While proactively investing in regions and businesses where maintain stable dividends. 16 FUJI OIL GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 17 Corporate Governance Basic Approach Committee Composition and Chairpersons (As of June 22, 2017) Total number of Independent outside Audit and Supervisory Through the realization of effective corporate governance, we and supervising management. To this end, we appoint multiple Internal directors Chairperson members directors Board members aim to prevent situations that would harm corporate value, outside directors and outside Audit and Supervisory Board Board of Directors 12 6 2 4 (including 2 outside members) President such as violation of laws and regulations, fraud or misconduct, members, and take care to ensure the independence of the Nomination and and to strive for sustainable growth and improvement of Audit and Supervisory Board and the effectiveness of audits by Compensation Advisory 3 1 2 — Independent outside director corporate value over the medium to long term. We have the members. Committee positioned corporate governance as an important mechanism To expedite decision-making, the Fuji Oil Group shifted its ESG Committee 3 3 — Observer Internal director (in charge of Corporate Governance) for decision-making that is transparent, fair, prompt and management structure to a pure holding company structure resolute in order to meet the expectations of stakeholders such through an incorporation-type company split, and separates Outside Directors and Outside Audit and supervision and auditing based on experience and expert as shareholders, customers, other business partners, our officers management from execution, thereby promoting delegation of knowledge. and employees, and society. authority to its regional headquarters, which are operating Supervisory Board Members Outside directors and outside Audit and Supervisory Board To ensure the confidence of shareholders, we consider it companies. Meanwhile, as the global headquarters, Fuji Oil We have two outside directors and two outside Audit and members make suggestions and proposals to ensure the important to conduct flexible and rational decision-making and Holdings is engaged in formulating strategies for group Supervisory Board members. adequacy and appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ business execution and to enhance the functions for monitoring management and for managing group subsidiaries. Other than meeting the requirements for independence decision-making and the status of the directors’ execution of stipulated by the financial instruments exchange on which our duties. They attend meetings of the Board of Directors and state company is listed, we have no special provisions regarding their opinions on deliberations and decisions on agenda items. Corporate Governance Structure independence for appointing outside directors and outside Outside Audit and Supervisory Board members exchange Audit and Supervisory Board members. However, our basic opinions at Audit and Supervisory Board meetings, and strive for appointments and executive compensation decisions. The consideration in making appointments is that there be no mutual cooperation through methods including regular liaison Board of Directors committee is composed of three members: outside director concerns of conflict of interest with general shareholders in meetings with internal audit personnel and accounting auditors, As stipulated in the rules of the Board of Directors, meetings of Kazuhiro Mishina, who is the current chairperson; outside fulfilling the functions and roles of objective and appropriate exchanging information and receiving reports, and sharing issues. the Board of Directors are held once a month in principle, and director Noriko Taji; and the president. Meetings were held a extraordinary meetings are held from time to time as necessary. total of 10 times during the 89th term (April 1, 2016 March Matters stipulated by laws and regulations and other important 31, 2017). Response to the Corporate Governance Code matters are deliberated and resolved, and the status of the directors’ execution of duties is reported. The Fuji Oil Group’s basic policy for corporate governance is to As of March 31, 2017, the number of cross-held stock issues is ESG Committee ensure highly transparent and sound management and to 28, of which 14 are not mutual shareholdings but are held by The ESG Committee proposes and reports on important ESG continue to increase shareholder value. our company alone. After submitting a Corporate Governance Management Council (Environment, Social, Governance) issues to the Board of The Corporate Governance Code was put into effect by the Report on November 6, 2015, we examined the rationality of Important matters relating to management are fully deliberated Directors, and has subcommittees for Safety, Quality and Tokyo Stock Exchange on June 1, 2015. In response, we the purposes in cross-shareholdings for reasons other than and overseen by the Management Council, an advisory body to Environment, Human Resources Development, Sustainable checked how we were implementing corporate governance in investment in line with the intent of the Corporate Governance the representative directors. The main members are the Procurement, and Risk Management and Compliance. light of the Corporate Governance Code, and identified issues Code and the Fuji Oil Holdings Corporate Governance president and director and managing executive officers, and From FY 2017 onward, the committee plans to reflect to be addressed. The Board of Directors then resolved to Guidelines, giving consideration to specific business benefits meetings are held once a month in principle. This has established external viewpoints to a greater extent in our ESG activities by approve the Fuji Oil Holdings Corporate Governance Guidelines, such as maintaining and strengthening business partnerships and enhances a system that enables compliance with laws and conducting dialogue with outside experts, held with the aim of and submitted a Corporate Governance Report in November and transactions and share stability, and are sequentially selling regulations and the efficient execution of duties by contributing to further enhancing the effectiveness of our initiatives. the same year. Of the 11 items in the report submitted at that the stock issues we are able to sell. At the end of the fiscal year, the decision-making of the president and the Board of Directors. time, eight items were disclosed in compliance with the the Board of Directors also reported on the stocks sold within Corporate Governance Code, and the remaining three items that fiscal year and reviewed the status of cross-shareholdings, Audit and Supervisory Board were not disclosed, with only explanations being provided. and concurrently formulated criteria for judging the rationality Nomination and Compensation Advisory Committee The Audit and Supervisory Board, which held 12 meetings However, during FY 2016 we were able to comply with of continued holding. The three criteria are transaction value, In October 2015, we established the Nomination and during the 89th term, discusses and decides on audit policies “Principle 3.1 (v): Explanation with respect to individual dividends and net unrealized gains. Compensation Advisory Committee as an advisory body to the and audit plans, and reports, resolves and decides on other appointments and nominations of director and kansayaku We plan to continue eliminating cross-shareholdings while Board of Directors for transparency in the processes of officer important matters relating to auditing. candidates” and “Supplementary Principle 4.11.3: Analysis and judging whether to continue ownership by comprehensively evaluation of the effectiveness of the board of directors as a taking into account specific business benefits, based on these whole.” As a result, as of March 31, 2017, the remaining item three criteria. Corporate Governance Structure (As of June 22, 2017) for which only an explanation was provided is “Principle 1.4: We have not established a uniform standard for exercise of General Meeting of Shareholders Cross-Shareholdings.” We explained that we are sequentially voting rights of cross-shareholdings, but comprehensively eliminating our cross-shareholdings. consider factors including whether or not a proposal can be Nomination and Compensation expected to facilitate the efficient and sound management of Audit and Supervisory Board Board of Directors Advisory Committee For details of the Fuji Oil Holdings Corporate Governance Guidelines the issuing company and improve its corporate value, in WEB please visit our website. addition to whether or not the proposal conforms to our own (Chairperson) http://www.fujioilholdings.com/en/ir/governance_pdf/governance.pdf shareholding policy. 8 Internal Directors In FY 2016, we sold our cross-shareholdings in four stocks. In ESG Committee Reasons for Non-Compliance with the the future, we plan to continue eliminating cross-shareholdings after further examination of the possibility of doing so. • Safety, Quality and Environment Subcommittee Principles of the Corporate Governance Code Internal director/Internal Audit and • Human Resources Development Subcommittee Supervisory Board member • Sustainable Procurement Subcommittee Principle 1.4 Cross-Shareholdings • Risk Management and Compliance Subcommittee Independent outside director/ Independent outside Audit and Our company currently holds listed shares as cross-shareholdings. Supervisory Board member Management Council Internal Audit Group 18 FUJI OIL GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 19 Messages from Outside Directors I will emphasize building a foundation to Officer Compensation For officers of our company, remuneration of directors is Directors following repeated discussions of officer accomplish the new Mid-Term Management Plan. decided by resolution of the Board of Directors based on the compensation. In setting standards for each item, annual report of the Nomination and Compensation Advisory salaries are stipulated according to position and responsibilities Kazuhiro Mishina Committee, and remuneration of Audit and Supervisory Board using survey data from external specialist organizations, and Professor, Graduate School of Business Administration, Kobe University members is decided by discussion among the members, within increases or decreases in bonuses are determined using business the total amount of remuneration previously resolved at the performance indicators such as consolidated ordinary profit. General Meeting of Shareholders. Remuneration of Audit and Supervisory Board members is The basic route for Fuji Oil was determined from the time personnel. Toward that end, in FY 2016 I focused my Remuneration of directors consists of fixed monthly fixed monthly compensation only, decided by discussion among it shifted to a holding company structure in October efforts on the Nomination and Compensation Advisory compensation and bonuses linked to individual and corporate the members using survey data from external specialist 2015. However, it still lacks the strong physique necessary Committee and worked out a new compensation system performance. In October 2015, we established the Nomination organizations so that the level is commensurate to the position to realize the ideal it envisioned in this transition. The for internal directors and executive officers. More work and Compensation Advisory Committee, consisting of the three and responsibilities. new Mid-Term Management Plan looks head-on at this remains to check conformity with the Companies Act and members Kazuhiro Mishina, an outside director, as chairperson, Outside directors and outside Audit and Supervisory Board inadequacy and emphasizes building a foundation to tax laws, so unfortunately implementation will be delayed Noriko Taji, an outside director, and the president. The members receive fixed compensation only. rectify it. to FY 2018, but I expect the new compensation system to committee proactively exchanges opinions with the Board of I endeavored to correct biases in the process of support globalization within the company. formulating the plan. At points when people in the In FY 2017, we must make sure of our planning to Total Remuneration by Officer Classification, Total Remuneration by Type and Number of Eligible Officers company were apt to look inward and give precedence to inculcate the approach of the new compensation system Total remuneration by type (millions of yen) an internal line of reasoning, I took the liberty of among the employee organization. Also, we must take Retirement bonus and interjecting my thoughts to influence them to look to an in-depth look at the other half of the responsibilities Total remuneration Number of eligible Officer classification (millions of yen) amount of retirement officers (persons) regions other than Japan. It was worthwhile, as we are of the Nomination and Compensation Advisory Basic compensation Stock options Bonuses bonus allowance carried finally seeing a path to raising the status of operations in Committee, namely nominations. Even with the advent of over the United States from a manufacturing base to a the Trump administration, the trend toward globalization Directors (excluding outside directors) 297 260 — 37 — 8 business base. will not cease. I believe that Fuji Oil has no time for Audit and Supervisory Board members (excluding outside Audit and Supervisory 39 39 — — — 3 The crucial point in accomplishing the new Mid-Term slacking off toward its immediate goal of securing its Board members) Management Plan will be the extent to which we can place within the global village. Outside officers 35 35 — — — 5 draw forth the energy and ingenuity of our key Notes: 1. The above includes compensation for two directors who retired at the conclusion of the 88th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders. 2. The above does not include officer bonuses based on the resolution of the 88th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders. 3. The above includes officer bonuses for FY 2016. 4. The above total remuneration of directors does not include the portion of salary received as an employee of our company. 5. Director compensation as of the end of FY 2016 has been set at no more than a total of ¥600 million for the year by resolution of the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 26, 2012 (of which, outside directors shall receive no more than a total of ¥30 million for the year; including directors’ bonuses but not including the portion of salary received as an employee of our company). We will promote various reforms while making 6. The amount of compensation for Audit and Supervisory Board members has been set at no more than a total of ¥100 million for the year by resolution of the 89th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 22, 2017. efforts to promote diversity. Compliance Noriko Taji the Fuji Oil Group Management Philosophy, which was Group Management Philosophy and Compliance Professor, Faculty of Business Administration and Graduate School of Business Administration, Hosei University formulated when the Group shifted to a holding company The Fuji Oil Group complies with laws and regulations, as well structure in October 2015. as internal policies and rules, as a matter of course, and views In FY 2016, we announced major reforms to overhaul the practices, Fuji Oil shines out brightly. The number of acting with a strong sense of ethics in daily business operations For details of the Fuji Oil Group Management Philosophy, please visit nomination and compensation system for management. female employees who are raising children is on the rise, WEB as crucial to meeting the expectations and needs of society (i.e. our website. It is natural for shareholders and other stakeholders to and many men also attend open-participation study stakeholders). This basic concept of compliance is included in http://www.fujioilholdings.com/en/constitution/index.html focus on these reforms, but we are also accelerating meetings for women. When I saw this forum where middle management and workplace reforms. The Fuji Oil female employees working on the front lines of Communication with Shareholders and Investors Group is a food products enterprise that handles both development, marketing and sales spoke emphatically B-to-B and B-to-C operations. Unless we increase about where they see their careers a decade from now, I We actively promote information disclosure to shareholders and Regarding voting rights, we have adopted an electronic voting diversity, we will not be able to create products that was reminded of university management. Just as investors to maintain management transparency and accountability. rights exercise system. resonate with consumers mentally and physically. universities that attract female students are the ones that To facilitate direct communication between shareholders and For institutional investors, we hold briefing sessions on the Diversity management deals not only with engaging will survive in a society with a declining birthrate, top-level management, we held an informal gathering of second-quarter and year-end settlements of accounts and women, disabled people and non-Japanese, but also with businesses also need appealing features that attract shareholders after the General Meeting of Shareholders in June conference calls on the days of the first-quarter and third-quarter work-life balance for enjoying both work and personal women as new graduates and mid-career hires. The logic 2016. We are also trying to disclose information to shareholders earnings announcements, and the management team also life. Fuji Oil’s Excellence Award from the mayor of the City that leads male university students who are looking for who cannot participate in the General Meeting of Shareholders proactively engages in dialogue through interviews after earnings of Osaka as a leading company in promoting women’s jobs to assume “a company that is good for women will or events in a timely and fair manner. Specifically, we are announcements. We are also exchanging views with investors by empowerment was gratifying, and I have also been able also be good for men” holds water in business. We will working to improve the way we outline our business activities holding small meetings under themes of high relevance to to hear workplace opinions. I was surprised at the many also work to support middle management to spur this on our website or in notices of the General Meeting of investors, such as the Mid-Term Management Plan and domestic times I was told that employees rarely quit in mid-career. kind of positive feedback. Shareholders and handouts. We disclose notices of the General business, with the participation of top-level management. Since In contrast to companies with dubious human resource Meetings of Shareholders on the Timely Disclosure network 2016, we have been conducting overseas IR activities, and we are (TDnet) and our website before dispatching them. An English thus promoting IR both inside and outside Japan. version of each notice is also made available on our website. 20 FUJI OIL GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 21 CSR Management Management Team (As of June 22, 2017) CSR of the Fuji Oil Group delicious and healthy food.” Recognizing that a company is a Directors Basic concept of CSR social entity, we believe that CSR entails contributing to society The Fuji Oil Group’s CSR is to continue to fulfill the mission of through our business activities and use the following three the Group Management Philosophy: “The Fuji Oil Group seeks points as guidelines for our activities to promote CSR. to develop the potential of food ingredients. We will contribute to the happiness and well­-being of the people by offering Three guidelines for CSR promotion 1. Strategic activities Contribute to resolving social issues through businesses and products. Hiroshi Shimizu Hirokazu Maeda Mikio Sakai Tomoki Matsumoto President and CEO Director and Managing Executive Officer Director and Managing Executive Officer Director and Managing Executive Officer 2. Basic activities Reduce and rectify the adverse impacts on society of doing business. CEO (Chief Executive Officer) CTO (Chief Technology Officer) CSO (Chief Strategy Officer) CFO (Chief Financial Officer) Delicious and Healthy Foods Creation Director of Fuji Oil Co., Ltd. Information Disclosure 3. Communication with society Communicate in good faith with stakeholders. Corporate Governance Risk and Compliance Director of Fuji Oil Co., Ltd. The Fuji Oil Group has agreed to and signed the UN Global Compact. The Fuji Oil Group signed the United Nations Global Compact in January 2013. We are contributing to improving the sustainability not only of our group but also of the entire society by practicing the ten principles in the four areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti­-corruption. Tatsuji Omori Takehiko Sumiya Kazuhiro Mishina1 Noriko Taji1 Director and Executive Officer Director and Executive Officer Outside Director Outside Director Our Commitment to Respecting Human Rights COO (Chief Operations Officer) CMO (Chief Marketing Officer) Professor at Graduate School of Business Professor at Faculty of Business President of Fuji Oil Co., Ltd. Head of Tokyo Branch of Fuji Oil Co., Ltd. Administration, Kobe University Administration and Graduate School of The Fuji Oil Group has expressed the core value of “Work for involved with our business activities and to identify key issues for Independent Director of the Board of Business Administration, Hosei University Nippon Paint Holdings Co., Ltd. people” in its Group Management Philosophy. This means that priority handling. In the process of implementing the assessment, thinking from the position of people who could be affected as we gained insight not only from the involvement of related Audit and Supervisory Board Members we conduct our business is the very spirit of respecting human internal departments but also from Verisk Maplecroft and Caux rights. Our participation in the 2016 United Nations Forum on Round Table Japan as external experts. As a result, we identified Business and Human Rights and dialogue with our stakeholders salient human rights issues that are human rights at risk of the gave us the opportunity to reformulate our way of thinking most severe negative impact therefore to be addressed as high about human rights, and in April 2017 we announced the Fuji priority. Based on the findings, we will carry out education on Oil Group Human Rights Policy. human rights, promote sustainable procurement, and establish a grievance mechanism and other measures while consulting with and receiving evaluation from experts. Human rights due diligence Hiroshi Kumabe Makoto Shibuya Minoru Matsumoto1 Kouichi Kusao1 The Fuji Oil Group has started to conduct human rights due Visit our website for more information on the Fuji Oil Group Human WEB Standing Audit and Supervisory Board Standing Audit and Supervisory Board Outside Audit and Supervisory Board Outside Audit and Supervisory Board diligence as a way of fulfilling its human rights responsibilities. Rights Policy and human rights due diligence. Member Member Member Member In FY 2016, we conducted a human rights impact assessment to http://www.fujioilholdings.com/en/human_rights/index.html Audit and Supervisory Board Member of Head of Minoru Matsumoto CPA Office Head of Kusao Law Office identify and evaluate the adverse impacts on human rights Fuji Oil Co., Ltd. Audit & Supervisory Committee Member of Keihan Holdings Co., Ltd. Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member of Daito Chemix Corporation Announcement of the Fuji Oil Group Health Management Declaration 1. Independent Officer provided in Rule 436-2 of the Tokyo Stock Exchange Securities Listing Regulations In the Fuji Oil Group Management Philosophy, we set forth our Vision of contributing to society by offering delicious and healthy foods. Employees are the source of value creation for the Fuji Oil Group, and we believe that this Vision can be Executive Officers realized only if each and every employee is healthy. In January 2017, we announced the Fuji Oil Group Health Management Takeshi Takasugi Yasuhiro Maruhashi Taisuke Kanemori Haruyasu Kida Declaration, which states that we will proactively engage ourselves in health management. Based on this declaration, we will Managing Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer take actions to support our employees in sustaining and improving their health in such areas as prevention of lifestyle-related Business Development Managing Director of Fuji Oil Asia Pte. Ltd. Internal Audit Director of Fuji Oil Co., Ltd. illness and mental health problems. Masataka Minemura Hiroshi Shinano Toshifumi Asada Hiroyuki Sano Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer Chief Executive for China New Area Development Human Resources, Legal and General Affairs Director of Fuji Oil Co., Ltd. President of Fuji Oil (China) Investment Co., Ltd.2 Kazunobu Tsumura Takashi Kadota Executive Officer Executive Officer R&D Division for Future Creation Production Productivity Management 2. Renamed Fuji Oil (China) Investment Co., Ltd. on July 1, 2017 22 FUJI OIL GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 23 Stakeholder Engagement Global Issues and Six Priority Themes In promoting CSR, the Fuji Oil Group emphasizes interactive communication with stakeholders. Global issues seen from the perspective of The 17 SDGs the Sustainable Development Goals In September 2015, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were unanimously adopted by the 193 member states of the Dialogue with Experts for CSR Promotion United Nations at the Sustainable Development Summit held at the UN Headquarters. The SDGs comprise 17 goals with 169 material, are an important issue for the industry, and the targets to be achieved on a global scale by 2030. experts emphasized the importance of listening to the The 17 goals, which have been chosen by more than seven opinions of plantation laborers for activities rooted in the million representatives from a wide range of sectors constituting locale (plantation) in our promotion of sustainable society, can be seen as a microcosm of global issues. To achieve procurement. This opinion coincides with the core value the SDGs for the sake of everyone on the planet by 2030, every of “Work for people” in the Management Philosophy, sector around the world must take action. and we stated that we will work to realize co-creation of value locally. Action following the dialogue with experts Six priority themes to contribute to society through business activities To use the advice received through this dialogue in CSR The Fuji Oil Group aims to contribute to society through business activities. After closely examining and classifying what we can do promotion, since October 2016 we have incorporated through our business activities to help achieve the SDGs, which are a microcosm of global issues, we have decided to focus on the social trends regarding business and human rights into following six priority themes. In this way, we seek to contribute to society and the resolution of global­-scale issues. In September 2016, we engaged in a dialogue with our activities. Specifically, we have established the Fuji Oil experts to receive advice on our future CSR activities. Group Human Rights Policy (April 2017) and started Six priority themes Puvan J. Selvanathan, CEO of Bluenumber Foundation, human rights due diligence. and Thomas Thomas, CEO of ASEAN CSR Network, We will continue striving to live up to society’s Detailed Relevant SDGs Value that we can provide to society information participated as experts in the field of sustainability with expectations and demands in order to realize locally regard to conditions in the palm oil industry and (plantation)-based sustainable procurement in line with Creation of Foods Southeast Asia, where most palm oil is produced. We our core value of “Work for people.” 2 3 9 exchanged opinions on our CSR activities, particularly on We will produce solutions to food-related issues such as a shortage of food resources and P. 26 12 17 undernutrition through our business activities, using our technological capabilities for a sustainable procurement initiatives. sustainable society. Advice on business and human rights Safety, Security and Quality of Foods 2 9 12 Incidents of false labeling and food contamination threaten the security of food, which is the P. 29 The experts praised our sincere stance on sustainability basis of life. We will thoroughly reinforce our systems and quality management to continue and provided advice on “Locally (plantation)-based offering food products that customers and consumers can use with peace of mind. sustainable procurement.” Human rights problems at plantations for palm oil, which we handle as a core raw 1 2 10 Sustainable Procurement As a manufacturer that uses agricultural products as raw materials, we aim to procure P. 30 12 13 15 sustainably produced raw materials in a stable, fair and equitable manner. Dialogue participants • Experts • Fuji Oil Holdings Inc. 6 7 11 Environment We will strive to reduce the burden on the global environment through our business activities, P. 32 Puvan J. Selvanathan Hiroshi Shimizu, President and CEO 12 13 14 15 with our shared value of “Safety, quality, and the environment.” CEO, Bluenumber Foundation Tomoki Matsumoto, Director and Managing Executive Officer, CFO Hiroshi Shinano, Executive Officer Toshio Shikata, Senior Manager, CSR and Risk Management Group 3 4 5 Hitozukuri (Fostering People) Haruka Yamada, CSR and Risk Management Group Thomas Thomas Human resources are the source of the value we provide to a diversifying society. P. 34 CEO, ASEAN CSR Network • Moderators: Caux Round Table Japan 8 10 16 We promote diversity and develop the leaders of the next generation who can play an active role globally. Hiroshi Ishida, Executive Director Sayaho Noda, Director Risk Management 9 12 17 By building and continuously operating a global risk management system, we establish a P. 35 framework that enables us to contribute to society sustainably through our business activities. 24 FUJI OIL GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 25 Creation of Foods TOPIC Basic Concept The Fuji Science & Innovation Center: Integrating various measures to create research synergies at every turn We look at food ingredients from their very essence. The technologies and passion that the Fuji Oil Group has cultivated The newly established Fuji Science & Innovation Center plays an important role as the research and development headquarters since its foundation are an innovative force for trailblazing the potential of food. We wish strongly to use this force to resolve for the Fuji Oil Group. issues facing the world such as food shortages, undernutrition and the dietary lifestyle of seniors. Our mission is to continue The facility integrates various measures to serve as the focal point for fusing knowledge from inside and outside the Fuji Oil to support consumers globally through the creation of delicious and healthy foods. Group. For example, research space has been consolidated on a single floor so that researchers can interact. With this new approach, barriers between departments have been removed, enabling free and frank communication. Innovations from new combinations have arisen from these discussions among researchers, such as oils and fats related technology that has led to a breakthrough on a certain soybean protein issue. The facility is also Research Structure to Create the Future of Food accelerating the fusion of knowledge and technology in ways such as establishing a collaboration laboratory for joint R&D with researchers from overseas group companies in a co-creation space. The Fuji Oil Group’s research and development themes are technological innovation to create the next-generation We are also vigorously promoting co-creation with customers through such measures as virtual diverse, ranging from basic research to development of businesses that will become the pillars of our operations, with factory tours that provide a conceptual image of product processing and an exhibition room that ingredients, applications and engineering. Through relentless the aim of sustainable growth. As we conduct R&D initiatives helps them understand the Fuji Oil Group’s businesses at a glance. research and development, we believe we can continuously and draw up strategies to deepen and develop existing develop new technologies and innovative new ingredients that businesses and commercialize new businesses, we are also solve various dietary challenges to create the future of food. We investigating research fields for the future and building a joint The Creation of Food to Resolve Social Issues established the Fuji Science & Innovation Center in the summer research framework for open innovation. of 2016 as a venue for generating innovations by fusing In April 2015 we changed the name of our basic research Food that is both delicious and healthy is a critical challenge in urgent health and nutrition issues facing society, and we are knowledge and technology from inside and outside the Fuji Oil laboratory to the R&D Division for Future Creation and newly society’s aim for sustainability and the Fuji Oil Group’s most making efforts for the creation of food to resolve social issues. Group. Together with the Tsukuba Research & Development established a basic technology team in charge of innovation of important initiative. As basic principles of the new Mid-Term Food that is both delicious and healthy Center and the Asia R&D Center, we have built a tripolar global production technology in the laboratory to promote Management Plan, our group is striving for development of Themes research and development structure to accelerate the fusion of technological innovation and the creation of new businesses business in functional high-value-added products and the Helping to combat shortages of knowledge and technology. and new markets. growth of the soy business. These objectives are based on the food resources The mission of our research and development is to use Global Research Facilities and FUJISUNNY PLAZAs Healthy Oils and Fats FUJISUNNY PLAZA Locations Hannan Bangkok (As of June 2017) (Japan) (Thailand) There is demand for food ingredients that take health into account in areas such as improvement of physical R&D Centers functions and reduced allergens. The Fuji Oil Group creates a variety of healthy oils and fats in its pursuit of Tokyo (Japan) Singapore food that is both delicious and healthy for people worldwide. Stabilized DHA and EPA oil that brings out saltiness, sourness and piquancy with Ingredient just a small amount of seasoning. The oil helps to reduce Development DHA and EPA, high quantities of which are present in fish sodium in processed foods, for which low sodium is and shellfish, are unsaturated fatty acids that are expected desirable from the viewpoint of preventing lifestyleFuji Science & Basic Application Asia R&D Center to have a wide range of health benefits including helping related diseases, and expectations are high for food Innovation Center (Japan) Research Development (Singapore) to reduce dementia risk. The Ministry of Health, Labour service applications in hospitals and facilities for the and Welfare’s “Dietary Reference Intakes for Japanese” elderly as a cooking oil for sodium reduction. Engineering recommends daily intake of DHA and EPA. However, Development previously available DHA and EPA were markedly Products with low trans or non-trans fatty acid content deteriorated by oxidation and the accompanying fishy odor made them difficult to ingest other than in capsule Excessive intake of trans fatty acids is said to increase the Tsukuba Shanghai (Japan) (China) form. The Fuji Oil Group succeeded in developing risk of heart disease. In June 2015, the Food and Drug stabilized DHA and EPA, suppressing oxidation and fishy Administration (FDA) of the United States announced its Beijing Guangzhou odor using a new technology for stable admixture of decision to prohibit the use of partially hydrogenated oils, (China) (China) anti-oxidant ingredients that were not readily soluble in which contain a large quantity of trans fatty acids, in Tsukuba Research & oils and fats. The main raw material of our group’s three years’ time, and there have been moves by food Development Center (Japan) stabilized DHA and EPA is derived from algae, enabling manufacturers worldwide to reevaluate trans fatty acids. stable and sustainable supply. The Fuji Oil Group uses proprietary technologies such as Facility Functions interesterification that do not generate trans fatty acids Fuji Science & Undertakes the development of food ingredients in response to customer wants and needs as the focal point for fusing knowledge from inside and outside Innovation Center the Fuji Oil Group. Flavor-enhancing oil during manufacturing and has commercialized low trans Tsukuba Research & Conducts application development that matches customer wants and needs, and basic research that leads to enhancement of technologies and to delicious, and non-trans fatty acid products for chocolate and Development Center health foods. Using our Dispersion Technology of Refractory (DTR) margarine to provide delicious and healthy ingredients. Drawing on our store of know-how in ingredient development in Japan, the Asia R&D Center in Singapore pursues the development of food ingredients to manufacturing method, we developed a flavor-enhancing Asia R&D Center meet the wants and needs of markets in Asia. FUJISUNNY PLAZAs Conduct joint trial manufacturing and joint development at eight locations worldwide, including Tokyo, to serve as venues for co-creation with our customers. 26 FUJI OIL GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 27 Creation of Foods Safety, Security and Quality of Foods Soy Renaissance* Basic Concept The Fuji Oil Group works to create products that customers and consumers can use with peace of mind, based on the four Due to the rising global population, a shortage of animal protein sources is expected within decades. The Fuji provisions of its Basic Policy of Quality: (1) We work in full compliance with laws & regulations and the spirit thereof, and strive to Oil Group considers soybeans to be a major protein source for the health of people and the planet, and has enhance product safety and reliability; (2) We develop creative products, and propose them to customers in a timely manner; been pursuing their potential for 60 years. As part of the medium-to-long-term strategy, our group also (3) We strive to enhance customer satisfaction; and (4) We communicate precisely and cordially, and strive to solve problems. advocates a Soy Renaissance to take a fresh look at the intrinsic value of soybeans and offer it to society. lactobacillus we developed jointly with a European Quality Management System and Intra-Group Cooperation Soymilk cream and low-fat soymilk products lactobacillus manufacturer to low-fat soymilk made with Using the Ultra Soy Separation (USS) manufacturing the USS manufacturing method resulted in a robust, rich Quality management system Employee education method, the world’s first soybean separation and flavor. In addition to cream cheese-type “Mame-mage,” fractionation technology, we succeeded in separating in FY 2016 we launched mascarpone cheese-type We have applied the Fuji Oil Group Basic Policy of Safety, The Fuji Oil Group provides education to employees to raise soybeans into soymilk cream and low-fat soymilk in a “Mame-mage mou” and semi-hard-type “Mame-mage Quality and Environment to our business activities by using it as their awareness of quality. Fuji Oil Co., Ltd. supports activities at manner similar to the separation method for raw milk. Block.” “Mame-mage mou” is used for soy tiramisu the basis for formulating the Quality Policy within the scope of each plant conducted in accordance with action guidelines and Soymilk cream has a full-bodied richness similar to fresh desserts. “Mame-mage Block” has been covered on ISO 9001 and the Quality Guidelines, which should be followed holds lectures on hygiene and other matters. A total of 120 cream that is ideal for prepared and processed products, television, and has gained a solid reputation at in implementing the Quality Policy. In addition, we have people attended these lectures in FY 2016. In addition, every and is characterized by a refreshing aftertaste. Because it restaurants and other customers as a breakthrough new established the Fuji Oil Group Production Management November we participate in Quality Month, which is organized brings out the flavor of other ingredients and soup stock, ingredient that can be cut and shredded. Regulations and based on these regulations we have begun by the Quality Month Committee. During Quality Month, based it is suitable for use in Japanese cuisine. Low-fat soymilk monitoring the management status of each group company on a defined theme we conduct various activities to raise contains many free amino acids that are components of (safety, quality and environmental audits). We also assemble the awareness of quality among our employees. Nutrition education project persons in charge from each group company to hold a Meeting We also provide overseas group companies with ongoing umami, and we offer a lineup with a wide range of of Safety, Quality & Environment in each region to share technical guidance on newly introduced analytical equipment to Since FY 2014, the Fuji Oil Group has been conducting a derivative products that initiatives. improve the overall quality management level of our group. We nutrition education project in cooperation with the NPO include whipping cream and will continue to promote technological exchange among group After School, to convey the importance of food and the dressings. With these Visit our website for information on safety, quality and environmental companies to spread Japan’s analytical techniques overseas, in power of soybeans to children, who will lead the next WEB products, we are expanding audits and the Meeting of Safety, Quality & Environment. order to provide safer and more reliable products to customers generation. In FY 2016, we provided a total of 22 classes the potential of soybeans as http://www.fujioilholdings.com/en/approach/environment.html around the world. to teach 655 elementary school students about the a food ingredient. Tiratisu (a tofu-based dessert similar power of soybeans to improve people’s health and save to tiramisu that uses a cheese-like the world from food resource shortages, with two types Acquisition of International Quality Management Certifications soymilk ingredient) of programs: soybean snacks (soymilk pudding) and a soybean workshop. The Fuji Oil Group has been actively promoting the acquisition since FY 2012 we have checked the quality inspections of each of international quality management certifications to meet our group company – both in and outside Japan – to confirm the Soy meat (textured soy protein) customers’ demands. In recent years there has been a growing degree to which they meet the Global Food Safety Initiative The Fuji Foundation for Protein Research awareness of the need for prevention of foreign matter (GFSI)* recognized standards. “Soy meat” is a product made by applying heat and contamination. Accordingly, to improve our food safety level, pressure to induce the creation of fiber in defatted In 1979, we inaugurated the Research Committee of Soy soybeans, with a texture similar to meat. By leveraging Protein Nutrition to support the promotion of academic Acquisition status of major quality management certifications our proprietary technologies, we can produce soy meat studies on soybean protein. Based on its activities over 18 Major certifications Progress made during FY 2016 Acquisition status as of the end of FY 2016 with textures like those of chicken or beef to suit the years, we established the Fuji Foundation for Protein application. Applications, which have mainly been for Research, operating under the jurisdiction of the former Outside Japan: 15 group companies HACCP or • Protein Foods Tsukuba Plant of Fuji Oil Co., Ltd. newly obtained ISO 22000 certification. In Japan: 3 plants of Fuji Oil Co., Ltd. hamburgers and seafood-paste products, are diversifying Ministry of Education, Science and Culture, in 1997. In ISO 22000 • Acquired ‌ GCB Specialty Chocolates Sdn. Bhd. (Malaysia), which has obtained ISO 22000 Omu Milk Products Co., Ltd. and demand is increasing with the positive response to 2012, it transitioned to being a public-interest foundation certification certification, as a subsidiary. (The Ministry of Health, Labour and soy meat’s advanced functional characteristics, including under the jurisdiction of the Cabinet Office, and has been Welfare version) its ability to remain juicy without hardening even when carrying on and expanding operations. Aiming to ISO 9001 • ‌Acquired GCB Specialty Chocolates Sdn. Bhd. (Malaysia), which has obtained ISO 9001 Outside Japan: 12 group companies chilled. We plan to provide soy meat extensively stimulate wider academic research as well as certification certification, as a subsidiary. In Japan: 5 group companies worldwide, including for dietary demographics such as popularization and use of soy protein, the foundation GFSI-recognized • Protein Foods Tsukuba Plant of Fuji Oil Co., Ltd. newly obtained FSSC 22000 certification. vegetarians, as a food ingredient that offers both provides grants for a wide range of public research on Outside Japan: 8 group companies certification • Harald Indústria e Comércio de Alimentos S.A. (Brazil) newly obtained FSSC 22000 certification. In Japan: 3 plants of Fuji Oil Co., Ltd. deliciousness and functionality not available from meat. topics including clinical research, nutrition, metabolism, (FSSC) • Freyabadi (Thailand) Co., Ltd. newly obtained FSSC 22000 certification. food science, breeding and food culture, and announces Cheese-like soymilk ingredients the results in addition to holding public lectures and other * GFSI A  non­profit organization established in 2000. In order to ensure and improve food safety worldwide, GFSI harmonizes international food safety standards by establishing events. The cumulative number of grants has exceeded and publishing a set of criteria and recognizing prominent food safety management system standards around the world that fulfill these criteria. In response to a trend toward vegetarianism and health1,000 over the past 38 years. Soy protein food tasting consciousness, we created soybean ingredients with a meetings held in tandem with lectures for the general Conformity to Religious Dietary Rules: Acquisition of Halal and Kosher Certifications cheese-like flavor (fermented soymilk foods). Adding public have also been well received. The Fuji Oil Group creates value that embraces regional dietary food safety-conscious consumers, as the healthy, reliable and cultures. We promote the acquisition of halal and kosher safe images of halal­and kosher-­certified foods have taken root * Soy Renaissance Expanding the potential of soybeans in a range of dietary contexts by looking at them from all angles to provide delicious soy ingredients certifications that verify the conformity of our use of raw around the world. We will continue our efforts to establish and foods. The name “Renaissance” means going back to the origins of soybeans to create new value from them. materials and production processes to Islamic and Jewish dietary systems that enable us to provide safe, healthy and delicious rules, respectively. These certifications are now supported not food products to people of all cultures and values. only by believers in Islam and Judaism, but also by healthand 28 FUJI OIL GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 29 Sustainable Procurement member of RSPO Japan Day, held in September 2016. At this the aim of improving the productivity and working environment official RSPO event, representatives of Japanese industries held of some smallholders in the supply chain of our group. Basic Concept discussions on social and environmental issues related to palm In November 2016, our employees visited smallholders that To fulfill our responsibilities in supplying products, we believe it is important to procure high-quality and safe raw oil. We announced the issues faced by smallholders (smallhad received our support and confirmed that the support, materials in a stable and sustainable manner. In addition, social issues related to the environment and human rights may scale farmers) and our support activities, widely disseminating including RSPO audits, was of value to them. We will continue arise at production sites for crops such as palm oil and cacao, which are key raw materials for the Fuji Oil Group. We information to our Japanese stakeholders. our support and emphasize on-site dialogue. promote environmentally, socially and economically sustainable procurement as we continue to develop sustainably together with society. * RSPO RSPO stands for Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil. RSPO is a non-profit organization that brings together palm oil producers, processors and traders, consumer goods manufacturers, retailers, banks and investors, and environmental, Palm Oil social and developmental non-governmental organizations (NGOs) to develop and implement a global standard for sustainable palm oil. Our stance: Changes in production volume of major oils With smallholders supported by our group A community bulletin board at a supported The Responsible Palm Oil Sourcing Policy (Million t) and the supervisor from Wild Asia plantation shares information on support 70 Measures to improve traceability* plans and their progress, and on RSPO. Palm oil and the Fuji Oil Group 60 In implementing our Responsible Palm Oil Sourcing Policy, we 50 VOICE Palm oil is oil extracted from the fruit of the oil palm, which consider it important to improve the traceability of palm oil 40 grows in tropical regions such as Southeast Asia. Palm oil is purchased and used by the Fuji Oil Group, and to ensure that Comments from smallholders supported by easier to process and cheaper than other vegetable oils. For 30 our suppliers understand the Sourcing Policy. In July 2016, our our group this reason, palm oil is used in a wide range of applications 20 group became a member of Tropical Forest Trust (TFT), a from foods to chemical products. Palm oil has the largest 10 non-profit organization that provides support in the field of “Since joining WAGS, there have been many benefits. production volume among oil materials in the world. However, 0 19 19 97 98 raw material sustainability. We are working with TFT and our I have reduced my use of pesticides and fertilizers. I have as the scale of the market continues to expand, there are suppliers to improve traceability and the supply chain, with an had a small increase in profits.” 20 20 20 20 20 20 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 20 20 06 19 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 concerns about environmental problems caused by plantation Palm oil Soybean oil Rapeseed oil Sunflower oil initial target of achieving full traceability from plantation to  Azmey bin Sakong, farm owner development and human rights issues such as child labor and Source: OIL WORLD palm oil mill by 2020. forced labor in areas where palm oil plantations are located. Palm oil is a key raw material for the Fuji Oil Group, which Responsible Palm Oil Sourcing Policy Activities to improve the supply chain VOICE has historically pioneered a new food culture by pursuing palm oil’s potential. We consider aiming for sustainable procurement In March 2016, we formulated and announced our In October 2016, we started supply chain improvement Comment from Wild Asia of palm oil to be our responsibility to society. Responsible Palm Oil Sourcing Policy as the stance for the activities at group company Palmaju Edible Oil Sdn. Bhd. entire Group. In this policy, we commit ourselves to procuring (Malaysia). First, we shared our Sourcing Policy with the Aiming for strong bonds through direct support palm oil produced in a responsible manner from suppliers who company’s suppliers (oil mills). Next, together with one of the for smallholders The palm oil supply chain and the position respect people and the global environment. We strive to suppliers, we conducted on-site inspections of the dealers and It is exciting that Fuji Oil Group has been a supporter of of the Fuji Oil Group conduct procurement in line with this policy, in cooperation plantations related to its oil mill to assess their compliance this project. Wild Asia has been wanting to create Smallholders (small-scale farmers) with our stakeholders. We will continue to promote with the Sourcing Policy. We will provide feedback on the meaningful relationships between smallholders and the responsible palm oil procurement to ensure that palm oil is assessment results to the relevant supplier to improve or users of palm oil, and we see this as a very important step. accepted around the world as a sustainable raw material. correct issues. We will also share the results with suppliers Furthermore, this partnership, which links many outside the scope of the assessment, using case studies to important partners together in the palm oil supply chain, Palm oil plantation Primary refinement Oil mill WEB Visit our website for information on the Responsible Palm Oil enable improvements and corrections to their operations. provides a direct and more targeted approach to support Sourcing Policy. http://www.fujioilholdings.com/en/news/pdf/160310.pdf smallholders in palm oil regions. This support has enabled * Traceability us to provide better education on good farming practices, Shipping (by sea and land) The act of and framework for making apparent (i.e. traceable) the production helped create stronger market links and built a better Membership in RSPO and use of certified oil history and distribution routes of food products to ensure their safety. relationship between the producers and their buyers. Oil processing This we feel embodies the spirit of the United Nations and refinement Final product Distribution Since 2004, Fuji Oil Group has been a Sustainable Development Goal “Partnerships for the Goals.” member of RSPO* and has used RSPOActivities to support smallholders  Dr. Reza Azmi certified oil.  Executive Director and Founder, Wild Asia Demand for RSPO-certified oil is in Borneo, Malaysia increasing, mainly in Europe and the Inefficient palm plantation operation by some smallholders has United States. In 2016, the sales volume been identified as one of the factors causing environmental WEB Visit our website for information on sustainable procurement of cacao, soybeans, shea nuts and other raw materials. of our group’s products that use RSPOand human rights problems. To help these farmers gain http://www.fujioilholdings.com/en/approach/sustainable.html certified oil increased to approximately expertise in environmentally, socially and economically 110,000 tons. To promote the use of RSPO-certified oil, we are sustainable plantation management, in January 2016 the Fuji proactively implementing various measures including the Oil Group participated in the smallholders support project installation of additional tanks in Europe and supply chain called the Wild Asia Group Scheme (WAGS), which has been improvements at group companies. implemented by Wild Asia (an NGO) and our supplier. This We also participated as a sponsor and executive committee project has provided educational support for four years with 30 FUJI OIL GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 31 Environment Greenhouse gas emissions by scope Annual wastewater and wastewater per unit of production Basic Concept (t-CO2) (1,000 m3) (m3/t) Giving utmost consideration to the global environment not only leads to reduced costs and the creation of economic value, but is 600,000 5,000 5.000 4.254 4.048 also the very essence of our social responsibility to help resolve environmental issues. The Fuji Oil Group has established and carries 500,000 3.725 3.595 156,706 4,000 3.540 4.000 out four items as its Basic Policy of Environmental Integrity: (1) We strive to continuously improve our environmental protection 162,014 400,000 198,365 209,311 221,349 activities; (2) We work in full compliance with the environmental laws & regulations and spirit thereof; (3) We endeavor to 3,000 1,690 1,746 1,446 3.000 300,000 1,395 1,361 develop environmentally-friendly products and technologies; and (4) We make efforts to well communicate with society. 2,000 1.41 2.000 200,000 372,840 1.36 1.15 1.17 362,014 315,828 1.07 301,874 289,602 1,000 1.000 100,000 2,140 2,058 2,073 2,069 Environmental Vision 2020 1,993 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) In FY 2010, the Fuji Oil Group set forth Fuji Group . In July 2016, Shandong Longteng Fuji Foodstuffs (China) ■ Scope 1: Direct emission of greenhouse gases by the business itself Group companies in Japan ■ Wastewater (left scale) ● Wastewater per unit of production (right scale) Environmental Vision 2020, which includes targets for reducing stopped using its coal boiler and started purchasing steam ■ Scope 2: Indirect emissions from use of electricity, heat and steam supplied by Group companies outside Japan ■ Wastewater (left scale) ● Wastewater per unit of production (right scale) CO2 emissions and the amounts of water usage and discharge from outside the company. As a result, coal consumption at other companies by 20% from base year levels by the year 2020. All group the company is now zero. companies in and outside Japan are promoting environmental . The plant at 3F Fuji Foods (India), which began operation in Energy-saving efforts Waste reduction activities to achieve these targets. In FY 2016, group July 2015, is working to reduce companies in Japan reduced CO2 emissions by 8.2%, the CO2 emissions by introducing The Fuji Oil Group is working to conserve energy and reduce In FY 2016, the amount of waste discharged by group amount of water usage by 16.4% and the amount of water two woody biomass2 boilers. CO2 emissions through the design and development of companies in Japan was 19,850 tons, an increase of 7.6% from discharge by 16.3% from the base year. We will continue Ongoing efforts to reduce CO2 production facilities. Specifically, we are implementing measures the previous fiscal year. The main factor was an increase in efforts to promote day-to-day energy-saving activities, and emissions include fuel conversion to reduce our energy load such as introducing energy-efficient production volume. The recycling rate remained at a high level reduce the amounts of water usage and discharge. and introduction of equipment, expanding heat recovery facilities using pinch of 99.94%. At group companies outside Japan, the amount of Outside Japan, 16 group companies are included in the cogeneration3 equipment at technology, introducing solar power generation equipment and waste discharged increased 42.0% from the previous fiscal year. calculation, and CO2 emissions in FY 2016 were 99.6% of the group companies. Two woody biomass boilers at 3F Fuji switching from mercury lamps to LED lighting. This was due to waste discharged at three companies newly Foods (India) previous fiscal year. Moreover, emissions decreased by 29.7% We also strive for further improvements and energy added to the scope of calculations. from the base year, significantly surpassing the set target. conservation activities, raising environmental awareness among 2. Woody biomass A renewable resource derived from lumber 3. Cogeneration G  enerating multiple forms of energy, such as heat and all employees by conducting cross-departmental rollouts of Total waste discharged and recycling rate Fuji Group Environmental Vision 2020 electricity, from a single energy source energy conservation case studies at all production bases and (Group companies in Japan) In Japan educational activities. Global warming prevention: 20% reduction in CO2 emissions by 2020 (t) 99.91 99.94 99.82 99.97 99.94 (%) 25,000 100 (compared to base year*) Total energy consumption (crude oil equivalent) and Conservation of water 20% reduction in the amount of water usage/ energy consumption per unit of production Reduction of wastewater 20,000 18,543 18,456 18,439 19,850 95 resources: discharge by 2020 (compared to base year*) 17,372 (kl) (kl/t) 300,000 0.300 Fuji Oil Group companies operating in areas at high risk of Recycling of resources: Recycling rate of at least 99.8% by 2020 15,000 90 water shortage are taking measures to address this problem. Active earth greenery and biodiversity conservation activities 250,000 138,572 140,344 136,312 136,189 0.250 136,851 The area where Fuji Oil Europe (Belgium) operates is faced with 10,000 85 * Base year: Mean value of the period 2003­2005 (Tokyo Cap-and-Trade Program) 0.180 200,000 0.175 0.200 the problem of declining levels of ground water, which is the 0.159 0.153 0.149 5,000 80 Outside Japan 150,000 0.150 source of tap water in the area. In FY 2015, the company Global warming 20% reduction in CO2 emissions by 2020 commenced operation of a water treatment facility for 0 0 100,000 0.100 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) prevention: (compared to base year of 2006) 0.111 0.113 0.113 0.111 0.106 converting canal water to industrial and drinking water in 50,000 90,638 88,138 84,975 87,045 86,908 0.050 cooperation with neighboring companies and water companies. ■ Total waste discharged (left scale) ● Recycling rate (right scale) 0 0 Since then, the company has used treated canal water for Efforts to reduce CO2 emissions 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) production activities and tap water, accounting for almost Total waste discharged and the amount of waste discharge Group companies in Japan ■ Consumption (left scale) ● Consumption per unit of production (right scale) In FY 2016, CO2 emissions at group companies in Japan were 100% of total water use at the company. Fuji Oil Europe plans per unit of production Group companies outside Japan ■ Consumption (left scale) ● Consumption per unit of production (right scale) 169,952 t-CO2, up 0.77% from the previous fiscal year. Due to to improve the function of the water treatment facility in order (Group companies outside Japan) a 2.8% increase in the production volume and the effects of to produce industrial water for use in wider applications. (t) (kg/t) energy-saving activities, CO2 emissions per unit of production1 Total energy consumption (CO2 emissions equivalent) and 100,000 100.0 decreased by 2.02%. Since CO2 emissions per unit of Annual water usage and water usage per unit of production 83,103 80,558 energy consumption per unit of production production are largely affected by fluctuations in the 80,000 80.0 (t-CO2) (t-CO2/t) (1,000 m ) 3 (m /t) 3 production volume, we are raising employees’ energy-saving 600,000 0.600 7,500 7.50 352,037 354,126 350,739 342,531 341,000 60,000 66.7 60.0 and environmental awareness, and conducting activities that 3,234 3,064 65.1 500,000 0.500 6,000 2,922 2,782 2,495 6.00 lead to improved productivity. 40,000 26,201 40.0 400,000 0.353 0.337 0.400 5.95 5.69 21,614 As for group companies outside Japan, we were able to 0.306 0.297 0.291 4,500 5.16 5.16 4.50 15,225 4.90 20,000 20.0 reduce CO2 emissions by implementing the following measures. 300,000 0.300 2.59 21.7 2.48 2.42 2.26 12.4 17.0 . In March 2015, Woodlands Sunny Foods (Singapore) converted 0.282 0.286 0.290 0.278 3,000 1.93 3.00 0 0 200,000 0.264 0.200 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) its boilers from diesel to gas, and reduced CO2 emissions by an 1,500 2,997 1.50 100,000 177,508 169,902 163,454 168,654 169,952 0.100 2,870 2,759 2,845 2,859 ■ Total waste discharged (left scale) ● Waste discharged per unit of production (right scale) absolute amount of approximately 16% (384 t-CO2/year). 0 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 1. Unit of production A  mount of production factors such as raw materials, power Group companies in Japan ■ Consumption (left scale) ● Consumption per unit of production (right scale) Group companies in Japan ■ Water usage (left scale) ● Water usage per unit of production (right scale) and labor required to produce a fixed amount of product Group companies outside Japan ■ Consumption (left scale) ● Consumption per unit of production (right scale) Group companies outside Japan ■ Water usage (left scale) ● Water usage per unit of production (right scale) Note: Based on a review of data for one site, FY 2012–FY 2015 figures for group companies in Japan have been changed. 32 FUJI OIL GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 33 Hitozukuri (Fostering People) Risk Management Basic Concept Basic Concept The Fuji Oil Group has established its Human Resources Policy based on the idea that a company and its employees The Fuji Oil Group considers risk management to be indispensable for business continuity, conforming to laws and support each other’s growth. In line with this policy, we strive to create a workplace that allows highly motivated responding to demands from society, including its shareholders and investors. By promoting risk management, we aim to employees to play an active role in the Fuji Oil Group’s global operations and display their abilities to the fullest. become a highly reliable enterprise that earns the trust of society. This will lead to improvement in the quality of our products and services and the growth of our company. Our aim is to remain a corporate group that is trusted by society. Positioning of risk management in the Fuji Oil Group Diversity Become a highly to stay up to date with social changes, and the sensibilities of reliable enterprise Building a foundation for diversity through women are indispensable for that purpose. We are focusing the Global Human Resources Meeting on supporting the active participation of our female Building a global network of human resource functions is key employees so they can fully demonstrate their abilities. Support the achievement of business plans and targets to reinforcing the foundation of global management and As of April 2017, the ratio of women in managerial promoting diversity. In 2016, we held our first Global Human positions in Fuji Oil Co., Ltd. is 5.3%, and we are striving to Risk Management in a Broad Sense Resources Meeting, the objectives of which included the provide and cultivate opportunities with a target of over 20% sharing and discussion of our approach to personnel strategy by FY 2020. Furthermore, Hiroshi Shimizu, President and CEO as led by the holding company and local personnel issues, in of Fuji Oil Holdings, endorsed the “Declaration on Action by a Risk Management Crisis Management addition to the understanding and penetration of the Fuji Oil Group of Male Leaders Who Will Create a Identify possible risks and take preventive Minimize losses from a sudden and major incident Group Management Philosophy. As a result, participants were Society in Which Women Shine” (logo measures, thereby improving corporate value (emergency) and ensure business continuity able to build networks and deepen their understanding of shown to right). We will accelerate our overall group strategy. These networks and the understanding activities to encourage active roles for gained are being put to use in planning and executing human women in the workplace. resource development measures at each company. The Fuji Oil Group’s Risk Management System WEB Visit our website for information on the promotion of non-regular employees to regular employees, support for the active participation Our group has been working to establish a global risk (conduct checks) → Act (take action for improvement toward Support for the active participation of women of older workers, strategic employment of foreign nationals, support for the active participation of people with disabilities, and reform of management system appropriate for the holding company the next fiscal year). We are promoting risk management To continue to contribute to society through business activities ways of working. structure to which we shifted in October 2015. through close collaboration among the holding company, as a food manufacturer, it is important for the Fuji Oil Group http://www.fujioilholdings.com/en/approach/human.html Specifically, we have defined the respective roles of the regional headquarters/regional representative and each group holding company, regional headquarters/regional company. representative and each group company, and established a In the event of an emergency, an Emergency Headquarters TOPIC Risk Management Committee at each company. Each Risk will be established within the Risk Management Committee, Management Committee plays a leading role in implementing which promotes risk management activities in ordinary times, Career development support for young female employees the PDCA cycle: Plan (identify all possible risks and select so that the entire Group can respond to an emergency quickly Fuji Oil Co., Ltd. considers career development at an early stage to be crucial for women in major risks) → Do (implement countermeasures) → Check and appropriately. planning out their careers. Therefore, we hold seminars for female employees in their twenties, during their second through seventh years with the company, to think about career development. The Fuji Oil Group’s risk management PDCA cycle for risk management Twenty-one women attended the seminar in FY 2016, which featured as the speaker Noriko Each group company Taji, outside director of Fuji Oil Holdings and university professor who lectures on careers. In Fuji Oil Holdings addition to highlighting important points for career development and case studies from outside Career development seminar Plan Do our group, she also introduced role models from inside our group. Risk management for the entire Group Visualize risks Respond to risks Regional headquarters/ Regional representative Risk Management Committee Each division Cultivating the Next Generation of Human Resources Risk management for their respective regions Each group company Act Check Leadership development training Training global human resources Make improvements (Develop a plan for Conduct self-checks To strengthen the pool of assistant managers and future managers, To cultivate global human resources who can perform Risk management for their the next fiscal year) Fuji Oil Co., Ltd. established leadership development training in consistently, whether in Japan or overseas, Fuji Oil Co., Ltd. respective businesses Each division Risk Management Committee FY 2016, and 67 people took the course in its first year. Through has been conducting global human resource training as a new this training, attendees came to recognize the approaches a leader initiative since FY 2016. Over a period of about six months, Each group company leads the execution of risk management should take and to objectively understand their own current the program provides training in areas including language situation and issues. Supervisors are closely involved, giving postskills (English), global communication, MBA knowledge and training feedback interviews, creating on-the-job training plans leadership skills, and conducts presentations for executives. Risk management and conducting other measures, which leads to steady growth. In Twelve people attended training in FY 2016. Two assumed Prevent the occurrence of risks related to corporate management and minimize losses and impact when risks occur, to achieve the business plans and targets. addition, the detailed understanding of the potential of our human overseas posts in FY 2017, and they are demonstrating their resources that we gain will be useful in future talent management, skills and abilities locally. Linkage with career path training will such as for dispatching the right person to the right job and lead to cultivation of global executives. long-term career development. 34 FUJI OIL GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 35 Company Profile (As of March 31, 2017) Third-Party Opinion Company name Share information FUJI OIL HOLDINGS INC. Total shares authorized 357,324,000 Number of shares outstanding 87,569,383 Headquarters Number of shareholders 17,755 Daibiru Honkan Building, 3-6-32, Nakanoshima, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-0005, Japan (Registered location of headquarters: 1 Sumiyoshi-cho, Izumisano-shi, Osaka) Over the past few years, the adoption of international and Human Rights adopted by the United Nations Human frameworks and domestic policies to promote sustainable Rights Council in 2011. Human rights due diligence is a Established corporate management, the acceleration of investment linked process of going through the PDCA cycle of (1) October 9, 1950 Major Shareholders (Top 10) taking into account environment, social and governance identifying, analyzing and assessing negative impacts on (ESG) criteria, and other trends have occurred at a human rights, (2) taking corrective actions as appropriate, Number of Ratio of Capitalization Shareholder name shares held shareholding dizzying rate. Despite concerns about growing (3) conducting ongoing follow-ups and evaluations, and (in thousands) (%) ¥13,208 million unilateralism, exemplified by the United States’ (4) sharing information, all based on a corporate human Itochu Food Investment, Llc 21,949 25.54 withdrawal from the Paris Agreement, the general view rights policy. Fuji Oil has already conducted the human Representative Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust account) 4,555 5.30 remains that the disclosure of non-financial information rights impact assessment of step (1), inviting external President and CEO Hiroshi Shimizu The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust account) 4,530 5.27 and sustainable management will continue to increase in experts as well as the related internal departments, and will disclose information on the results on a continuing National Mutual Insurance Federation of Agricultural importance. 2,639 3.07 Number of employees (consolidated) Cooperatives In autumn 2015, Fuji Oil shifted to a holding company basis. I believe this open process will serve as a model for Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation 1,875 2.18 structure, and has been working to expand global other companies. The Government of Japan has 5,056 (As of March 31, 2017 for domestic group companies) The Norinchukin Bank 1,825 2.12 management in tandem with the enhancement of announced that it will formulate a national action plan for implementing the Guiding Principles on Business and (As of December 31, 2016 for overseas group companies) Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 9) 1,756 2.04 sustainability management. In 2017, the Group formulated a new Mid-Term Management Plan for the Human Rights, and I expect Fuji Oil’s efforts to offer Japan Trustee Service Bank, Ltd. 1,739 2.02 Subsidiaries and affiliates (Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Retirement benefits account) period to 2020 in order to realize “How we want to be in substantial pointers in drawing up the plan. Nippon Life Insurance Company 1,600 1.86 2030.” The Group’s transition from its former productThe third point is the announcement of the Fuji Oil 27 consolidated subsidiaries out to a solution-oriented model overlaps with the shift Group Health Management Declaration. I think this Fuji Oil Partner Shareholding Association 1,419 1.65 3 non-consolidated subsidiaries or affiliates accounted for from an “inside-out” to an “outside-in” approach to the announcement is of great significance because it asserts by the equity method The capital investment ratio is calculated excluding the treasury shares (1,610,000 shares). Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set forth by the both internally and externally that the Group can only United Nations for 2030. realize its Vision to contribute to society by creating the In his message, President and CEO Hiroshi Shimizu future of delicious and healthy foods if each and every states that the key to creating the culture of change employee of the Fuji Oil Group is healthy. essential for achieving sustainable growth is “CSR and In closing, I would like to briefly mention measures for Major Group Companies (As of July 1, 2017) ■ Oils and fats ■ Confectionery and bakery ingredients ■ Soy protein diversity.” As with making “Work for people” one of the sustainable palm oil. Fuji Oil prepared its Responsible values in the Fuji Oil Group Management Philosophy, the Palm Oil Sourcing Policy in March 2016 and is at the Japan Asia Group communicates a strong commitment to ensuring stage of implementing measures in cooperation with an respect for human rights both inside and outside the environmental NGO to achieve 100% traceability to the Fuji Oil Holdings Inc. Management Of Group Strategy And Business Operation Singapore Fuji Oil Asia Pte. Ltd. Regional Headquarters/Development/Marketing ■■■ Group, and I rate the concrete measures that the Group oil mill by 2020. Concerns about palm oil, which has Fuji Oil Co., Ltd. Regional Headquarters/Development/Production/Marketing ■■■ Fuji Oil (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Production ■ is taking very highly. Ensuring human rights for all and been called an “invisible oil,” are growing in Japan, Toraku Foods Co., Ltd. Development/Production/Marketing ■■ Woodlands Sunny Foods Pte. Ltd. Production ■ gender equality are core issues that are intertwined with including among institutional investors. I would like Fuji Fuji Fresh Foods Co., Ltd. Development/Production/Marketing ■ Malaysia Palmaju Edible Oil Sdn. Bhd. Production ■ achieving the SDGs. Oil, as a company that is earnestly working for Fuji Sunny Foods Co., Ltd. Marketing ■■■ GCB Specialty Chocolates Sdn. Bhd. Development/Production/Marketing ■ For my third-party evaluation, I would like to mention sustainable palm oil, to be a driving force for other Omu Milk Products Co., Ltd. Development/Production/Marketing ■ Thailand Fuji Oil (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Development/Production/Marketing ■■ the following three specific points related to initiatives for companies and to focus on efforts such as spurring Hannan Tank Terminal Co., Ltd. Storage And Delivery ■ Freyabadi (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Production/Marketing ■ human rights. First is the establishment of the Fuji Oil society’s interest and influencing consumers. Chiba Vegoil Tank Terminal Co., Ltd. Storage And Delivery ■ Philippines Fuji Oil Philippines, Inc. Marketing ■■ Group Human Rights Policy and its announcement in April 2017. I would like to commend the Group for Daizu The Origin Co., Ltd. Development/Production/Marketing ■ Indonesia Pt. Freyabadi Indotama Development/Production/Marketing ■ declaring its intention to fulfill its responsibility to respect Pt. Musim Mas-Fuji Production/Marketing ■■ human rights based on this policy, which further China India 3F Fuji Foods Private Limited Development/Production/Marketing ■ advances its efforts to date. In particular, the policy Fuji Oil (China) Investment Co., Ltd. Regional Headquarters emphasizes respect for the human rights of people Europe (& Africa) potentially affected by the Group’s business activities, and Fuji Oil (Zhang Jia Gang) Co., Ltd. Development/Production/Marketing ■■ makes it clear that the scope of “people” in the Fuji Oil Jilin Fuji Protein Co., Ltd. Production ■ Belgium Fuji Oil Europe Regional Representative/Development/Production/Marketing ■■ Group’s value of “Work for people” does not stop at Fuji Oil (Beijing) Technology Trading Co., Ltd. Marketing ■ Ghana International Oils & Fats Ltd. Production ■ employees and immediate business partners, but reaches Shandong Longteng Fuji Foodstuffs Co., Ltd. Development/Production/Marketing ■ out to include a wide range of humanity. Tianjin Fuji Protein Co., Ltd. Production ■ Americas Second, I would also like to applaud the Group for Kaori Kuroda Shanghai Xuyang Food Co., Ltd. Production/Marketing ■ conducting human rights due diligence under its Human U.S.A. Fuji Specialties, Inc. Regional Headquarters Executive Director, CSO Network Japan Rights Policy, based on the Guiding Principles on Business Area of expertise: Participation in and development of communities Fuji Vegetable Oil, Inc. Production/Marketing ■ Brazil Harald Indústria e Comércio de Alimentos S.A. Development/Production/Marketing ■■ 36 FUJI OIL GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 37 Contact information CSR and Risk Management Group Fuji Oil Holdings Inc. Daibiru Honkan Building, 3-6-32 Nakanoshima, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-0005 Phone: +81-6-6459-0729 FAX: +81-6-6459-0711 http://www.fujioilholdings.com/en/contact.html
