Sustainability report for 2016 Table of contents Foreword 4 About this report Statement from the Chairman of the Executive Board 1. Corporate profile 7 110-year Our history Our product and service portfolio family tradition International at 46 Our business model Our corporate policy Our corporate objectives and strategy Reporting method locations 2. Sustainability management 23 Sustainability progress Compliance Our Code of Conduct Integrated management system Stakeholder relations 3. Economic responsibility 33 Economic performance More than 740 6 business divisions 4. Environmental responsibility  39 Energy consumption Greenhouse gas emissions employees Environmental indicators for the Biesterfeld Group 2014–2016 5. Social responsibility  47 Our employees Our social contributions Training and further development Social commitment Personnel indicators 2016 6. Our future perspective 55 Over 50 renowned Our strategy for the future partnerships GRI content index 58 Publication details  64 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 3 Foreword Dear readers, I am pleased to present our third annual Sustainability Report for the Biesterfeld Group. resources. Sustainability is not adapt our processes to evolving just a means to an end for us; it conditions. In doing so, we alis at the very heart of our identiways aim to ensure that our ty. As a family-owned business, business success goes hand in it is important to us for our ecohand with sustainable operanomic success to be in harmony tions. with environmental and social issues. I am proud of our employees, who embody our core values ​and As a distributor of chemicals and our corporate culture in their About this report plastics, we see it as our duty to daily interactions with our cusestablish a functioning and comtomers and suppliers. In the fuprehensive sustainability manture, we strive, and will continue, With our Sustainability Report, which relates to our 2016 business year, we inform our stakeholders and agement system. Since trading to maintain and expand our high the interested public about how we handle sustainability in respect of economic, environmental and soand distributing highly sensitive priority of being a family busicial issues. The report applies to the entire Biesterfeld Group. Due to their extensive processing requireproducts requires secure and ness that is proactive about susments, however, the surveys can only be gradually extended to all locations. trustworthy handling of resourctainability. The past year represented a very es, we impose consistent speciIn this year’s report, we were also able to survey and evaluate Russia, Brazil and one of four locations in special year for our group of fications and standards across I hope you enjoy reading our Poland, in addition to our locations in Germany, Italy and Great Britain. companies. Because in 2016, the the Group. third Sustainability Report. Biesterfeld Group celebrated its The highlights of this year’s report and our financial year 2016 are the carbon neutrality of our business 110th anniversary and we can After implementing numerous travel (p. 24), the expansion of the Biesterfeld Group through the founding of our new company, certainly take pride in looking measures in the past few years Biesterfeld Performance Rubber GmbH and the acquisition of the Hamburg based company Schütz & back on our corporate success as part of our Group-wide susCo. (GmbH & Co. KG), which was achieved in line with the Group’s quality and sustainability standards and our long-standing tradition. tainability management, we can Thomas Arnold (p. 36) as well as the refurbishment of the post room at the Biesterfeld headquarters in Hamburg (p. 24). detail further progress in this reAs a family-owned business, it port. In addition to the gradual Biesterfeld has published a Sustainability Report annually since 2014, in accordance with the standards has always been of the utmost roll-out of our sustainability of the G4 Global Reporting Initiative and also incorporating the principles of the United Nations Global importance for us not only to celstandards to our foreign locaCompact into the report. This ensures that data and analyses can be compared like for like and informaebrate entrepreneurial success, tions, starting this year we have tion can be disseminated transparently. We use the emission factors from the GEMIS database (Global but to base our actions on social, been promoting a certified cliEmission Model for Integrated Systems), which was prepared by the German Environment Agency societal and corporate cultural mate protection project to offset (UBA) in cooperation with the Öko-Institut (Institute for Applied Ecology). You can read more about this values. Here, trustworthiness, our business-related travel activion page 18. competence and responsibility ties. In addition, we are continutowards others are no less iming our efforts to further profesFor better readability, where the masculine form is used, this should be taken as including the feminine portant than the considerate sionalise our sustainability form and not as gender-specific. and sustainable use of management and to continually G4-28, G4-29, G4-30 G4-1, G4-3 PAGE 4 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 5 1. Corporate profile Progressive with a strong tradition PAGE 6 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 7 From Hamburg into the world Our history 1976 Founding of the subsidiaries Biesterfeld do Brasil Ltda. in Brazil and Biesterfeld U.S., Inc. in the USA Biesterfeld is distinguished by 110 years of performance 1981 Core areas of the new company Wilhelm E. H. Biesterfeld Group: chemical plants, import, export, packaging, salt, agrochemicals and international freight forwarding and experience. 1980s Expansion into Asia with subsidiaries in China, Hong Kong and Indonesia Initially specialising in the salt trade, Biesterfeld today thrives in the distribution of plastics, rubber, speciality chemical products and international trade in the sectors of industrial and agricultural chemi1988 Founding of Biesterfeld Plastic GmbH as well as new subsidiaries in France, Italy, Poland and cals, pharmaceutical raw materials and salts, with four operating business divisions and 46 subsidiaries. Spain We also offer extensive service features and consulting services. Our own IT service provider as well as comprehensive quality and safety management systems complete the activities of our Company group. 1994 Joint venture Biesterfeld Scheibler Linssen GmbH & Co. KG with headquarters in Hamburg All individual companies of the Biesterfeld Group have a specialised profile of expertise, which ensures 1998 Founding of Biesterfeld Spezialchemie GmbH that our customers are looked after by experts. As a family business, we attach particular importance to ensuring that our companies are in close contact with each other and provide mutual benefit. Together 2000 Founding of BIT-SERV GmbH, Biesterfeld International and Interowa GmbH & Co. KG we seek sustainable growth for the entire Biesterfeld Group. 2004  ransformation of parent company Wilhelm E. H. Biesterfeld GmbH & Co. KG into Biesterfeld AG T 1906  ilhelm Ernst-Hinrich Biesterfeld moves into a small office in Hamburg and starts his salt W 2005 Full takeover of Biesterfeld Siemsglüss International GmbH trading business 2006 The name changes from Siemsglüss International GmbH to Biesterfeld International GmbH, 1918 Flourishing trade in rock salt from northern Germany for the domestic and Scandinavian market Founding of Biesterfeld Petroplas Ltd joint venture 1930s Development of the three pillars of the company: trading in salt, chemicals and fertilisers 2007 Biesterfeld ChemLogS GmbH founded 1945 Takeover of the chemical plant Gunter, Schröder & Co. in Hamburg-Harburg with its own 2008 Acquisition of Milar Sp. z o.o. in Poland warehousing and transshipment facilities 2013 Founding of Biesterfeld Nordic AB, Sweden, From Own subsidiaries in the business divisions of importing/exporting chemicals, salt and Acquisition of Küttner GmbH, Germany 1950 fertilisers as well as chemical plants; Biesterfeld Packaging division founded 2015 Founding of Biesterfeld Simko Distribuição S.A. joint venture, Brazil 1956 Relocation to the centre of Hamburg, Ferdinandstrasse 41, the present headquarters of the company 2016  Founding of Biesterfeld Performance Rubber GmbH, acquisition of Schütz & Co. (GmbH & Co. KG) 1961 First European subsidiary founded in the Netherlands Today International distributor of plastics, rubber, base and special chemical products, with over 40 subsidiaries in more than 120 countries 1964 Company founder Wilhelm Biesterfeld dies at the age of 84 years; steady growth of the business ensured by Walter Biesterfeld, his nephew and adopted son 1970 Following the death of Walter Biesterfeld, his son Dirk J. Biesterfeld inherits the company as a personally liable partner G4-4, G4-8 G4-4, G4-8 PAGE 8 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 9 Specialised in many ways Our customers are involved in numerous industries. These inments of our customers. In doing so, we focus both on their are there to help and advise. All Biesterfeld employees always clude the automotive and food needs and those of our suppligive their best to provide comindustries as well as the medical ers. plete customer satisfaction, and and environmental sectors. Furuse their expertise to support ther information can be found As a distributor, we are in close our suppliers in developing new on our homepage: contact with producers and supproducts, keeping up-to-date www.biesterfeld.com ply our customers all over the with new discoveries and identiworld. Our service is not limited fying new markets. We continuously review and to merely delivering the prodfine-tune our product portfolio ucts. We offer comprehensive and can thus meet the requireservice around our products and Our product and service portfolio With a portfolio of more than 15,000 products and partnerBiesterfeld Plastic Biesterfeld Biesterfeld Biesterfeld Spezialchemie International Performance Rubber ships with numerous well-known suppliers, we serve our customers worldwide. 260 employees 225 employees 110 employees 40 employees Local presence in Local presence in Local presence in Local presence in Europe, North Africa Europe and Latin Europe, Asia, North Europe, North Africa We offer comprehensive solutions tomers. We support our customple in reactive formulations such and Latin America America and South America and Latin America and service features as an interers in the development and imas structural adhesives or building face between producers and cusprovement of products, for examchemical product applications. Industries: Industries: Base chemicals and Rubber processing Automotive, health Personal care, pharmaspecial chemicals, industry, synthetic care, industrial and ceuticals, household industrial chemicals, rubber, carbon blacks Our client industries consumer goods, chemicals & industrial crop protection and and high-quality construction, toys, hygiene, medical fertilisers, salt, compounds, high packaging, household technology, paints & pharmaceutical raw performance polyappliances, electrical printing inks, materials and active mers and additives systems & electronics high-quality intermediingredients, as well ate goods, polyureas additives for thane, polymer fodder and foodstuffs additives, construcAdhesives & Sealants Automotive & Transportation Coatings & Construction Composites & Tooling tion, adhesives, lubricants, composites & tooling materials, foods, electrical goods, electronics and energy Biesterfeld ChemLogS GmbH Service company Electro, Electronic & Energy Food & Feed Household & Consumer Goods Industrial Markets & Synthesis Areas of responsibility: Compliance management, quality management, Responsible Care, REACH, risk management and sustainability standards BIT-SERV GmbH  Full-service IT provider for high-quality, company-wide IT services for Biesterfeld and third parties Areas of focus: SAP ERP applications, Internet / Intranet web developments, in-house CRM developments, system Packaging Personal Care & Cleaning Pharma & Healthcare Plant Protection & Plant Nutrition technology / data centres and e-commerce G4-4, G4-8, G4-12 G4-4, G4-6, G4-8, G4-9, G4-12 PAGE 10 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 11 Always close at hand for our customers and suppliers Biesterfeld locations Countries in which Biesterfeld is represented Biesterfeld AG Biesterfeld Plastic Biesterfeld Spezialchemie Biesterfeld International Biesterfeld Performance Rubber Hamburg (DE) Abingdon (GB) Barcelona (ES) Bangkok (TH) Abingdon (GB) Athens (GR) Bratislava (SK) Beijing (CN) Bangkok (TH) Barcelona (ES) Bucharest (RO) Chongqing (CN) Barcelona (ES) Cologne (DE) Budapest (HU) Guatemala City (GT) Bucharest (RO) Culemborg (NL) Culemborg (NL) Hamburg (DE) Budapest (HU) Florianópolis (BR) Grodzisk Hong Kong (CN) Chrisy (FR) Hamburg (DE) Hamburg (DE) Istanbul (TR) Culemborg (NL) Istanbul (TR) Istanbul (TR) Jakarta (ID) Hamburg (DE) Kiev (UA) Kiev (UA) Mexico (MX) Istanbul (TR) Liestal (CH) Liestal (CH) Miami (US) Kiev (UA) Limhamn (SE) Mazowiecki (PL) Mumbai (IN) Limhamn (SE) Milan (IT) Milan (IT) São Paulo (BR) Milan (IT) Moscow (RU) Moscow (RU) Shanghai (CN) Moscow (RU) Nuremberg (DE) Prague (CZ) Warsaw (PL) Prague (CZ) Oporto (PT) Rueil Malmaison (FR) Römerberg (DE) Römerberg (DE) Vienna (AT) Rueil Malmaison (FR) Rueil Malmaison (FR) Warsaw (PL) Saint Ouen l`Aumone (FR) São Paulo (BR) Zagreb (HR) Sao Paulo (BR) Warsaw (PL) Vienna (AT) Vienna (AT) Warsaw (PL) Zagreb (HR) Biesterfeld locations included in this year’s Sustainability Report G4-6, G4-8, G4-17 G4-6, G4-8, G4-13 PAGE 12 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 13 Success through Anyone who is concerned about community the future must act with sustainability in mind Business model Our corporate policy As a globally operating company with offices in more than The Biesterfeld Group has been successfully operating as 40 countries, we need consistent structures and standards in a family business in the international chemical market for place that apply to our employees worldwide. Only in this 110 years. way we can succeed in offering high quality and very good One of the core values of our Our knowledgeable staff are wellWe are more than just a distribuservice features in equal measure. family business is to treat each versed in the specifications and tor. Individual product developother respectfully and to operate demands of global trade. In this ment and expert advice are our transparently in order to prevent way, we continuously improve priority. Because we regard servThe standards are controlled shared by the company leaderwork, but also firmly and permaeconomic and environmental our service quality and offer proding our customers and suppliers centrally from our headquarters ship team and all our employees. nently rooted in our fundamental risks. ucts that fit the needs of our cusin a professional and individualin Hamburg. This is the headideas. tomers. In order to be able to ised manner as our responsibility. quarters of the parent company Healthy growth based on longThe ethical and responsible conguarantee the uninterrupted of the Biesterfeld Group, Biesterterm partnerships, satisfied cusduct of the Biesterfeld Group availability of plastics and chemiOur employees play a key role in feld AG. The Group’s four operattomers and committed employforms the core of this corporate cals, we address the necessary this. Their dedication and reliabiling divisions and two service ees has always been one of our governance. We impress our cuspreparations for upcoming ity is what makes us unique. We companies are also based in key objectives. tomers and partners with our relichanges in chemical legislation place great importance on the Hamburg. able, motivating and cooperative far in advance. In doing so, we act health and safety of our employIn addition to the products, we business practices. mindfully and always comply ees and always fully comply with Chemical distribution, characterfocus on comprehensive service with guidelines such as REACH or personnel regulations. ised by increasing specialisation, and consulting services. We want Another cornerstone of our sucGHS1. When it comes to innovais at the core of its business acto always be available to our cuscess in business is our years of tions, we are in direct contact tivities, with comprehensive sertomers and offer them solutions experience. The resulting knowlwith all our branches and implevices completing the picture. for any questions about raw maedge reflects our extensive experment modifications promptly 1 GHS: “Globally Harmonized System of terials. We communicate our tise in a large number of somewhen required. Of course, our Classification, Labelling and PackagThe quality of the services profindings to our partners and are times highly specialised markets. customers and partners are ining of Chemicals”. vided as well as committing to involved in new product develformed immediately about this. and complying with the necesopments. Conserving resources sary measures is not just the reand acting in a more environsponsibility of the management mentally conscious manner is and supervisory boards; it is also not only part of our day-to-day G4-5, G4-7, G4-12, G4-34, G4-56 G4-34, G4-56 PAGE 14 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 15 We reach our customers with our quality and performance Anyone who is concerned about self-awareness are essential cause we have always promoted Corporate objectives and strategies the future must act with suscomponents here. Every emsustainable economic developtainability in mind. ployee is encouraged to use ment with a view to the future, water and electricity in a way and have embedded QSHE As a company, we aim to grow and further consolidate Our business activities are conthat conserves resources. (Quality, Security, Health and sistent with the three pillars of Environment) into our business a leading global market position, always, with focus on sustainability: social, environmental and economic responsiWe were able to seamlessly implement the principles of the activities. sustainability. bility, and are reviewed continuUnited Nations Global Compact ally. Equal rights and individual into our company precisely beWe will maintain our leading Our highly skilled employees, on measures if necessary. It is funmarket position with increased whom we rely and whom trust, damental to identify potential specialisation in our product and are the driving force behind our risk, both from internal and exUnited Nations Global Compact principles service portfolio as well as by company. Motivation, passion ternal sources, and formulate the expanding our international opand ambition take us forward corresponding action required. erations. We rise to the chaland help us to succeed. We enPrinciple 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed lenge of achieving this from a courage and value long service As part of this we have estabhuman rights and sustainability viewpoint on a from our employees, because lished a crisis management team daily basis and work with all emthis is the only way in which our to help in the event of a crisis. Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ployees to achieve these criteria. employees can expand their exOur employees are continuously perience and knowledge and briefed and trained with regard It is important to us that we have pass this on to our partners, as to all possible threats, risks and Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of good and trusted suppliers, bewell as to new employees. crises. the right to collective bargaining; cause we strive for long-term business relationships. We want We set high standards for our Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; to work with our business partstaff and pursue the objectives Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and ners over the long term and sell we have set ourselves. In doing products that are innovative and so, we always adhere to our Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. in demand on the market. standards and guidelines. We reach our customers with Our group-wide risk managePrinciple 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, our quality and performance. ment system helps us manage Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and prevent risk and means we can quickly introduce counterPrinciple 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. G4-15, G4-34, G4-56 G4-12, G4-34, G4-56 PAGE 16 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 17 The standards we place on sustainability are just as high as those on quality Reporting method We reviewed the indicators that operations and those who are inThe regular exchange of informaare relevant to us and considered directly influenced by our actions. tion with one another ensures that and evaluated the individual isCustomer evaluations and suppliour evaluation process is up to We have decided to write a voluntary annual sustainability sues from the point of view of the er surveys allow us to evaluate the date. company and our stakeholders. indicators from the stakeholder report. This decision represents a valuable step towards These issues are organised into point of view and to identify their An overview of all the GRI indicathe following indicator areas: Larequirements and expectations. tors including the UN Global Comlooking after the well-being of both the environment and the bour practices and employment, pact principles can be found in the company. human rights, ecology, society, product responsibility and ecoThe evaluation takes place as a multi-level process at manageGRI index in the appendix. nomic efficiency. We divided our ment level. It is based on the stakeholders into two groups for many years of experience of our Every day we address the chalcompanies to work towards a outlines the economic, environthis evaluation: The stakeholders employees and comprehensive lenge of further expanding the sustainable economy as well. We mental, social and management we directly influence through our knowledge at management level. sustainability of our operations, can particularly benefit from performance of a company. We defining suitable measures and each other by exchanging experialso take into account the ten incorporating them into our dayences. We take the opportunity principles of the United Nations to-day business. In recent years, of exchanging experiences and Global Compact on human we have noticed that global interlearning from each other and rights, labour standards, enviest in sustainable corporate hope to also offer the necessary ronmental protection and the structures has steadily increased. support with the help of transfight against corruption. We thus We regularly receive enquiries parency. aim to standardise our report and about our corporate strategy and ensure comparability for years to are invited to participate in susThe Biesterfeld Group decided to come with a consistent format. tainability-oriented surveys. This write the sustainability report in is one way in which we impress accordance with the G4 guideour customers and partners with lines of the Global Reporting Iniour Biesterfeld sustainability tiative (GRI) from the outset and strategy. Positive feedback from to fulfil the “core” option of the the interested public validates GRI principles. This option conthese initiatives. tains all the key elements and inOur contribution to sustainable dicators that a company needs to development enables us to break include and report in order to new ground, and we hope that achieve sustainable corporate our example can motivate other governance. This information G4-18, G4-20, G4-21, G4-22, G4-23, G4-25, G4-DMA, G4-EC1 G4-18, G4-20, G4-21, G4-22, G4-23, G4-25, G4-DMA, G4-EC1 PAGE 18 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 19 Materiality analysis nomic, environmental and social work” category has significant List of specific indicators impact. The y-axis indicates the influence on our stakeholders’ The materiality analysis clearly extent to which the category inevaluation because it was relaEconomic illustrates the indicators that unfluences the assessment made tively highly valued in spite of derwent individual assessment. by our stakeholders. The x and y our modest number of indicaThey were summarised into catvalues of the categories are detors. G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed egories for this purpose. Here termined from the average value the circles reflect the number of of the indicators individually asG4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisaindicators in each category. The sessed by ourselves. Hence, for tion’s activities due to climate change x-axis shows the significance of example, we assess that the the category in terms of its eco“Labour practices and human Environmental G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation Impact on the assessment performed by our stakeholders G4-EN5 Energy intensity G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption G4-EN17 Further indirect emissions G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Labour practices and decent work, society, human rights and product responsibility G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Significance for economic, environmental and social aspects The size of the circles reflects the influence of the factors. G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Labour practices and decent work Human rights Environmental Society Product responsibility Economic G4-LA10 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour practices criteria G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices in the supply chain and actions taken G4-18, G4-20, G4-21, G4-22, G4-23, G4-25, G4-DMA, G4-EC1 G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-22, G4-23, G4-25, G4-DMA, G4-EC1 PAGE 20 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 21 2. Sustainability management Don’t just talk about sustainability, but live sustainability! PAGE 22 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 23 Do what’s right and do it in time to really make a difference Progress in sustainability Communication as a key 15%. In Brazil, air conditioning stakeholders an insight into our to understanding that meets the latest standards sustainability-related commithas been installed. ment. We are happy to be able to We are specifically looking for ways to act in a more Our open and transparent cominspire, contribute, live sustainamunication on economic, enviWe can each do our bit for the bly and communicate. resource efficient manner with our sustainability strategy. ronmental and social responsibilenvironment and act sustainably. ity has created a sustainability Even things we perceive as trivial The respectful interaction between people and nature always ethic among our employees. in themselves can soon add up 2 The actual wording from the Brundtland Commission’s “Our Common plays a decisive role. The employees at our business when put together. Future” report from 1987 is: “Sustainable Development meets the needs of locations which have been inWe want to now follow up on the present without compromising the cluded in this year’s report were what we have already achieved ability of future generations to meet their own needs.” As a non-manufacturing compagy-saving LED lights as part of The concept of sustainability is given detailed briefings about and drive sustainability forward ny, we undertake to ensure that this renovation. The simple acmore than just a trend for us. As the sustainability standards of in our organisation. To this end, our use of resources as part of tion of installing LED lights alone a result, we have aligned all busithe Biesterfeld Group. Corporate we will be continuously analysour operations is sustainable. has achieved a 10% reduction in ness activities within the Biesterengagement has highlighted the ing our work processes and optiThese include energy-saving energy consumption. The more feld Group to sustainability-relatimportance of sustainability and mising them as required with the measures such as in the renovaefficient layout of the space aled topics. We regularly ask has motivated employees to proaim of saving resources in order tion of our in-house post room at lowed new work areas to be creourselves the question: what can vide data and knowledge to help to preserve them for future genour headquarters in Hamburg. ated. we do better to protect our develop sustainability reporting. erations. The old energy-intensive ceiling world? lights were replaced by enerWe place great importance in all We support the Brundtland Comour branches on our employees mission in their understanding of being conscientious when leavgenerational equity: Actions instead of words project with a regional connecmet. In addition, the project is ing their workplaces. This in“Sustainable development meets tion to the Biesterfeld Group and certified according to the Verified cludes separating waste as well the needs of the present without Last year, we decided to offset our employees. Carbon Standard (VCS). Our proas switching off all lights when compromising the ability of fuour business travel. Our sustainject ensured that a deforestation leaving the office. We have also ture generations to meet their ability monitoring revealed that We analysed our CO2 consumpof around 64,000 trees was made further improvements at own needs.”2 we could only reduce our CO2 tion over the last two years and avoided. our foreign locations. For examemissions on our business travel made a forecast for 2016 based Further information can be found ple, we have introduced the use We are very keen to have a posito a limited extent, as travel is dion that. We have invested in suson the following homepage: of energy-saving light bulbs in tive impact on society and to do rectly linked to the expansion of tainable forest and species prohttp://www.forestcarbongroup. Russia. This has helped to reour bit in preserving global reour business. Nevertheless, we tection in Santa Maria, a region de/projekte/florestal-santa-maria. duce energy consumption by sources. We therefore give our wanted to set an example and in the south of Brazil, on the html decided to invest specifically in basis of this consumption foreforest and species protection in cast. The project area covers order to offset our air travel. We 71,713 hectares. Inspections are selected a certified climate procarried out by independent auditection project in Brazil, one of tors to ensure the social and enour locations overseas – not least vironmental criteria of the Forest because we wanted to support a Stewardship Council (FSC) are G4-14 G4-14, G4-27, G4-LA14, G4-LA15 PAGE 24 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 25 Rules are there to protect us Compliance Our Code of Conduct It goes without saying that we have a compliance manageOur Compliance Management System has the Biesterfeld ment system that monitors our business activities and aligns Code of Conduct as its cornerstone. our processes with our Group-wide policies. Our Code of Conduct is the anprinciples of the UN Global Comrights and labour and social This enables us to ensure that all level and disseminated to all emaim to cover all means of obtainchor for our activity and a benchpact have been taken more fully standards are described. It also legally binding stipulations and ployees. In doing so, we pay paring information and preventing mark for all employees. It coninto account, with additions and explains the role model function voluntary undertakings are obticular attention to the fact that threats. tains group-wide standards and clarifications to topics such as of management in relation to served and implemented. Comwe operate in free markets and guidelines and therefore applies competition law prohibitions or employees and business partpliance is a very high priority for ensure fair competition. to the entire Group. The code of conflicts of interest. In addition, ners. Further information can be the entire Group. Compliance conduct is accessible on the inour Code of Conduct has been found on our homepage: with laws, guidelines and rules is For example, we have planned tranet to all employees in two expanded to include measures to www.biesterfeld.com essential for Biesterfeld. Above web-based training for the comlanguages (German and English). promote environmental standall, as a chemical distributor we ing year. These are offered in It is also available to our customards. pay particular attention to any German and English and are ers and partners on our corporate changes in the rules and their mandatory for all employees of homepage. As our Code of Conduct contains implementation. the Biesterfeld Group. We have guidelines which our employees not only planned training for new We regularly review our Code of must abide by in their work, new Our Compliance Management legislation and guidelines, but Conduct, adapting it to legislaemployees are asked to read, unSystem, which is being continualso regular updates on the cortive changes or standards which derstand and accept the Code as ously developed, covers various nerstones of compliance such as we impose ourselves. The last part of their training. individual measures. Potential antitrust or anti-corruption legisfundamental update was made Themes such as antitrust and hazards are assessed by means lation. in 2016. Among other things, the corruption prevention, human of a risk analysis and documented in our risk managementsysWe are planning the introduction tem. This allows us to initiate of a whistleblower system as an measures to prevent risks if necadditional tool to combat compliessary. ance risks. As well as our “open ear” for all employees and direct As a forward-looking company, discussion with our partners, we compliance is a very important want to offer everyone – employpart of our focus. The core areas ees, customers and partners – the are continuously checked and adopportunity to communicate any justed. Any legislative changes possible risks to the company are discussed at management anonymously. In this way, we G4-14, G4-34, G4-56 G4-14, G4-34, G4-56 PAGE 26 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 27 We listen and promote direct communication Integrated management system Stakeholder relations Biesterfeld has an integrated management system which contact as well as through cusprepares up-to-date topics and covers all requirements. We are honest and fair! tomer surveys and feedback publishes company news. The knowledge, which we share with regular newsletters that we send That is why we communicate our producer-side partners. out to our customers also serve The standardised structure enalidity and efficiency. Our busiof the UN Global Compact are openly with our stakeholders and These include, for example, the as a means of communication bles effective synergy. All releness processes undergo regular understood and respected by our provide insights into our corpoincrease in demand for sustainawith our stakeholders. vant management systems are revision. This allows us to develemployees. rate structure. We create confible products, where we work summarised and written down in op an ideal work structure as dence in our activities using variclosely with our producers and Our financiers (owners, banks a handbook. This includes manwell as continually improving The audits help us with continuous means of communication. drive development. In addition, and investors) are kept continuagement in the fields of quality, procedures, fine-tuning them ous improvement according to we can further expand our serously informed about our finanlabour, health, data privacy and where necessary. Compliance the requirements of the standWe act with confidence vice by diligently evaluating the cial status and the economic dethe environment as well as risks with our standards is checked ards. The resulting measures for because we are safe. reviews. We also keep our cusvelopment of the Biesterfeld and crises. through internal and external auimprovement are registered in tomers informed about new Group. Mutual trust is of utmost dits. In addition, random, unanour computerised CAPA dataIt goes without saying that we products and recommend the importance to us and is consistOverall responsibility for our innounced internal audits are carbase (Corrective And Preventive know our stakeholder groups. It use of sustainable products that ently cultivated. tegrated management system reried out in the departments to Actions). The measures are clasgoes even more without saying meet their needs. mains with our management ensure continuing compliance sified and monitored. All responthat we are in close contact with board. Supervisors in each busiwith our requirements. sible employees are stored in the them. Our presence at various We regularly hold feedback talks ness area are responsible for endatabase and are assigned to national and international trade with our employees in order to suring compliance. This ensures A total of 42 audits were carried complete the assigned tasks fairs, conferences and initiaincrease their motivation, to acthat all employees understand out in the 2016 financial year. within a deadline according to tives, such as the annual traincommodate and promote their and implement the system. These included ten certification the respective processes. ing fair or the Polymer Sourcing wishes. Biesterfeld is characteraudits together with the certifica& Distribution conference atised by long-serving employees. We have been guided by tion body TÜV Nord. Once again The results of all audits, quality tended by our Biesterfeld Plastic We take the concerns of our emDIN EN ISO 9000 ff since the esthis year, we have successfully procedures and customer rebusiness unit, partly serves this ployees very seriously. We can tablishment of our management passed these. It is testament to views are summarised in the anpurpose. We also hold expert identify individual career develsystem. us that we provide our services nual Management Review. Finaltalks and workshops. Our memopment paths from regular emThe aim is to achieve a high in accordance with the specificaly, the system is assessed to berships in chemical associaployee appraisals and promote standard of quality throughout tions of DIN EN ISO 9000 ff. and ensure its suitability and efficacy tions and initiatives help us prothese accordingly. We are also the group and to always work in Legal Compliance. for the strategic direction taken mote the exchange of always open to private issues. accordance with legal standards. by the organisation. experience with other chemical We try to help to take the burOur high standards are ensured Internal audits additionally deal companies and we are always den off the employees’ shoulby regular quality inspections. with aspects of sustainability. For up to date with changes to reguders wherever we can. Our central quality managers example, energy-saving measlations, directives, etc. and local quality officers work ures or potential for reducing We receive valuable information Our regular press releases and continuously to document the emissions are identified in the from both sides as a link benews on our corporate homeprocesses within the company. course of the audits, and it is tween buyers and producers. page serve as a further aid. Our All processes are checked for vaalso ensured that the principles We gain access through direct communications department G4-14, G4-34, G4-56 G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 PAGE 28 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 29 All these actions are designed to Initiatives: Our stakeholders build trust and long-term partnerships. Our dialogue formats AGA employers’ association  United Nations Global mean we can exploit potential Compact more effectively and are preFECC (European Association pared for the challenges of the of Chemical Distributors)  VCI Association of the Investors international market. We receive Chemical Industry important assessments of opICTA (International Chemical portunities and risks at an early Trade Association)  VCH Chemical Distribution Banks Holders stage and can prepare for upAssociation coming changes in good time. Associations Employees Biesterfeld Group Competitors Suppliers Authorities Customers Indirect stakeholders Direct stakeholders G4-15, G4-16, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 PAGE 30 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 31 3. Economic responsibility Growing successfully by trusting each other PAGE 32 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 33 Experience, knowledge and Sales segmentation of our four business units, 2016 curiosity create new possibilities 4% 19% Economic performance 110 years mark Biesterfeld out as an experienced chemical distributor. Thanks to our long-standing marOur services and successes as a By keeping employees up to date ket presence and our outstanding company are reflected in the satiswith the latest business figures, 23% 54% relationships with our partners, faction of our customers and supthey can compare results against we are prepared for the challenges pliers. It is in our interest to meet targets and, if required, make the ahead, despite persistent economor even exceed their expectations. necessary provisions to best meet ic uncertainty in numerous marWe therefore offer high-quality their future goals. kets and the ongoing consolidaproducts, which are provided with tion on the international chemical a comprehensive service package. Of course, we also keep our invesmarket. Our highly trained emOur employees receive regular tors comprehensively and regularBiesterfeld Plastic ployees are committed to the ecotraining in order to provide these ly informed on our economic deBiesterfeld Spezialchemie nomic success of the entire Biesservices. They are our key to sucvelopment. In addition, we publish Biesterfeld International terfeld Group. They bring their cess and only together with them the Group’s results of operations Biesterfeld Performance Rubber knowledge into everyday business can we achieve and expand our in the Bundesanzeiger (Federal life and are motivated every day goals. Gazette) in accordance with Gerto make Biesterfeld unique. man commercial legislation. We represent our ambitions in our We want more and we can do 5-year plan, which is updated anmore! nually. It takes into account opporThe chart clearly shows that Perwe can minimise interest rate and Currency risks from exchange tunities and challenges that need formance Rubber already makes default risks. rate differences are covered by We continue to build on our sucto be considered in order to exup 4% of the Biesterfeld Group’s hedges. cess and are not complacent pand our business activities and total turnover in a short time, reOur financing structure ensures a about what we have achieved. We increase added value for our cussulting from the successful startstable liquidity position, which always strive for exemplary betomers. This plan is based on the up. In the course of this, there is a sustainably supports the growth haviour, be it in the area of our business development of previous slight shift in the distribution of of the entire Group. It is oriented services or in the sustainable oriyears as well as the forecast develsales in the other divisions. towards guaranteeing financial entation of our company. We want opment of the coming years. flexibility for the entire Group and to show that improvements are Financial stability minimising cost of capital at the possible at any time and to create The managers of all business units same time. Various equity and added value. At the same time, we actively contribute to the preparaThe Biesterfeld Group has a baldebt financing instruments are always have an eye on the future tion of the 5-year plan and comanced financing structure. Our used for this purpose. of our company and our employmunicate the targets to their emgroup of companies has a diversiThe money and capital markets ees. ployees. fied portfolio both in terms of fiare analysed on an ongoing basis nancing terms and financing partto monitor and, if necessary, take ners, meaning, for example, that advantage of market changes. G4-4, G4-8, G4-9 G4-4, G4-8, G4-9, G4-EC1 PAGE 34 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 35 Turnover by region, 2016 Economic indicators for the Biesterfeld Group, 2014–2016* 2016 2015 2014 Turnover 1,077,448 1,077,424 1,077,887 20% Germany Operating costs 974,913 981,489 993,640 41% Wages and other 3% Western Europe 56,409 55,875 51,833 Other company benefits excl. Germany 4% Asia Payments to 17,118 19,276 17,671 financial backers 8% America Payments to 11,168 10,473 7,860 government (taxes) 24% Eastern Europe *  Figures in thousands of euros; there is no detailed profit and loss account; further economic data are presented in the Bundesanzeiger (Federal Gazette) The graph of revenue segmentamance polymers is on the indistribution of raw materials for tion by region for 2016 shows crease. We want to further prothe pharmaceutical, chemical, hardly any changes compared mote cooperation with cosmetics and food industries. to the previous year. It is very international market leaders We are also proud to work with clear to see that Biesterfeld is through the new company, and suppliers who have received nufirmly anchored in Europe and offer our customers a taimerous awards and prizes withhas its core market there. lor-made service. In addition to in the industry, who are socially an extensive product portfolio, committed and who share the Our efforts pay off! we have a high level of expersame values​as our corporate tise in local application technolculture. Our good understanding of the ogy consulting. Accordingly, a market helped us to make nuquality management system acThe industry magazine ICIS’s merous forward-looking decicording to DIN ISO 9001: 2015 “Top 100 Chemical Distributors” sions in 2016 too. This allowed was created and certified. list ranked us 6th in Europe and us to expand further and open 9th worldwide as a distributor. new locations, for example in Other highlights in the 2016 fiBrazil. This also includes the esnancial year include reporting tablishment of our new Biesteron the Group’s increased sales feld Performance Rubber busifigures and the renewal of nuness unit. It brings together all merous long-term partnerships the international business activiwith well-known suppliers. In ties for the rubber processing inaddition, we have acquired the dustry. We recognised early on specialised distributor Schütz & that demand on the internationCo. (GmbH & Co. KG), which al market for synthetic rubbers, supplements the product range compounds and high-perforof the Biesterfeld Group with the G4-4, G4-8, G4-9, G4-13, G4-EC1 G4-9, G4-EC1 PAGE 36 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 37 4. Environmental responsibility Hand in hand for a future worth living PAGE 38 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 39 Less is more – at least with energy consumption. We must become aware of how we can conscientiously Energy consumption deal with natural resources and use them efficiently. This year we were once again The energy-efficient refurbishtricity, which we will source from able to make a positive contribument of further floors will be a Hamburg-based company from tion to our energy consumption. tackled at the headquarters in the next year. We introduced LED ceiling lights coming year. Here, special attenBiesterfeld took on this topic at ministration and communicawith motion sensors at the worktion is paid to the renewal of air an early stage and is committed tion, for example to determine We have our own department, places in our Hamburg headconditioning and ventilation to acting responsibly in the interthe most efficient transport staffed by trained professionals, quarters, and were thus able to technology in order to meet curests of resource conservation route, to digitally save docuwho are responsible for updatreplace the energy-intensive flurent energy efficiency standards. and to use only the bare miniments to reduce paper coning safety data sheets. The safeorescent tubes. As a further measure, we are mum of resources. sumption or using web-based ty data sheets are very important aiming for a switch to green elecfunctions to simplify communiwhen using our products as they It is in everyone’s hands to make cation with each other. convey safety instructions and a the future more liveable. recommendation on handling We place particular importance the products. When it comes to taking envion safety in the use and proper ronmental responsibility, we handling of our products. Our In addition, we provide all safefocus on those areas that we diservice regarding the application ty-related information on our rectly influence through our acof the products is offered by website, so that it can be acEnergy consumption at company headquarters in Hamburg, 2016* tivities. Since our corporate trained and specialised employcessed continuously and is availEnergy consumption amounts to buildings predominantly comees. We inform our customers able to provide immediate assisEnergy sources kWh CO2 emissions in t** about 2,561 kWh per employee. prise office space, we place about possible direct and inditance if needed. Electricity 326,761 168 great importance on reducing rect risks that may arise from the District heating 410,795 108 the consumption of energy, products distributed by us. We (for heating water and paper in the best poshave developed preventative purposes) sible way. measures in connection with all this. Total 737,556 276 All employees must develop a sustainability ethos to make posIf there is even the slightest susEnergy consumption at the sites listed in the Sustainability Report, 2016* itive change work. With this in picion that any hazards could Energy sources kWh CO2 emissions in t** Employee energy consumption at mind, Biesterfeld employees are arise when using our products, the specified sites is approx. regularly trained and briefed. we seek contact with the cusElectricity 454,864 234 2,609 kWh. Their commitment means that tomer as quickly as possible and District heating 462,362 121 Biesterfeld can nurture a sustainoffer an alternative. Our close (for heating able corporate culture and, using cooperation with suppliers alpurposes) their knowledge, advanced techlows us a smooth exchange of nologies can be developed for information. We help with the Natural gas (for 168,226 34 various areas. For example, development of environmentally heating purposes) state-of-the-art programs are friendly products and inform our Total 1,085,452 389 used in the field of logistics, adcustomers in this regard. * Figures have been rounded off. Heating costs for Great Britain are included in the costs of electricity as heating is via the air-conditioning system ** GEMIS emission factors (version 4.8) were used as a reference for the calculation G4-EN3, G4-EN5, G4-EN6 G4-EN27, G4-EN32 PAGE 40 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 41 Improved performance – Biesterfeld Group fleet, 2016* reduced consumption Fuel type Total consumption in litres Total consumption in megajoules CO2 emissions in t** Diesel 170,158 6,292,443 559 Petrol 13,686 453,505 39 Total consumption 183,844 6,745,948 598 * Figures have been rounded off; all vehicles registered to the Hamburg headquarters ** GEMIS emission factors (version 4.9.3) were used as a reference for the calculation Our vehicle fleet was expanded ber of kilometres driven and, acson for this is our increased Greenhouse gas emissions by seven cars in 2016. Neverthecordingly, the volume of fuel focus on using web-based conless, we have been able to consumed. Total consumption ferencing methods. achieve a reduction in the numhas decreased by 2.4%. One reaAs a responsible company, we know and record our CO2 footprint. Means of transport by which employees travelled to work in Hamburg, 2016 We face the challenge of reducGreenhouse gas emissions are Scopes 2 and 3 are relevant for ing our emissions to protect nadivided into the following categoBiesterfeld as we, as a non-proMeans of transport Journey to/from work in km CO2 emissions in t per ture and conserve resources. In ries: ducing company, do not cause per workday and employee* working year** accordance with the Greenhouse any direct emissions. Bicycle 14 0 Gas Protocol (GHG)3 and  cope 1: all emissions arising S Long-distance train 102 7 DIN EN ISO 14064, we have caldirectly in the company Vehicle fleet culated our company-specific CO2 Car 60 124 emissions since 2014 and pre cope 2: all indirect emissions S The Biesterfeld Group has Local public transport 21 123 sented them in our annual report. that companies incur by pur89 company vehicles in Germany, Total – 254 chasing energy 76 of which have diesel engines. Transparency is given great im* Figures have been rounded off and specify the average distance per workday per employee portance in the Biesterfeld S  cope 3:all indirect emissions ** GEMIS emission factors (version 4.8) used for the calculation; the emission values​are calculated by multiplying the kilometres 3 Global standard for quantification, travelled for the round trip by the respective emission factor, the number of employees and the number of working days Group. Therefore, we deal with resulting from business activimanagement and reporting of greenour energy consumption openly ties (transport of goods, busihouse gas emissions and do our best to achieve a posness trips, employees’ jourWe were able to achieve a pleascar emissions compared to the cars to public transport. itive development of the Group neys to work) but not ing reduction of approx. previous year. This is mainly due with regard to the sustainable associated with the procure29 tonnes of CO2 in passenger to switching employees from use of resources. ment of energy 7% Our headquarters are located in the heart of Hamburg 7% 19% The accessibility of our Hamburg We would like to encourage even headquarters is ideal because of more employees to switch to its good connection to local and public transport and therefore long-distance public transport subsidise monthly tickets for the options. For this reason, many Hamburg public transport netemployees use public transport work. Of course, we provide such as bus or train and refrain many bicycle parking spaces for from travelling by car. all employees who use the bicycle for their journey. 67% G4-EN17 G4-EN17, G4-EN27 PAGE 42 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 43 Business trips across the Biesterfeld Group, 2016* Environmental indicators for the Biesterfeld Group, 2014–2016 Aeroplane Distance in km CO2 emissions in t per year** International flights 3,787,600 577 Our CO2 emissions were determined using information Domestic flights 602,183 142 from the GEMIS database. Total 4,389,783 719 * Figures have been rounded off ** GEMIS emission factors (version 4.8) were used as a reference for the calculation Type of emissions CO2 in t 2016 CO2 in t 2015 CO2 in t 2014 Emissions caused by SCOPE 2 business trips Energy consumption at the As with any internationally-oriNevertheless, direct, on-site perour international flights covered company headquarters 276 276 307 ented company, the Biesterfeld sonal contact with customers is 4,255,769 km with emissions of Group also incurs business air an integral part of our service. approximately 644 tonnes. This SCOPE 3 travel that generates CO2 emisyear, emissions were reduced by sions. Therefore, a good balance needs 67 tonnes of CO2. Fleet 398 459 436 However, we try to keep our air to be achieved. Our employees travel within limits. To this end, are encouraged to consider the Total output in 2016 in compariEmployees’ journeys to work in 254 278 287 our IT service company BIT-SERV need for a business trip and alson to the previous year was thus Hamburg is constantly developing imways keep its environmental imreduced by approx. 7.6%. 719 778 614 proved methods for making webpact in mind. Business trips based meetings as secure and 20,548 19,621 19,169 easy as possible. Further measWe are pleased that we were able Transport of goods ures are already planned for the to reduce our emissions in the coming years. area of​business travel. Last year, The CO2 balance for 2016 shows Only CO2 emissions for freight a significant reduction in emistransport increased by approxiTransport of goods across the Biesterfeld Group, 2016* sions compared to previous mately 4.7% compared to the years. In all, we were able to previous year. The reasons for Mode of transport Amount in t Average CO2 emissions in save 144 tonnes of CO2 comthis are the additional business distance in km t per year ** pared to the previous year in activities of our new company emissions from the vehicle fleet, Biesterfeld Performance Rubber Road 142,633 536 3,839 the arrival of employees to work and the growth of our inland Inland naviga25,030 256 219 and in business travel. waterway transports. tion vessels Seagoing vessels 94,990 13,872 15,956 Air freight 71.7 6,116 342 Rail 9280 547 192 * Quantity and distances determined from the ERP system; the values​are based on Germany-related deliveries (incoming and outgoing); the figures were rounded off ** GEMIS emission factors (Version 4.8) were used as a reference for the calculation Our four operating divisions use use the most efficient way, crea variety of means of transport ating the lowest possible emisto move goods to their destinasions. They specialise in contintions. In doing so, our logistics uously optimising warehouse specialists make sure that they locations and supply routes. G4-EN17, G4-EN27 G4-EN17 PAGE 44 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 45 5. Social responsibility A good balance is an absolute must PAGE 46 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 47 Every single employee is special to us New hires by age group, 2016* up to 29 13 15 30-49 18 16 Our employees 50+ 3 1 Every single employee contributes to the economic Female Male success of the Biesterfeld Group. This year, we recruited a total of We value a fair recruiting process ence and competences, and in the 66 new employees, comprising and strive to achieve a good balage and gender of our employees. 34 female and 32 male employees. ance both in the level of experiOur employees embody the corin order to be able to introduce results of their business area. porate culture. We can count on improvements. Joint improvement measures their commitment and their amwere derived with the involvebition and of course, we recogThe aim of the survey was to inment of their respective supervinise this. The prerequisite for a vestigate the workplace pressors and their teams to further New hires by region, 2016* good working attitude is that sures in order to derive measenhance the attractiveness of employees identify with the ures to improve health the work environment. company’s goals and develop protection and foster job satis5 their own aspirations to achieve faction. The vast majority of Fairness is of great importance high-quality work. In Germany, those asked were extremely to the Biesterfeld Group. Our our employees share in Biesterpositive about their own jobs. In employees all receive the same feld’s profits in the event of a particular, the flexible working benefits, whether part-time or 33 66 28 successful financial year by way time arrangements, the work full-time, whether on a fixed or of a bonus. After all, it is in our equipment available and the sopermanent contract. This helps interest to let our employees cial backing by colleagues and prevent discrimination, which participate in the company’s supervisors were rated positivewe do not tolerate in any form. success, which we achieve ly. We also received mostly posiWe offer every employee the through their performance. tive feedback regarding further same opportunities and proGermany Europe excl. Germany Asia training opportunities and indimote the equal treatment of and We also ensure that we create a vidual advancement opportunibetween our employees. With work environment that gives our ties, but also identified room for these policies, we ensure that Workforce by gender, 2016* employees the freedom they improvement; in the future, we colleagues treat each other in an need to expand and keep on dewill take an even more active inopen and respectful manner, veloping. In addition to individuterest in matters relating to lifefeel at home in the workplace al self-determination, this inlong learning. and also convey this to our cuscludes morally and ethically tomers, suppliers and partners. appropriate behaviour. We first These individual results were carried out a risk assessment for first presented to the manageFull-time: 312 Full-time: 396 mental stress in the workplace ment of the companies in coorPart-time: 77 804 Part-time: 19 at our Hamburg headquarters in dination with the Executive 2016, in which we asked our emBoard. Subsequently, all reployees for feedback on their spondents received detailed inperceived workplace conditions formation about the individual Female Male * Headcount: Number of employees G4-10, G4-LA1 PAGE 48 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 49 It is the employees who Each individual employee is valing family business, to establish employees through healthy, fair ued and promoted on his or her employment relationships lasting and attractive working condiindividual development path. many years. Our goal is to attract tions. make Biesterfeld what it is This allows us, as a long-standand permanently retain excellent Our social benefits at a glance Accident insurance Ergonomic office furniture Our social contributions We offer our employees a comprehensive package of Subsidised Profit sharing Training Annual additional benefits. canteen opportunities company party In addition to our profit sharing People are at the heart of our in Hamburg can exercise in fitFlexible Health schemes and numerous benefits, such as company. So, their health has all ness studios at reduced monthly working hours the subsidised monthly ticket for the more priority for us. fees. In addition, all employees local transport, our employees in can attend the monthly bowling Hamburg have the opportunity to Biesterfeld is committed to the night free of charge. These sports Travel subsidies Possibility Mobile get hot and balanced meals at health of all employees and sees activities serve as a good balance of working Pension schemes massage service discounted prices at lunchtime at health care as an essential eleto everyday working life. It re-enfrom home a canteen in the immediate vicinment of successful business. ergises people and the social inity. The fresh, healthy and varied teraction between colleagues is dishes meet a range of needs. In Thus, our office furniture is ergostrengthened. Kitchenettes with addition to daily changing dishes, nomically designed to provide a drinks on all floors Sports there are vegan or vegetarian comfortable posture. Individually competitions and lactose-free dishes on offer. height-adjustable work tables In addition, Biesterfeld offers its and back-relieving office chairs employees in Hamburg a selecare provided. Furthermore, regution of free drinks in the floor lar on-the-spot inspections are kitchens. carried out to control work orientation and to find the best possiThe workplaces of our employees ble working posture, so that no Training and further development are equipped with the latest techeye strain is caused, for example, nical equipment. Special emphain daylight and when lights are sis is also placed on the desks on. Young professionals are promoted and trained here. and chairs to provide good comfort and health standards. In addition, flu vaccines and an eye examination are offered in We have been offering the opute according to their strengths to work independently here and As a family business, we proour headquarters annually by a portunity to complete an apand individual interests. Our put their own ideas up for dismote the compatibility of family company doctor. Of course, this prenticeship or a dual degree trainees go through different cussion. We regard trainees as and work. So, the possibility of offer is open to all employees course at Biesterfeld for many fields of activity and can weigh fully-fledged employees. They working from home is offered as and is free of charge. years. Our young employees up which positions they want to are encouraged and supported. needed. In addition, Biesterfeld gain deep insights into the touch upon and in which funcThat’s our way of preparing offers flexible working hours. BeHealth care at Biesterfeld is working environment of the Bition they feel comfortable. The them for the day to day busicause we work together with our rounded off by various joint esterfeld Group and can contribtrainees are always encouraged ness. Following successful comemployees to find the ideal solusporting events. In addition to antions to achieve a balance benual running and cycling events tween family and work. as well as a triathlon, employees G4-LA2 G4-LA2, G4-LA10 PAGE 50 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 51 We challenge and encourage our collection box for this purpose to receive donations of sorted toys. economy to work on jointly defined goals. most important asset Socially committed through knowledge transfer and exOne year, one of our employees participated in the project as a change of experience mentor. Together with his mentee, they set themselves their Our Biesterfeld Spezialchemie common goal and defined apbusiness unit participated in a propriate measures through the one-year innovative social proexchange of experience. ject, known as cross-mentoring. This brings together immigrants It is a great opportunity for both pletion of the apprenticeship or Further education is the be-all accordingly to reconcile individand people from the Hamburg parties to learn from each other. degree, we also offer our graduand end-all for success – perual interests and internal comates interesting careerperspecsonally and for our company pany needs. In doing so, we purtives. sue the idea of​filling central Our employees regularly receive management positions with inIn addition to training at training in a wide range of ternal employees as far as posPersonnel indicators, 2016* Biesterfeld, we offer students areas, including REACH, export sible, if there are suitable candithe opportunity to get to know and import control or dangerous dates. In this way, we retain the us as an employer during an ingoods. We offer in-house trainknowledge base within the comBy employment contract* Female Male Total Headcount ternship or as a working student ing as well as various seminars pany and can systematically in % and to actively participate in our by external service providers. In promote the company’s success. work. addition to refreshing relevant legal knowledge and introducTemporary contract 8 11 19 4.7 In 2016, we had an annual avering new regulations, our emage of 23 apprentices, comprisployees have the opportunity to Permanent contract 181 205 386 95.3 ing eleven female and twelve acquire new knowledge in semimale employees. Last year, six nars or workshops on a variety graduates successfully completof topics. In conjunction with the Parental leave* Female Male Total Headcount ed their training; four of them respective supervisor, it is in % have decided to continue their agreed in which direction the early career at Biesterfeld. employee could develop. SuitaEntitled to parental leave 21 4 25 6.2 ble training courses are selected Actually took it 20 3 23 5.7 Returned to work with a Social commitment period of employment of at least 12 months 7 1 8 2 With our family tradition at heart and our view always Return rate in directed into the future, we are committed to social issues reporting period 35% 25% 34.8% and promote regional projects. Trainees** Female Male Total We support specifically selected the proceeds from the annual by the DEKRA Akademie GmbH Apprentices offered organisations and charitable proChildren’s Aid Golf Tournament, for the benefit of disadvantaged positions 3 1 4 jects with financial donations. which supports children from children in Hamburg. Collected We do not invest in customer needy families and prevents exand refurbished toys are distribgifts, for example at Christmas, clusion. uted to children and young peo* Values apply to the locations considered in the report (Brazil, Germany, Great Britain, Italy, Poland and Russia) but instead support targeted aid In 2016, we also supported the ple from financially disadvan** Figures only apply to Germany projects. For example, we donate “Toys Company” social project taged families. We set up a G4-LA10 G4-10, G4-11, G4-LA3 PAGE 52 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 53 6. Our future perspective We are well prepared for the future PAGE 54 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 55 A future through sustainable management Our strategy for the future The future in our We secure the future through sustainable management. sights, family traditions in our We set ourselves high standards and see the continuous improvement of all our business processpossible at all of our sites in order to support the basic idea of “One Biesterfeld”. For the coming years, we plan to introduce further compliance measures that ensure that we hearts! es as the key to success. As part comply not only with statutory of our “One Biesterfeld” strategic We always take care to promote requirements but also with interalignment, which provides for and protect our employees. We nal guidelines in line with our regreater cooperation between all are committed to providing them quirements. In addition, the qualdomestic and foreign subsidiarwith a working environment in ity management of the Biesterfeld ies as well as within the operawhich they feel comfortable and Group will be adapted to new tional and administrative units of are happy to bring in their inditechnological standards. the Biesterfeld Group, we also vidual skills. need a uniform Group-wide sustainability management system. As a result, the current guidelines will be successively reviewed and harmonised as far as PAGE 56 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 57 GRI content index General standard disclosures Page Comments G4-14 P. 24-28 GRI content index in accordance with G4-15 P. 16, 30 the “Core” option. The Sustainability G4-16 P. 30 Report was checked internally and not submitted for external review. Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 P. 12-13 Additional information can be found in our announcement on the German Federal Gazette page: Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 2. General standard disclosures Basis of consolidation General standard disclosures Page Comments G4-18 P. 18-21 Strategy and analysis G4-19 P. 21 G4-1 P. 5 G4-20 P. 18-21 Organisational profile G4-21 P. 18-21 G4-3 P. 5 G4-22 P. 18-21 G4-4 P. 8-11, 34-36 G4-23 P. 18-21 No major changes from 2014 G4-5 P. 14 Stakeholder engagement G4-6 P. 11-13 G4-24 P. 31 G4-7 P. 14 G4-25 P. 18-21, 29-31 G4-8 P. 8-13, 34-36 G4-26 P. 29-31 G4-9 P. 11, 34-37 Additional information can be found in our anG4-27 P. 25, 29-31 nouncement on the German Federal Gazette page: Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 7. Other information G4-10 P. 49, 53 G4-11 P. 53 No global data available G4-12 P. 10-11, 14, 17 G4-13 P. 36 G4-32, G4-33 G4-32, G4-33 PAGE 58 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 59 Specific standard disclosures General standard disclosures Page Comments Report profile Page DMA and indicators Omissions Comments G4-28 P. 4 Category: Economic Aspect: Economic performance G4-29 P. 4 P. 35-37 G4-EC1 Additional information can be G4-30 P. 4 found in our announcement on the German Federal Gazette page: G4-31 P. 64 Point 2.3 Company performance G4-32 P. 58-63 P. 18-21 G4-EC2 G4-33 P. 58-63 No external review performed Category: Environmental Aspect: Energy Corporate governance P. 18-21 G4-DMA G4-34 P. 14-17, 26-28 P. 41 G4-EN3 Ethics and integrity P. 41 G4-EN5 G4-56 P. 14-17, 26-28 P. 41 G4-EN6 Aspect: Emissions P. 18-21 G4-DMA P. 42-45 G4-EN17 Aspect: Products and services P. 18-21 G4-DMA P. 40, 43-44 G4-EN27 G4-32, G4-33 G4-32, G4-33 PAGE 60 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 61 Page DMA and indicators Omissions Comments Page DMA and indicators Omissions Comments Aspect: Supplier environmental assessment Aspect: Supplier assessment for labour practices P. 18-21 G4-DMA P. 18-21 G4-DMA P. 40 G4-EN32 This information is curP. 25 G4-LA14 This information is currently unavailable. An rently unavailable. An asenvironmental assesssessment of labour pracment of suppliers is tices of suppliers is planned in the coming planned in the coming years and will be conyears and will be conducted periodically toducted periodically together with the next angether with the next annual assessment. nual assessment. Category: Social P. 25 G4-LA15 This information is curSubcategory: Labour practices and decent work rently unavailable. An assessment of the major Aspect: Employment actual and potential negative impact on labour P. 18-21 G4-DMA practices in the supply chain and the measures P. 49 G4-LA1 Our employee turnover has reundertaken here is mained almost the same. The averplanned in the coming age turnover rate is 11.43%. years and will be conP. 50-51 G4-LA2 ducted periodically together with the next annual assessment. P. 53 G4-LA3 Aspect: Training and further development P. 18-21 G4-DMA P. 51-52 G4-LA10 Our programmes for facilitating transition are tailored to suit each employee’s personal requirements. For example, we offer employees taking retirement the option of remaining in minimal employment with the same duties. G4-32, G4-33 G4-32, G4-33 PAGE 62 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2016 PAGE 63 Publication details Published by Biesterfeld AG Ferdinandstrasse 41 20095 Hamburg, Germany Management board: Thomas Arnold (Chairman), Carsten Harms, Christian Wolfsohn Chairman of the supervisory board: Dirk J. Biesterfeld Headquarters: Hamburg Local Court (Amtsgericht) HRB 90396 VAT ID no. DE 813 983 617 Responsible Biesterfeld ChemLogS GmbH Ferdinandstrasse 41 20095 Hamburg, Germany CEOs: Jens-Uwe Pietrock, Christian Wolfsohn Headquarters: Hamburg Local Court (Amtsgericht) HRB 102258 VAT ID no. DE 2565 2165 9 General queries Corporate Communications Department E-mail: communications@biesterfeld.com Tel.: +49 40 32008-374 Sustainability relations Khojesta Rahbari E-mail: k.rahbari@biesterfeld.com Tel.: +49 40 32008-780 Further information is available on our website at www.biesterfeld.com. © 2017 Biesterfeld AG Reprints, including excerpts, are only possible with the publisher’s written permission and must be furnished with the image and text reference “Biesterfeld AG”. G4-31
