Engineering: people’s work Annual Report 2016 1 Engineering: people’s work Annual Report 2016 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS In 2016 Witteveen+Bos celebrated its We have also used the results of the 70th anniversary. There were many materiality analysis to update our Company highlights in the year under review: we Code. This document sets out the principles won the prestigious ‘De Vernufteling’ that govern how we do business worldwide innovation award with our ‘Building with and describes our responsibilities to all Nature’ mangrove project in Java which of our stakeholders: society as a whole, is carried out within the consortium our clients and business relations, our EcoShape, we applied innovative digital company, and our colleagues. solutions such as online residents’ participation, and organised various In 2016 we worked on over 3,500 ongoing anniversary activities for employees and new water, infrastructure, environment and business relations, with great and construction projects all over the success. Revenue was slightly below world. The explicit attention devoted to target in the first six months of the sustainability in many of these assignments year, but showed an upturn in the third is noteworthy. ‘Building with Nature’, quarter. On balance we close the year climate adaptation, circular design, and with a revenue of 137 million euros – an involvement of all stakeholders are aspects increase of 5.8 % compared to 2015 – reflected in an increasing number of and a healthy net result of 15.7 million projects. With the projects we worked on in euros. 2016, Witteveen+Bos N.V. realised a total turnover of 137 million euros, representing In 2015 the United Nations adopted a 5.8 % increase compared to 2015. seventeen Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which are aimed at ensuring a This growth in revenue is attributable to socially, ecologically and economically subcontracted work and was accompanied sustainable world by 2030. Together by a slight contraction of the workforce from with internal and external stakeholders, 1,056 to 1,029 employees. This decrease Witteveen+Bos performed a materiality occurred entirely in the Netherlands and analysis to obtain a clear picture of the mainly in the first six months of 2016. With areas where we can most effectively our work portfolio and productivity once contribute to the realisation of these goals. again increasing in the third quarter, growth resumed in late 2016. The net result in 2016 Firstly, the results showed that amounted to 15.7 million euros, yielding a Witteveen+Bos can achieve the greatest net profit margin of 11.5 %. impact through its projects. In 2016 we therefore devoted extensive attention to The company’s continued growth and applying our sustainable design principles international development over the past in our projects, and embedding them in our few years have necessitated the purchase Quality Manual. of a new financial management and project accounting system. The transition The materiality analysis also showed that to this new BST10 system was prepared we can contribute to talent development in 2016. The first Supervisory Board in the and ensuring an adequate inflow of company’s history was appointed at the technical professionals now and in the General Meeting of Shareholders in April future. Progress in these areas is reflected 2016. The programme of introductions has in the record number of interns and finalnow been completed and the Supervisory year students hosted by the company, and Board has held its first regular meetings. in the findings of a talent development survey conducted among Witteveen+Bos We are pleased to inform readers about employees. our work and results in 2016. For the first time we have integrated our Annual Report Thirdly, the materiality analysis pointed to and Corporate Responsibility Report. After ways in which we can make our business all, good financial results are merely a operations even more sustainable. precondition enabling us to do our real job: Measures implemented to that end in helping to address the great challenges of 2016 include promoting sustainable our time. business travel, and preparations for the sustainable renovation of our Leeuwenbrug Deventer, the Netherlands, 20 March 2017 office in Deventer. Plans for the latter Board of Directors of Witteveen+Bos N.V. project provide for the replacement of all building installations, various structural Karin Sluis modifications, and modernisation of the Henk Nieboer building’s lay-out. 2 3 REPORT BY THE SUPERVISORY BOARD REPORT OF THE STAKEHOLDER PANEL The Supervisory Board of Witteveen+Bos N.V. is Every year, Witteveen+Bos engages in dialogue with a panel of external pleased to present this report to the stakeholders of stakeholders to discuss how we add value and contribute to addressing societal Witteveen+Bos in order to provide insight into the challenges and how we report on these matters. We use the draft version of the performance of our supervisory duties in the year under Annual Report as the basis for this conversation. review. A meeting with a panel of five external stakeholders was held on Tuesday 9 February The members of the Supervisory Board were appointed at the 2017. Witteveen+Bos was represented by the Board of Directors and three members General Meeting of Shareholders on 5 April 2016. This was of the CSR team. The main feedback points are set out below. A number of points for the first time in the company’s history that a Supervisory Board improvement have already been incorporated into this Annual Report where possible, was appointed. Witteveen+Bos applies a mitigated version while others will be addressed in 2017. of the so-called ‘two-tier regime’, which means that members of the Board of Directors are appointed by the General Materiality analysis Meeting of Shareholders. The company has adopted a two-tier The panel commends Witteveen+Bos for performing a materiality analysis. The results governance model in which the Board of Directors manages of this analysis were only briefly described in the draft Annual Report. The panel the organisation and is responsible for ensuring that corporate recommends clearly linking the findings to the United Nations Sustainable Development aims and targets are achieved and strategies and policies are Goals and showing the impact of the company’s activities. This feedback has been implemented. The Supervisory Board is tasked with supervising incorporated in the chapter Objectives. and providing advice to the Board of Directors. No committees have been established in view of the limited size of the Sustainable design principles Supervisory Board. A resignation schedule has been adopted The panel is enthusiastic about Witteveen+Bos’ application of sustainable design to ensure that members of the Supervisory Board step down in principles to increase value in projects. The draft Annual Report did not yet include any a staggered manner. examples of projects where these principles have been applied. The panel hopes that such examples will be incorporated into the final version. This will bring the information Following the appointment of the Supervisory Board, various in the Annual Report more to life. Any dilemmas encountered during projects can also be introductory meetings have been held as well as three regular identified. Most of the panel’s feedback has been incorporated into the final version of meetings with the Board of Directors and a number of informal the Annual Report. consultations. The standard subjects discussed at the regular meetings included general developments and financial Interpreting results reports. Other matters reviewed included integrity policy, The Annual Report provides a good impression of relevant developments at risk management, personnel policy, and the introduction of a Witteveen+Bos. It is a concise and accessible publication, but this also means that some new project accounting and financial management system. sections offer limited substantive information. The different chapters describe the results The regular meetings were attended by all members of the achieved based on the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) defined by Witteveen+Bos, Supervisory Board. Open lines of communication exist between with the aim of providing insight into the progress achieved in realising the company’s the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board, giving the objectives. The links between the defined objectives and progress on the KPIs have not Supervisory Board ample opportunity to offer both solicited and been described clearly enough. The panel recommends attaching conclusions to the unsolicited advice. The Supervisory Board also consulted with measurement of results and indicating the actions required. This feedback has been the Works Council during the year under review. There were no incorporated where possible, and further improvements will be made in 2017. special decisions that required the approval of the Supervisory Board. Value chain A relatively small number of KPIs have been defined that focus on adding value in the Witteveen+Bos is new to working with a Supervisory Board. In supply chain. Further insight could be provided into the value chain of Witteveen+Bos. the opinion of the Supervisory Board, the Board of Directors The Annual Report need not focus only on the achievements of Witteveen+Bos, but also has endeavoured to utilise the enhanced governance model on the impact realised in the chain and how the various stakeholders work to achieve by actively drawing on the expertise of the Supervisory each other’s aims. It would be interesting to describe any dilemmas encountered by Board’s members in areas relevant to the Board of Directors. Witteveen+Bos in this context. Engaging in dialogue is also important. How do project The Supervisory Board was very interested to learn about partners implement standards and values, both nationally and internationally? Which the company’s governance structure, the special position measures are taken to prevent abuses? Relatively little attention has been devoted to the of its shareholders, and the way these came into being. The supply chain in this Annual Report. In 2017 Witteveen+Bos will focus more specifically Supervisory Board is pleased to be able to make a contribution on adding value in the chain. to the further development of Witteveen+Bos. Looking ahead In the year under review, the Supervisory Board focused mainly Witteveen+Bos can strengthen its narrative by also looking ahead to the future. The on becoming acquainted with the company and its activities. materiality analysis can serve as an important tool in this regard. The panel would like We endorse the strategy adopted by the Board of Directors, to see information about key trends and developments external to Witteveen+Bos, and and have every confidence in a successful and financially how these play a role in defining the objectives and formulating the associated KPIs. This sound future for Witteveen+Bos. feedback has been partially incorporated into the final chapter of this Annual Report. Deventer, the Netherlands, 20 March 2017 Stakeholder panel Florian Andriessen, Terre des Hommes Supervisory Board André Nijhof, Nyenrode Business University Hans van der Ven (Chairman) Bianca Peters, Deltares Gerard van de Aast Margriet Rouhof, TenneT Inca van Uuden Ruud Sprock, C2N 4 5 CONTENT 8 Mission and vision 12 Objectives 16 Notable projects 2016 18 Interview: Vestdijk Eindhoven 22 Objective 1: Adding value through projects 25 Sustainable design principles 36 Interview: Cargo Transport Route 40 Objective 2: Developing talent 43 Personnel key figures 2016 46 Interview: Hannie Dierx 50 Objective 3: Adding value through our business operations 53 Business operations key figures 2016 56 Objective 4: Creating economic value 59 Summarised annual results 2016 60 Financial key figures 2016 62 Outlook for 2017 8 18 22 36 40 50 56 62 64 6 7 MISSION AND VISION Organisation The Board of Directors is charged with the dayWe have a clear mission statement: ‘Witteveen+Bos offers to-day management of Witteveen+Bos N.V., its clients value-added consultancy and top-quality designs overseen by the Supervisory Board. With over for water, infrastructure, environment and construction 1,000 colleagues, we operate close to our clients, projects. We use our high-end expertise to resolve complex projects, partners and the employment market. issues and are a committed partner for our clients. We attach Our offices are located in eleven countries great importance to our independence and to our corporate worldwide, with six offices in the Netherlands. culture, which allows all our employees to excel, utilise their The Works Council represents the interests talents to the full, and maximise value for clients.’ of all staff employed in the Netherlands. In other countries we have appointed employee Vision representatives to look after staff members’ Witteveen+Bos is an engineering consultancy that seeks to interests. offer the very highest level of quality, because we believe that a commitment to excellence is key to developing sustainable Over 30 small organisational units – the solutions for today’s challenges. We aim to be very good at what Product-Market Combinations or PMCs – are we do. Our staff are experts in their respective disciplines and responsible for contract management and pursue ongoing innovation. We work with expert partners and acquisition. These PMCs are clustered into four maintain a culture of entrepreneurship and trust. We consider it business lines focusing on the following areas essential that our actions are guided by our key quality attributes: of expertise: Built Environment; Deltas, Coasts expertise, reliability and commitment. and Rivers; Energy, Water and Environment; and Infrastructure and Mobility. Worldwide, Knowledge and innovation the business lines and regions form a matrix At the core, our work is about knowledge: bringing together structure (see the organisation chart on page 10). the right expertise to help solve challenging issues in water, This organisational structure enables employees infrastructure, environment and construction projects. We set from various disciplines and different countries high standards. At Witteveen+Bos, state-of-the-art expertise is to collaborate on projects in a network, ensuring based on passion for the profession. Our employees want to that we bring together the required knowledge know everything there is to know in their field, from geotechnical and experience from all over the world in order to engineering to mechanical engineering and from water devise the best solution. management to environmental law. By sharing and developing knowledge and deploying it worldwide, we can devise the most Company Code effective solution for each client project. Worldwide, we work for and with a wide range of stakeholders: society as a whole, our clients Sustainable collaboration and business relations, our company, and our The issues we tackle are becoming increasingly complex. To colleagues. Collectively, all Witteveen+Bos develop sustainable solutions, our staff work in multidisciplinary employees are committed to fulfilling their project teams alongside colleagues from various backgrounds. responsibilities to our stakeholders. Together we We always try to assemble the best possible team. We therefore can realise our mission and vision. The behaviour regularly collaborate with external partners, either on specific of every individual Witteveen+Bos employee projects or in formal strategic alliances and joint ventures with can make the difference. The Company Code other leading consultancies and complementary organisations. describes our principles and how we do business at Witteveen+Bos, including our individual and Entrepreneurship and trust collective responsibilities to all our stakeholders. Our corporate culture is characterised by trust and scope for In addition to our own values and convictions, entrepreneurship. We work in an informal atmosphere and the Company Code is also based on the Ten employees feel engaged with the organisation. Together we Principles of the United Nations Global Compact are Witteveen+Bos – connected worldwide. It is essential that and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational everyone is enabled to excel at what he or she does, and that we Enterprises. offer an environment that promotes creativity and innovation. By pursuing mainly organic growth, we can retain our identity and Ownership safeguard our corporate culture. Witteveen+Bos has a noteworthy ownership structure. In 1992 an employee share ownership Clients system was introduced whereby the company Both publicand private-sector clients call on us to help resolve is wholly owned by its staff. This arrangement the challenges they face. We provide advice to contractors, provides a major incentive for staff engagement engineering and architectural firms, energy and water companies, and entrepreneurship. We aim to maintain a railway and port authorities, and industry. In the public sector, sound financial basis and stable profit levels. we work for national governments, water boards, and provincial Each year, 100 % of the net profit is disbursed and local authorities. Our activities cover the entire chain, from through a profit-sharing scheme for all employees policy-making and design to contracting and supervising the and dividend distribution to all shareholders. This performance of work. We aim to establish long-term relationships reflects a central tenet of the Witteveen+Bos with our clients that enable us to meet their needs and philosophy: everyone within the company expectations as effectively as possible while delivering maximum contributes to our success, and hence everyone added value. should derive the benefits of that success. 8 9 Organisation chart 31 December 2016 Board The Netherlands Africa, Europe and CIS countries Middle East South East Asia and of the Americas (Commonwealth of Australia Directors Independent States) Area Development Resilient Infrastructures Water and Urban Built Environment United Kingdom Development Dubai Buildings Business Line Environmental Law and Permits Planning studies and process management Urban development Ecology Water and Infrastructure W  ater and Infrastructure Water and Infrastructure Deltas, Coasts and Rivers Latvia Russia Indonesia Ports and Waterways Water and Infrastructure Singapore Business Line Flood Protections and Land Development International Technical Assistance Coasts, Rivers and Land Reclamation Hydraulic structures and Geotechnical engineering Water Management Waste Water Environmental solutions and Water and Environment Water and Environment Energy, Water and Environment Industry Belgium Kazakhstan Vietnam Assetmanagement Soil Remediation and Sustainable Business Line Land Management Drinking Water Industry and Energy Information Technology Integrated Contracts Infrastructure and Environment Infrastructure and Mobility Belgium Infrastructural Engineering Business Line Civil Structures for Railways Underground Infrastructure Smart Infra Systems Traffic and Roads Product-Market Combination (PMC) 10 11 OBJECTIVES Objective 2: Developing talent The materiality analysis also showed that Witteveen+Bos has a dual mission: we devise sustainable Witteveen+Bos can contribute to goals like quality solutions to complex challenges in the field of water, education, decent work and economic growth, infrastructure, the environment and construction, and we and reducing inequalities (G4-20 and G4-21*). We want to enable all our employees to excel. Together with our can do this by encouraging young people to study internal and external stakeholders, we investigated which technical subjects and contributing to high-quality concrete objectives we should set to fulfil our mission. technical education. Witteveen+Bos aims to be a good employer by promoting diversity and enabling Materiality analysis our employees to utilise their talents to the full. We performed a materiality analysis in early 2016 in order to define our objectives. Together with internal and external stakeholders, The materiality analysis showed that we effectively we investigated the key societal challenges that Witteveen+Bos fulfil our role as employer and that our contribution can help to address and the current contributions made by the in this area is close to the maximum. We remain company. The internal stakeholders are Witteveen+Bos employees: committed to training and developing top talent. We over 50 staff members were surveyed worldwide and we conducted recognise that room for improvement remains in several interviews. Key external stakeholders include clients, project the area of diversity, with respect to gender as well partners and civil-society organisations. We conducted seven as nationality. interviews with external stakeholders in total (G4-18*). Objective 3: Adding value through our United Nations Sustainable Development Goals business operations We have translated the findings of the materiality analysis to reflect As a company, we can contribute to the SDGs the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The of responsible consumption and production, SDGs constitute a global call to action to create a sustainable world climate action, and partnerships for the goals by by 2030. This exercise resulted in a materiality matrix that indicates improving our own operational processes (G4-20 the potential impact of our activities according to our internal and and G4-21*). Supporting sustainable business external stakeholders, as well as our current impact (see page 14 travel, reducing our CO2 emissions and promoting and 15). Corporate Social Responsibility in the supply chain are important ways to achieve these aims. Four main objectives The materiality matrix has resulted in four main objectives for The materiality analysis showed room for Witteveen+Bos: adding value through projects, developing talent, improvement with respect to business travel (both adding value through our business operations, and creating by car and by airplane). economic value (G4-19*). Objective 4: Creating economic value Objective 1: Adding value through projects As an international engineering and consultancy Executing projects is our core business. All stakeholders agree firm, we play a role in promoting economic growth that Witteveen+Bos can achieve the greatest impact by providing (G4-20 and G4-21*). Good financial results are not sustainable solutions in its projects (G4-20 and G4-21*). Through a goal in themselves, but are necessary to ensure our projects we can contribute towards SDGs like good health sufficient scope for innovation and other new and well-being, clean drinking water and sanitation, affordable developments and to invest in people. We therefore and clean energy, resilient infrastructure, sustainable cities and aim to realise a healthy net profit margin of at least communities, responsible consumption and production, conserving 8 % and an annual workforce and revenue growth life below water, conserving life on land, and partnerships for the of 3 to 5 %. goals. Internal and external stakeholders agree that One notable outcome of the materiality analysis is the potential Witteveen+Bos is already making close to its for improvement with respect to our projects: the difference maximum contribution to this goal. The challenge is between our maximum contribution to the relevant UN Sustainable to maintain our financial results at this level. Development Goals and our current contribution is considerable (on the order of magnitude of a factor of 2). Measuring and reporting on progress In the four chapters that follow, we report on our Our sustainable design principles are an important tool enabling us progress in realising these four objectives. In to maximise our contribution and truly embed sustainability in our order to measure the progress achieved, we have projects. In 2016 we therefore included a requirement in our Quality identified Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for Manual that the application of these principles must be considered each objective. in all projects. Our sustainable design principles are explained in detail on page 25 and may be summarised as follows: * To ensure transparency, we have prepared our Annual Nature-based design Report in accordance with the GRI G4 guidelines of Trias the Global Reporting Initiative. The main GRI indicators Circular design are stated in parentheses (G4-22). The information Multi-functional design concerning the involvement of stakeholders (G4-24, Flexible design G4-25, G4-26, and G4-27) is displayed on page 5. Participatory design The full GRI index is available on our website at www. Societal design witteveenbos.com/CR. 12 13 Witteveen+Bos potential impact on United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Witteveen+Bos current impact on United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Current impact according to our external stakeholders Potential impact according to our external stakeholders Potential impact according to our internal stakeholders Current impact to our internal stakeholders Our contribution to the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Objective 1: Taking human Providing clean Encouraging Promoting Contributing to Efficient and Combating Protecting the Protecting the Promoting public Adding value well-being as the water and access to innovation and sustainable cities sustainable use climate change environment and environment and participation and through starting point for sanitation affordable contributing and communities of materials and (mitigation) biodiversity and biodiversity and co-creation projects designs and reliable to sustainable designs aimed at and producing restoring natural restoring natural renewable industry and re-use adaptive designs habitats habitats energy infrastructure Objective 2: Training and Ensuring equal Ensuring Ensuring equal Developing developing top rights and good working rights and talent talent opportunities for conditions and opportunities for men and women social security our employees at Witteveen+Bos worldwide Objective 3: Responsible Reducing CO2 Promoting CSR Adding value supply chain emissions resulting throughout the through management from our own supply chain business operations and in operations the supply chain Objective 4: Ensuring a healthy Creating profit margin and economic value workforce and revenue growth 14 15 PROJECTS IN 2016 Russia United Kingdom Latvia The Netherlands (6 offices) Belgium (2 offices) Kazakhstan (3 offices) CIS countries Dubai Vietnam Ghana Middle East Singapore Indonesia South East Asia and Australia Africa, Europe and the Americas The Netherlands 3,085 projects Africa, Europe and the Americas 279 projects CIS countries 33 projects Witteveen+Bos projects Middle East 21 projects Witteveen+Bos offices (19) South East Asia and Australia 102 projects 1-4 4 10 10 20 20 50 50 80 110 140 > 3,000 projects Region classification 16 17 INTERVIEW Vestdijk Eindhoven The Netherlands Vestdijk is a major traffic artery which runs through the centre of Eindhoven, connecting the city with the outlying region. The local road infrastructure is now to be updated, partly with a view to meeting air quality standards and partly in line with the local authority’s vision for the future of the city centre. Some very complex choices must be made. After all, there are many stakeholders: residents, businesses and visitors, all with diverse and sometimes divergent interests. The Municipal Executive has announced that it will not finalise any decisions until all parties have been given an opportunity to present their views. In association with partners GriDD and TRIMM, Witteveen+Bos has designed and implemented an interactive ‘experiential’ website which provides information about the various alternatives and enables visitors to give their feedback. ‘Online consultation gives us a direct line to our stakeholders’ 18 19 ‘W ith this approach we are continually working on maximising value for our clients’ Edgar Rijsdijk is a Witteveen+Bos consultant its virtual reality (VR) model. ‘Residents, stakeholders’ comments and suggestions,’ and objectives at an early stage, results in a far better. That is an excellent outcome.’ only drawn on our technical expertise and our specialising in strategic stakeholder business owners and visitors see a very states Edgar. ‘We have far more input than we far clearer picture of what the project must set Jan Josten, project manager for the City of consultancy skills, but also focused on management. ‘Various ideas have been accurate 3D impression of the new situation, could possibly obtain during a traditional out to achieve. The designers then have a Eindhoven, agrees. ‘Everyone is extremely allowing stakeholders to truly experience the proposed for the redesign of the city centre,’ which can be viewed from all angles. They can consultation meeting, and we can act upon it specific framework within which to develop the satisfied. I speak not only on behalf of the city future situation in a 3D environment. We intend he explains. ‘Some people favour closing then appreciate the likely impact of the more quickly. This allows us to substantiate our various concepts. This has added value for all authority but also for the stakeholders who live to use virtual reality as a regular component of Vestdijk to through traffic, which will be proposals and can offer their feedback. This recommendations. Because so many concerned.’ or work along Vestdijk and those in the our public consultation processes in future. An rerouted around the periphery. Others suggest new form of digital stakeholder consultation stakeholders have had their say, the project is As Pieter-Bas adds, ‘In the past, the neighbouring districts. I gather that the people interactive website allows us to engage with all reducing the number of lanes and introducing supports two-way communication and allows likely to enjoy broader support. The municipal information gathered for this type of project did at Witteveen+Bos are equally satisfied. The stakeholders and conduct a direct discussion a 30 kph speed limit. Both options entail information to be exchanged quickly and authority’s original objective was to improve air not always address the problems that website has given us an extremely valuable about the impact of our designs and solutions. restructuring public spaces. We have launched easily.’ The public responses submitted quality and the quality of the human stakeholders were experiencing in practice. new communication channel through which we Those solutions will of course be based on an online information platform at www. through the website are collated in a environment for local residents. However, the This is bound to happen if you can only reach can maintain much more direct contacts with sound technical expertise. More dynamic beleefdevestdijk.nl which presents all the ‘requirements database’ which forms the online consultation revealed that water out to a limited number of stakeholders. our stakeholders. We hope to use this images and fewer long reports: this is how we options and collects feedback so that the local starting point of the design process. ‘Because management is also a major consideration for Consultation meetings are often poorly innovative approach to support future projects.’ are continually working on maximising value authority is aware of stakeholders’ opinions.’ the website has a direct interface with our many people. The project terms of reference attended. Our online platform for Vestdijk Edgar and Pieter-Bas are pleased with the for our clients.’ Pieter-Bas de Visser is the project leader who design systems, we are able to adapt the were therefore broadened. The structured demonstrates that we now understand the results. ‘It is of course marvellous to work with oversaw the development of the website and online presentation to incorporate process, with a direct coupling of requirements integrated process of consultation and design such a satisfied client. This project has not 20 21 OBJECTIVE 1: ADDING VALUE THROUGH PROJECTS We can conclude that good results are achieved: awareness of the sustainable design principles among our project According to our internal and external stakeholders, Witteveen+Bos leaders has increased substantially and the principles are can achieve the greatest impact by providing sustainable solutions in more frequently applied in projects. In 2016 we devoted less its projects. Our sustainable design principles are an important tool in attention to discussions of the principles elsewhere in the that regard. The materiality analysis we performed showed that we can chain. substantially increase our contribution to realising the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We therefore named our sustainable design This chapter describes different projects Witteveen+Bos principles as a company-wide spearhead for 2016. We also identified a worked on in 2016. Besides these projects we worked on the number of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to promote application of following innovations and initiatives. these principles. Innovation Project portfolio Throughout 2016, we continued to pursue innovation In 2016, Witteveen+Bos was involved in over 3,500 projects worldwide. In the in numerous areas. In hydraulic engineering and water beginning of the year there was a slight decrease in the ‘work in hand’ as a management, positive results can be seen in the form of the number of larger projects neared completion. Efforts to acquire new contracts Coastal Design Tool, several contributions to the ‘Building with were made and by the second half of the year we were once again engaged in Nature’ programme (including the Markerwadden project), and several high-profile projects in various parts of the world. There was an upturn in studies of primary flood defences conducted together with both consultancy and engineering work in relation to the circular economy, the Deltares. In the field of energy, we worked on innovations such energy transition, and climate adaptation. In addition, throughout 2016 many as the Energy & Raw Materials Factory, the hydrogen bromide colleagues worked on ongoing projects such as the NCOC water treatment plant flow battery, and the absorption of kinetic energy from bollards. in Kazakhstan, the Oosterweel Link in Belgium, ‘Room for the River’ in Kampen, Innovations in the field of safety include earthquake-resistant Zuidasdok in Amsterdam, and the Cargo Transportation Route in Kazakhstan. design principles, fire safety measures for use in buildings, and the Climada system for flood-related risk analysis. We Measuring progress are making ever greater use of digital technology and of 3D Our sustainable design principles help us to truly embed sustainability in computer simulations in all disciplines. We applied virtual projects. Using the KPIs listed in the table below, we measure the extent to reality to support planning and consultation procedures, and which we have succeeded in embedding these principles in our organisation and we are actively involved in a research project examining 3D applying them in projects. concrete printing at Eindhoven University of Technology. Initiatives As part of our anniversary, we organised a symposium on KPI 2016 Result climate in which we explored how to expand our collective contribution together with stakeholders and the value A properly substantiated discussion of the A survey held at the end of 2016 revealed chain. Witteveen+Bos is among the contributors to the Witteveen+Bos sustainable design that 90 % of project leaders are aware of Sustainability Tool (‘D-Tool’) platform. We are also represented principles must be included in all project the sustainable design principles, an on the administrative committee of the UN Global Compact plans, in accordance with the Quality increase of 55 % compared to the 2015 Netherlands Network, and a partner in the Human Cities Manual. figure. Moreover, 50 % of project leaders Coalition. In January 2017 our Managing Director Karin Sluis have actually applied those principles in one signed the ‘Green Deal 2.0’ of the Sustainable Infrastructure or more projects (an increase of 32 %). Project (‘Green Deal Duurzaam GWW’), confirming the company’s commitment to making a substantial contribution to Fifty project leaders are to attend at least Several meetings were held in 2016 to sustainable innovation. Since 2015 our director Henk Nieboer one internal ‘garage session’. These discuss the application of the principles has also been the director of EcoShape, the foundation sessions are held at least five times per within projects. In addition to the ‘garage which coordinates the ‘Building with Nature’ innovation year, and focus on fleshing out the design sessions’, there were lunchtime lectures, programme. He is concerned with the dissemination and principles and putting them into practice in courses and presentations on the principles. practical application of relevant knowledge. As a member of our projects. Approximately 350 project leaders attended the northern Netherlands section of the Dutch Association of one or more of these events. Consulting Engineers, Witteveen+Bos supports proposals to introduce a long-term innovation programme for this region of At least 50 external client assessments of Only a small number of client assessments the country. project results must be conducted, which expressly considered the sustainable focusing on the extent to which application design principles were held in 2016. It is Awards of the sustainable design principles in therefore not possible to determine whether Our ‘Building with Nature’ mangrove project, which is carried projects has added value for society. We satisfactory progress is being made. out within the consortium EcoShape, won the prestigious ‘De aim for an average score of at least Vernufteling’ innovation award for 2016. It is concerned with the ‘satisfactory’. restoration of mangrove forests along the coast of the Demak region of Java, Indonesia, which is achieved by constructing At least one ‘garage session’ is to be A meeting was held in October 2016 at semi-permeable dams. The jury’s report described the project organised where our main subcontractors which subcontractors discussed as ‘an innovative new use of an established concept, and one and partners are informed about and opportunities to incorporate these principles with great economic and societal impact. This natural form of involved in the application of the at various points in the project chain. breakwater could well prove valuable elsewhere. There are sustainable design principles by countless locations throughout the tropics where mangrove Witteveen+Bos. forests are under threat or have already disappeared.’ 22 23 SUSTAINABLE DESIGN PRINCIPLES Building with nature Natural processes that can have an impact on a project can be used to improve the design. Using a system analysis, we consider the project in a broader context. We determine the dominant processes, identify key factors that can influence these processes and identify Nature-based design effective measures. Get the most from your resource Within the Trias principle we limit and optimise the consumption of resources and energy. Together with the supply chain we aim to limit the need, to use renewable resources and to use non-renewable ones wisely. TRIAS Waste = resource We choose a circular approach to projects by closing energy and material cycles. Both within the project and within its surroundings. We draw up material recycling plans and design recyclingand upgrading routes based on the whole lifecycle. Circular design Fulfil multiple functions with one design With the multifunctional design principle we are looking for additional functions and optimal combination of functions that offer additional benefits. We enlarge the social added value by identifying these additional functions and provide insight into how these functions can be Multi-functional design achieved optimally. Designing for today and tomorrow A future-proof design is a design for today that can easily be adapted to the future, to meet the changing needs of people and different climatological circumstances. Life cycle analyses and future function analyses identify these conditions and make it possible to easily adapt Flexible design the design later. Working with the environment We include all stakeholders in working together on designing and improving our living environment. Because they bring in their knowledge and experience, the problem-solving ability and support to the plan and the process increases. Participatory design Combine technical and societal measures Designing for society is about combining technical en societal measures to achieve the project goals. We look for behavioural measures which are a supplement or alternative to realising the project goal or for socioeconomic barriers that interfere with the project goal. Societal design Contributing to #globalgoals with our sustainable design principles Scan the QR code and watch the movie www.witteveenbos.com/CR 24 25 25 + Making Croeselaan a sustainability icon For the city of Utrecht, Witteveen+Bos drew up the contract for reconfiguring Croeselaan – an important street in the city – so as to make it a sustainability icon. Together with stakeholders, local residents and contractors, Witteveen+Bos will examine what makes a street sustainable and future-proof, after which the contractor will start work on the reconfiguration in June 2017. Utrecht The Netherlands 26 26 27 + Creating the Eemshaven-West wind farm + Reinforcing the coastline by sand supplementation + Improving the use of PCLake/PCDitch models + On-site 3D concrete printing The Netherlands is working on a low-CO2 energy supply that is safe, reliable The Union of Water Authorities commissioned Witteveen+Bos to carry The ecological models called PCLake (for lakes) and PCDitch (for ditches and In 2016 Witteveen+Bos was commissioned to help engineer the and affordable. Wind energy plays a pivotal role in the transition to renewable out a feasibility study for the city of Pekalongan on the northern coast canals) define the most important ecological processes that occur in surface water. world’s first on-site 3D printed building: a laboratory for the Dubai energy. The national and provincial governments have agreed a wind energy of Java in Indonesia. The city is dogged by coastal erosion and parts of Use of the models yields an insight into natural processes. Using this insight makes Electricity and Water Authority. In addition a partnership with Dubox, target of 6,000 megawatts (MW) for 2020. The province of Groningen has the city experience daily flooding. Both are caused by soil subsidence it is possible to take effective measures to improve water quality. So PCLake and a contractor based in Dubai, was started. We are investing in the decided to develop wind farms within three concentration areas, including and poor management of water defences. Following the feasibility PCDitch have great potential for both Dutch and international water management. development and application of 3D printing in the construction Eemshaven-West. Initiators have developed several plans for the embodiment study, Witteveen+Bos recommended strengthening the coastline by Even so, the models were being used only on a limited scale. Witteveen+Bos industry, and want to gain insight into innovative production of this area. The plans overlap so they cannot all be carried out at the same means of sand supplementation. Witteveen+Bos further recommended identified the principal questions and barriers for using the models and subsequently methods and put them to use in our projects. Witteveen+Bos has time. To move the planning for the Eemshaven-West wind farm a step creating polders to hold back floods. Both solutions will increase the improved them based on case studies and scientific research. To do this therefore decided to take part in a large-scale study of 3D concrete further, the possibilities for wind energy are being examined in more detail. safety and welfare of the city’s residents. Additionally, they will create Witteveen+Bos cooperated intensively with the academic field (Netherlands Institute printing at Eindhoven University of Technology. Several other Witteveen+Bos conducted an environmental impact assessment for the national opportunities for productivity in the area. The solutions are based on of Ecology, Wageningen University and PBL Netherlands Environmental Assessment interesting initiatives and collaborative projects in this area were government, the Groningen provincial government and the municipality of understanding the system and on using natural processes efficiently in Agency) and parties in the field (water managers). The result is that the models have set up in 2016. We expect that these will result in a wide range of Eemsmond to explore various alternatives. accordance with the Building with Nature concept. been scientifically accepted and are being used far more often. international 3D concrete printing projects in 2017. Eemsmond The Netherlands Pekalongan Indonesia Various locations The Netherlands Dubai United Arab Emirates 28 29 + Covering a waste collection station + Improving soil by using river sludge + Emerging contaminants in soil and groundwater + Rezoning The Hague’s international zone The municipality of Nissewaard has brought together waste collection, River sludge is often regarded as waste and is dumped in landfills It is becoming increasingly clear that Belgium’s soil and groundwater contain a The Creative Industry Stimulation Fund engaged Witteveen+Bos, waste processing and other public space tasks in a company called or used for low-quality applications such as making lakes shallower. wide range of so called ‘emerging contaminants’. For several of these substances, Braaksma & Roos and The Cloud Collective to develop a N.V. Reinis. The existing site of Reinis is in an area earmarked for future However, sludge contains raw materials that may be valuable for there is insufficient information about the scope of the problem and the associated working method for a rezoning plan for vacant buildings in housing construction and needs to be relocated soon. As part of the improving the soil quality of agricultural land. Therefore, Rijkswaterstaat risks. In 2016, a consortium of Witteveen+Bos, MAVA and EnISSA was therefore the international zone in The Hague. Rezoning is often about establishment of the new waste collection station, Witteveen+Bos put (the Directorate-General for Public Works and Water Management) commissioned by the Flanders Public Waste Agency (OVAM) to conduct an physical restoration measures. In this plan, Witteveen+Bos forward proposals for an iconic and recognisable membrane covering initiated a project to explore opportunities for using river sludge as a exploratory study of the presence of 1,4-dioxane and Perfluorinated Alkylated explicitly devoted attention to socio-economic measures, such of the entrance and the small chemical waste depot. The covering soil improver. In cooperation with the Nutrient Management Institute, Substances (PFAS) in Flanders. Both types of contaminants are environmentally as responding to market scope to prevent cannibalisation. This consists of a number of roof elements made up of a steel frame with a Witteveen+Bos compiled a picture of the present market for soil persistent and difficult to clean up. Based on the study results, 1,4-dioxane was was reflected in the plan. Instead of opting for yet another hotel, tensioned membrane in between. This allows the use of a relatively light improvers. A workshop held with water managers, dredgers, agricultural included in a number of OVAM’s existing standard procedures. In 2017, a follow-up for example, it was decided to go for a food safety tribunal with roof with large spans, thus limiting usage of materials and transportation. cooperatives and fertiliser suppliers examined the opportunities that research study will be performed that will also devote attention to decontamination, societal gains for the city. The new purpose was selected based The design further made allowance for the building method: the steel exist for marketing river sludge. A business canvas was drawn up to policy and legal aspects. The PFAS project was set up in cooperation with Arcadis. In on interaction between building and area qualities. By using this structure can be erected in its entirety before the membranes are serve as a basis for further product and market development aimed at 2017, extensive field work and measurement campaigns will be performed as part of working method the societal gains for the city proved far higher installed. using river sludge as a raw material for improving soil. this project. compared with ‘ordinary’ rezoning. Spijkenisse The Netherlands Various locations The Netherlands Various locations Flanders The Hague The Netherlands 30 31 + Installing autonomous port electricity supplies + Supplying drinking water in a rural area + Improving traffic flow in Antwerp + Strengthening Markermeer dikes The Port of Rotterdam Authority manages mooring facilities that The Virunga National Park is situated on the dividing line between the The Oosterweel Link is a large infrastructure project aimed at completing the The national government and water authorities in the Netherlands are enable ships to load and unload safely. The mooring facilities Democratic Republic of Congo, Rwanda and Uganda. Local people live in Antwerp ring road and thereby improving traffic flow in Belgium’s largest port cooperating intensively in the Flood Protection Programme to get the are equipped with systems for lighting, capstans and data poverty and have only limited access to clean drinking water, because there city. It comprises works on the left and right bank of the River Scheldt, as well as country’s water defences back into good shape. The new Design Tools communication. The Port of Rotterdam Authority has a sustainability is little surface water and wells are scarce. What’s more, there are numerous a tunnel beneath the river. In 2016 work continued on the final designs, permit were used to develop methods to ensure that primary water defences ambition and wants to create mooring facilities with renewable energy regional conflicts, some stemming from the shortage of water. In a project called applications and specifications for all three route sections of this long-term satisfy new legal safety requirements introduced on 1 January without any connections to the grid. Witteveen+Bos produced design Water4Virunga, Witteveen+Bos is working on improving the water infrastructure project. The tender for the Scheldt Tunnel was prepared last year. A call for 2017. This new standardisation had already been applied in 2016 to specifications for more than thirty autonomous electricity supplies. in a consortium made up of Dutch and local companies, non-governmental tenders has now been issued for the works on the left bank. Calls for tenders for strengthen the Markermeer dikes. Large sections of the Markermeer This was done according to the ‘trias’ principle: reduce demand for organisations and universities. We are taking stock of the difficulties in the the Scheldt Tunnel and the right bank will follow in 2017. Preparatory works on dikes between Hoorn and Amsterdam do not meet safety requirements. energy, use a renewable source and utilise finite sources efficiently. current drinking water supply and, based on an inventory of the hydrology, are the right bank already started in 2016. Together with SWECO, Witteveen+Bos Together with partners and local residents, a tailor-made solution This resulted in stand-alone systems powered by solar energy. Over producing a design that will complement the existing infrastructure. The goal supervised works including the installation of the IJzerlaan Bridge, the was sought in which there was input from local residents as well as the past two years, these autonomous electricity supplies have been is to offer the entire rural area access to clean drinking water in the future. One construction of a number of deep shafts, and pipe-jacking works underneath the consideration of such matters as cultural history and flora and fauna. fitted to hawser and fender piles in the port. of the benefits of collaboration with local organisations is that they will acquire future expanded R1 ring road. This collaboration yielded numerous innovations, including a Dikes on knowledge of water management. Peat method and the Bank Dike concept. Rotterdam The Netherlands Antwerp Belgium Virunga National Park Rwanda Hoorn The Netherlands 32 33 + Utilising tie-in opportunities when strengthening dikes + Improving cycling and pedestrian infrastructure + Sewage station with maximum flexibility + Storing fresh water in rear banks The Limburg Water Authority is accelerating completion of the flood protection The Highland Council wants to turn Inverness into the ‘Green Capital’ The ageing Utrecht sewage station is being replaced. Witteveen+Bos is The Netherlands has a lot of fresh water in the IJsselmeer and programme in the Northern Meuse Valley. Arcadis and Witteveen+Bos of Scotland. Dutch and British Witteveen+Bos experts supported the supporting the Heijmans/GMB consortium with the design of the new station. Markermeer lakes. When the water level rises or becomes excessively were engaged to support the water authority in reinforcing fourteen dike local authority in preparing a bid document to apply for a subsidy from Besides stringent future discharge requirements, the station’s inner-city high, we discharge valuable fresh water into the sea, even though we sections in Northern and Central Limburg. We are performing explorations, UK charity Sustrans for improving the cycling and pedestrian network. location means there will be very tough requirements concerning odour and could need the water at times of shortage. To address this situation, providing support in managing the surroundings, drawing up plans/designs For this purpose we deployed our expertise in network planning, traffic noise, so a maximum effort is being made to come up with a flexible and futureRijkswaterstaat (Directorate-General for Public Works and Water and preparing the work necessary to carry them out. Customer wishes of design, landscape architecture, and communication strategies. In proof design. An innovative robust design has been drawn up, with maximum Management) developed together with Deltares a concept known as stakeholders were sought at various meetings and there was an examination addition, Witteveen+Bos organised a two-day workshop on participatory flexibility for coping with future changes. The new station will be equipped with ‘Rear Banks’, which involves flexibly managing the water level behind of tie-in opportunities, i.e. other projects that could be undertaken together design as well as a workshop on ‘Smart(er) Travel’. We also drew up a innovative modular phosphate-removing sand filters that can be upgraded the dike in order to distribute water in a smarter way spatially and with the strengthening of the dikes. Sustainability has been placed on signage vision document based on the Celtic Ogham alphabet, with the to a 1-STEP®Filter for more far-reaching removal of nitrogen and micro temporarily. We were engaged to examine the effects of different water the agenda by applying a sector-wide approach called ‘Sustainable Civil names of trees playing a central role. Dutch cycling expertise is reflected contaminants. Facilities have also been included to enable removal in future of level regimes on water safety, water storage, water quality and flora Engineering’. An example of a tie-in opportunity is the simultaneous tackling of in the design of a turbo roundabout and the application of bicycle a significant amount of suspended matter and smells. This will allow the sewage and fauna. By using Building with Nature solutions, more space has brook restoration projects. There are also projects concerning cultural history, boulevard profiles. station to produce clean water both now and in the years ahead. been created for water and nature. At the same time the quality of the water management and ecology and recreation. surroundings and climate-proofing were improved. Inverness Scotland Utrecht The Netherlands Northern Meuse Valley The Netherlands IJsselmeer and Markermeer The Netherlands 34 35 INTERVIEW Cargo Transportation Route Kazakhstan The Tengiz oilfield lies in a remote region of north-western Kazakhstan on the shores of the Caspian Sea. It is run by Tengizchevroil LLP (TCO), which wishes to increase the field’s capacity. New facilities must therefore be built. Prefabricated modules weighing up to approximately 2,000 tonnes each are to be transported to the region from all over the world. Witteveen+Bos has been commissioned to design the Cargo Transportation Route (CaTRo) which allows the modules to pass through the relatively shallow Caspian Sea on their way to the oilfield. This is a large and complex project with many challenges. ‘We can ensure that people are aware of the consequences of their decisions’ 36 37 ‘This is a project with a promising future for my country’ Aigul Mussakanova ‘This is a unique and challenging project for all colleagues involved. I learned a lot’ Tatyana Li ‘We have the knowledge, the tools and the moral obligation to work on sustainability in this project’ Rob Nieuwkamer ‘We must work hard and sometimes. Nevertheless, it is important to help and support each other’ At present, the region has limited length of 32 kilometres are to be built. For part Over two hundred Witteveen+Bos project on time and within budget, but also to either sustainable or it is not. That is a blackall are working for two principal clients. infrastructure and facilities. The CaTRo project of the route, the roads will pass along a new professionals are working on this mammoth ensure that the result is as sustainable as and-white approach yet there are many Teamwork is an essential success factor, will change all that. The vessels carrying the embankment of over 14 kilometres in length. task, both in the Netherlands and in possible. Dirk de Kramer, one of the shades of grey in between. The context is Egbert Teunissen stresses. ‘We must work modules have a draft of up to 3.5 metres. To A large terminal complex with water Kazakhstan. Egbert spends four weeks at a Witteveen+Bos experts working on the important. As engineers, we are not always in hard and sometimes we must also apply a allow them to make land as close to the Tengiz production and treatment facilities will also be time on site and four weeks in the project, cites several design aspects intended a position to decide exactly how the project tough, no-nonsense approach. Nevertheless, oilfield as possible, a 71-kilometre-long built, as well as accommodation for over 500 Netherlands, alternating with his colleague to maximise sustainability. ‘We decided to will take shape. We can, however, ensure that it is important to help and support each other navigation channel is to be constructed. The workers. Egbert Teunissen, project leader for Johan Lijftogt. The two men have a very close modify the shape and dimensions of the 32 people are aware of the consequences of their as much as possible. I find it inspiring to see channel will be 62 metres in width and Witteveen+Bos, is proud of the project team’s working relationship. ‘When you’re involved in artificial islands to facilitate fish migration, for decisions. We can suggest alternatives, and how team members are developing in terms of bordered by 32 large artificial islands. A new achievements to date. ‘There is so much to be such a demanding and challenging project, example. We have also proposed solutions we can give clear, valuable advice.’ professional skills and ability. Working on a port covering an area of some 15 hectares is done,’ he says. ‘This is an enormous project you really need a good partner,’ says Egbert. which will support ‘zero discharge policies’, The size and complexity of the project and the large and complex project such as CaTRo to be built on the north-eastern coast of the which involves rigid planning, complex ‘Johan and I have agreed that we can call and all material choices take account of the various challenges involved demand close supports personal development as well.’ Caspian Sea. It will have all the dockside organisation and numerous permit application each other at any time, day or night. transport distances.’ Making responsible cooperation and excellent communication. facilities needed to unload the heavy modules procedures. We have to remain flexible Sometimes you need a second opinion or choices on a project of this size will have an Alongside the huge Witteveen+Bos presence, safely. The final part of the journey is made because there are frequent modifications to perhaps you just want to talk things over.’ immediate impact, but Dirk sounds a note of the project involves fifteen subcontractors overland, for which new roads with a total the plans.’ The challenge is not only to complete the caution. ‘You can’t really say that a project is from no fewer than six different countries, and 38 39 OBJECTIVE 2: DEVELOPING TALENT In 2016 we achieved good scores on all KPIs. The average Talent Development Score of 7.7 indicates Developing top talent is a key objective of Witteveen+Bos. In its role as employer, that we make an effective contribution to the Witteveen+Bos provides jobs and contributes to economic growth. We are committed to development of our employees’ talents. Two-thirds of training and developing top talent, promoting diversity, and ensuring an adequate our staff have had a job performance interview in the inflow of technical professionals. According to our stakeholders we can increase our past two years, a figure that leaves room for contribution, particularly in the area of diversity. We are already recognised as a good improvement. employer and aim to maintain that status. In this chapter provide several colleagues show how Workforce they work on talent development. Besides the KPIs we On 31 December 2016, Witteveen+Bos had 1,029 employees worldwide (2016 average: 973 also pay attention to (internal) training activities FTEs worldwide). The average length of service in the Netherlands was 10.8 years (2015: 7.6 outside the regular work and employee participation. years). These and other personnel key figures may be found on pages 43 and 44. Knowledge development and training Measuring progress Witteveen+Bos hires talented employees who Employee development occurs mainly through ‘learning and coaching on the job’. Conducting continue their professional and personal development job performance interviews is an important way to discuss talent development with all within our company and become experts in their field, employees. We support career development opportunities for female employees and aim to ensuring that the firm remains a dynamic and realise an appropriate male/female ratio. We involve young people in our company and ensure constantly learning organization. Management an adequate inflow of technical professionals by hosting interns and final-year students. positions are filled by means of internal promotion. We aim to apply this policy worldwide, and have now The Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) listed in the table below have been carefully selected to appointed local staff to all group leader positions in measure our progress in achieving our objective of developing talent. Indonesia, for instance. Witteveen+Bos has a system of in-company training courses for its employees. The company also contributes financially to relevant KPI 2016 Result external courses of study undertaken by employees and to external seminars, workshops and training Job performance interviews are to be held with at In 2016, 66 % of all employees in the Netherlands sessions. In 2016 Witteveen+Bos spent 511,375 euros least 80 % of all employees who have been with the had a job performance interview in the past two on leadership and employee development. company for one to two years, and with at least 50 years. In addition, 15 % of all employees in the % of all employees who have worked at Netherlands had a career interview with their line Activities Witteveen+Bos for two to ten years. manager in the past five years. We have achieved Having fun both on and off the job is important at a good result for this KPI, although room for Witteveen+Bos. We therefore organise various improvement remains. activities where employees can get to know each other outside work. Special extracurricular activities are A ‘Talent Development Score’ is to be included in all A survey among Witteveen+Bos project leaders provided for employees who have been with job performance reviews. Employees can use this worldwide (with a response rate of 53 %) yielded an Witteveen+Bos for less than three years (known as metric to indicate whether they have been given average Talent Development Score of 7.7. The target ‘neWBies’), such as a weekend trip to Paris to offer every opportunity to utilise and develop their for this KPI has therefore been achieved. advice on the redevelopment of a former industrial talents. We aim for an average score of at least estate. We are a sports-minded organisation and ‘satisfactory’. company teams regularly participate in running and rowing events. As in previous years, we set up an We aim for female employees to account for 25 % In 2016 Witteveen+Bos appointed four new partners outdoor café during ‘Deventer op Stelten’, an of future partner nominations, a male-female ratio at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders: international outdoor theatre festival held every that corresponds to the ratio among new colleagues three men and one woman. The overall male-female summer in Deventer. Nearly one thousand employees joining the company. ratio in the company was therefore reflected in our and business relations and their family members partner nominations in 2016. visited the outdoor café, with drinks and refreshments provided by local start-up companies. The The increase in the number of interns and final-year In 2016 Witteveen+Bos hosted more interns and Witteveen+Bos Art+Technology Award is presented students must at least keep step with the growth of final-year students (191) than in 2015 (174). We have every year to honour creativity, which plays such a key our company. therefore more than realised our target for this KPI. role in the work of engineers as well as artists. In 2016 fashion designer Iris van Herpen won the prize for her Witteveen+Bos is to organise at least five business In 2016 we organised six business courses in total: innovative oeuvre. The opening of the accompanying courses for students every year. two for university students and four for students at exhibition of her work was attended by over 300 Every year, Witteveen+Bos is to organise at least institutes of higher vocational education. The target employees and business relations, while the exhibition three events aimed at the general public. for this KPI has therefore been achieved. itself was visited by approximately 9,500 people. The company participated in various activities and events aimed at raising awareness and involving the Works Council public in engineering as a discipline and profession: In 2016 the Council made some changes to its ‘Engineering Week’ for primary school pupils communication arrangements, for instance by making Careers guidance evening for secondary school reports available via the intranet and organising walkpupils at Etty Hillesum Lyceum in days at all offices. In addition, the Works Council ‘Girls Day’ for secondary school pupils offered advice in early 2016 on the appointment of the Zabuki Science Café for children Supervisory Board and reviewed the Witteveen+Bos Employee Regulations. 40 41 PERSONNEL KEY FIGURES Number of employees in Full-Time Equivalents (FTEs) (as of 31 December 2016) 2016 952 2015 985 2014 899 2013 875 2012 860 Number of employees (as of 31 December 2016) 2016 1,029 2015 1,056 2014 977 2013 967 2012 935 Male/female ratio* (as of 31 December 2016) 2016 70 % male 30 % female 2015 73 % male 27 % female 2014 71 % male 29 % female 2013 74 % male 26 % female 2012 75 % male 25 % female * This is the male/female ratio from the number of employees worldwide (2012-2013: male/female ratio in the Netherlands only) Level of education (The Netherlands) 2016 50 % University 32 % Higher Voc-ed* 18 % Intermediate Voc-ed* 2015 48 % University 33 % Higher Voc-ed* 19 % Intermediate Voc-ed* 2014 46 % University 34 % Higher Voc-ed* 20 % Intermediate Voc-ed* 2013 45 % University 33 % Higher Voc-ed* 22 % Intermediate Voc-ed* 2012 43 % University 34 % Higher Voc-ed* 23 % Intermediate Voc-ed* * Voc-ed = vocational education Staff age distribution in 2016 3 % is over 60 years of age 25 % is under 30 years of age 23 % is between 45 and 59 years of age Average age in 2016 38 years 49 % is between 30 and 44 years of age Sick leave rate (The Netherlands) 2016 2.9 % 2015 2.9 % 2014 2.7 % 2013 2.6 % 2012 3.3 % 42 43 + Tackling the Southern Ring Road in Groningen In-company training and education and number of interns / final-year students (The Nederland) The city of Groningen has grown significantly in recent years and is expected to continue growing for the time being. This is clearly noticeable on the southern ring road, an important traffic artery to and from the city and for traffic bypassing Groningen. Traffic flow and road safety have deteriorated 2016 2015 2014 because of the increased traffic. The result is traffic congestion, more accidents and less mobility for local offices, districts and industrial sites. The Southern Ring Plan of Action is designed to make the city and region more accessible in the years ahead, ensure a liveable environment and Number of employees who received in-company training of education 652 489 457 increase road safety. The work is being carried out by the Herepoort group and is scheduled to take place between 2016 and 2021. Witteveen+Bos is Money spent on training and education per employee (in euros) 607 559 544 acting as the consultant of the contracting group. Number of interns and final-year students* 191 174 112 Groningen The Netherlands * Measurements of 2014 are based on the numbers available until 31 December 2014. Measurements of 2015 and 2016 are based on the number of interns and final-year students in those years. Employee turnover by age group and gender 2016 (worldwide) 2015 (worldwide) 2015 (NL) 2014 (NL) Employees leaving 125 100 69 77 Male employees leaving 79 59 48 47 Female employees leaving 46 41 21 30 Employees below the age of 30 leaving 30 24 12 17 Employees in the age of 30 to 45 leaving 71 58 43 48 Employees over the age of 45 leaving 24 18 14 12 Average number of years with the company 7.9 5.7 7.6 8.7 Total workforce by employment type (full-time and part-time), employment contract (temporary and permanent), and country (31 December 2016) 2016 (worldwide) 2015 2014 Full-time 664 548 529 Part-time 365 321 325 Fixed-term contract 111 93 91 Indefinite-term contract 918 776 763 The Netherlands 842 869 854 Belgium (including MAVA AES N.V. as of 2015) 61 66 13 Dubai 5 7 1 Ghana 5 Indonesia 31 37 28 Kazakhstan 67 71 67 Latvia 6 8 8 Russia 1 3 2 Singapore 6 6 2 United Kingdom 3 2 Vietnam 2 2 2 Total number of employees worldwide 1,029 1,056 977 Total workforce in The Netherlands (FTEs) 766 809 780 Total workforce worldwide (FTEs) 952 985 899 44 Room to plan INTERVIEW your own career Hannie Dierx Hannie Dierx is location head of the Witteveen+Bos office in The Hague, where she also leads the Environment and Industry group. She also has a busy home life as the mother of two young children, and is currently expecting two more: twins! Hannie enjoys her work because it allows her to contribute to important and interesting projects. She has allowed her career to develop almost organically, without a rigid plan. Hannie studied Aerospace Engineering at focusing exclusively on the current project, I and wishes to expand, it is likely to find itself Delft University of Technology, graduating in now tend to look ahead as well.’ facing all sorts of government rules and 2003. She then joined a small, specialist It is during actual projects that most regulations. I can really make the difference. engineering consultancy. She worked here knowledge development, and indeed most I think it is marvellous that Witteveen+Bos with much pleasure for five years. The move personal development, takes place. Hannie doesn’t restrict itself to huge mega-projects to Witteveen+Bos was prompted by a desire regards ‘learning on the job’ as an intrinsic but will also work for the SME sector.’ to broaden her horizons. ‘I had already heard aspect of project work and of the quite a lot about the company. I found its Witteveen+Bos culture. ‘The most effective ‘The invitation to take over as location head informal culture and strong connection with way to learn something is by doing it,’ she in The Hague came as something of a its ‘roots’ particularly appealing. I have since contends. ‘No child learns to walk by reading surprise to me, but apparently not to one of worked at several PMCs and groups. a book. You can expect to stumble my former colleagues. She recalled the first Everyone here has the opportunity to occasionally. However, there is a complex staff barbecue I attended, at which I explore their talents and interests, but career field of clients and colleagues, and projects questioned our then location head Matthew development is also a personal often have tight budgetary and scheduling about how one gets the job. By discussing responsibility. You have to be proactive. requirements. It is therefore not ideal if you things you sow the seed of an idea and There have been occasions on which I fall over too often.’ eventually something may grow out of it. applied to join a different department, but As group leader, Hannie prefers to coach That is how the ‘innovation hub’ meetings at sometimes I was transferred by the her team members from the sidelines. our office started. Six students visit every organisation as part of its own development ‘Again, most coaching takes place in the Wednesday afternoon for six months to processes. I know that I am always among context of actual projects. I hold a discuss various themes and topics with staff. friends, regardless of where I am actually performance appraisal interview with every It all began with a brainwave I had while working. My colleagues are people I can rely member of the group at least once a year. I cycling past the Parade festival site and on. They are willing to help and are a consider this important. I also think it is wondering how something like this could pleasure to be around. I feel even more necessary because everything changes so support the circular economy. A few weeks engaged with the company as a result. We quickly these days. You will start to lose earlier I had been at Delft University of do everything as a team!’ people if you don’t keep up.’ Technology to explore whether there was any opportunity for interaction with the Witteveen+Bos staff are all co-owners of the Hannie sees the company’s sustainability students. Sharing thoughts and ideas with company. In 2016, Hannie was invited to objectives as very high ideals. She prefers to colleagues spawned a new initiative. The become a partner and to increase her focus on a lower level of scale. ‘Everyone innovation hub is our way of actively shareholding. She did not hesitate for a has their own natural talents. You owe it to exploring new ideas and sharing our moment. ‘I really believe in this company and yourself and others to use those talents to knowledge with the next generation. When I believe that working together enables us to contribute to society. I like to help the people something comes together like this, you overcome any difficulty. Being a partner around me. In a professional capacity, I find know it’s a good thing, and that makes me brings greater responsibility, both to the it particularly gratifying to advise small family happy.’ company and to myself. Rather than companies. If a small company flourishes ‘I think conducting job performance interviews is important and necessary’ 46 47 INTERVIEW Freedom and personal Developing the talent Developing and Sustainable responsibility of team members transferring knowledge entrepreneurship Robert de Boer Daniyar Kaliyev Leonie Koops Maarten Schäffner ‘I was introduced to Witteveen+Bos while still studying hydraulic engineering at ‘In 2013, I successfully applied to join Witteveen+Bos in ‘Do what you enjoy and do it with conviction, I always say. That ‘The CSR team has done so much to embed sustainable enterprise university. I took part in various activities including a business course. Once I Kazakhstan. I wanted to expand my knowledge of design way, you will inspire others and maximise your own value. I like to into the organisation in recent years, and I am very proud to have had finished my graduation thesis, for which I won the Hydraulic Engineering engineering, and I was keen to become part of a large, work in a challenging environment, and at Witteveen+Bos I have been part of it. This is the perfect time to develop methods which Prize 2016, I applied to join Witteveen+Bos in the Netherlands. I am now professional and successful organisation. I have learned much been able to do just that in various positions, at various offices and will maximise the sustainability of all projects. There is increasing involved in the design and assessment of water defences such as dykes. I from my colleagues and have earned several certificates issued on various projects. The sheer diversity of my work has allowed me support for such methods, which bodes well for the future. I really really like this company’s no-nonsense approach and the fact that it is such a by clients. I am now a group leader. I think it is very important for to develop an extensive network of contacts, both internal and appreciate being allowed to develop my personal ideas. I joined level organisation. Even though I am only starting out on my engineering everyone in the team to have opportunities for development. For external. I am currently working towards a doctorate at Delft various partners in creating the ‘D-Tool’ sustainability platform. It career, I am given quite a lot of freedom and I already have considerable me, working in a team is like being part of a family: everyone University of Technology. I really enjoy developing and sharing offers a set of instruments which make sustainability tangible and personal responsibility. I appreciate the career development opportunities, and supports and motivates each other, and they ensure that the knowledge, and I think it is very important to do so. This is why I measurable. It was a huge honour to be named Employee of the the fact that I can decide for myself which direction I want my career to take. I members of the family can grow as they wish. At Witteveen+Bos, frequently lecture on ‘project complexity’ and I also supervise Year in recognition of my efforts in this area. I see the title as an am currently part of a team which is developing a Virtual Reality tool. It will we are able to gain experience working on major international students’ graduation projects. Together with a colleague, I have set incentive to continue the process of embedding Corporate Social allow stakeholders such as local residents and policy-makers to be involved in projects. I think that is a huge advantage. We are aware of each up a research programme in which we collate various initiatives Responsibility in our projects and in our own business operations. the dyke design process and to influence the decisions made by designers. I other’s talents and we think about ways in which to develop those throughout the company, share knowledge, and link that Particular attention is devoted to the projects, because it is here find it very motivating to be involved in developing innovations such as this.’ talents to the full.’ knowledge to the actual requirements of our clients.’ that the societal impact of our work is most evident.’ 48 49 OBJECTIVE 3: ADDING VALUE THROUGH OUR Initiatives BUSINESS OPERATIONS In 2016, a pilot project involving the hydrogen bromide flow battery was officially launched. Witteveen+Bos can also contribute to the realisation of the United Nations This new type of battery offers a relatively Sustainable Development Goals by reducing the environmental impact inexpensive means of storing electricity, thus of our own business operations and operational processes. We seek to enabling renewable energy from solar panels achieve this aim through measures such as promoting sustainable business and wind turbines to compete favourably with travel and the reduction of CO2 emissions throughout the supply chain. that generated from the combustion of fossil fuels. We also worked on ongoing initiatives CO2 footprint intended to reduce the adverse environmental Every year we calculate our CO2 footprint in order to gain insight into the CO2 impact of our regular business operations. emissions resulting from our company’s activities. The footprint for 2016 has been At the Witteveen+Bos office in The Hague, calculated using the standard conversion factors provided on the website www. for example, staff have introduced their own co2emissiefactoren.nl. Since 2014, we have also included the emissions of our waste separation arrangements. In Amsterdam, international offices (in accordance with GRI disclosure requirement G4-23). ‘Meatless Monday’ has been introduced with a Values relating to offices outside the Netherlands have been extrapolated from the view to reducing the CO2 footprint. data collected in Jakarta and the Netherlands itself. The reported CO2 footprint per FTE relates to all Witteveen+Bos employees worldwide. Measures In 2016 work continued on concrete measures Measuring progress to further reduce CO2 emissions (G4-19). Progress in reducing our environmental impact is measured based on the Key These measures to reduce greenhouse gases Performance Indicators (KPIs) listed in the table below. as detailed in a separately published footprint (see www.witteveenbos.nl/mvo). Some of these are explained below. KPI 2016 Result In 2017, the office location in Deventer on Our CO2 emissions reduction is in line with In 2016, a per capita reduction of 25 % was Leeuwenbrug is being renovated. During the overall target of a 30 % reduction by achieved (compared to the reference year the preparatory building work, all staff will 2020 (compared to the reference year 2007). 2007). We are therefore on track to meet the use the Stationsplein location. Once the target of a 30 % reduction by 2020. Leeuwenbrug office is completed in 2018, staff will relocate here. During the modernisation of Engage in dialogue with our five main In 2016, three meetings were held with the Leeuwenbrug office, particular attention will suppliers about achieving CO2 emissions suppliers to discuss the reduction of CO2 be devoted to energy efficiency. Insulation of reduction throughout the supply chain. emissions at various points in the chain. both the roof and the floors is to be improved, and double glazing will be installed where Maintain our CO2 Awareness Certificate at Our certification at Level 5 of the CO2 not already in place. This will reduce gas Level 5 of the SKAO CO2 Performance Performance Ladder was renewed in 2016. consumption for heating. The installation of Ladder, and obtain certification in ‘smart’ lighting will also reduce electricity accordance with the new Quality Manual. consumption for lighting by over 50 %. The ‘PLUSwerken’ concept is to be rolled We conclude that we are on track to achieve our emissions reduction. Further out to the Leeuwenbrug location in Deventer reduction measures were introduced in 2016, including the implementation of as well. The offices in Rotterdam and The flexible project-based working arrangements in Breda and active encouragement Hague will follow in due course. For this of videoconferencing to reduce the travel requirement. Witteveen+Bos has purpose, preparations will be made in 2017. adopted the company-wide use of laptop computers in preference to desktop PCs. We shall continue to actively promote the use Staff are more mobile as a result and no longer need to attend the office every day, of videoconferencing for meetings in order to which also reduces the travel requirement. reduce the travel requirement. Facilities are to be expanded accordingly. Unfortunately, it has not yet been possible to schedule meetings with all five of our main suppliers to discuss CO2 emissions reduction at various points in the chain. Each year, some of the company’s vehicles Three such meetings were held during the year under review. We nevertheless will be replaced by electric or hybrid models. recognise the importance of dialogue and will therefore strive to hold five meetings Charging points have been installed in the car in 2017. park of the Leeuwenbrug office in Deventer. The CO2 Performance Ladder is an instrument which encourages environmental To encourage the use of public transport and awareness on the part of private-sector companies, both in their own business hence reduce reliance on employees’ own cars, operations and their projects on behalf of clients. We are proud to have retained Witteveen+Bos offered NS (Rail) Business full certification (in the form of the CO2 Awareness Certificate) at Level 5 of the Cards to a number of staff in 2016. The Performance Ladder. The underlying key figures may be found on pages 53 and 54 intention is that all staff should be able to avail of this Annual Report. themselves of this opportunity by 2018. Besides the activities of KPIs, we have launched several initiatives in 2016 for a sustainable business and we have mapped out the measures that should lead us to achieve the desired reduction in CO2 emissions by 2020. 50 51 BUSINESS OPERATIONS KEY FIGURES 2016 Energy consumption * 2016 2015 District heating (hot water in gigajoule) 88 143 Gas consumption in office buildings (m3) 279,350 250,977 Electricity consumption (kWh) 1,572,423 1,591,193 Air travel (km) 6,468,977 8,705,177 Paper use (kg)** 28,778 33,081 Use of private cars for business purposes (km)*** 3,745,015 3.240,101 Use of company cars for business purposes (km)*** 20,722 20,281 Use of company cars for business purposes (litres of fuel) 261,808 282,995 Use of company cars for commuting purposes (km)*** 363,389 332,180 Use of private cars for commuting purposes (km)*** 2,873,840 2,633,642 Use of public transport (km) 7,718,199 7,125,765 Use of public transport for business purposes 2,432,059 Use of public transport for commuting purposes 5,286,140 * This is the total energy consumption of all Witteveen+Bos offices worldwide. The figures were calculated based on data collected for our offices in the Netherlands and Jakarta, Indonesia. The figures for the other offices have been extrapolated based on the data for the offices in the Netherlands and Jakarta. ** This category only includes office paper; printed books and brochures are excluded. *** For our carbon emissions inventory, we use the following units: litres of fuel for the use of company cars for business purposes, kilometres for the use of hybrid cars for business purposes, and kilometres for the use of private cars for business and commuting purposes. Emissions per scope in tonnes of CO2 2016 2015 2007* Scope 1 Use of company cars for business purposes 809 861 628 Gas consumption 527 473 266 Subtotal for scope 1 1,336 1,334 894 Scope 2 Electricity consumption 11 10 981 Air travel 978 1,430 645 District heating 1 2 Use of private cars for business purposes 749 656 657 Use of public transport for business purposes 107 74 66 Subtotal for scope 2 1,846 2,171 2,349 Scope 3 Paper use 3 3 4 Use of private cars for commuting purposes 573 532 392 Use of public transport for commuting purposes 261 240 214 Use of company cars for commuting purposes 69 64 91 Subtotal for scope 3 906 839 701 Total for scope 1, 2, 3 4,089 4,345 3,944 + The Healthy City * This footprint was calculated based on data for the Netherlands Ensuring a healthy environment in times of population growth is one of the challenges facing world cities like Singapore. ‘Healthy City’ is a concept designed to improve factors that influence health, such as air quality, noise nuisance, safety, inspiration and happiness. Among other things, a healthy city encourages its residents to adopt an active lifestyle. This requires a shift from the current, car-dominated urban infrastructure to an infrastructure that is geared more to pedestrians and cyclists. In Singapore we are working to achieve such a transformation in the district of Ang Mo Kio, which has approx. 175,000 residents. We are developing a cycling network that will turn the district into Singapore’s first ‘Walking and Cycling Town’. Ang Mo Kio Singapore 52 53 53 Emissions per activity in tonnes of CO2 06 % use of public transport for commuting purposes 03 % use of public transport for business purposes 20 % use of company cars for business purposes <1 % paper 13 % heating <1 % electricity 18 % use of private cars for business purposes 14 % use of private cars for commuting purposes 2 % use of company cars for commuting purposes 24 % business travel by airplane Emissions per FTE in tonnes of CO2 2016 952 4.30 2015 985 4.41 2014 899 4.66 2007* 690 5.72 Number of employees (annual average in FTEs) Emissions per FTE * This concerns emmisions per FTE in tonnes CO2 based on national FTE data. CO2-emmisions reduction schedule up to 2020 2020 30 % 2019 29 % 2018 28 % 2017 27 % 2016 26 % 25 % 2015 25 % 23 % Reduction planned compared to 2007 levels Reduction archieved compared to 2007 levels 54 OBJECTIVE 4: CREATING ECONOMIC VALUE AUDITOR’S REPORT Witteveen+Bos aims to realise healthy financial results. A sound financial basis is an important The annual results for 2016 presented precondition that enables the company to create value for our stakeholders in the long term and on page 59 and 61, which comprise the contribute to economic growth. consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2016, the consolidated profitMeasuring progress and-loss account and the accompanying Our stakeholders indicate that Witteveen+Bos is already making close to its maximum contribution to this notes, are derived from the audited financial goal. In order to maintain our contribution at the present level, we have set the target of a net profit margin of statements of Witteveen+Bos N.V. for 2016. at least 8 % per year and an annual workforce and revenue growth of 3 to 5 %. We expressed an unqualified audit opinion on those financial statements in our report dated 15 March 2017. Those financial statements, KPI 2016 Result and the summarised annual results, do not reflect the effects of events that occurred Annual revenue growth of 3 to 5 % In financial year 2016, Witteveen+Bos N.V. realised a revenue of subsequent to the date of our report on those 137.1 million euros, an increase of 5.8 % compared to 2015 (2015: financial statements (15 March 2017). 129.6 million euros). The summarised annual results for 2016 Annual workforce growth of 3 to 5 % The workforce contracted slightly from 1,056 to 1,029 employees. do not contain all the disclosures required This decrease occurred in the Netherlands. by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Reading the summary financial statements for Annual net profit margin of at least 8 % The net result in 2016 amounted to 15.7 million euros, yielding a net 2016, therefore, is not a substitute for reading profit margin of 11.5 %. This means that the quality of our profits the audited financial statements for 2016 of improved compared to 2015 (when the net result amounted to 14.3 Witteveen+Bos N.V. million euros and the net profit margin was 11.1 %). Responsibility of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of a summary of the audited We are satisfied with these KPI results. Revenue was slightly below target in the first six months of the year financial statements on the basis of the due to a decreasing work portfolio and declining productivity. The size of the workforce reflected these principles described in the notes to the developments and therefore contracted in the first half of 2016. With our work portfolio and productivity once consolidated annual results for 2016. again increasing in the third quarter, workforce and revenue growth resumed. The financial key figures may be found on page 59 and 60. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion Price of Witteveen+Bos N.V. share on the summarised annual results based The Witteveen+Bos N.V. share price increased during the year under review, and amounted to 6.33 euro on on our procedures, which were conducted 1 July 2016 (up from 5.99 euro on 1 July 2015). Stable profits and therefore stable dividends are important in accordance with Dutch law, including for the financing of the shares. In the longer term this allows Witteveen+Bos to finance its growth partly by the Dutch Standard on Auditing 810 issuing shares, in addition to taking out bank loans. ‘Engagements to report on summary financial statements’. Financial ratios The balance sheet total increased compared to 2015, mainly as a result of an increase in cash and cash Opinion equivalents and short-term liabilities. On balance, the solvency rate decreased from 46.6 % in 2015 to 44.4 % In our opinion, the summarised annual results in 2016. for 2016 derived from the audited financial statements of Witteveen+Bos N.V. for the year Integrated projects (particularly large-scale projects) are still having a significant impact on our working ended 31 December 2016 are consistent, capital. The total of non-invoiced expenditure (less provisions) and outstanding receivables amounted to 32.5 in all material respects, with those financial million euros, accounting for approximately 23 % of expenditure in the financial year under review. statements, in accordance with the principles described in the notes to the consolidated Risk management annual results. Witteveen+Bos is involved in a wide range of smalland large-scale integrated projects all over the world. These projects have a substantial impact on the organisation and on our financial ratios, and result in a Zwolle, the Netherlands, 3 April 2017 number of specific risks and points for attention. Overall, Witteveen+Bos takes a cautious approach to risk management. In our projects, we aim to limit our liability towards our clients to a reasonable extent. Deloitte Accountants B.V. Continuous monitoring of projects and contracts helps us to comply with our risk mitigation policy. To limit M.H.J. Klein Haarhuis RA foreign currency risks, contracts are concluded in euros or US dollars as far as possible. Furthermore, contracts with subcontractors are concluded in the same currency whenever possible. The shareholders’ equity includes a reserve of approximately 3.3 million euros for translation differences as a result of currency devaluation in the previous financial year in countries where Witteveen+Bos is active. Most of these negative translation differences have been eliminated in 2015 and 2016 by post-calculating any outstanding amounts in local currencies, based on the exchange rate applicable at the time the contract was concluded. To optimise control of our financial risks, we worked with BST Global in 2016 to develop an entirely new financial management and project accounting system. The new system, known as BST10, was successfully implemented in mid-February 2017. Colleagues all over the world can now collaborate and use this integrated system to perform project accounting and financial administration tasks for the various entities. 56 57 + Building a movable cycle bridge for an industrial port SUMMARISED ANNUAL RESULTS 2016 The city of Haarlem is creating a fast and safe cycling route between the city centre and the Waarderpolder across the industrial port in order to increase the polder’s accessibility and attractiveness. A new movable cycling bridge CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (before profit appropriation) will interconnect the areas known as Nieuwe Energie and Figeeterrein. The configuration of Hendrik Figeeweg 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 will also be modernised and the cycling route will be connected to the existing infrastructure. As some companies Assets at the industrial port rely on waterborne transport, it was decided to build a movable bridge. When preparing the design, Witteveen+Bos also drew up the contract and sought a balanced bridge, with the least possible energy Intangible fixed assets 2,830 1,448 consumption and the best possible use of gravity as an infinite source of energy. The movable cycling bridge looks Tangible fixed assets 14,250 14,818 impressive and has a clear silhouette excellently suited to the surrounding area. Financial fixed assets + 3,967 3,807 Haarlem The Netherlands Fixed assets 21,047 20,073 Work in progress 4,838 8,762 Accounts receivable 30,246 26,972 Cash and cash equivalents + 16,524 6,429 Current assets + 51,608 42,163 72,655 62,236 Liabilities Group equity 32,280 29,002 Provisions 4,825 4,755 Long-term liabilities 5,469 5,844 Current liabilities + 30,081 22,635 Total liabilities + 35,550 28,479 72,655 62,236 CONSOLIDATED PROFIT-AND-LOSS ACCOUNT 2016 2015 Net turnover Net turnover including changes in work in progress 137,112 129,567 Costs Subcontracted work 32,406 34,006 Salaries and wages 48,878 46,797 Social security and pension premiums 11,510 11,544 Depreciation of (in)tangible fixed assets 1,871 1,780 Other changes in the value of (in)tangible fixed assets 510 0 Other operating costs + 20,957 15,897 116,132 110,024 Operating result 20,980 19,543 Interest paid (on balance) 257 284 Result before taxation 20,723 19,259 Results of other participations + 95 7 Result before taxation 20,818 19,252 (including other participations) Taxation 5,068 4,904 Net profit 15,750 14,348 (amounts in thousands of euros) 59 FINANCIAL KEY FIGURES NOTES TO THE ANNUAL RESULTS 2016 Turnover (in thousands of euros) This Integrated Annual Report contains the balance sheet and the profit-and-loss account of Witteveen+Bos N.V., and sets 2016 137,112 out the general principles for preparing the consolidated annual 2015 129,567 results (G4-17). To obtain a complete insight into the assets 2014 119,069 and the results of Witteveen+Bos N.V., the reader is advised 2013 110,958 to inspect the consolidated annual results for 2016 filed at the 2012 99,386 Trade Register of the Enschede Chamber of Commerce. Preparation of the consolidated annual results Operating result before interest and taxes (in thousands of euros) The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. They are based on 2016 20,980 historical costs, with the exception of buildings and land, which 2015 19,536 are valued at current cost (i.e. current purchase price). 2014 20,291 2013 19,243 Consolidation 2012 12,456 Insofar as actual policy-making influence exists, subsidiaries have been included in the consolidated annual accounts. Joint ventures have been consolidated in proportion to the share held Net profit (in thousands of euros) in the company. 2016 15,750 Principles for the valuation of assets and liabilities 2015 14,348 Land and buildings are valued at current cost (i.e. current 2014 15,274 purchase price). The current purchase price is based on the 2013 14,160 amount that would be paid to acquire the building on the 2012 9,830 revaluation date if the building had the same age as it did at the time of the original acquisition, plus the estimated current additional costs of acquisition. The current purchase price is Net profit margin (in %) determined on the basis of periodic valuations. Depreciation of fixed assets is based on the estimated economic life. 2016 11.5 % Financial fixed assets include unconsolidated interests in 2015 11.1 % participations and partnership firms. Participating interests are 2014 12.8 % valued according to the equity method. Projects in progress 2013 12.8 % for third parties are valued based on incurred costs, plus the 2012 9.9 % profit assignable to the performed projects, minus losses foreseeable at the balance sheet date. Profits for projects in progress are recognised based on the percentage of completion EBITDA (in thousands of euros) of the projects at the balance sheet date. Invoiced instalments for projects in progress are deducted from the projects in 2016 23,456 progress. Trade accounts receivable included in receivables are 2015 21,315 recognised less a provision for doubtful accounts. Provisions 2014 21,993 are created for deferred tax liabilities, tax risks, warranties 2013 20,959 and claims, deferred employee remuneration, and liabilities in 2012 14,281 respect of participating interests. Principles for determination of the consolidated Participation in employee share ownership scheme at 1 July 2016 (number of persons) financial result Net turnover and changes in work in progress include the services invoiced excluding value-added tax, and include 16.5 % of shares held by participants (543) 61.3 % of shares held by the changes in work in progress. Revenues of projects are senior partners (18) presented in proportion to the work completed. Salaries include remuneration paid to the Board of Directors. The pension and premium partners (11) 22.2 % of shares held by partners (82) obligations are valued according to the ‘valuation to the pension fund’ approach. Internal price of Witteveen+Bos N.V. share at 1 July 2016 6.33 euro (5.99 euro at 1 July 2015) 60 OUTLOOK FOR 2017 The year under review was a good one for Witteveen+Bos: in 2016 we added value through our projects, enabled people to develop their talents, and rendered our operations more sustainable. We also realised good financial results. In 2017 we aim to continue adding value while maintaining the company’s financial health. This outlook explains how we plan to achieve those goals. Objective 1: Adding value through our projects In 2016 we devoted extensive attention to raising awareness of our sustainable design principles within the company, and applying these principles in practice. We will continue to do so in 2017 in order to further embed sustainability in our projects. Promoting and discussing the sustainable design principles with our chain partners is an important objective for 2017. We plan to evaluate the experiences gained by clients and subcontractors in applying the principles, so that we can jointly increase our added value. The Netherlands is and remains our ‘home base’ where we continue to work on projects of all sizes to gain valuable experience and develop our knowledge yet further. We have therefore identified innovation and the Dutch market as company-wide spearheads for 2017. Objective 2: Developing talent In 2016 we made significant progress in developing top talent. By conducting job performance and career interviews and monitoring the ‘fulfilment score’, we will continue to focus on the wishes and requirements of our staff in 2017. Promoting diversity and ensuring an adequate inflow of technical professionals remain important points for attention in the coming year. In the past few years much of our work has been performed at project offices and at the sites of clients and partners. This means that there are fewer opportunities for informal interactions between employees in the company’s own offices. To ensure that we continue to collaborate effectively within the organisation, we have also named ‘leadership in line management’ and ‘connection’ as company-wide spearheads for 2017. Objective 3: Adding value through our business operations In 2016 we succeeded in further reducing the environmental impact of our operations, in line with our general target of 30 % emissions reduction by 2020 compared to the reference year 2007. In 2017 we will further decrease our CO2 footprint through measures including promotion of the use of electric vehicles. We will encourage emissions reduction in the chain by engaging in dialogue with our key suppliers, and we aim to retain the CO2 Awareness Certificate at Level 5 of the CO2 Performance Ladder in 2017. In 2016 we made preparations for the sustainable renovation of our Leeuwenbrug office in Deventer. The renovation contract was awarded toward the end of the first quarter of 2017 and the work is scheduled for completion in early 2018. This project is being financed by means of a mortgage loan and a share issue. No further major changes are expected in the financing of the company in 2017. Objective 4: Creating economic value Our main financial KPI is the net profit margin. For 2017 we have once again set ourselves the target of achieving a profit margin of at least 8 %, with particular attention devoted to the staff utilisation rate. In addition, we aim to achieve an organic growth in revenue and workforce of 3 to 5 % per year. In 2017 we expect to realise this growth through expansion of our existing offices. In 2016 we developed an entirely new project accounting and financial management system together with our supplier BST Global. The conversion and ‘go-live’ operation proceeded without a hitch, and staff will familiarise themselves with the new BST10 system in the course of 2017. Project leaders worldwide will gain greater insight and have more tools at their disposal to manage their projects and reduce working capital. The system will also facilitate integrated financial reporting. In 2017 we will continue working towards achieving the above goals. To measure progress in achieving the goals we have strengthened the KPIs and formulated goals. These are shown in the table on page 64. In conclusion A new member of the Board of Directors was appointed at the General Meeting of Shareholders on 5 April 2017. Director Henk Nieboer stepped down because he will turn 55 in 2017, the age at which members of the Board of Directors are required to resign according to the company’s articles of association. He is succeeded by Stephan van der Biezen, whose nomination was also endorsed by the Supervisory Board and the Works Council. 62 63 Objective KPI and objectives for 2017 Adding value through projects The percentage of projects in which sustainable design principles are considered and/or applied. Objective for 2017: 100 % of projects (requirement included in Quality Manual) 35 audits (corresponding to 1 % of all projects, based on a total of 3,500 projects per year) The percentage of design leaders that attended a (refresher) course or expert session on the sustainable design principles in the past two years. Objective for 2017: 100 % in two years. The average mark given by clients for the added value for society provided by the project results, thanks to the application of the sustainable design principles. Objective for 2017: At least one external client assessment per PMC that explicitly addresses this question and where a mark is given Minimum score: 7 out of 10. The average mark given by subcontractors (to whom the sustainable design principles are relevant) for the role played by the sustainable design principles in the project results delivered by them. Objective for 2017: Organising two work sessions for subcontractors Conducting assessments; one per business line. Developing talent The percentage of employees that has had a job performance interview in the past two years. Objective for 2017: 80 %. The average mark given by employees as their ‘Fulfilment Score’. Objective for 2017: a score of at least 8 out of 10 on all three components. The number events organised by Witteveen+Bos that focus on engineering work and/or devote (indirect) attention to diversity and the development of human potential. Objective for 2017: three events. The percentage of women invited to take part in the employee share ownership scheme as partners, premium partners or senior partners. Objective for 2017: 25 %, equal to the average male/female ratio among new employees joining Witteveen+Bos. The percentage of interns and final-year students in the total Witteveen+Bos workforce. Objective for 2017: 20 %. Adding value through our Preparing a CO2 footprint for Witteveen+Bos. Objective for 2017: reduction of 27 % in CO2 emissions per capita compared to business operations reference year 2007 (in line with our general target of 30 % emissions reduction by 2020). Number of conversations and number of conversation partners (i.e. suppliers in the chain) addressing the reduction of the individual and joint CO2 footprint. Objective for 2017: Determining the ten most important suppliers Holding conversations with the top ten suppliers CO2 Performance Ladder certification. Objective for 2017: maintain certification on level 5. Creating economic value Annual revenue and workforce growth. Objective for 2017: 3 to 5 %. Annual net profit margin. Objective for 2017: at least 8 %. 64 65 + Installing solar panels for Waternet Waternet manages water, provides drinking water and processes wastewater for the city of Amsterdam and the Amstel, Gooi en Vecht water authority. To operate climate-neutral and energy-neutral as far as possible in 2020, Waternet has drawn up an ambitious programme called K2020. An important part of the programme is the installation of 100,000 solar panels (photovoltaic) at drinking water and wastewater plants. They will be able to meet 25 to 30 % of Waternet’s need for electricity. The plans are among the largest PV projects ever to be undertaken in the Netherlands. The first phase will develop the PV systems for the Horstermeer and Westpoort sewage stations. For this purpose Witteveen+Bos developed a call for tenders strategy and drew up contractual documents. The objective is to achieve the optimum combination of energy yield, costs/benefits, management and maintenance for Waternet. Amsterdam The Netherlands + Preventing floods The megalopolis of Jakarta is sinking. North Jakarta is up to three metres below sea level and the city is subsiding by 7.5 centimetres every year. In the past the thirteen rivers were easily able to drain away their water, but it has now become more difficult because of the subsiding soil and the rising sea level. Both the sea and the rivers are threatening the city. A sustainable strategy has been developed in the National Capital Integrated Coastal Development Project (NCICD). The strategy includes a large enclosing dike behind which there will be a new lake with a lower level, enabling rivers to discharge their water. The second phase of this project got underway in 2016, with further elaboration of the plans and a start on the most urgent work. This project is a collaborative venture between Korea, Indonesia and the Netherlands. Witteveen+Bos is heading the Dutch consortium which further includes RoyalHaskoningDHV and Sweco. Jakarta Indonesia 66 67 COLOPHON Text Witteveen+Bos Layout and design Houdbaar Printed by Te Sligte-Olijdam Photos and illustrations Cynthia Boll Chensiyuan Combinatie Herepoort Viorica Cernica Robert Gieling OKRA Landschapsarchitecten Shutterstock Ian Smits ipv Delft Hilko Visser Evert van de Worp Zwarts & Jansma Architects Witteveen+Bos Visual Singapore front-cover Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this photo under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no BackCover Texts. A copy of the license is included in the section entitled ‘GNU Free Documentation License’. Witteveen+Bos N.V Van Twickelostraat 2 P.O. Box 233 7400 AE Deventer The Netherlands t +31 570 69 79 11 f +31 570 69 73 44 e info@witteveenbos.com i www.witteveenbos.com Enschede Trade Register no. 55094503 WE SUPPORT 68 www.witteveenbos.com
