UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 CONTENTS STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT ............................................. 4 HUMAN RIGHTS ....................................................................................... 6 LABOUR ................................................................................................... 10 ENVIRONMENT ....................................................................................... 14 ANTI-CORRUPTION ................................................................................ 18 ABOUT GIRTEKA LOGISTICS ............................................................... 20 CORPORATE PHILOSOPHY .................................................................. 21 LEANING FORWARD IN 2017 ............................................................... 24 This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents. Contact person: Kristian Kaas Mortensen, CCO, kkm@girteka.eu United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I’m pleased to confirm that Girteka Logistics At Girteka Logistics we were 8000+ employees at reaffirms its support of the ten principles of the the end of 2016, who work all over the European United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Union and beyond. With our employees in front Human Rights, Labour, Environment and we have realized and discovered how much we Anti-Corruption. can do to be a responsible employer and corporate citizen while uniting around our values In this annual communication on progress, we THINK. ACT. LEAD. describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its We contribute not only by investing in principles into business strategy, culture and environmentally thought out operations, or by daily operations. We also commit to sharing ensuring that our new buildings are highly this information with our stakeholders using energy efficient but as well by engaging with our primary channels of communication. As an our employees to create or engage in relevant example then we have created our CSR report CSR projects. based on the Global Compact COP, and not only publish this on all our communication During 2017 we will further our CSR channels, but as well actively share this with engagement both locally and internationally our clients, employees and stakeholders. where we operate as a company. We have a number of innovative projects being planned, During the last year our company celebrated this includes a strong focus on the its 20th anniversary. We have since our start in environment and traffic safety. 1996 grown to be a sizable leader in our industry. This position creates expectations Once again I would like to reiterate Girteka and responsibilities from our stakeholders and Logistics continued support for the UN Global more importantly from within. We take our Compact, as well as for the Ten Principles. leadership position serious and during the last Those Principles are a guideline for all our year we have continued to do so by investing business entities and we use them as we our time and resources in many interesting guide our efforts on corporate responsibility. projects. We enjoy our ability to positively support and Corporate Social Responsibility has in recent impact people on a daily basis. years taken a higher interest in our company, this year as we publish our second COP to the UN Global Compact site, we take extra pride in projects such as our Lithuanian Traffic Safety Best Regards day held together with the Lithuanian Police. Edvardas Liachovičius 3 2017 4 CSR AT THE HEART OF OUR ACTIVITY: ANNUAL PROGRESS AND OUTCOMES This section highlights Girteka Logistics 2016 progress towards the UNGC and the Ten Principles in each of the four issues: Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. For each area we discuss our assessments, policy and goals as well as our implementation and measurement outcomes. We are proud, that throughout the year our employees expressed their assent for social commitment. Regardless of where they work, everyone at Girteka Logistics takes part in our CSR initiatives. This creates opportunities to achieve even more in 2017. 5 6 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses should support and respect the protection PRINCIPLE 1 of internationally proclaimed human rights; Make sure that they are not complicit in human PRINCIPLE 2 rights abuses. Girteka Logistics is proactive in its commitment to employee safety. Those areas of our business most exposed to safety risks have developed tailor-made awareness information and training resources. Even so, safety must remain our key priority for the future. Whether on the road, our own sites or on those of our clients – Girteka Logistics is committed to continuous improvement. GIRTEKA LOGISTICS ENSURES THAT: Employees are provided with safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities. Employees at Girteka Logistics are protected from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats. Measures are taken to eliminate ingredients, designs, defects or side-effects that could harm or threaten human life and health during usage or disposal of products as well as while providing services. 7 2017 8 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 IMPROVING WORKING CONDITIONS FOR OUR DRIVERS Drivers are our biggest employment group and Another investment highly tailored towards account for approximately 80% of our workforce, improving working conditions for our employees we consider them our company’s frontline is our new facility in Siauliai, Lithuania. This new Ambassadors. We have during the last year office includes highly improved facilities for our made a number of significant investments in drivers, such as a lounge, shower facilities and order to provide a better working climate for our even a laundry area. We also improved the drivers. This included buying more than 1.100 on-the-road facilities with dedicated parking new trucks with better safety equipment, and places in areas like Finland and the Netherlands. improved comfort for drivers. EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER Girteka Logistics is an equal opportunity We employ a large amount of drivers from employer that welcomes everyone, regardless of different nations. We realize that transport and nationality, religion, gender or sexual orientation. logistics is historically a male dominated industry, however in recent years we have With headquarters in a small country like seen an increase in female drivers. In our Lithuania we are proud to employ 15+ different headquarters and other office locations we nationalities working together to provide have a much different situation where female excellent service to our clients. We employ employees almost equal male employees. We people from Finland, Ukraine, Russia, Latvia, only offer employment and promotion based Chile, Argentina, Denmark, Norway, France on skills and experience. and several other countries. Being an international company we are often a preferred employer for young Lithuanians who has studied abroad and return with new knowledge and language skills. MEASUREMENT AND FUTURE GOALS During 2016 we took further actions to raise is an ongoing process and we are determined awareness among employees on human rights to continue our efforts. and employee safety. Further focus on LEAN projects have enabled us to communicate with We continued our efforts to implement our and listen to the ideas from our employees via Code of Conduct, and as well published an their KAIZEN suggestions, resulting in a number updated version with several improvements of serious improvements. An example of such and corrections. improvements is creation of a special training centre for using of snow chains and more. One of our aims for 2017 is to enhance employee participation and understanding of We have continued to post special articles on human rights and employee safety. our intranet and various informational posters in warehouses, service centres and driver rest-stops. Nevertheless, we understand that it 9 2017 10 LABOUR Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and PRINCIPLE 3 the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; The elimination of all forms of forced and PRINCIPLE 4 compulsory labour; The effective abolition of child labour; and PRINCIPLE 5 The elimination of discrimination in respect of PRINCIPLE 6 employment and occupation. Girteka Logistics respects and values the individuality and diversity that every employee brings. We do not tolerate any form of discrimination, and we seek to create a positive as well as open working environment wherever we operate. GIRTEKA LOGISTICS ENSURES THAT: The company does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour, as well as do not accept child labour. Wages comply with minimum national standards. Employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria. Employees are granted freedom of association. 11 2017 12 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 IMPROVED ROAD SAFETY TROUGH ONLINE TESTING Girteka Logistics Drivers Academy who Using tablets for tests ensure fast and correct annually trains more than 4.000 drivers (who registration of their results and eliminates participated in more than 8000 courses) in mistakes. various skills implemented online training modules for drivers. Our driver’s academy is the heart and soul of Girteka Logistics, here they ensure that all The first steps has been to provide tablets to drivers are trained to the high level expected the drivers for using in tests taking place in the by our clients around Europe and Scandinavia. various locations of the driver’s academy. HEALTHY LIFESTYLE THROUGH SPORTS In Girteka Logistics we value a healthy lifestyle This healthy lifestyle is evident and visual in all and support our employees sport activities. our activities, as an example then our During the year we support a number of sports employee summer party is focused around activities from Basketball to football teams. We sports activities. Our head office education also have Girteka Logistics teams joining the academy even doubles as a yoga facility Vilnius Marathon, and Vilnius Bicycle marathon. afterhours for our employees. GENDER BALANCE Gender balance has a high priority in Girteka where we have only 0.63% women employees, Logistics. In management positions we have we will actively seek to increase this number. 41.07% female employees, but can still We believe that a diverse workforce is a improve in our top management positions strength for our company. where we only have 31.82% women. We are not satisfied with the number of female drivers MEASUREMENT AND FUTURE GOALS Girteka Logistics has labour unions within the We have a wide scope of employees with company that every employee is free to join. different nationalities and cultural backgrounds, Labour unions are granted independence and our aim is to further develop our achievements collective agreements are signed. in cultural and gender diversity. 13 2017 14 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 ENVIRONMENT Businesses should support a precautionary approach PRINCIPLE 1 to environmental challenges; Undertake initiatives to promote greater PRINCIPLE 2 environmental responsibility; and Encourage the development and diffusion of PRINCIPLE 2 environmentally friendly technologies. Measures to minimize adverse impacts on human health and the environment are taken throughout the value chain. This includes minimizing pollution, promoting an efficient and sustainable use of resources, including energy and water, and minimizing greenhouse gas emissions in transport. The local environment at the production site, warehouse or the garage shall not be exploited or degraded. GIRTEKA LOGISTICS ENSURES THAT: Environmental damage is avoided via regular maintenance of supply-chain and environmental protection system (air pollution control, waste, water treatment systems, etc.). Emergency procedures are created to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health. Handling and storage of chemical and other dangerous substances is done in accordance to international requirements and rules (Girteka Logistics holds ADR certificate). 15 2017 16 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 ROAD SAFETY DAY WITH THE SHARING OF EXPERIENCE LITHUANIAN POLICE This year Girteka Logistics participated in the work-life situations. During these workshops career days of two universities in Lithuania, their roles varied from HR, marketing Girteka Logistics Drivers Academy together Vilnius University and Vilnius Gediminas specialists to planners and sales managers. We with the Lithuanian Police created a road Technical University. Practitioners from Girteka received great feedback from the participants; safety day in Siauliai, Lithuania. The day Logistics shared their experience and after all, it’s true, that you learn better by doing. focused on road safety for school children, expertise, and provided students with some and included our Drivers Academy educating career tips that might help them in the future. Girteka Logistics strive to be transparent and their trainers in blind spot detection and have an open door policy, we therefore had a accident prevention. As part of career Days in VU and VGTU we had number of visitors including members of interactive workshops, where students had a Salesclub.lt and marketing students from ISM Children from local schools learned about chance to manage our realistic everyday University. road safety and how to safely behave in the traffic. Local police participated with expertise, equipment and sharing of best practice. As traffic safety is of the highest importance for our company, we used this event to ENVIRONMENTAL FOCUS improve our company’s Drivers Academy understanding of how to protect children in the traffic. During this event we also educated We have a continuous aim to further reduce our We also invest in the most fuel efficient cooling local school children in how to be aware of environmental impact by lowering CO2 units for our trailers, even using solar panels to heavy equipment in the traffic. emissions. Girteka Logistics only buy Euro 6 power these units. Our new office and truck emission standard trucks, and during 2016 we maintenance facility in Sauliai, Lithuania is a The event introduced safe behavior to the invested in more than 1.100 such new trucks. highly energy efficient building, and exemplifies children, and also allowed children to see and We also continue to use fuel saving initiatives our efforts towards reducing our energy try the equipment used by Girteka Logistics such as the Eurotunnel Le Shuttle Freight, consumption. and the Police. Each child had an opportunity ferries and trains. We are among the leaders in to personalize their own safety vest to make it eco driving training and have measurable fashionable enough to be worn every day. efforts from this training. SUPPORTING LOCAL CULTURE MEASUREMENT AND FUTURE GOALS Girteka Logistics in not just an international We believe that the best measurement of we invest considerable resources in training transport company, we are also a large environmental impact can be seen in our asset our employees in using this equipment to the employer engaged in supporting local culture. based investments. We only invest in new highest standards. During the year we supported musical highly energy efficient buildings and festivals such as Loftas and Beepositive by operations. This includes environmentally During 2017 we will continue our commitment, providing use of our trucks and trailers as a correct collection, treatment and disbursement investments and resources to reach these music stage. We also supported our movie of any hazardous waste. goals. industry by allowing a major movie “Zero 3” to be filmed in our headquarters. We continue to strive to have the most energy efficient fleet of trucks and trailers in Europe, 17 2017 18 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 ANTI-CORRUPTION Businesses should work against corruption in all its PRINCIPLE 10 forms, including extortion and bribery. As a transport and logistics industry leader in Europe, we understand that Girteka Logistics has to set the highest standards of ethical business. Our employees are trained and expected to familiarize themselves with the ethical business standards and uphold them in their day-today work. Our Code of Conduct is used as the foundation for our training on these subjects, and have been updated during 2016. The Code of Conduct is available for download on our company website. GIRTEKA LOGISTICS ENSURES THAT: Company is not involved in and does not accept corruption when doing business. “Anti-corruption” and/or “ethical behaviour” measures are mentioned while agreeing on contacts business partners. Internal procedures are established to support the company’s anti-corruption commitment COMMUNICATING WITH THE COMMUNITIES WHERE WE OPERATE Girteka Logistics on average have up to 100 addressed. We generally provide responses in a trucks and trailers in each European Union very short timeframe to such emails, and use country every day. We wish to communicate them to communicate with our drivers and with these communities, and have an implement improvements. opportunity to listen to any suggestions for improvements. We therefore initiated to have a We also internally provide open and anonymous sticker on each trailer with an email where any communication channels to all employees for concerns, comments or compliments can be any issues. MEASUREMENT AND FUTURE GOALS We believe that a continued strong focus on countries, we believe we must monitor this our procurement operations has a high area and educate our employees and importance, we must balance our negotiations management on a continual basis. and ensure transparent and open procurement procedures. In 2017 we will reinforce awareness of our values and our code of conduct by including As a company we participate in numerous this in our education activities for all employee tenders and transactions in many different groups. 19 2017 20 ABOUT GIRTEKA LOGISTICS Girteka Logistics is a financially strong and reliable family owned group of companies that during more than 20 years has grown to more than 8.300 employees, and having clients all over Europe. Our customers range from local producers to big international companies with major regional distribution centres. Our clients are mainly located in the European Union and CIS region where we focus on a long distance full truck loads. Our extensive network of routes caters to our client needs from the occasional or weekly truck to big clients having 10.000+ full truck loads per year or more. On a daily basis Girteka Logistics have employees, trucks and trailers in more than 30 countries ensuring that our clients receive their valuable cargo on time. Girteka Logistics thrive due to the high skills and dedication shown by our employees every day throughout our value chain. From the driver spending days away from his family in order to deliver fresh fruits or fish to European families to the warehouse employees working closely with customs inspectors to clear goods, their daily dedication embodies our slogan WE CARE. 21 22 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 CORPORATE PHILOSOPHY WE CARE is both our slogan and main principle, on which we build our business strategy. This principle is enhanced by four core pillars, guiding us in daily processes and helping with all decisions. These are Services, People, Results and Future. Real value for customers Empowering & secure jobs We believe that only by creating We believe that our employees valuable services and fulfilling are what make our Company so needs of our clients we can create special. Secure and meaningful a trusted and steady enterprise. jobs are an unquestionable must. SERVICE PEOPLE WE CARE ABOUT: RESULTS FUTURE Keeping promises & goals Environment & sustainable development We believe that only by achieving goals and maintaining financial We believe that every business stability we can fulfil our enterprise must bring benefits for commitments to clients, the society and for the employees and societies. environment in which it acts. 23 2017 24 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 OUR MISSION, VISION AND VALUES COME FROM OUR MAIN PRINCIPLE AND CORE PILLARS. WE BELIEVE IN THEM AND PROMOTE THEM THROUGHOUT THE COMPANY. MISSION We work to help our customers to be more competitive while focusing on excellence in logistics and investing in the development of our employees and technological resources. VISION To be a trustworthy enterprise in the fast-changing logistics industry, and to accomplish expectations of our customers, employees, partners and communities. VALUES We pursue to excel in all areas of our business THINK. We combine best solutions for each and every client We plan and achieve best results, but focus on the process as well We invest in technology and innovative management practices ACT. We take responsibility and achieve what was promised We aim to deliver on time, but safety is priority in planning We are flexible and take individual approach to every request LEAD. We help each other to be leaders in our work We act responsibly towards environment and communities 25 2017 26 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 LEANING TOGETHER WITH OUR EMPLOYEES AND CLIENTS Operating Girteka Logistics is a complex task have modified, visualized and standardized the on a daily basis. On an average day we have working space for each person. between 50 to 100+ trucks and trailers in each single European Union country and still have In our commercials departments where they some left for the other countries where we arrange up to 1.000 new truck loads in a single work. The work of arranging pick-up and day, every client dedicated team of five to delivery of 250.000+ annual full truck loads seven people have their own ASAICHI board and understanding and respecting the little with key performance indicators visible for all unique things required in every country and at to see. each loading place, is a major task. Our warehouse operations are LEANer than Planning towards excellence in CSR and a safe ever and everyone here understands that work environment for our employees, together PDCA means, PLAN, DO, CHECK, ACT every with higher quality standards we understand single day. that these challenges will only increase. Adding to this complex national and We understand that a good process bring good international laws and requirements such a results. To generate ideas we have a strong cabotage and drive and rest requirements and Kaizen culture that enable all levels of you understand why we have started to LEAN employees to proactively participate in forward. problem solving and make suggestions for improvements. We want all aspects of LEAN to This journey for Girteka Logistics started with act as an interface for our employees to visits by our top management to Japan, to learn generate ideas on how to improve their daily best practice both in theory and by visits to processes, and thereby enabling the entire leading companies. Since then, each and every company to work more efficiently. business unit of our company have their own LEAN champion, understanding and focus. Every department and individual team have a From the outset of our LEAN journey the main daily ASAICHI meetings taking no longer than goal has been to deliver greater added value to 10 minutes in the morning where they identify our clients and increase our competitive problems or challenges. During the ASAICHI advantage by using fewer resources. meetings we appoint responsible problem solvers and timelines. This ensures that no In our garages where we perform warranty problem or mistake goes unsolved for longer service, repairs and safety inspections on periods of time, and help us show our clients thousands of trucks and trailers every year we that we care about operational excellence. 27 2017 28 +370 5 239 4090 info@girteka.eu www.girteka.eu /company/girteka /GirtekaGroup /GirtekaLogistic
