0-rw Fabege Solna, April 2017 H.E.António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New Y ork, NY 10017 USA Communiciation on Progress Dear Mr. Secretary-General, We would like to take this opportunity to reconfirm our support of the UN Global Compact and our commitment to the ten principles with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. Our commitment implies a continuous evaluation of our efforts within the field of corporate social responsibility and is an integral part of the daily work within our company. In order to reach as many of our stakeholders as possible with our Communication on Progress, we have continued to submit our sustainability report as an integrated part of our Annual Report (enclosed). This year's report is the second in which Fabege is applying integrated reporting with the Annual Report in accordance with GRI G4 Core. Our sustainability goals are found on page 11 and the GRI-index on page 98-99. The Annual Report is also available on our website (www.fabege.se ). We are pleased to share our sustainable highlights in 2016 with you: Fabege's sustainability work ranked 7th in Europe in office sector in GRESB (Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark) survey. Green Leases accounted for 83 per cent of total space under newly signed leases. All new builds and major redevelopments are beeing environmentally certified according to BREEAM-SE and the existing property management portfolio according to BREEAM-inUse. The Fabege share is approved for inclusion in Robur's ethical funds and Nordea's Star funds. Our focus on more efficient purchasing processes continues. At year end suppliers of 75 per cent of the total purchasing volume had been sustainability examined. Pro-active environmental work and to clearly state our high standards within business ehtics are success factors for us and we will continue our efforts within this field during 2017. Sincerely yours, /,,,e ristian Hermelin CEO Fabege AB (publ) Fabege AB (publ) 0.-.. ;..1,... n ;..J,,.:-. 7 c1 n D..-..v 7 'Jn ,ien -,7 c 1 c.-.1,,1.,, .. . o v nc7 O 'J-t ' ln i'\ ..J r'\.-.-. flt.I.cc:.cnAn -1 C.' ) 'J
