Sustainability Report 2015 X-ELIO.com Sustainability Report 2015 Index Part I General Standard Disclosures .................................................... 7 Strategy and analysis ...................................................................................... 8 Organizational Profile ................................................................................ 16 Identified material aspects and boundaries .................................................................................................... 22 Stakeholders engagement .......................................................... 26 Report profile ......................................................................................................... 28 Governance ................................................................................................................ 29 Ethics and integrity .................................................................................. 35 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures ......................................... 37 Economic Dimension ........................................................................... 38 Social Dimension .......................................................................................... 46 Environmental Dimension ....................................................... 64 Part III Annexes ........................................................................................................................................... 71 Independent Review Report ................................................. 72 GRI G4 Content Index ............................................................................ 73 Contents based on the Principles of the United Nations Global Compact ........... 79 Scope considered for the elaboration of this Sustainability Report ......................................................... 80 5 Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information 6 Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information Part I General Standard Disclosures Strategy and analysis. Page 8 Organizational Profile. Page 16 Identified material aspects and boundaries. Page 22 Stakeholders engagement. Page 26 Report profile. Page 28 Governance. Page 29 Ethics and integrity. Page 35 7 Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information Strategy and analysis A word from the President (G4-1) X-ELIO is also involved in the socio-economic development of the regions where it operates, generating shared value in local communities through dialogue, the promotion of training and support for local culture. 8 Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information Dear readers, It is my pleasure to welcome you to the X-ELIO Sustainability Report, setting out our commitment to provide a complete account of the most relevant and notable information from 2015. In order to present our economic, social and In 2015 it has established an internal environmental performance, we have taken Compliance Office. This office is resinto consideration the guidelines established ponsible for defining and communicain the Global Reporting Initiative, the ting the ethical framework employed to information having been externally reviewed achieve honest and transparent dealings by an independent body. This year we likewise in accordance with the undertakings given, renewed our support for and adhesion to the and to establish consultation and whistleUnited Nations Global Compact. blowing mechanisms, while investigating and responding to the issues raised. Within The focus of this new reporting framework, its functions, it also advises and informs the and hence the report itself, essentially company as to potential risks associated with addresses the demands of stakeholders and operations in the different countries where it those aspects that are material for X-ELIO, does bussiness and partnerships which may allowing us to develop and integrate our arise, helping us in our decision-making and vision and management as regards these risk management. aspects. X-ELIO is involved in the socio-economic During the year, we attained a figure of 278.35 development of the regions where it operates, MW of solar power in operation with the generating shared value in local communities commissioning of 3 new facilities: 2 in Japan through dialogue, the promotion of training and and 1 in Honduras. We likewise contributed support for local culture. One clear example to combating climate change through the would be the initiatives undertaken at the generation of more than 1,352,377 GJ of Honduras facility, where through various local renewable energy, avoiding the emission of authorities and dialogue with communities, 160,925 tonnes of CO2 into the atmosphere. we contribute to the creation of a sustainable This year 2015 has been a year of substantial business fabric, by means of local job creation changes caused largely by the acquisition and training projects. by the KKR Group of an 80% stake in the If there is one thing that makes our company company through its subsidiary Aurora stand out it is the development of sustainable, Energy Holding, S.L. This entailed a change profitable and efficient projects that generate in branding, to the name of X-Elio Energy, value for all our stakeholders. This would not S.L. (hereinafter, X-ELIO). It also involved be possible without the commitment of all organisational changes with the aim of those who are involved and who trust in the working more efficiently and obtaining development of our projects. even more successful results. We likewise continue to strive to provide safe working I do hope that reading this report will arouse environments, in which risk prevention is the your interest and fulfil your expectations. key to avoiding accidents. Jon Riberas Mera President 9 Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information A word from the CEO (G4-1) X-ELIO continues to grow in accordance with a responsible business model, based on a sector in which we truly believe: renewable energy as an inexhaustible supply of power. 10 Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information X-ELIO is a company founded in 2005, a leader in the development of renewable energy, with a long track reIn 2015 we had a presence in 8 countries, atcord in the solar sector. It specialises taining a figure of 278.35 MW of photovoltaic in the development, construction, opeenergy in operation, with projects under deveration and maintenance of solar power lopment in such countries as Japan, Mexico, plants in North America, the Middle East, Peru, Chile, South Africa, Egypt and the UK. The Asia, Africa, Latin America and Europe. forecast for next year is to install 250 additional 2015 was a year of change for X-ELIO. megawatts in Mexico and Japan. In July, an initial agreement was reached The medium and long-term strategy are to prowith the KKR Group, a financial invesmote the leading position of X-ELIO, consolitor, to acquire 80% of the company. The date the various opportunities for growth and agreement was formalised in December. to continue expanding its market presence. Through the acquisition by KKR, we now This will allow us to minimise the portfolio risk form a part of a major investment fund, through a stable and diverse profile, examining with substantial financial resources and initiatives to optimise funding through both sound capital. This allow us to fund the deshareholder equity and project finance, in orvelopment and construction costs of new der ultimately to obtain a strong balance sheet, facilities, and to acquire others from third all this focused on the creation of value for the parties. various stakeholders. Following the agreement, the company was In 2015, although it was a challenging year, rebranded X-ELIO. The idea behind the name we obtained a positive bottom line in terms of comes from ‘Ex’, meaning ‘out of’ or ‘from’, and economic results, despite such circumstances ‘Helios’, the God representing the sun in Greek as the devaluation of the South African currenmythology. The brand celebrates the history cy and the performance of the plant in Peru, of the company and reflects its ambition to be which was below expectations, while compea global leader in the industry, with solid finantitive tender projects were also not won in, for cial performance, as a sustainable provider of example, South Africa. renewable energy, helping to reduce greenWithin this context, we expect to continue house gas emissions and fight against climate achieving sustainable growth in countries that change. offer opportunities of profitability and regulaX-ELIO continues to grow in accordance with a tory stability, encouraging the development responsible business model, based on a sector in of competitive renewable energy projects. As which we truly believe: renewable energy as an I reflect on our development over the past deinexhaustible supply of power. cade, I am convinced that a successful future and new projects awaits us at X-ELIO. The forecasts for the future indicate ever-increasing energy consumption, and the global demand This would not be possible without our greatest for renewable energy generation is therefore exasset: the professionals who make up X-ELIO, pected to grow by 45% by 2020, while by 2050 as we understand that it is only through teasolar energy will have become the greatest source mwork that we can offer quality, long term proof electricity worldwide. fitable solutions, fulfilling all legal requirements and creating value in the context in which we This trend has been underpinned by the staging of operate. the 21st United Nations Climate Change Summit (COP 21), which, through the emissions reduction targets, I invite you to discover our operations and our helps to strengthen the use of clean energies. results for 2015 by reading this report. This combination of substantial support for green enerWarm regards gy policies promoted by governments, cost reductions, profitability aligned with risk and increasingly competitive technology, indicates an attractive future for development and investment in the field of renewables. Jorge Barredo CEO 11 Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information G4-2 Main effects, risks This analysis allows us to perform an initial approach. If an operation is ultimately formaand opportunities lised with any third party, reputational due diligence is commissioned from a specialist external company. During this phase, a firm At X-ELIO we believe that companies must go commitment is required from X-ELIO, and this beyond mere legal compliance, and so beis therefore included in the contracts. come ethical flagships through the decisions taken by their members, achieving the highest standards of quality, safety, health and respect for the environment. Reputational risks derived from malpractice We must likewise always take into account the possible risks that arise, adopting a principle In order to minimise this risk, within the context of precaution and integrating risk management of the Compliance Programme, X-ELIO is dewithin business strategy. We also have in place veloping a series of policies and codes which the required mechanisms in order to be able to take into consideration the requirements and fulfil these expectations. These include in partispecificities of its American shareholder. cular the following: Within this context, in the first half of 2016 the Board of Directors approved the Anti-corruption Code, the Commercial Sanctions Policy and the Code of Competence, while the forthcoming approval of a new Code of Ethics and Conduct aligned with the Compliance Programme is expected. Communication mechanisms have also been put in place with the aim of responding to any grievances and conflicts that could arise in this field. These policies are gradually being sent out to employees, who subscribe to them and undertake to fulfil them. In order to reinforce these aspects, there are plans to begin an employee training process, allowing us to continue making improvements. Given the type of service we provide and the companies we subcontract, no risks connected with child labour, threats to freedom of association or forced labour were identified in 2015. (G4-HR4, G4-HR5, G4-HR6). Risks derived from the activity In order to minimise this risk, within the Operational risks For example, risks through competition with context of the ComReputational risks associated with other renewable and/or conventional technopliance Programme, X-ELIO is developing new operations logies, technological or quality failures, admia series of policies nistrative problems, safety, etc. At X-ELIO we believe that possible incidents and codes which take In response to such risks, technological prointo consideration resulting from any inappropriate operation, transaction or partnership could give rise to gress and the increase in individual power rathe requirements and specificities of its reputational damage to the company. tings allows more energy to be generated with American shareholfewer solar panels, while they are also more der. As a result, in order to minimise this risk, when versatile, adapting to different surfaces and any operation begins the possible background climate conditions, thereby reducing impact. and reputational and financial risks are analyThis circumstance, combined with a substantial sed and identified by means of the “Thompson reduction in costs over recent years, makes soReuters World Check” tool, which provides aclar energy more competitive. cess to detailed public information associated with companies of interest. 12 Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information Meanwhile, the performance of solar arrays depends directly on meteorological conditions, essentially the quantity and quality of sunshine, over which we can have no influence. So as to minimise this risk, prior to the installation of the facilities, minute climate studies are conducted in the region to design and orient the solar arrays. Likewise, given its capacity for installation in remote regions, solar energy is an attractive investment so as to fulfil Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 7 of the United Nations, on energy and its contribution to sustainable development by 2030. Regulatory framework and investments We operate in those markets that offer a stable and secure regulatory framework. Although there is always a degree of uncertainty associated with this aspect, regulatory stability is Investments and human rights We operate in those markets that vital in order to attract the interest of major In order to analyse viability and development in offer a stable and investors. the various countries where the company opesecure regulatory rates or intends to operate, its business model framework. X-ELIO minimises this risk by having in place establishes the methodology to be followed a project portfolio across various countries so as to provide the information required as to with more stable and attractive regulatory frapotential development and investment risks. meworks, allowing us to offset such changes both at facilities in operation, and the future Mainly for the investment in developing counproject portfolio. tries, where the loans requested represent a capital cost of 50 million USD or more, compliance with the Equator Principles is required Regulatory risks for them to be granted. This covers those risks derived from regulatory The Equator Principles are based on the pochanges established by the various governlicies and guidelines of the IFC (International ments, such as changes in the remuneration Finance Corporation), the branch of the World of regulated activities, the supply conditions Bank dedicated to private sector investment, demanded, environmental regulations, tax retheir aim being to guarantee the socio-envigulations, etc. ronmental compliance of the projects financed. In order to implement them, the banks have X-ELIO is committed to those markets with established internal processes and policies substantial energy demand, offering regulatory consistent with the principles, and grant loans security in order to develop its activities and only to those projects the sponsors of which provide access to long-term finance. To this can demonstrate compliance. end, a series of procedures and checks have been established, allowing us to identify, meIn 2015, the Equator Principles applied to the asure and manage the risks derived from our facility in Honduras. In order to achieve comactivities through financial instruments. pliance, all the actions and initiatives undertaken with the local community have been submitted, essentially for job creation, along with the environmental oversight reports conducted by independent third parties. 13 Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information Financial risks Market risks Risk of exchange rate fluctuation For risk management purposes, the Group reviews business plans, the study of the relationsThe fluctuation in the rate of exchange behip between exposure and the present value of tween the currency in which a particular opecash flows generated by an investment, along ration is performed and the accounting currenwith an accounting vision serving to evaluate cy could have a negative or positive impact on the status and evolution of the different risk sithe result for the financial year, with a specific tuations. implication for the financial management of debts. The impact of foreign currency fluctuaWe continue to commit to development in tions was not significant in 2015. those markets with a strong energy demand, offering regulatory security in order to develop The Group essentially operates using the euro our activities, as well as access to long-term currency, although it does also operate with a finance. range of other currencies in accordance with the countries where it has a presence. The Group’s financing policy is based on financing its operations in the same currency as that in which revenue is earned. For exchange rate risk management, the Group accepts the usage of a series of financial instruments offering a degree of flexibility in certain cases. These instruments would essentially be: Forward purchase/sale of currency: this establishes a known exchange rate for a specific date, which may also be adjusted in time for adaptation and application to cash flows. Other instruments: Other derivative hedging instruments may also be used, including in particular those guaranteeing a maximum and minimum exchange rate (collar or tunnel) on a particular settlement date. In any event, these Risk of interest rate fluctuation We have established a series of procedures impacts are offset The Group faces a risk as regards its financial by the generation of and controls allowing us to identify, measure and manage the risks derived from the activity debts at a variable interest rate, to the extent energy with very low emissions, ecosystem with financial instruments. For the analysis of that market variations affect cash flows. The restoration plans, viability and development in the various counGroup mitigates this risk through the use of prevention of pollutries where we operate, or plan to operate, the derivative financial interest rate instruments, tion and appropriate business model establishes the guidelines to essentially comprising the arrangement of inwaste management. be followed and the distribution of tasks requiterest rate swaps, by means of which the Group red in order to have access to all information converts the variable benchmark interest rate needed as to the potential development and for its loans into a fixed rate, either for the total investment risks. or for a partial amount of the loans, affecting all or a part of the lifespan. In accordance with the accounting regulations in force, information is presented below as to the financial risks to which the Group’s activity is exposed, which are essentially: 14 Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information Credit risks Confidentiality The credit risk occurs as a result of the possible loss caused by a breach of contractual and privacy obligations by the Group’s counterparts, in We believe that information has now become a other words the possibility of not recovering strategic asset for businesses and individuals. financial assets at the value accounted for and Our company therefore establishes the requi­within the established deadlines. red mechanisms in order to maintain the privacy of the information and protection of the data During the financial year for which information of clients and suppliers, while also appropriais presented, the credit limits were not exceetely managing and handling documentation in ded, and management do not expect any inaccordance with its level of relevance. solvency losses to arise. In order to underpin security, the information security procedures are periodically reviewed. Liquidity risk The Information Security Policy and an Liquidity risk is defined as a company’s inability Information Security Plan were launched in to meet its commitments, as a result of adverSeptember 2014, containing measures that will se debt and/or capital market circumstances be gradually implemented and monitored to making it difficult or impossible to obtain the ensure continuous improvement. required finance. The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining sufficient funds available in order to neSituation in 2015 gotiate on the best possible terms the refinanIn 2015, X-ELIO’s operations faced various risks cing of operations that are about to mature, as a result of the countries where it operates, and to meet its short-term cash management which did not have any significant overall imneeds, thereby avoiding the need for recourse pact on the results for the financial year, thanks to funds obtained on unfavourable terms. to diversification across different markets. Below are summarised the most significant risks identified: Environmental risks Low gas and oil prices, mainly in the USA. The construction and operation of solar generating facilities have an impact on the enThe issuance of the Ministerial Order in vironment, mainly on the landscape and as a Spain, increasing exposure to solar output result of impacts of the terrain (vegetation and market risk, and the reduction in energy hydrological conditions). demand over recent years because of the current financial crisis. Thanks to technological advances, X-ELIO’s new facilities have a significantly higher power The risk of a new global financial crisis. rating; their rotating modules mean they adapt The weakness of the currency in many better to the position of the sun and occupy countries. less space, thereby minimising the impact on the surrounding environment. The depreciation of the South African currency, affecting returns, and also in Brazil, During the construction phase, X-ELIO has making it impossible to construct the sole in place a certified Integrated Management facility planned since 2014. ­S­ystem, which serves to monitor and minimise environmental impacts during this phase. In any event, these impacts are offset by the generation of energy with very low emissions, ecosystem restoration plans, prevention of pollution and appropriate waste management. 15 Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information Profile of the organisation G4-3 Name of the output infrastructure: high-voltage power lines (underground or overhead) and substations organisation (transformation or connection). X-ELIO has in place the required team and exX-ELIO perience to guarantee that both the design, construction and maintenance operations for its facilities, and its client service, comply with G4-4 expectations in terms of profitability, control Key brands, and grid connections. products and It also has an Integrated Management System, including quality management in accordanservices ce with standard UNE-EN ISO 9001:2008 for construction activity. It operates globally under the “X-ELIO” brand. The company measures and monitors its actiIts activity comprises investment in assets and vities and services through various indicators, projects intended for the generation of energy monitored periodically by local and O&M enusing renewable sources. gineering teams. The name celebrates the company’s history, Meanwhile, at the Solar Control Centre we X-ELIO Energy,S.L and reflects its huge potential. The idea behind take real-time readings from more than 10,000 operates globally the name comes from ‘Ex’, meaning ‘out of’ or devices, obtaining over 9,000 alerts a month under the “X-ELIO” (300 alerts on average per day) and more than ‘from’, and ‘Helios’, the God representing the brand. Its activity 3.5 million daily records, every two minutes, comprises investment sun in Greek mythology -. stored in our databases. in assets and projects As a result, X-ELIO’s main product is solar enerintended for the As at 31 December 2015, the firm had in place gy generated by its facilities for subsequent generation of energy 278.35 MW of installed power, and 1,352,377 using renewable sale and marketing in the eight countries where it has a presence. GJ energy output, serving to avoid the emissources. sion of 160,925 t of CO2 into the atmosphere. The energy generated is fed into the grid to which it is connected. In accordance with good The brand employed for our global operations is: industrial practice in the sector and the local regulations in the countries where it operates, its 16 operations include maintenance of the power Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information G4-4 and G4-6 Global presence. Facilities in operation in 2015 Spain USA 10 plants 7 plants 62.86 MW 14.16 MW Puerto Italy 11 plants Japan Rico 23.56 MW 2 plants 1 plants 56.38 MW Honduras 5.62 MW 1 plants 42.40 MW Peru 2 plants 42.40 MW South Africa 2 plants 30.96 MW We are developing G4-5 G4-7 projects in Brazil, Registered office Ownership structure Chile, Japan, Mexico and USA. The main headquarters is located at: and legal form S/ Ombú, 3 2th floor. During 2015, and specifically in the month of 28045 Madrid (Spain). December, the members of the General Shareholders Meeting changed as a result of the stake acquired by the KKR Group through its G4-6 subsidiary, which now accounts for the bulk of Presence the shareholding in the companies: 80% AURORA ENERGY HOLDING, S.L and relevance 20% GESTAMP SOLAR, S.L In 2015, X-ELIO had 36 facilities in operation, distributed across Spain, USA, Italy, Peru, South Africa, Honduras and Japan, and we also built G4-8 Markets our first facility for third parties in Kuwait, while developing projects in Brazil, Chile, Japan and USA. In the countries where X-ELIO operates, the In terms of operations, Spain is the most signifiproducts and services developed being inclucant country as regards installed power, output ded in sections G4-4 and G4-6. and number of employees. The profile of the clients to which the energy Part 2 of the report sets out the main figures produced is sold essentially comprises electrical per country distribution or generation companies (utilities 17 Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information firms), energy resellers, governmental or local In 2015, the total workforce comprise 105 men bodies, and major end consumers, with which and 45 women. long-term bilateral agreements are signed. The enclosed graph indicates the distribution Practically all output is sold directly to local goof direct employees by region and gender. vernment entities (distribution grid), except in the USA, where in some cases we have agree2014 2015 ments for direct sales to end consumers. Country M W M W Spain 50 27 58 29 G4-9 Italy 23 5 23 4 Main figures Usa+PR Japan 8 13 6 2 4 13 0 4 The attached table summarises the main figuSouth res in every country. This information is supple2 3 1 4 Africa mented and detailed under indicators G4-4 and G4-6. Mexico 1 1 1 3 Number of direct employees: 150 Chile 1 1 1 1 Number of facilities in operation: 36 Peru 3 0 4 0 Total 101 45 105 45 Net sales: 1,120 thousand euros Capitalisation (debt + assets): 586,853 Stable employment is very important for the thousand euros company. In the 2015 financial year, 73% of the workforce had a permanent contract, and 92% a full-time contract. G4-10 Employee workforce Indirect employment Through its activities, X-ELIO generates indiDirect employment rect employment mainly connected with mainIn 2015 the workforce comprised 150 professiotenance and construction operations, covered nals distributed across seven countries. Some by means of subcontracting. 58% are concentrated in Spain, where the main The figures regarding subcontracted mainteheadquarters are located. Compared with the nance commissions at wind farms are stable, previous financial year, the workforce increasince the maintenance tasks are defined and sed by 2.7%. scheduled over the course of the year, and are The enclosed graph shows the distribution of similar at all facilities. The estimated average is the workforce by region and gender. 30 people for the operation and maintenance phase at each wind farm. However, it is during the construction phase 2014 2015 that the greatest variations occur in subconNo. of employees M W M W tracted personnel, depending on the number Type of employment of wind farms under construction. Full-time 101 35 105 33 It should be emphasised in this regard that the wind farms are constructed by means of EPC Part-time 0 10 0 12 (Engineering, Procurement and Construction) Kind of contract contracts, and so the contractor company is responsible for managing the personnel. Permanent 89 41 91 19 The number of indirect jobs varies depending Temporary 12 4 14 26 on the country and the size of the facility. As regards the facilities built in 2015, the estimated indirect employment for the site in Japan is 254 employees. 18 Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information G4-11 Employees covered We have likewise defined a sustainability and human rights form, that we will progressively by collective request from our main suppliers in order to evaluate these aspects. bargaining agreements Local purchases X-ELIO promotes purchasing and procurement Collective bargaining agreements from local suppliers so as to create value in the 100% of professionals in Spain, Mexico, Chilocations where it operates. This circumstanle and Peru are covered by sectoral collective ce is reinforced in those countries where local bargaining agreements or similar arrangements governments promote this practice through in accordance with local practice, customs and incentives. legislation. Most of the subcontractor and supplier budget for the year 2015 corresponds to local companies, understood as those belonging to Handbook the country where the X-ELIO installations are located. The professionals in countries such as Japan, South Africa and the United States have the coIn 2015, the expenditure on local suppliers rresponding Handbook. This sets out working amounted to €128,172 thousand, representing conditions and indicates behavioural standards 83% of total expenditure. The following graph adapted to the context and the legal requiresummarises the distribution (in thousands of ments of each location, indicating the rights and euros) by country. (G4-EC9). duties of employees regarding aspects such as recruitment processes, working hours, sick leave, salaries, social benefits, holidays, etc. Expenses on local % of local Country suppliers* suppliers Chile 0 0% G4-12 Spain 20,280 100% Supply chain Costa Rica 47 100% We believe that the supply chain is a key eleDominican Rep. 3 100% ment, and therefore maintain a fair and trusting Italy 19,214 93% relationship with subcontractors and suppliers, with the aim of achieving the highest quality South Africa 2,123 100% levels. Japan 17,194 100% Honduras 65,675 91% Supplier management Egypt 4 100% For the development of the projects, the main USA 3,631 100% purchases are connected with photovoltaic Kuwait 0 0% modules and solar structures. Total 128,171 83% At X-ELIO, we operate with solar modules with “Tier 1” technology to ensure optimal performance of the solar arrays. We therefore only work Contractors *Note: country’s with suppliers that can provide this technology. suppliers are X-ELIO imposes the same safety requirements Meanwhile, we develop our projects on an EPC on its employees as subcontractors. It is an considered as essential requirement that, before they begin local suppliers. (Engineering, Procurement and Construction) basis, in which, except for the solar modules, their work, all subcontractors have in place all the contractor is responsible for procurement documentation required in accordance with and supplier administration. the local demands in the country. We include a standard clause in the contract Meanwhile, during the performance of consestablishing the commitment to comply with truction and maintenance works, coordination the Code of Ethics and Conduct, as an integral meetings are held to detect any possible incielement. dents, among other aspects. 19 Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information G4-13 G4-15 Significant External initiatives Changes supported by In comparison with 2014, three significant changes occurred: X-ELIO Through its parent company, Gestamp ReThe shareholding of the company changed newables, X-ELIO aims to take part in social as a result of the stake acquired by the KKR action projects and initiatives aligned with its Group, which purchased 80% of the combusiness and corporate culture, and making pany through its subsidiary Aurora Energy an effective contribution to the well-being of Holding, S.L. Society. This led to a change in the company’s name from Gestamp Solar to X-Elio Energy, S.L.. United Nations Global Compact As for its activity, operations have now The company has been a signatory to the Unibegun at new facilities in Marcovia in Honted Nations Global Compact since 2014, fulduras, with 42.4MW, Fukuroda and Iwate filling all requirements imposed to renew its in Japan, with 31.6 MW and 24.78 MW, commitment in 2016. respectively, along with the inclusion of The company’s aim is to promote and impleconstruction of the Kuwait facility, manament the 10 universally accepted principles in ged by third parties. the fields of human rights, labour regulations, the environment and the business strategy of companies. G4-14 Global Reporting Initiative Principle of A non-governmental organisation focused on precaution the creation of a context of transparent and reliable information exchange as regards susThe company incorporates the principle of tainability, by means of the development of a caution through the Code of Ethics and Concommon framework applicable to all types of duct and the Integrated Environment, Quality, organisation. Health and Safety Policy, including a commitment to protect the environment and achieve continuous improvement. What Really Matters Foundation It furthermore mitigates its environmental im(LQDVI) pact by means of environmental impact assessments, appropriate maintenance and control of The purpose of the LQDVI Foundation is to the wind farms and management systems. promote the development and dissemination of universal human, ethical and moral values Lastly, it encourages habits and behaviours among the general public, essentially through that help to minimise this impact, through traithe organisation of conventions intended for ning and awareness-raising. young people, and other cultural activities. The foundation therefore contributes to the fostering of values among employees, and a positive impact on the community. An agreement was signed with this foundation for the first time in 2013. 20 Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information AESLEME (Association for the Study G4-16 of Spine Injuries) Associations and organisations The company has collaborated with AESLEME since 2014, its aim being the prevention of accidents and their serious consequences, social awareness-raising as to the problems faced by Spanish Photovoltaic Union (UNEF) people after an accident, and improvements in Chaired by our CEO, Jorge Barredo, its mission their quality of life, offering them psychological is institutional representation and developand legal support. ment of the photovoltaic solar sector nationally and internationally. The association’s strategic strands include in particular “the restoration of legal certainty as John XXIII Foundation for mental a priority line of action, along with the promodisability tion of self-consumption and the internationalisation of associate companies”. This foundation was set up to improve the quality of life of adults with mental disability and to support their social integration. Spain and Southern Africa Renewable Its main actions focus on organising activities Energy Consortium allowing them to learn to achieve self-development and form relationships where they live, The purpose of this consortium is to promothe management of an adapted occupational te the Spain Brand in the field of renewable training centre, and job searches for people energies and to support the activities of the with disability. The company’s commitment to renewable industry in the Southern Africa rethe foundation began in 2007. gion, although it has recently extended its operations to North Africa and the Middle East. The South African Photovoltaic IndusWorld Central Kitchen (WCK) try Association (SAPVIA) Since 2013, the company has supported the This is a non-profit body made up of compaoperations of World Central Kitchen. WCK is a nies with an active role and presence and incharity with the mission of pursuing sustainavestment in the photovoltaic market in South ble solutions to eliminate food insecurity and Africa. The association promotes the expansion malnutrition through sustainable food and loof the photovoltaic (PV) solar energy market, as cal enrichment, focusing on regions suffering a part of the development of renewable energy humanitarian disasters. in the country. 21 Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information Material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Coverage Perimeter The current Report sets out the information Materiality Analysis Process and details corresponding to the financial year 2015 (running from 1 January to 31 December). Identification A Where reference is made to information beyond this financial year, it will be clearly indicaPriorization B ted in the corresponding section. Validation C Revision The Materiality Companies included within D Study have the Report been drawn up The Report includes all information regarding in accordance X-ELIO, the brand grouping together all its A. Identification of relevant aspects with principles constituent companies. The Annex includes the (G4-18) established list of companies. The internal and external context of the comin the Global pany was analysed. For the external context, a benchmark was available for companies in the Reporting Limitations on the information sector, serving to detect trends in terms of susInitiative, in tainability, as well at the section regarding the version G4. For those indicators where information is not energy sector in the document “Sustainability available for any of the companies, this will be Topics for Sectors: What do stakeholders want indicated as “not available”. to know?” (GRI, 2013), which takes into account the opinions of sectoral associations, the third sector, international agencies and authorities, G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21 & G4-27. big business and analysts. Content, scope As for the internal context, a review was performed of the issues identified as material in and principles the company’s 2014 Materiality Study. It should be pointed out that no external feedback was received on the Sustainability Report. Material aspects This exercise served to identify a total of 28 within and outside the topics. organisation B. Prioritisation (G4-18) The Sustainability Report and the Materiality Study have been drawn up in accordance with The 28 topics identified were weighted in acprinciples established in the Guide for the gecordance with their importance and economic, neration of sustainability reports produced by social and environmental impact through a Global Reporting Initiative, in version G4. twofold analysis. For the definition of the content and scope Internal prioritisation was first performed, in a of the Report, consideration was given to all process involving the managers of the main deX-ELIO operations in construction and opepartments and the managers in each country. ration. The contents of the Report are defined Meanwhile, the analysis was performed of its by the topics identified as relevant in the 2015 presence within the various communication Materiality Study, performed in accordance with channels (press news, supplier trends, the surthe principles of GRI-G4, as detailed below. vey of all employees, with a 67% response rate, financing requirements, etc.). The subsections G4-20 and G4-21 summarise the main topics identified. 22 Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information C. Validation (G4-18) D. Review (G4-18) Lastly, the topics identified were reviewed and Furthermore, following publication of the Report approved by the CEO. appropriate mechanisms will be established in order to be able to obtain feedback. Following these four stages, 9 material topics were defined, as summarised below: Materiality Matrix (G4-19) 80 High 70 Business environment Importance for the stakeholders 60 Financial strength, Profits, Sales and Growth Forecast Ethics, anti-corruption, risk Environmental management management and compliance Shareholders Governance Medium Employees and Subcontractors’ Wealth Creation for Local Communities Emissions and Climate Change Health and Safety 50 40 30 20 10 Low Medium High 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 Importance for X-ELIO The following table summarises for each mateand contributes to the sustainable developrial topic identified the opinion of the stakeholment of companies. ders within and outside the organisation. (G4They include in particular the fight against 19, G4-20, G4-21 and G4-27) corruption, as one of the major challenges facing today’s society. Given this situation, it is important to develop mechanisms above all to prevent and, where necessary, to combat corruption. Meanwhile, clear and transparent inEthics, anti-corruption, risk formation for stakeholders underpins the trust management and compliance and competitiveness of companies. Why is it important for X-ELIO? Companies are currently required not only to Which stakeholders believe this aspect to be comply with the applicable legislation, but also most important? standards of ethics and integrity in their management. A failure to do so involves exposure Internally: CEO, Management, Policies and to significant risks as regards competitiveness, Strategies and Contractual Undertakings. reputation and possible penalties. Furthermore, companies are exposed to different types Externally: Sector, Employees, Clients and of risk (financial, environmental, legislative, Suppliers. reputational, etc.) that could depend on both Response from X-ELIO external and internal factors. Part 1General standard disclosures: It is essential to identify these risks so as to Strategy and analysis. be able properly to manage them by means of appropriate plans and control mechanisms. Part 2Specific standard disclosures: Risk management provides solidity and trust, Economic Dimension 23 Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information (G4-19, G4-20, G4-21 & G4-27) Financial solidity, profits, sales and Good governance growth forecast Why is it important for X-ELIO? Why is it important for X-ELIO? Mechanisms to support increased effectiveness, Factors such as maintaining a significant potransparency, independence, representativeness, sition in strategic markets or having proven security and good practice in the decisionsolvency in place, contribute to the financial making process within the context of corporate soundness of the companies. In addition, the governance are increasingly important. diversification of products, locations and markets, alongside experience and market knowleAs a result, control and communication medge, serve to diversify clients and identify new chanisms are being increasingly strengthened, sources of business, allowing profitable and requiring greater information on the part of sustainable long-term development of the stakeholders. companies. Which stakeholders believe this aspect to be most important? Which stakeholders believe this aspect to be Internally: CEO and Management. most important? Internally: CEO and Management. Externally: Sector, Employees, Clients and Suppliers. Externally: Sector, Mass Media, Response from X-ELIO Employees and Other Stakeholders. Part 1 General standard disclosures. Governance. Response from X-ELIO Part 2 Specific standard disclosures: Part 1 General standard disclosures. Economic Dimension. Part 2Specific standard disclosures: Economic Dimension. Business context Why is it important for X-ELIO? The position and solidity of a company may Shareholders be affected by external aspects derived from Why is it important for X-ELIO? the current situation with a direct relationship Mechanisms for information and dialogue with with prices, currency exchange rates, energy shareholders, along with transparency and the policies, laws and regulations, technical innocapacity to engage in dialogue, public inforvations, government subsidies and public opimation and communication with stakeholders, nion. represent an increasingly important aspect, making a substantial contribution to improving Which stakeholders believe this aspect to be the reputation of companies. most important? Which stakeholders believe this aspect to be Internally: Management. most important? Externally: Sector, Mass Media, Internally: CEO and Policies and Employees, Clients and Suppliers. Strategies. Externally: Sector, Mass Media, Response from X-ELIO Employees, Clients and Suppliers. Part 2Specific standard disclosures: Response from X-ELIO Economic Dimension. Part 1 General standard disclosures. Governance. Part 2Specific standard disclosures: 24 Economic Dimension. Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information (G4-19, G4-20, G4-21 & G4-27) Climate change and emissions Health and Safety for employees Why is it important for X-ELIO? and contractors Climate change is increasingly significant, henWhy is it important for X-ELIO? ce the growing need to establish strategies and targets that will help arrest global warming. X-ELIO has a deeply rooted risk prevention culture. However, given its considerable imAs regards companies, most of these objecportance it remains a strategic aspect. tives are linked to greenhouse gas emissions, by contributing to mitigation through measureIt is essential to identify and mitigate the potenment plans, reduction targets, offsetting initiatial risks that could arise, to raise the awareness tives and the use of renewable energy, thereby of all in-house and subcontractor personnel, directly affecting the operations of X-ELIO. irrespective of their position, and to reinforce accident prevention and health improvement measures. Which stakeholders believe this aspect to be Which stakeholders believe this aspect to be most important? most important? Internally: CEO and Management. Internally: CEO and Management. Externally: Sector, Employees and Other Externally: Employees and Other Stakeholders. Stakeholders. Response from X-ELIO Response from X-ELIO Part 2 Specific standard disclosures: Part 2 Specific standard disclosures: Social Dimension. Environmental Dimension. Economic and social impact on the local community G4-22 & G4-23 Why is it important for X-ELIO? Significant changes Activity linked to renewable energies has a substantial repercussion on local communities given and reformulations its social impact (through the creation of direct and indirect employment), economic impact regarding previous (local purchases and taxes, etc.) and its output: renewable energy. Meanwhile, the development reports of social action programmes helps to improve The focus of the Report has been modified to the quality of life of the local population. adapt it to the new Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reference guide in version 4, along with Likewise, for the appropriate development of an extension to the materiality study. projects, the participation, engagement and collaboration of the local community is fundaSection G4-13 summarises the relevant chanmental. ges with regard to the 2014 financial year. The minor changes are indicated in the corresponWhich stakeholders believe this aspect to be ding subsections. most important? Internally: CEO. Externally: Sector and Other Stakeholders. Response from X-ELIO Part 2 Specific standard disclosures: Environmental Dimension. 25 Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information Participation of stakeholders G4-24, G4-25 & G4-26 Stakeholders and response by X-ELIO all groups and organisations that could The relationship between X-ELIO and groups influence or be influenced by the company to affected by its activities (stakeholders) is cona significant degree. This process began with ducted in two facets: from the perspective the first Sustainability Report in 2014. of social responsibility, responding to their expectations and needs, and from the persFor each of the stakeholder groups, specific pective of reputation, managing stakeholders’ mechanisms are established to facilitate actiperceptions of the company. ve dialogue, allowing for a swifter and more efficient response to trends and to their needs. The identification and selection of the company’s stakeholders was performed by Below are described the categories defined as means of an internal reflection process at the well as the most significant channels for dialoSustainability Department, supervised by the gue and communication: directorial team, identifying as stakeholders Stakeholders Communications Tools & Dialogue • Ordinary and extraordinary meetings of the Board of Directors. • Ordinary and informative communications about different Shareholders topics of interest. • Response to demands for information. • Corporate Intranet. Employees • Annual informative meetings with the CEO. • Compliance Committee. • Channels established in the regulations of each country. • Requirements for information and communication defined Electric companies by the electric companies. • Grid connection conditions. • Procurement bid conditions. Suppliers and • Subcontractor selection criteria. subcontractors • Monitoring and measurement. • Periodic meetings. • Periodic meetings. Public authorities and • Licences, permits and authorisations. regulatory bodies • Sovereign guarantees. • Meetings. Banks and financial • Financing contracts. entities • Periodic reports. • Consultation periods in the environment for/social impact Energy consumers and assessments of the facilities. local community • Participation in social development programmes. • Client satisfaction survey. • Press room (available on the website). Mass Media • Issuance of press releases. 26 • Social media channels. Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information There are also shared corporate communicaX-ELIO website tion channels to interact with stakeholders. Number of visits to X-ELIO 49,608 website Number of pages visited 148,672 Intranet Leading the Change Number of visits to X-ELIO 134 Intranet Below are detailed certain key indicators as a practical example of the channels for dialogue Number of pages visited 66,632 established by X-ELIO (G4-26): X-ELIO’ Social Media Number of Twitter followers 453 Number of profiles’ s visits 3,896 Number of Linkedin followers 4,963 Number of visitors to Linkedin 2,522 27 Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information Report profile G4-28 This completes document is available in electronic format in English and Spanish on the website: Period covered by the http://www.x-elio.com/en/sustainability report Period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December G4-32 2015. Conformity with GRI The Sustainability Report is drawn up “in conG4-29 formity” with the GRI 4 Guide, Comprehensive Date of the previous option. The GRI Table of Contents can be found in Annex. report The Report was furthermore subjected to the Sustainability Report for the 2014 financial year. Materiality Disclosure Service, and GRI confirmed that the materiality contents (G4-17 to G427) are properly positioned. G4-30 Report presentation cycle G4-33 Annual. External verification X-ELIO has for the third year running perforG4-31 med independent external verification with the The company EY. Meanwhile, the Report on the InSustainability Contact dividual Annual Accounts and the Consolidated Report are audited by EY. Report is For general issues regarding this report, infordrawn up “in mation is available at: The external verification report is included in Annex. conformity” X-ELIO with the GRI S/ Ombu, 3 2th floor. 28045 Madrid (Spain). 4 Guide, RSC@gestampren.com Comprehensive option. Governance G4-34 G4-35 Structure of governance Delegation of the highest The governing bodies of the company are the body of governance General Shareholders’ Meeting and the Board The Board of Directors is responsible for reaof Directors, ching the most important business decisions The highest body of governance, supervision, and, where applicable, delegates execution of decision-making and control, subject to no its decisions to the relevant employees or consubstantive limits other than as established in sultants for effective implementation. the legal provisions and the Articles of AssoThe Board of Directors is likewise entitled to ciation. delegate its powers on a general and specific One of the key missions of the Board of Direcbasis, in accordance with company needs and tors is to promote corporate interests, reprethe matters in question. senting the entity and its partners in the admiIn order, among other reasons, to foster and nistration of assets, management of businesses facilitate the company’s operations and busiand in steering its business administration. ness, the Board of Directors appointed a geneThe Board of Directors comprises five memral legal representative, vested with all powers bers, being made up at 31 December 2015 of: necessary in order to be able to reach decisions in daily dealings, thereby guaranteeing business operability and continuity. Company’s Board Holding this of Directors position since President G4-36 Mr. Juan María Riberas Mera 16/12/2015 Economic, environmental Board Member 1 16/12/2015 and social responsibilities Mr. Jesús Olmos Clavijo The company’s economic, social and environmental responsibilities are all handled by the Board Member 2 16/12/2015 Technical Department and Financial Control Mr. Guido Lucio Mitrani Department, the heads of which refer any deBoard Member 3 cisions to be taken by Board of Directors, as 16/12/2015 summarised below: Mr. Oleg Shamovsky Environmental and social issues are Board Member 4 coordinated and executed by the Techni16/12/2015 Mr. Jorge Barredo López cal Department, with the Chief Technical Officer (CTO) holding responsibility and Secretary (not Board Member) being charged with accountability before 16/12/2015 Mr. Jaime de la Serna Gould the Board of Directors. Economic issues are managed by the Financial and Control Department, with the The current Board of Directors was appointed Chief Financial Officer (CFO) being responon 16 December 2015, within the context of the sible for accountability before the Board of operation by means of which the KKR Group Directors. became the new majority shareholder, with three individuals appointed by the subsidiary In addition to the above, the most senior manacompany designated by the KKR Group as the gers at these two departments appear before the company’s shareholder being added to the Board of Directors whenever it requires. Board of Directors. Among other issues, the Board of Directors holds The Board of Directors does not have a Delethe final decision as to approval of the Business gated Executive Committee with general deciPlan, the annual economic forecasts and tarsion-making powers, with all decisions being gets, the Investment and Funding Policy, the risk adopted by the Board itself. analysis and, in general, all policies affecting the company. 29 Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information G4-37 G4-39 Processes for Executive function of the consultation between President stakeholders and The President does not hold an executive the senior body of position. governance The process of exchanging information with G4-40 stakeholders is conducted by means of the resAppointment and pective area managers and directors, who are responsible for referring matters of particular selection processes significance to the Board of Directors. Powers for the appointment of Directors lie soThe Technical Department and the Financial lely with the General Shareholders’ Meeting, and Control Department at the central level, the which represents the interests of all the comHuman Resources Department at the central lepany’s shareholders (see G4-34.) Nonetheless, vel, and the Business Managers of the various the number of directors appointed at the procountries where the company has a presence, posal of each of the shareholders is determined exchange information with stakeholders (suby the Shareholder Agreement signed by them, ppliers, governments, employees, etc.) which supplements the Articles of Association. Likewise, on an annual basis the company staThe Articles of Association cover the functioges what is known as the “Leadership Meeting”, ning of the Board of Directors, the requiredaily sessions actively involving company emments and deadlines established for calling ployees, with the aim of sharing opinions and the General Meeting, and the functions of the proposals for the continuity and improvement President. They likewise set out the grounds of the company in every aspect, at which a for incompatibility among members, subject member of the Board of Directors informs emat all times to the relevant legislation goverployees of the firm’s overall objectives. ning companies. The delegation of executive powers by the Board of Directors is performed by means of resolutions passed by the Board G4-38 itself. Composition of the senior body of governance and G4-41 its committees Conflict of interest As summarised in G4-34, the Board of Directors Shareholders may not exercise the voting ricomprises five members and one (non-directoghts corresponding to their shares if they are rial) secretary, all with non-executive functions. subject to any of the cases of conflict of interest established in Article 190 of Royal LegislaThe members of the Board of Directors are tive Decree 1/2010, of 2 June 2010, approving involved in the discussion and adoption of the Consolidated Text of the Capital Compadecisions regarding economic, social and ennies Act, or any other regulations applicable in vironmental matters, and are responsible for this regard. approving the Code of Ethics. Communication with other stakeholders is conX-Elio Energy is a non-listed company, and the ducted directly via the various company demembers of its Board of Directors represent all partments. shareholders, with no legal imperative to have representatives of other stakeholders in place. 30 Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information G4-42 & G4-43 Functions and In addition to this meeting, the body meets in accordance with operational, business and knowledge of the body project approval needs. Specifically, during of governance regarding 2015 it met on 19 occasions to address a range of issues connected with the projects that sustainability X-Elio Energy develops, builds and operates in various countries around the world through its The functions of the Board of Directors includirect and indirect stakes in local companies. de the approval of and commitment to comply with the standards of the Code of Ethics and Meanwhile, the General Shareholders’ Meeting Conduct, including the principles governing is responsible, among other aspects, for approthe company, covering economic, environving or rejecting the participation and/or exemental and social aspects. cution by the company of various operations proposed over the course of time as business The members of the Board of Directors are kept opportunities for the company. permanently informed as to economic, social and environmental issues, via the various interDuring the 2015 financial year, specifically in nal communication mechanisms, such as: the the month of December, the members of the periodic meetings with the directors of the vaGeneral Shareholders of the Meeting changed rious areas, the generation and approval of the as a result of the stake acquired by the KKR Sustainability Report and the various actions Group through its subsidiary AURORA ENERand initiatives by X-Elio Energy, the Leading GY HOLDING, S.L., the company stock now bethe Change Intranet and the various commuing held by GESTAMP SOLAR, S.L. (20%) and nications. ­A­URORA ENERGY HOLDING, S.L. (80%). It should be emphasised that with effect from December 2015 the Compliance Committee was appointed, and will in the first instance be responsible for ensuring that all circumstances arising within the context of the development of the company’s operations of which it is ­informed respect or our resolved in accordance with the aforementioned Code of Ethics and Conduct. G4-44 Performance of the senior body of governance As the members of the Board of Directors are appointed by the General Shareholders’ Meeting, there is no specific procedure for the evaluation of the performance of their functions. The Board of Directors, in accordance with the applicable legal regulations, meets with the legally established frequency, its responsibilities including the formulation of the annual accounts of the company during the first quarter of each financial year. The members of the Board of Directors are kept permanently informed as to economic, social and environmental issues, via the various internal communication mechanisms 31 Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information G4-45, G4-46, G4-47 In accordance with the results of the analysis of the above points, a decision is reached as to Functions of the senior whether or not to continue with the proposed body of governance in project. risk management If the project is approved, a second phase begins, to evaluate issues such as the strategy to For the development and execution of new be adopted in order to obtain funding, location projects, X-Elio Energy conducts a detailed of the land, processing of permits and licences study evaluating and analysing the potential for the project. risks of each project, with each of the various company departments making their contribuOnce the project has all the development astions before any decision is reached. pects required, the company to be contracted to build the facility is then selected and assigned, including civil engineering and electrics, electromechanical assembly, and lastly commissioning. Construction is performed by means of EPC (Engineering, Procurement and Construction) contracts, using specialist firms that comply with the established requirements and the applicable legal standards, up to commissioning of the facility. During both the construction and plant operation phase, compliance with all environmental, employment and social measures and laws plays a particularly significant role, with the company rigorously focusing on strict compliance and best practices as regards all such aspects. Lastly, during the useful life of the facility, the relevant operation and maintenance tasks are performed. The facilities are monitored in real time, which means that any incident is detected and managed immediately. Meanwhile, in order to improve the performance of the facilities, predictive and preventive maintenance are conducted, with corrective At the initial project definition and analysis stamaintenance only where it is necessary. ge, information is compiled as to the energy All these actions and the possible risks derived X-Elio Energy conducts a detailed policies in the country, the expected returns, from them are continuously analysed by X-Elio study evaluating regulatory stability and local government. Energy’s management and teams, serving to and analysing the Meanwhile, an investigation and analysis of clidetect risks and to implement the required copotential risks of each mate conditions (radiation, hours of sunlight…), rrective measures in a swift and agile manner. project. environmental, landscape, urban planning and archaeological restrictions and property management is conducted. 32 Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information G4-48 G4-49 Review and approval of Communication with the Sustainability Report the senior body of Sustainability organisation is coordinated by governance the sustainability team, including the CorporaThe heads of the various departments maintain te Communication, Marketing and Sustainabilipermanent and fluent communication with the ty Department. member appointed by the Board. The Report and the Materiality Analysis are All significant issues are referred to this Board drawn up each year by this team, in collaboMember by the heads of the various areas. ration with the various areas and departments involved at X-Elio Energy. Meetings are periodically staged, involving all X-Elio Energy professionals. These are twoOnce it has been drawn up, it follows a suway meetings, with the member designated by pervision and review process on the part of a the Board informing staff of significant aspects member of the board designated for this purconnected with the management and situapose, along with the Communication Departtion of the company, while receiving feedback ment, before finally being approved by the from personnel regarding these issues and any Board of Directors. ­aspects of interest to them. Furthermore, in order to guarantee the reliability of the information, the Report is externally verified by an independent body. 33 Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information G4-50 G4-51, G4-52 & G4-53 Nature and number of Remuneration and issues raised at the Board incentives of the Board of Directors of Directors During the 2015 financial year various issues The members of the Board of Directors do not were addressed at the 19 meetings held by the receive any remuneration for their work as DiBoard of Directors. rectors, and so indicators G4-51, G4-52 and G4-53 do not apply. Most of them are connected with the growth and funding of the company, both for the new projects developed in 2015 and those scheduled in 2016, and compliance with future objecG4-54 & G4-55 tives. Remuneration and increase in remuneration In 2015, the Indicators G4-54 and G4-55 are not available. Compliance This information will be included next financial Committee has year. not received any grievance. 34 Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information Ethic and integrity G4-56 expected imminently, is based on the Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights Values, principles of the International Labour Organization (ILO), and code of ethics the 1992 Rio Declaration on the Environment and Development, the Universal Declaration X-ELIO strives to grow as a sound and responof Human Rights and the 10 principles of the sible company, acting sustainably in all counUnited Nations Global Compact, established in tries where it has a presence, while furthermore the year 2000. expanding its activity in all those countries that fulfil the necessary conditions of security, cliChapter “Economic Dimension” explores these mate and growth for the viability of long-term issue with more depth. projects. Its ambition is to be a global industry leader, with excellent financial and sustainable perforG4-57 and G4-58 mance. We aim to be the leading provider of Compliance Committee renewable energies, dedicated to mitigating climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. and whistleblowing Sustainability has become another key element mechanisms at the company, since sustainable developThe Compliance Committee is an internal body ment is believed to be the best way to achieve responsible for promoting the values and ethic its ambition and the expectations of its stakeconduct of the company, such as supervision, holders.. monitoring, communication, dissemination and oversight of the Policies and Codes as regards ethics, anti-corruption and compliance, along Compliance Programme with processing and support in the resolution of queries, and the response to any possible X-ELIO has since 2014 operated under the incidents or grievances that might arise. Code of Ethics and Conduct of Gestamp Solar. Following the shareholding acquired by KKR, a The Compliance Committee is authorised to complete Compliance Programme has been esgather information from whistleblowers and to tablished, with human and economic resources conduct investigations regarding any breach being dedicated to implementation, along with of the Policies and Codes that make up the the definition of the Compliance Committee. Compliance Programme. The Board of Directors is responsible for deThe Committee guarantees that information is fining the Programme and communicating the processed with due confidentiality, discretion ethical framework required so as to achieve hoand safeguards with regard to employees or nest, transparent operations in accordance with outsiders reporting alleged breaches in good the undertakings given, and to establish confaith. sultation and whistleblowing mechanisms, and investigate and respond to the issues raised. In order to facilitate communication, whistleblowing channels are in place allowing any Within this context, in the first half of 2016 the employee observing any breach or violation of Board of Directors approved the Anti-corrupthe Compliance Program to file the correspontion Policy, the Trade Sanction Policy and the ding report or complaint. These whistleblowing Antitrust Policy, while the forthcoming approval channels are as follows: of a new Code of Ethics and Conduct aligned with the Compliance Programme is expected. By email: Communication mechanisms have also been compliance@x-elio.com; and/or put in place with the aim of responding to any By post: grievances and conflicts that could arise in this Compliance Committee field. These policies are gradually being sent X-ELIO Energy, S.L. out to employees, who subscribe to them and C/ Ombú, 3, 2ª planta undertake to fulfil them. 28045 Madrid. Spain. In order to reinforce these aspects, there are plans to begin an employee training process, Since it was founded, the Compliance Comallowing us to continue making improvements. mittee has not received any grievance either from employees or from third parties, (G4-LA16) As with the previous version, the new Code regarding discrimination (G4-HR3) or other huof Ethics and Conduct, approval of which is man rights (G4-HR12). 35 Sustainability Report 2015 Part 1 General Information Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Economic Dimension. Page 38 Social Dimension. Page 46 Environmental Dimension. Page 64 37 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Material aspects: Economic dimension Following the materiality analysis undertaken and described in the basic general content (G4-18, G4-19, G4-20 and G4-21) the most significant aspects are summarised below: General matters Groups that consider Subject of particular interest the aspect material Internal: CEO and Senior Management Business context External: Sector, Media, Employees, Clients and Suppliers. Internal: CEO and Senior Economic Financial solidity, profits, Management. Management sales and growth forecast External: Sector, Media, Employees and Others. Internal: CEO and Policies and Strategy. Shareholders External: Sector, Employees, Media, Clients and Suppliers. Internal: CEO, Senior Management, Compliance: ethics, Public undertakings given, Policies anticorruption and risk and strategy. management. External: Sector, Employees, Media, Ethics and Clients and Suppliers. Governance Internal: CEO and Senior Management. Governance External: Sector, Employees, Clients and Suppliers. Over the course of the chapter, the management and initiatives of X-ELIO connected with these aspects are presented. 38 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Economic dimension Current context (DMA) As was to be expected, in 2015 the global Meanwhile, particular mention should be made economy found itself passing through a diffiof the staging in 2015 of the 21st United Nations cult stage. The growing instability on financial Climate Change Summit (COP 21), which, throumarkets and growth forecasts over the coming gh emissions reduction targets, will help unyears indicate a weak recovery in advanced derpin the use of clean energy sources. countries, along with a slowdown in growth in many emerging markets. However, there is increasing global awareness as to the importance of renewable energy and energy efficiency, not only to minimise the impact of climate change but to create new economic opportunities and provide access to energy on the part of millions of people who still do not have modern energy supply services available. This, combined with considerable support for energy policies, the reduction in investment costs and returns in line with risk, are all aspects indicating a window of opportunity to invest in the development of renewable energies. X-ELIO is of the opinion that access to sources of renewable energy is affordable, reliable and sustainable, and that the promotion of this is vital in order to bring about an end to extreme poverty, to provide supply in remote regions, to increase social fairness and contribute to the fight against climate change. In this regard, photovoltaic solar technology reveals numerous advantages. Firstly, the technology is amply proven, solar resources are highly constant and easily measured, costs have fallen considerably, it is easy to install on numerous surfaces and connection times are short, normally less than 18 months. Energy policy X-ELIO is of the opinion that access Initiatives The development and implementation of reto sources of renewable energy is newable energies is the direct result of the Over recent years, numerous initiatives have affordable, reliable policies implemented by governments and the been developed with a focus on increasing and sustainable. availability of appropriate finance, since it is the presence of renewable energy around the vital for business to have in place stable, longworld. term regulatory frameworks in the different The General Assembly of the United Nations, markets for the sale of renewable energy. which unanimously declared the decade 2014A recent analysis by the Global Wind Energy 2024 as the Decade of Sustainable Energy for Council (GWEC) indicates that China, the USA All, establishes in its report SE4All the measuand Germany, three of the world’s leading ecores to be followed in order to advance in the nomies, are achieving substantial results with right direction and achieve universal access to their clean energy policies. sustainable energy by 2030. These measures are in turn aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 7, on energy and its contribution to sustainable development. 39 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Over recent years, the cost of installing solar energy has fallen by around 80%, over the Investment past 5 years, and is expected to continue faand development lling over the coming years, which means that Last year, 2015, marked a milestone in the hissolar energy is destined to play a key role in tory of renewable energies, registering the this energy transition, with huge prospects for greatest increase ever worldwide. This was the growth. result, among other factors, of the notable teNonetheless, there are certain aspects that chnological advances allowing for substantial could have contributed to offsetting a greater increases in generation capacity, and consideincrease in renewable energies in 2015, inclurable cost reductions, thereby attracting numeding such examples as: the downturn in fossil rous investors. fuel prices, the strength of the US dollar and This increase has been expressed in terms of the weakness of the European economy, preinstalled power with nearly 148 new gigawatt, Last year, viously the driving force behind investment in with funding for the sector increasing globa2015, marked renewable energies. lly in 2015 to a record world investment figua milestone re of more than 250 billion euros, the leading in the history investor countries being China and the USA, of renewable followed by Africa, Latin America and India, acenergies, counting for 4% more than in 2014. registering the It should be emphasised that solar has expangreatest increase ded more than any other source, with 56% of ever worldwide. installed power. 40 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures The growth of X-ELIO Ambition. To be a global leader in the industry with consummate financial returns, and also a provider of sustainable renewable energy, dedicated to helping to reduce greenhouse gases and to fight against climate change. Construction Operation & Development (EPC) Manintenance Coverage of Construction and Project Financing development cost financing margins & M&A Within this context, X-ELIO currently has 36 The plans for this period is to build 20 new facilities in operation, and plans to build new projects across the USA, India, Egypt, Japan plants as part of a well-diversified portfolio in and LatAm, mainly in Chile, El Salvador, Panaterms of size and region, backed up by longma, Brazil and Mexico. All together, they would term energy off-take contracts, serving to increase the installed power by more than 600 maintain sustainable growth. MW by the end of 2017, giving a total of 1.2 GW. To this end, X-ELIO develops an integrated buTo this end it has in place a highly qualified siness model offering flexibility for value creaprofessional team, appropriate refinancing of tion throughout the cycle. the debt and the growth in accordance with a Project Finance structure. 2015 2018 2019 This was a very important year for the company, achieving a figure of 578.35 MW of solar The aim is to consolidate the sustainable energy in operation, thanks to the start-up of ­growth of the country with a diverse project the Fukuroda (Japan) and Marcovia (Honduras) portfolio, minimising risk, and opening up new solar facilities. markets in Asia-Pacific and the USA. X-ELIO focuses its growth on favourable and secure markets for the development of photovoltaic projects, with the aim of achieving a 2020 global market share of 2% by 2020. By 2020 we expect to have in place a balanIt has to this end defined a strategic short, meced global portfolio owning more than 2 GW dium and long-term plan. in stable markets and with long-term contracts. 2016 2017 Substantial increase in deployment capacity, mainly in Japan and LatAm, without disregarding other countries with value-added projects (such as Egypt), to achieve 300 MW/year of new construction. 41 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures New facilities in 2015 Marcovia (Honduras) The facility began operations on 3 June 2015. With an investment of more than 90 million dollars and 42.4 MW. Fukuroda (Japan) The facility began operations on 18 September 2015. With an investment of more than 90 million dollars and 31.6 MW. Iwate (Japan) The facility was built in 2015 and will beguin operating in January 2016. It has 24.78 MW of power, occupying a total surface area of 40 hectares on a former golf course. Kuwait The facility was built in 2015 and has 10.6 MW of power. X-ELIO built the facility, which is owned by third parties. 42 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Balance sheet: As for other accounting obligations, the companies that make up X-ELIO are, in the main, 2015 results required to draw up an annual audit reports on their individual annual accounts given the total volume of their assets, their turnover and their (G4-EC1 & G4-EC4) average number of employees. Said reports contain no exceptions. X-ELIO continues to progress towards the objective of increasing its international presence Following approval by the corresponding in creating value in those communities where body, these reports are filed in due time and it sets up in business. This is possible thanks form at the Companies Register for each of the to a positive balance sheet and appropriate financial accounting years with legalisation financing. of official records and the filing of annual accounts. Meanwhile, the X-ELIO companies are Likewise, at the close of the financial year the up-to-date with their General Social Security turnover in 2015 stood at €186,481 thousand, Treasury payments and tax obligations. with EBITDA of €44,998 thousand. The net results amounted to €1,120 thousand, with a net Lastly, as set out in the Code of Ethics and Confinancial debt of €404,407 thousand, mainly duct, X-Elio does not provide any economic structured as Project Finance, and net equity of support to Governments (G4-EC4). €182,446 thousand. Below are set out X-ELIO’s key consolidated economic figures: Economic Value Generated (EVG) with a total Shareholders of 193,484 thousand euros, distributed as foX-ELIO has the responsibility to conduct effillows: cient and professional management, demonstrating sound finances, guaranteeing future profitable and sustainable growth by minimiEconomic Value Created 2015 sing risk. All the above while creating indirect (thousand euros) value in the countries where it operates Turnover 186,481 To this end, the shareholders promote comFinancial income 3,079 munication and contact between themselves and stakeholders, by establishing appropriate Other revenue 3,924 information exchange mechanisms to foster Total 193,484 transparency and the presentation of truthful information. Economic Value Distributed (EVD) with a total The governing bodies of the company of the of 648,941 thousand euros, distributed as foGeneral Shareholders’ Meeting and Board of llows: Directors, which is the highest body of governance, supervision, decision-making and conEconomic Value Distributed 2015 trol. Indicator G4-34 sets out relevant informa(thousand euros) tion about its functioning. Payment to capital providers 36,530 As regards the Board of Directors, it has the Taxes 8,385 function of promoting corporate interests, representing the entity and its shareholders in Personnel Costs 7,051 the administration of assets, management of CAPEX 596,975 businesses and in guiding corporate adminisInvestments in the Community ND tration. The Board meets at least every quarter. Total 648,941 Meanwhile, the General Shareholders’ Meeting is responsible, among other aspects, for approving or rejecting the participation and/or execution by the company of various operations The Economic Value Retained (EVR) with a toproposed over the course of time as business tal of 19,736 thousand euros. opportunities for the company. The ShareholDuring the 2015 financial year no additional ders’ Meeting meets monthly. amount of subsidies was received. 43 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Ethics, anticorruption, risk management and Compliance 2015 represented a period of change at the All employees were trained in 2014 as regards company, with the shareholder KKR acquiring the Code of Ethics, while new hirings were traits stake at the end of the year. This entails a ined in 2015, making a total of 15 employees redefinition of policies, guides, codes and and 13 hours of training. whistleblowing mechanisms by means of a new Compliance Programme, taking into acThe Code of Ethics in force in 2015 establicount the requirements and specificities of our shed the guidelines and channels for whistleAmerican shareholder, all of which will be opeblowing to be employed in the event of any In 2015, conduct that could represent a violation of the redefining rational from 2016 onwards. legal standards or of the company’s principles. policies, guides, Over recent years the company’s substantial Up until 2016 there are three whistleblowing codes and growth in various countries and cultures has channels in place: by email, by telephone, or whistleblowing exposed it to new and different risks, leading in writing, by using the whistleblower form. All mechanisms by to detection of the need to strengthen the momatters are analysed, managed and resolved means of a new nitoring, control and audit mechanisms. by the Ethics Committee and, from 2016, by the Compliance Compliance Committee. In 2015, the CommitBelow we summarise the situation in 2015 and tee did not receive any complaints. Part 1 of the Programme. the next steps in the Compliance Programme. Report summarises the new initiatives in the field of Compliance. (G4-SO5). Anticorruption mechanisms and compliance (G4-SO4) Issues connected with corruption, transparency, governance and conflict of interest are of concern to all stakeholders. As a result, the fight against corruption forms a part of its principles, and is based on “zero tolerance” with regard to this type of malpractice. In 2014 the “Guide to behaviour in response to the offering of incentives, gifts or invites” was developed with the aim of guiding company employees in the event of possible conflicts that could emerge in their professional operations. The 2016 it was modified and adapted to the new company, and a new Anticorruption Code was passed, as part of the Compliance Programme. Likewise, the relevant internal procedures have been implemented in order to ensure the effectiveness of the referred Code. Indicators G4-2 and G4-56 in Part 1 of the ReCode of ethics and whistleblowing port include all relevant information regarding mechanisms the Compliance Programme and its progressiBased on the understanding that the company ve implementation, along with the obligations is now expected to be an ethical leader in all and responsibilities of the Compliance Commidecisions taken by its members, in 2014 the ttee. Code of Ethics and Conduct was approved by Another of the requirements of the Programme the Board of Directors. The Code of Ethics is is communication, training and acceptance by available online in English and in Spanish by all X-ELIO employees. 44 the corporate intranet. Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Operational mechanisms to address Risk management harassment In undertaking its operations, X-ELIO is subX-ELIO is a For X-ELIO, personal dignity and inherent and ject to various risks inherent in its activity and signatory to inviolable personal rights, the free developthe various countries where it operates, as the Global ment of personality, equal treatment, non-dissummarised under the indicator “G4-2 Main Compact, and so crimination and physical and moral integrity effects, risks and opportunities”. is committed to are fundamental rights, irrespective of the Given the type of services and the companies promoting and country and culture within which it operates. we subcontract, no risks connected with child implementing However, harassment and violence are a prolabour, threats to freedom of association or forthe 10 universally blem that could affect the company. ced labour were identified. (G4-HR4, G4-HR5, accepted To inform staff and minimise this type of beG4-HR6). principles in the haviour, in 2014 the “Harassment Prevention In 2015, no risks connected with corruption fields of human Guide and Response Protocol” was published. were evaluated (G4-SO3). Nor were any grierights, labour vances received with regard to the environregulations, the ment, employment practices or human rights. environment and United Nations Global Compact. (G4-EN34, G4-LA16 and G4-HR12). anticorruption. X-ELIO is a signatory to the Global Compact, Nor is the company involved in any proceeand so is committed to promoting and impledings regarding unfair competition, anti-trust menting the 10 universally accepted principles practices (G4-SO7), breach of legislation and in the fields of human rights, labour regulations, regulations (G4-SO8), nor has it received any the environment and anticorruption. fines as a result of breaches connected with supply and use of products (G4-PR9), marketing The company complies with all necessary communications or client data privacy. ­requirements to renew its commitment in 2016. Funding of projects Governance The Equator Principles were followed for the All information about the Governance of financing of the Marcovia facility in Honduras, X-ELIO is summarised in Part 1 of the Report, and the information requested was reported. under indicators G4-34 to G4-50. However, no clause or undertaking as regards human rights and anticorruption practices was required. (G4-HR1) 45 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Material aspects: Social Dimension Following the materiality analysis undertaken and described in the basic general content (G4-18, G4-19, G4-20 and G4-21) the most significant aspects are summarised below: General matters Groups that consider Subject of particular interest the aspect material Social Dimensión: Health and Safety Internal: CEO and Senior People and Safety for employees and Management. employment contractors. External: Sector, Employees and Others. Social Dimension: Local Communities Local wealth generation: employment, suppliers, Internal: CEO. Local communities economic development, External: Sector and Others. land use. Over the course of the chapter, the management and initiatives of X-ELIO connected with these ­aspects are presented. 46 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Social Dimension: People and employment Management focus At X-ELIO, human resources management foBelow is shown the distribution of the workforcuses on people in an attempt to guarantee ce by country, age and gender: quality employment, offering a stable working environment with opportunities for promotion Managers on the international stage, thereby helping to Men Women drive forward the company’s sustainable grow> 30 > 30 th. Country 30 50 > 50 30 50 > 50 In 2015, the X-ELIO team was made up of 150 Chile 0 0 0 0 0 0 professionals, 2.7% more than in 2014. It comSpain 0 11 1 0 1 0 prises 70% men and 30% women. Italy 0 1 0 0 0 0 The company has a balanced workforce in Japan 0 0 1 0 0 0 terms of experience and dynamism. Most employees (82%) are aged between 30 and 50 Mexico 0 1 0 0 0 0 years, while the remainder are equally divided Peru 0 0 0 0 0 0 between those under 30 and over 50. South 0 0 0 0 0 0 As for executive staff, 16.7% are aged over 50, Africa and the remaining 83.3% are between 30 and USA 0 0 0 0 0 0 50 years old. Meanwhile, 66.7% are of local nationality, and all are men. (G4-LA12) Total 0 13 2 0 1 0 16 The enclosed figure shows their distribution by Middle Managers gender, by category and by country: Men Women > 30 > 30 Country 30 50 > 50 30 50 > 50 * Expatriates from Spain Chile 0 1* 0 0 0 0 to South Africa and Chile Spain 0 9 0 0 4 0 respectively. 30% For the remaining Italy 0 4 0 0 0 0 calculations and Women Japan 0 2 1 0 0 0 percentages regarding 70% staff, they are considered Men Mexico 0 0 0 0 0 0 employed in Spain. Peru 0 0 0 0 0 0 South 0 1* 0 0 1 0 Africa 10,6% Middle Managers USA 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 0 17 1 0 5 0 23 15,4% Managers Plant and Office Personnel Men Women 74% > 30 > 30 Plant and Office Country 30 50 > 50 30 50 > 50 Personnel Chile 0 1 0 0 1 0 Spain 6 24 5 2 22 0 1% Chile 3% Peru Italy 2 15 1 1 3 0 3% Mexico 3% South Africa Japan 1 5 3 0 4 0 3% USA Mexico 0 0 0 1 2 0 Peru 1 3 0 0 0 0 58% 11% Japan South Spain 0 0 1 0 3 0 18% Africa Italy USA 0 4 0 0 0 0 Total 10 52 10 4 35 0 111 47 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Recruitment and internal promotion (G4-LA1) X-ELIO is aware that the development and fuThe table shows their distribution by gender, ture of the company depend to a great extent category and country: on the commitment and effort of its team. This means that having trained, qualified and Hires Leaves motivated professionals in place, in a pleasant País M W M W working environment, is a key aspect in order Chile 0 0 0 0 to grow as a competitive, sound and sustainable company. Spain 7 1 15 3 The principles of non-discrimination and equal Italy 1 0 0 0 opportunities are set out in its Code of Ethics Japan 4 1 4 3 and Conduct. Meanwhile, hiring conditions are set out in the collective bargaining agreeMexico 0 0 0 2 ments, handbooks and regulations applicable Peru 0 0 1 0 in each geographical location, and do not perSouth mit discrimination in any case. 1 0 0 1 Africa Selection processes are based on the merit, USA 6 6 2 0 experience and knowledge of the candidates. From the outset, the selection process aims to M: Men W: Women bring in the professionals best suited to the job requirements. X-ELIO did not observe any significant risks of They employ electronic tools, such as emplodiscrimination, child labour and/or forced layment exchanges, specific gatherings such as bour, or breaches of human rights issues at any job fairs and, on occasion, specialist consulof its own operational sites, nor at suppliers, tants are engaged directly. and the Ethics Committee did not receive any Meanwhile, local employment is promoted, grievances in this regard (G4-HR3, G4-HR5 contributing to a strengthening of the dialoand G4-HR6). Meanwhile, no examinations or gue with local communities and allowing for a evaluations of the plants or offices were permore precise understanding of them and their formed as regards human rights, as this is not culture. 95.3% of employees are of local origin, considered a substantial risk given the activity corresponding to 97.1% men and 91.1% women. undertaken (G4-HR9). Particular mention should be made in this regard of female directors and middle managers, 100% of whom are of local origin. Mobility The turnover rate at X-ELIO was 2.7% in 2015 In order to strengthen professional develop(2.9% men and 2.2% women). During the finanment opportunities, X-ELIO promotes dynacial year, 31 new professionals joined the commism and mobility among its employees. As a pany (22 men and 9 women), while there were result, where the market strategy so requires, 27 departures (19 men and 8 women), most of they are offered the voluntary challenge of tathem in Spain and the USA. king on greater responsibility or developing new projects in other countries and regions, serving to foster the development of their professional careers. In 2015, 4 people were transferred (3 men and 1 women) and 8 deployed abroad (7 men and 1 woman), all of them from Spain to the various countries where X-ELIO has a presence. 48 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Training Employment stability (G4-LA9 and G4-LA10) (G4-LA1) X-ELIO strives to attract, retain and develop For X-ELIO, promoting stable employment is the talent of its team, fostering their training a way of demonstrating its trust in its team, in and qualifications, ensuring at all times that long-term relationships, and their experience. promotion is based on individual merit, skills During 2015, 73% of the workforce had a perand abilities, from the selection process up to manent contract, while the remaining 27% were the end of their professional career. on temporary contracts. Meanwhile, 92% of the A Training Plan is drawn up each year, setworkforce is employed full-time, and the remaiting out the training needs of the teams. 3,757 ning 8%, part-time. hours of training delivered in 2015. This repreThe gender and country distribution is set out sents an average of 25 hours of training per below: employee. The following table details the distribution across the key topics: Contract Employment • Languages : 78.7% Permanent Temporary Full-time Part-time • Health, safety and environment : 15.6% Country M W M W M W M W • Ethics and Human Rights : 0.2% Italy 1 1 0 0 1 1 0 0 • Other : 5.5% Japan 45 3 13 26 58 17 0 12 Mexico 23 4 0 0 23 4 0 0 To analyse the quality and usefulness of the Peru 13 4 0 0 13 4 0 0 training received, in most cases employee opinion surveys are conducted to assist in South Africa 1 3 0 0 1 3 0 0 this process and evaluate whether the training USA 3 0 1 0 4 0 0 0 fulfils expectations. The general conclusion Total 1 4 0 0 1 4 0 0 would be that the Training Plan corresponding to 2015 was satisfactory delivered. No training EE.UU. 4 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 is given with a focus on managing the end of Total 91 19 14 26 105 33 0 12 the teams’ professional careers. (G4-LA10). The firms subcontracted by the company to provide physical security are legally regulated Maternity and paternity leave in 2015 corresand recognised, and so training for them in huponded to 1 man and 4 women (3 in Spain and man rights is not deemed necessary. (G4-HR7). 1 in Italy). All of them remain at the company. Meanwhile, the bursary programme is promo(G4-LA3) ted, using agreements with major universities, business schools and study centres to allow young professionals to perform work placements at X-ELIO and so acquire experience. Once their placement has ended, if their performance has proved satisfactory and corresponds to production needs, they are offered the opportunity to continue developing their role at the company. 49 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Work-life balance and social benefits (G4-LA2) The balance between the professional and Retirement plan and pension schemes: All personal life of employees is important for their employees in Japan are offered a non-dehealth and well-being, and the company therefined retirement plan. Meanwhile, one fore has flexible arrival and departure times to employee in Italy benefits from a pension adapt to individual circumstances. Meanwhile, fund. (G4-EC3) there are plans in 2016 for the implementation of flexible working hours throughout the comTransport assistance: A grant known as pany. the “commutation allowance” is offered in Japan to cover travel to work. The firm furthermore aims to improve the quality of life of its professionals, and they therefoFlexible Remuneration Plan: Employees in re receive social benefits tailored to needs in Spain have access to the ‘PRF’ Flexible Reeach location, as summarised below: muneration Plan, offering them the chance to include within their remuneration package various products that offer tax and professional benefits, allowing each of them to adjust the mix to their personal requirements. The services currently offered are: childcare vouchers, meal vouchers, transport vouchers and purchase of computer equipment. In 2015, 64 employees had signed up to the PRF scheme, distributed as follows: 6.25% Transport 12.5% check Kindergarten check Life and disability insurance: all workers in Spain and Italy are covered by life and acThe balance cident insurance providing cover beyond between the the limits established by local legislation. professional and personal life of Meal vouchers: meal vouchers are available to all employees in Spain, while there 81.25% employees is is a canteen service for all employees in Medical insurance important for their health and Italy. well-being. 50 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Representation and The Handbook is a guide setting out employment conditions, indicating behavioural standialogue with employees dards in accordance with the context and local legal requirements, stating the rights and (G4-LA4) duties of employees in aspects connected with recruitment processes, working hours, absenLinkedIn In order to provide an appropriate structure for ce, salaries, social benefits, leave, etc. Labour relations, the company has in place coFollowers: No significant suppliers or centres have been llective bargaining agreements for equivalent identified where freedom of association and 4,963 specific arrangements governing aspects conthe right to benefit from collective bargaining nected with Human Resource management. Visits: agreements could be infringed or threatened, at the facilities in operation. (G4-HR4) 2,522 Information is set out in different forms depending on local requirements and legislation. In countries such as Spain and Italy, it is laid down in the corresponding collective bargaining agreements, and for those countries that Communication did not have a similar formula, the information Firstly, the internal X-ELIO communication model corresponds to the needs of a multinational is compiled in what are known as Handbooks, Twitter in accordance with local practice and legislateam used to periodic travel. tion. Meanwhile, at the external level significant isFollowers: 453 They set out the rights and obligations of prosues are published via the website and media Visits: fessional staff in accordance with local require(press, radio, etc.). The website also covers issues connected with sustainability, such as the 3,896 ments and laws. Report, the Code of Ethics and Conduct and 83% of all employees are covered by “secgeneral information about corporate culture. In toral collective bargaining agreements or 2015 the website was visited by 37,680 users, similar arrangements” in accordance with with a total of 49,608 visits and 148,672 page local practice, customs and legislation. views. In the USA, Japan and South Africa this It also has in place various social media chanformula is replaced by a Handbook, covenels (Twitter, LinkedIn, YouTube, etc.), intended ring 100% of employees, corresponding to to establish more agile and fluid dialogue with 17% of the overall workforce. its stakeholders. 51 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Social Dimension: Health and safety Management Management and focus organisation of X-ELIO views the health and safety of its professionals and all external staff present within health and safety the working environment as a priority. The organisation of prevention at X-ELIO is coordinated at the corporate level through the This commitment is expressed in the Quality, Health, Safety and Environment Department, Health and Safety and Environment (QHSE) Powhich establishes guidelines, plans and prolicy, and in the Code of Ethics and Conduct, grammes to be developed. compliance with both of which is mandatory, and applicable to all company professionals. Each country or facility has a Health and Safety Supervisor, who is responsible for implemenThe management of health and safety is organiting the plans and programmes that have been sed in accordance with the guidelines established established, and for overseeing and monitoin the Integrated Management System, compliant ring the obligations derived from the Integrawith standard OHSAS 18001 for “Engineering, ted Management System and the applicable construction and commissioning” activities. legal requirements, for both in-house personX-ELIO views the nel and subcontractors. The management system sets out in formal terhealth and safety ms, by means of manuals, procedures and insof its professionals Meanwhile, all countries are supported by a tructions, the specifications regarding personal specialist local external consultant, with the and all external protective equipment (PPE), training, notificaaim of providing assistance not only in identifstaff present tion of accidents and grievance mechanisms, ying all applicable legal requirements, but also within the working among others. X-ELIO meanwhile conducts during the project execution phase. environment as a precise and regular monitoring of the health priority. and safety conditions of its operations, so as to Prior to the commencement of work and exebe able to improve management. cution of a project, a Health and Safety Plan or Programme will need to be drawn up. The Health and Safety Plan is a document in which the contractor identifies, plans, organises and controls each of the activities to be performed from a risk prevention perspective, along with the applicable working procedures. This Health and Safety Plan Programme will indicate the risks derived from the activities to be performed and the preventive measures to be adopted in each case in order to eliminate or control them. It is therefore the document allowing those involved in the works project (contractors and subcontractors) to manage the range of on-site actions which, together with productive aspects, have preventive measures integrated within them. Furthermore, personal protective equipment (PPE) is available for all workers, tailored to the type of activity to be performed, complying with the related legal demands and our safety standards. 52 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Health monitoring Healthy Lifestyles project For X-ELIO, the health of its professionals is a funX-ELIO believes that good habits are essential damental factor, being a key element in their wefor the health of employees. As a result, the ll-being and their professional performance. Those “Healthy Habits Project” was developed in 2015. joining the company therefore undergo an initial The project contributes to improvements to medical examination, as do those assigned to tasemployees’ quality of life and awareness, imks entailing different risks, and those who have pacting in particular on the preventive health undergone a lengthy absence for health reasons. aspect. Options have likewise been included The task of monitoring and overseeing the healto help achieve balance in their personal life, th of workers in terms of their exposure to risks reminding them how important it is to lead a at their respective workstations is outsourced, healthy life. To this end, the project was suppordrawing on various medical services in accordanted by the John XXIII Foundation, a key partner ce with the provisions of the local legislation in in the Social Action policy. this regard. The company also understands that the good health of workers equates to better performance, whether physical or intellectual, and a reduction in absence as a result of illnesses caused by poor Healthy Habits nutrition and a lack of physical exercise. We therefore encourage participation by our employees in healthy lifestyle campaigns. Risk control and identification mechanisms (G4-LA7) In order to define appropriate preventive measures, X-ELIO conducts a “Risk Assessment” at least every 12 months, and also when there is a modification to working conditions, serving to identify new harm or risks, or where the measures implemented are insufficient. The risk assessment addresses criteria of probability/severity, evaluating aspects connected with: Physical safety (falls, blows…). The aims of the project are: Health (exposure to pollutants, noise…). Raise awareness among workers as to the imErgonomics (overstraining, inappropriate portance of a balanced diet, and the relationstools…). hip between this and their state of health. Psycho-social factors (mental strain, content Provide them with basic recommendations to of workload…). promote healthy habits in their personal life, with an approachable and eminently practical This evaluation takes into account the presence tone. of particularly sensitive workers, both because of their personal characteristics and their biological Improve employees’ understanding of the condition (e.g. pregnant workers), indicating whefactors involved in their health, providing them ther there are any specific risks for this in each powith training in this regard and the implemensition of employment. tation of connected habits. The final outcome of the assessment is that the ocPromote an understanding of healthy alternaticupations of the employees do not reveal a high ves, such as organic farming. level of risk/incident as regards specific illnesses, Maintain constant activation of health promoand no measures have therefore be needed in this tion messages, in an attempt to modify harmful regard. habits. 53 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Training and awareness-raising Meanwhile, in those countries where the Equator Principles apply, there is an on-siBefore they join the company or are transferred te suggestions and complaints box allowing to a new job, all workers receive training in risk non-identified risks for any situation entailing prevention in accordance with their category modifications to the risk assessment to be flaand functions, in order to learn about their dugged up. ties and responsibilities in this regard. This demand likewise applies to subcontractors, who The requests received are handled by the before they begin construction operations at health and safety supervisors, who proceed to the facilities must have regulatory training to study them and present measures to mitigate guarantee quality standards and minimise the possible risks. risk of accident/incident. Meanwhile, employees receive additional traiInspection ning to underpin and update their knowledge X-ELIO draws up technical instructions for of risk prevention matters. 584 hours of health each country as to operational control, for the and safety training were delivered in 2015. execution of inspections so as to measure and The focus adopted ensures that a risk prevenoversee health monitoring activities, control tion culture is very firmly inculcated across all of personal protective equipment, technician/ staff. This aspect was clearly reflected in the staff member responsible for health and safety, materiality study, in which health and safety and safety inspections. was one of the issues given the greatest imThese inspections are conducted at least monportance. thly at the sites in order to identify, precisely and on the ground, any practices or habits that Communication (G4-LA5) could entail a risk, to determine training needs and ascertain whether working methods are X-ELIO has established various communication appropriate, the result being set out in a rechannels to facilitate a two-way flow, allowing port. In 2015, a total of 48 reports were drawn information and direct participation on the part up, corresponding to the projects in Marcovia of both in-house and external staff as regards (Honduras) and Fukuroda (Japan). health and safety matters. Notification of risks and health and safety instructions are conducted by means of internal Notification of accidents memoranda, training and the noticeboard. The internal notification of accidents is perforMeanwhile, the supervisors of contractors/ med first by reporting to the site manager, and subcontractors receive a written copy of healthen the health and safety supervisor, who will th and safety instructions for the activities they be responsible for investigating the accident are to perform at the facilities. and reporting by means of an “Incident/accident Investigation Report”. Furthermore, periodic coordination meetings are held to perform monitoring of safety asThe notification of accidents to the corresponpects. These meetings involve the staff responding employment authority is performed in acsible for health and safety at X-ELIO, along with cordance with the deadlines and mechanisms the competent personnel of the contractors/ established for this purpose. subcontractors. For accidents and medical absences of external Each month the contractors and subcontracpersonnel, the responsible company has the tors report accidents, incidents and hours wortask of instigating the procedures required to ked by each of them. These measures serve serve notice on the employment authority and to conduct precise and regular monitoring of to submit the accident notification to X-ELIO, the health and safety conditions of operations, in order to allow it to proceed to conduct an while precisely identifying and resolving any investigation and maintain an updated record possible failures in the management system so of accidents occurring. as to be able to adopt measures in this regard. 54 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Monitoring and measurement of subcontractors: UBYQUO WHAT IS Ubyquo? UBYQUO is a hybrid platform that creates a Once all the documentation is incorporated in common working area for contractors, Health UBYQUO, it is reviewed by the Occupational and Safety supervisors and construction sites/ Risk Prevention Supervisor associated with the generation facilities to exchange documents project, who will issue his approval if all the in a unified environment integrating the dodocumentation is complete cuments themselves with the corresponding document management in a simple, swift and effective manner. The platform is based on the Ubyquo hybrid document management solution, and is specifically parameterised to cover all needs of the parties involved. UBYQUO is used to check all documentation at the level of contractors, workers and machinery, previously identified by complying with the legal requirements in the country where the company performs its business. From this point onwards, UBYQUO automatically generates an access document, authorising entry by all the companies, workers and machinery involved. 55 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Monitoring indicators (G4-LA6) X-ELIO performs comprehensive monitoring of the indicators connected with accidents, both internally and at subcontractors. This allows appropriate measures to be established, thereby continuing to improve the safety and working environment of professionals. Balance In 2015 a total of 5 accidents involving absence occurred, and no accidents without leave, all of them in outside personnel (subcontractors). The distribution is set out below: Accidents Accidents wiwith absence thout absence Country M W M W Own per0 0 0 0 sonnel External 5 0 0 0 personnel Total 5 0 0 0 Below are detailed the accident rates with abX-ELIO performs sence (frequency index) and the accident racomprehensive tes without absence (general frequency index), monitoring of the segregated monthly, and corresponding at the end of the year to 3.5 and 4, respectively. All indicators connected information corresponds to external personnel, with accidents, both as there were no accidents with or without abinternally and at sence involving internal personnel. subcontractors. COUNTRY Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Ago Sep Oct Nov Dec Frequency Rate* 0 9 6.9 6.1 4.7 4.3 4.8 4.4 4.2 3.9 3.6 3.5 Genera l Frequency Rate** 0 9 7 6 5 4 5 4 4 4 4 4 *Rate of accidents resulting in leave / working hours X 1,000,000. ** Rate of accidents not resulting in leave / working hours X 1,000,000 Likewise, the cumulative seriousness index is recorded, as summarised below: COUNTRY Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Ago Sep Oct Nov Dec Severity Rate* 0 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 *Number of working days lost due to accidents at the workplace resulting n leave during the reporting period for each 1,000 working hours. 56 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Social Dimension: Local Communities In 2015 there were no fatal accidents, or professional illnesses, and the average rate per Generating value employee is therefore in both cases 0.00. for the local community Likewise, the accidents registered entailed the (G4-EC7, G4-EC8 and G4-EC9) loss of 15 working days by external personnel, 100% corresponding to men. X-ELIO generates wealth through various focuWith regard to the notification of minor, seses such as employment, purchases from local rious and very serious accidents and deaths suppliers and the payment of taxes, helping to occurring at the facilities, external reporting is strengthen the social and business fabric of the performed in accordance with the established communities where it operates. reporting channels and the obligations and deadlines defined by the competent authority. In this regard, the key figures for 2015 are: 648.9 million euros of economic value distributed. Days lost through 150 professionals on the workforce. absence 7.1 million euros allocated to salaries and other social benefits. In 2015 total of 380 days were lost through the absence of internal personnel. 128.2 million euros at local suppliers. The average rate of days lost per employee per 8.4 million euros in taxes. country is set out in the following table: Contribution to a more sustainable energy model Country Own staff X-ELIO promotes the use of the sun as a priSpain 218 mary source of energy, as it is an inexhaustible an independent resource that generates no atItaly* 142 mospheric emissions. It therefore encourages USA NA a sustainable energy model capable of satisfying current needs without compromising the Japan 10 resources and opportunities of future generaSouth Africa 117 tions. (G4-EC8) Mexico NA Chile 171 Job creation Peru NA Solar energy is a source of employment throuRate: (No. of days lost due to other causes + days lost due ghout the value chain: development, producto occupational accidents/ No. of hours worked in 2015 x 1,000,000. tion, construction, operation, maintenance *Estimated figure. and recycling. Depending on the technology NA: Not available. employed, it is calculated that each MW generated creates between 15 and 27 direct and indirect jobs. (EPIA 2012, SUSTAINABILITY OF PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEMS: Job Creation). By 2035, the expectation is that global electricity demand will have risen by 84%, and so if the photovoltaic industry continues its current development, the generation of employment tied to the sector will see a substantial increase. (G4-EC8) 57 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures X-ELIO believes that the creation of local emAfrica, where the amount paid is a percentage ployment is a significant boost for the economy of the gross earnings of the solar plants. in the region, fostering the integration of the This is conducted by means of a family trust, company within local communities. In 2015, guaranteeing a high level of revenue for the 95% of its employees were of local origin, disfamilies over the next 20 years, a period that tributed as shown in the enclosed figure. (G4may be extended depending on the facility’s LA12) life cycle. (G4-EC8) Contributions to the local community Men Women Total The municipalities and regions where facilities are located receive revenue through taxes, Plant and office Plant and office contributing to improvements to the quality of life and amenities of the local inhabitants. The Managers Middle Managers Middle amount paid in 2015 by way of local taxes and personnel personnel levies was 8,370 thousand euros, as detailed Country Managers Managers below: Chile NA NA 100% NA NA 0% 50% Spain 92% 100% 97% 100% 100% 100% 98% Country Taxes (thousand €) Italy 100% 100% 100% NA NA 75% 96% Chile 159 Japan 100% 100% 100% NA NA 100% 100% Spain 2.531 Mexico 0% NA NA NA NA 33% 25% USA 1.049 Peru NA NA 100% NA NA NA 100% Honduras 732 South Italy 1.892 NA NA 100% NA 100% 100% 100% Africa Japan 436 USA NA NA 100% NA NA NA 100% Mexico 0 Leases South Africa 1.571 Another source of wealth corresponds to the lease and concession agreements reached Local suppliers with the public authorities and the owners of In 2015, X-ELIO allocated 128,172 thousand the land where the generation facilities are loeuros to local suppliers, representing 83% of cated, long-term contracts with a duration in its total supplier budget. The following figure excess of 20 years. summarises the distribution by country (G4One example of these benefits is the leasing EC9). of the land housing the facilities in South 65,675 Spending on suppliers (thousand €) Spending on locally-based suppliers 91% 20,280 19,214 17,194 17,307 100% 100% 93% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 2,123 3,631 0 47 3 4 Chile Spain Costa Dominican Italiy South Japan Honduras Egypt USA Kuwait Rica Republic Africa 58 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Marcovia Community Social and Relations Plan environmental support For the construction of the Marcovia project in Honduras, a “Community Relations Plan” was drawn up, establishing standards, values and principles for the harmonious coexistence of all Promotion of local agents involved in the project. Several meetings were staged with the development (G4-S01) representatives of all stakeholders affected, to Through its activity, X-ELIO enables greater ascertain their needs and concerns in order and better development in rural regions throuto draw up the document. These stakeholders gh the generation of clean energy. are the local authority, communities nearby Depending on the location and characteristics, the construction zone and the subcontractor X-ELIO’s facilities consider and incorporate companies. economic, social and environmental impacts from the outset, through various mechanisms such as environmental impact studies, the requirements established by investors (Equator Principles), the obligations derived from the energy plans of each country, and/or through the various mechanisms established in local regulations. Various consultation projects are likewise staged, to give local communities the opportunity to take part in the process, while also allowing the company to identify their needs. The main aims of the plan are: Creation of Community Participation and Communication spaces. Identify Good Employment Practices for the subcontractor companies among their personnel. Creation of an agreement for the recruitment of local personnel. Various mechanisms were developed to fulfil the plan, such as the installation of a suggestions box. This box proved particularly useful in identifying and correcting a series of conflicts that were resolved by giving all workers training in “Good practices, interpersonal relations and the generation of harmony at work”. Various These analyses help to devise strategies to explanatory meetings were also staged with prevent and/or mitigate the possible impacts representatives of the communities in the areas detected, including the undertakings given to affected by the facility to discuss and resolve local communities and oversight programmes queries. to monitor the different issues identified, serMeanwhile, a “Local Employment” programme ving to safeguard the rights of communities was set up to encourage the recruitment of by incorporating within projects the key local manpower from the surrounding area. issues. 59 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures In order to underpin the company’s contribution to society, various partnership agreements have been established with non-profit organisations (see indicator G4-15), while corporate initiatives are also undertaken. In addition, at the local level initiatives are also undertaken with a focus on improving the quality of life of the local community. Below are summarised the main local programmes and initiatives developed in 2015 in 36% of the countries where the company has a presence (G4-SO1). Support for victims of xenophobia in South Africa. In response to the violent disturbances that caused the death of five people and the displacement of more than 7,000 as a result of xenophobic attacks by South Africans against Africans from neighbouring countries in April 2015, the X-ELIO facilities in the country managed to raise 50,000 ZAR. The funds were allocated to the victims and charitable projects launched by the Gift of Givers organisation to combat xenophobia, potentially affecting the more 5 million Africans from other countries who reside in South Africa. South Africa X-ELIO Support for education and sports to collaborates with improve the quality of life and developlocal comnunities ment opportunities of young people in the towns of Prieska and De Aar. where operates. Contribution to the development of local small businesses through financial support, training and consultancy. One good example would be the Mamma Mimi’s project, offering the participants the tools and know-how required to set up bakeries. 60 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Promotion of education and sport in South Africa In South Africa, X-ELIO prioritises the promotion Honduras of training and sport among young people, in the Social audits and Community relations belief that both aspects help to make a difference, Plan. and are responsible for encouraging local, long-term economic sustainability. The initiatives Infrastructure improvement plan in the undertaken include in particular: municipality of Marcovia (2014-2016): intended to improve the access highway Dreamfields: This project promotes the setting up to the municipality, a wall adjacent to a of football and basketball teams in rural areas, in school, and construction of a water supply cooperation with the South African Department tank (G4-EC7). of Education and local primary schools. The venture involves funding for sports equipment, administration of the “Dream Leagues”, in which the various schools compete, and the creation Spain and maintenance of all pictures at the schools. Healthy lifestyle campaign: awarenessraising campaign among employees, produced in collaboration with the Juan XXIII Foundation, which was responsible for handing out organic juice and mandarin oranges to all employees. Back 2 School: This project aims to improve the quality of life of underprivileged children in the town of Siyathemba in South Africa, by giving out shoes to primary school pupils. Most of these pupils are from unemployed families dependent on state aid. The aim of this campaign is to increase positivity and Chile confidence among the beneficiaries and promote their development. In 2015, thanks to Weather station: Construction and funding from the company 124 pairs of shoes maintenance of a weather station in the were distributed across the four schools in the Atacama Desert, with the data being town. transferred to the GEN Corporation for research purposes. Granting of bursaries for professional training and higher education: In 2015, X-ELIO awarded training bursaries to 14 young people in underprivileged areas in the town of Siyathemba to allow them to continue their studies. These bursaries will be maintained in 2016 for those students who have not completed their studies, and the number will be increased. 61 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Prevention and mitigation of negative impacts Meanwhile, X-ELIO is aware that there are or could be certain aspects of its activity with a negative impact on the environment and local communities. However, to mitigate and prevent these, numerous prevention/mitigation measures have been defined, as detailed below. (G4-SO2) Impact (potential or real) Preventive/corrective measures Selection of sites with limited sight lines (less visible from other points) as far as possible. Landscape impact Replanting of site boundaries, creating “green screens”, helping to integrate the photovoltaic facility within the surrounding landscape. Measurement of particles and dust emitted, and control of levels through Generation of dust and watering of the terrain. noise (in the construction phase only) Concentration of the use of heavy machinery during daytime hours to reduce disturbance levels. Conservation of the surface layer of the topsoil during earthmoving. Subsequent conditioning is then employed, to preserve soil fertility. Impact on soil and water conditions Control of erosion: measures to preserve the natural drainage of the soil to avoid run-off impacts as far as possible, while avoiding work during periods of intense rain to limit sediment erosion. Selection of sites in areas of low biological value, reducing the impact on protected species or those of special interest. Impact on flora and fauna Reforestation and monitoring of wildlife in accordance with local authority criteria. Social studies performed in those areas so requiring, Social and archaeological establishing open dialogue with the local community. impact Study prior to the construction of the facilities to avoid impacts on archaeological remains of interest. X-ELIO stablish mechanisms to mitigate the negatives impacts. 62 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Relations with public authorities X-ELIO collaborates with public authorities on an altruistic basis, establishing relationships Opening of the Fukuroda with local and regional authorities with comfacility in Japan plete transparency, in accordance with the guidelines set out in the Code of Ethics. On 18 September the new photovoltaic solar power plant in Fukuroda, Japan was opened. Meanwhile, the company believes that involvement in associations and bodies plays an The project is the first to be completed by the important role, by allowing it to keep abreast company in the country, with annual output estiof trends, take part in consultations, studies mated at 37,000 MWh/year, reducing emissions and working groups within the sector, and to by 24,000 tonnes of CO2/year. contribute to the creation of a reference framework. The sectoral associations to which the company belongs are detailed under indicator G4-16. As for grievances regarding social impacts, it should be emphasised that none were received or resolved in 2015 (G4-SO11). Opening of the Marcovia facility in Honduras On 3 June, Ebal Díaz, Secretary of the Council of Ministers of Honduras, cut the ribbon on the Marcovia facility, X-ELIO’s new photovoltaic plant. The plant represents an investment of more than 90 million dollars, and in its construction phase generated some 3000 direct and indirect jobs. It is estimated that in its operational phase, the Marcovia facility will generate 93 GWh per year, supplying 45 thousand households and serving to avoid the emission of 43,000 tonnes of CO2 into the atmosphere, while also generating 40 stable jobs. The ceremony was attended by government representatives from Ibaraki prefecture along with the Spanish Embassy in Japan, and various companies that collaborated in execution of the project. X-ELIO was represented by Jorge Barredo, CEO of Gestamp Solar and Keji Yasuoka, Country Manager for Japan & Asia. 63 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Material aspects: Environmental Dimension Following the materiality analysis conducted and described in the general basic content (G4-18, G4-19, G4-20 and G4-21) the most significant aspects connected with the company’s environmental management are: General matters Groups that consider Subject of particular interest the aspect material Internal: CEO and Environmental Undertakings given. management plan External: Sector, Employees, Clients and Suppliers. Environment Internal: CEO and Senior Climate change Management. and emissions External: Employees and Others. Over the course of the chapter, the management and initiatives of X-ELIO connected with these aspects are presented. 64 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Environmental Dimension Environmental performance G4-DMA X-ELIO is committed to respect for and conservation of the environment. It therefore has in place appropriate resources in order to operate efficiently and responsibly, managing clean and renewable energy projects. X-ELIO has implemented a rigorous environmental management system in accordance with standard UNE-EN ISO 14001:2004 for “photovoltaic solar energy facility design, construction and commissioning” activities. It also complies with the obligations derived from the regulations in force, environmental impact studies and operational/activity licences. The company extends this commitment to its value chain, including environmental criteria in its material purchase contracts and the selection of contractors. On a supplementary basis, it collaborates with Below is set out the estimate for the consumpof the authorities and local communities in the tion of raw materials at Iwate (Japan). areas where it has a presence, offering support in social and environmental matters. Raw materials consumption 2015 (Tons) Steel 5,699.4 Environmental Silica 123.9 management Aluminium 2,354.1 X-ELIO measures and analyses consumption, Cooper 117.71 emissions, waste and discharges in its mainAggregates 1,652 tenance and construction activities to analyse their efficiency, and thereby establish periodic The data have been estimated in accordance with the characteristics of the facility and the megawatts installed. improvement objectives helping to minimise its environmental impact. Below are set out the main results for the 2015 Water consumption financial year: A distinction is made between the operation and construction phases for water consumption. Raw materials consumed In the construction phase water is used mainly for the watering of tracks, and to a lesser exThe management and acquisition of raw matetent for wash-room use. In 2015 the consumprials is concentrated in the initial phase of the tion registered at the Marcovia (Honduras) and construction process. Iwate (Japan) facilities amounted to a total of Of the three construction projects, Fukkuroda 1,111 m3. (Japan) and Marcovia (Honduras) have already In the maintenance and operation phase, the completed this phase, and so reveal no sigwater is mainly for industrial use, and to a lesser nificant consumption of raw materials corresextent for washrooms. It is used for the cleaning ponding to them, and we therefore only have of solar panels and for the elimination of partisignificant data for the Iwate facility in Japan. cles (dust, pollen, etc.) that are deposited on the surface and reduce performance. In 2015, this consumption corresponded to 2,717 m3. 65 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Waste X-ELIO and climate change The Environmental Management System sets out in its procedures the guidelines to be followed for the production, segregation, management, monitoring and measurement of the Risks and opportunities waste produced at the facilities and offices. (DMA & G4-EC2) The most significant waste is that generated in Climate change represents a pressing threat the construction phase, as detailed in the fowith potentially irreversible effects for the llowing table. planet. It is a clear fact that in order to arrest its advance, we must implement all available Hazardous waste (t)* On-hazardous waste (t)* mechanisms and achieve cooperation by all Construction and demolicountries. Asbestos 30.0 3,542.0 tion waste Towards the end of 2015, Paris staged the 21st Contaminated land 2.1 Wood and forest residues 59.3 United Nations Climate Change Summit (COP Paper and carton 84.1 21). This legally binding agreement brings together for the first time a global commitment to *Data from Iwate and Marcovia “hold the increase in temperatures below 2 degrees compared with pre-industrial levels and pursue efforts to limit the increase to 1.5 degrees”. So as to achieve this goal, global CO2 In addition, 3,054 m3 of non-hazardous sludge emissions will need to be reduced by 2020 or and 1.2 kg of aerosols were generated. 2025 at the latest, and halved by 2050. Following COP21, most of the world’s governments will be increasing flows of finance to achieve development that generates low Greenhouse Gas (hereinafter, GHG) emissions, which will undoubtedly speed up the transformation of the energy sector and lead to a ramping up of investments in renewable energies. In this case the countries with the strongest economies are, in general terms, at the forefront of GHG reduction, not only because they have a higher level of emissions, but also because they are more dynamic. X-ELIO addressing climate change X-ELIO, as a developer and generator of photovoltaic energy, helps to mitigate the causes Environmental expenses of climate change since it generates practically no CO2 emissions. Meanwhile, photovoltaic and grievances energy is inexhaustible, and does not depend In 2015 X-ELIO’s main environmental expenses on other finite resources such as fossil fuels, it resulted from consultancy and audit activities promotes social and economic development, (maintenance of the management systems, enimproves access to energy and guarantees suvironmental impact studies, monitoring plans pply in remote areas. and measurement of the facilities), estimated at It likewise contributes to fulfilment of the Sus€23,000 (G4-EN31). tainable Development Goals and the Principles In 2015 no significant fines or monetary penalof the Global Compact, connected with the ties as a result of a breach of environmental adoption of urgent measures to combat climaregulations and legislation were recorded (G4te change and its effects. EN29). 66 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Below are summarised the main indicators as Other indirect emissions (scope 3) X-ELIO, as a regards climate change. (G4-EN17) developer and generator of Scope 3 is calculated at a total of 1,176 tonnes photovoltaic Emissions of CO2 (G4-EN17), estimated for the following energy, helps aspects: The estimate of its CO2 emissions is based on to mitigate the the Green House Gas (GHG) Protocol standard, Travel by employees to their places of causes of climate the reference point being the emissions factors work. The calculation was performed by change. of the International Energy Agency (2013). means of the transport survey conducted in 2014, and the number of employees in Direct emissions (scope 1) 2015. This resulted in an estimate of 110 (G4-EN15) tons of CO2 emissions. Solar radiation is the origin of the X-ELIO Emissions derived from corporate plane production process, and so it has no direct travel: 1,063 t of CO2. emissions derived from this (G4-EN15). Travel by train (including only Spain): 3 Indirect emissions (scope 2) tons of CO2 (G4-EN30). (G4-EN16) Emissions generated at the electricity generation plants as a result of the consumption of the facilities and offices (G4-EN16). Power consumption Production of CO2 (GJ)* emissions (ton)* X-ELIO Spain 4,926 398 X-ELIO Italy 1,944 217 X-ELIO Japan 749 103 X-ELIO South Africa 1,540 372 X-ELIO USA 454 63 X-ELIO Honduras 799 82 X-ELIO Peru 2,372 196 Total 12,784 1,431 * Operational scope. The percentage of propriety is not considered. 67 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Other emissions This section includes ozone-depleting subsEmissions derived from earthmoving: the tances and emissions of dust and particles as tracks are watered to mitigate this. a result of the solar facility construction phase. Emissions derived from vehicles/machiAs regards ozone-depleting substances, nery: the machinery and vehicles are subthey are present at substations to which jected to monitored regulatory servicing to the X-ELIO facilities feed their energy, mitigate this. X-ELIO which use the gas SF6 as insulation. This In Japan, earthmoving was extremely limited, contributes to gas is found in confined circuits that are and given the climate conditions the watering strictly supervised to avoid any leaks. fulfill the X-ELIO of tracks was not required. Only emissions from There was no recharge of SF6 in 2015 (G4contribute to EN20). machinery and vehicles were monitored, all meet Sustainable these being subcontracted. Development As regards emissions of dust and particles Goals and the (G4-EN21), controls are only established in the construction phase, corresponding in Global Compact 2015 to the Honduras and Japan facilities, Principles. as summarised below: 68 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Emissions avoided Intensity of emissions As energy is generated without emitting CO2 (G4-EN18) directly into the atmosphere, X-ELIO’s activity is in itself a means of contributing to the reducX-ELIO believes that measuring the intensity of tion of greenhouse gas emissions. emissions is a good way of tracking efficiency and the impact of its installations. In 2015, 1,352,377 GJ of renewable energy were generated, avoiding the emission into the atThis indicator is calculated by taking as the mosphere of 160,925 tons of CO2 (G4-EN19). common denominator the GJ of renewable energy produced by the company in each country, and as the numerator emissions coRenewable energy Avoided CO2 rresponding to internal consumption (scope 2). produced (GJ)* emissions (ton)* The table below sets out the results obtained: X-ELIO Spain 380,977 30,796 X-ELIO Italy 134,947 15,069 X-ELIO Japan 46,350 6,399 Emissions intensity X-ELIO South Africa 215,643 52,054 (tCO2eq / X-ELIO USA 116,504 16,278 Produced GJ) X-ELIO Honduras 123,084 12,684 X-ELIO Spain 0.081 X-ELIO Peru 334,872 27,627 X-ELIO Italy 0.112 Total 1,352,377 160,907 X-ELIO Japan 0.138 * Operational scope. The percentage of propriety is not considered. X-ELIO South Africa 0.241 X-ELIO USA 0.140 X-ELIO Honduras 0.103 Clean Development X-ELIO Peru 0.083 Mechanisms Total 0.119 X-ELIO is involved in the development of projects in developing countries in cooperation with developed countries, contributing to the goal of CO2 emissions reduction and transfer of clean technologies to other countries under the “Clean Development Mechanisms” (CDM) scheme. As of 31 December 2015, the following solar facilities in which X-ELIO holds an equity stake had been registered with the United Nations. Country Plant Power t CO2eq. Peru Panamericana 20 MW 36,513 Peru Tacna Solar 20 MW 34,006 South Africa De Aar 10 MW 18,115 South Africa Prieska 20 MW 38,314 69 Sustainability Report 2015 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures 70 Sustainability Report 2015 Part III Annexes Part III Annexes Independent Review Report. Page 72 GRI G4 Content Index. Page 73 Contents based on the Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Page 79 Scope considered for the elaboration of this Sustainability Report. Page 80 71 Sustainability Report 2015 Part III Annexes Independent Review Report 72 Sustainability Report 2015 Part III Annexes GRI G4 Content Index External verification: The contents of this index have been externally verified by the independent entity EY. The related independent review report for verification can be found in the Annex of this document. Part I. General Standard Disclosures Description 1. Strategy and analysis Page Omissions G4-1 8-11 G4-2 12-15 2. Organizational profile Page Omissions G4-3 16 G4-4 17 G4-5 17 G4-6 17 G4-7 17 G4-8 1718 G4-9 18 G4-10 18 G4-11 19 G4-12 19 G4-13 20 G4-14 20 G4-15 20-21 G4-16 21 73 Sustainability Report 2015 Part III Annexes 3. Identified material aspects and boundaries Page Omissions G4-17 22 G4-18 22-23 G4-19 23-25 G4-20 23-25 G4-21 23-25 G4-22 25 G4-23 25 4. Stakeholders engagement Page Omissions G4-24 26 G4-25 26 G4-26 26-27 G4-27 22-25 5. Report profile Page Omissions G4-28 28 G4-29 28 G4-30 28 G4-31 28 G4-32 28 G4-33 28 74 Sustainability Report 2015 Part III Annexes 6. Governance Page Omissions G4-34 29 G4-35 29 G4-36 29 G4-37 30 G4-38 30 G4-39 30 G4-40 30 G4-41 30 G4-42 31 G4-43 31 G4-44 31 G4-45 32 G4-46 32 G4-47 32 G4-48 33 G4-49 33 G4-50 34 G4-51 34 G4-52 34 G4-53 34 Information not available due to the absence of homogeG4-54 34 neous measurement methodologies and to confidentiality. It will be reported in 2017. Information not available due to the absence of homogeG4-55 34 neous measurement methodologies and to confidentiality. It will be reported in 2017. 7. Ethics and integrity Page Omissions G4-56 35 G4-57 35 G4-58 35 75 Sustainability Report 2015 Part III Annexes Part II. Specific Standard Disclosures Economic Dimension 1 Financial management Information about management approach Basic specific contents and indicators Page Omissions DMA 39-42 G4-EC1 43 Economic Performance G4-EC2 66 Parcial information due to G4-EC3 50 its little relevance. G4-EC4 43 2. Ethics, anti-corruption, risk management and compliance Information about management approach Basic specific contents and indicators Page Omissions DMA 44 Anti-corruption G4-SO3 45 G4-SO4 44-45 G4-SO5 44 DMA 44 Anti-competitive Behavior SO7 45 DMA 44 Compliance SO8 45 PR9 45 DMA 44 G4-EN34 45 Grievance Mechanisms G4-LA16 45 G4-HR12 45 76 Sustainability Report 2015 Part III Annexes Environmental Dimension 1. Environmental management Information about management approach Basic specific contents and indicators Page Omissions DMA 65 Compliance G4-EN29 66 DMA 65 Overall G4-EN31 66 2. Emissions and Climate Change Information about management approach Basic specific contents and indicators Page Omissions DMA 66 G4-EN15 67 G4-EN16 67 G4-EN17 67 Emissions G4-EN18 69 G4-EN19 69 G4-EN20 68 G4-EN21 68 77 Sustainability Report 2015 Part III Annexes Social Dimension 1. People and work Information about management approach and Basic specific contents indicators Page Omissions DMA 52 G4-LA5 54 G4-LA6 56-57 Occupational Health & Safety G4-LA7 53 Not applicable. There is no legal obligation to hold a formal health & safety committee. G4-LA8 All questions/suggestions of employees are collected and studied. 2. Comunidad local Information about management approach and Basic specific contents indicators Page Omissions DMA 57 Indirect Economic Impacts G4-EC7 60 G4-EC8 57 DMA 58 Procurement Practices G4-EC9 58 Diversity and Equal DMA 58 Opportunity G4-LA12 58 DMA 59 Local Communities G4-SO1 59-61 G4-SO2 62 Grievance Mechanisms for DMA 63 Impacts on Society G4-SO11 63 78 Sustainability Report 2015 Part III Annexes Contents in relation to the Global Compact Principles The following table shows the chapters of this report that provide the most relevant information regarding the 10 Principles of the Global Compact, in addition to the one included on the management approaches of every GRI aspect. Each stakeholder can evaluate X-ELIO’s progress concerning these principles by the following this table: Aspect UN Global Compact Principles Progress included in chapter Part I. Principle 1: businesses should support and respect the General Standard Disclosures protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Part II. Social Dimension Human Rights Part I. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human General Standard Disclosures rights abuses. Part II. Economic Dimension Principle 3: businesses should uphold the freedom of Part II. association and the effective recognition of the right to Social Dimension collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and Part I. compulsory labour; General Standard Disclosures Labour Rights Part I. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; General Standard Disclosures Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of Part I. employment and occupation. General Standard Disclosures Principle 7: businesses should support a precautionary Part I. approach to environmental challenges; General Standard Disclosures Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater Part II. Environment environmental responsibility; and Environmental Dimension Part II. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of Social Dimension, Environmental environmentally friendly technologies Dimension Part I. AntiPrinciple 10: businesses should work against corruption in all General Standard Disclosures corruption its forms, including extortion and bribery. Part II. Economic Dimension Scope considered for the elaboration of this Sustainability Report The scope considered by X-ELIO for the elaboration of this Sustainability Report 2015 matches the financial consolidation scope, which includes the following companies: Subsidary/ Associated company Country Subsidary/ Associated company Country SPAIN Chile Parque Solar La Robla, S.l. Spain X Elio Chile, S.p.a Chile Vostock Solar Proyects, S.l. Spain X Elio Chile I, S.p.a Chile Tahoe Solar Investments, S.l. Spain Fotovoltaica Norte Grande I Spa Chile Pacific Desarrollos Solares, S.l. Spain Fotovoltaica Norte Grande 2 Spa Chile Tequi Solar 2, S.l. Spain Fotovoltaica Norte Grande 3 Spa Chile Parque Solar Paramo, S.l. Spain Fotovoltaica Norte Grande 4 Spa Chile Calaspasol 1, S.l.u. Spain Fotovoltaica Norte Grande 5 Spa Chile X Elio 2007, S.l. Spain Fotovoltaica Norte Grande 6 Spa Chile Fuente Alamo Energia Solar 1, S.l. Spain Fotovoltaica Norte Grande 7 Spa Chile Fuente Alamo Energia Solar 2, S.l. Spain DOMINICAN REPUBLIC X Elio Mantenimientos, S.l. Spain San Cristobal Solar Ev Sa Dominican R. Calaspasol Energia 2, S.l. Spain FrancE Exelio Energy Trading, S.l. Spain X Elio France, Sas France Ga Solar Real Estate Energy, S.l. Spain Gestamp Solar France 1, Sas France X Elio Zener, S.l. Spain Italy Saelices El Chico Solar, S.l. Spain X Elio Italy S.r.l. Italy Muelas Del Pan Solar, S.l. Spain X Elio Asi Ree 1, S.r.l. Italy Photosolar Medina 3, S.l. Spain Gasi 7, S.r.l. Italy Photosolar Medina 4, S.l. Spain Gasi 8, S.r.l. Italy Photosolar Medina 9, S.l. Spain Gasi 11, S.r.l. Italy Photosolar Medina 10, S.l. Spain Gasi 22, S.r.l. Italy Photosolar Medina 11, S.l. Spain Gasi 41, S.r.l. Italy Fuente Alamo Termosolar, S.l. Spain Gasi 47, S.r.l. Italy Calasparra Sol De Murcia, S.l. Spain Gasi 53, S.r.l. Italy Huerto Solar La Mudarra, S.a. Spain Gasi 54, S.r.l. Italy Mursolar 4, S.l. Spain Gasi 55, S.r.l. Italy Mursolar 6, S.l. Spain Gasi 57, S.r.l. Italy Mursolar 14, S.l. Spain Gasi 59, S.r.l. Italy Mursolar 17, S.l. Spain Gesi 1, S.r.l. Italy Mursolar 19, S.l. Spain Gesi 2, S.r.l. Italy Mursolar 20, S.l. Spain Gesi 3, S.r.l. Italy Mursolar 22, S.l. Spain Gesi 10, S.r.l. Italy Mursolar 24, S.l. Spain X Elio Bonassisi, S.r.l. Italy Exelio Energy Salvador, S.l. Spain Isis, S.r.l. Italy X Elio Andaltia Murcia, S.l. Spain X Elio Emena, S.r.l Italy Mursolar 28, S.l. Spain India Mursolar 29, S.l. Spain Gestamp Solar India, Plc India Mursolar 30, S.l. Spain Southafrica Tejeda Solar, S.l. Spain Mulilo Renewable Energysolar Pv Prieska (Pty) Ltd Southafrica Garnock Spain, S.l. Spain Mulilo Renewable Energy Solar Pvde Aar (Pty) Ltd Southafrica Glenavon Spain, S.l. Spain X Elio South Africa , Ltd Southafrica X Elio Contracting, Ltd Southafrica Coria (Pkf) Investment 3 Southafrica 80 Gestamp Prieska Pv2 Pti Ltd Southafrica Sustainability Report 2015 Part III Annexes Subsidary/ Associated company Country Subsidary/ Associated company Country Japan Brazil X Elio Japan, Kk Japan Lagoa Energía Solar S.A. Brazil Gestamp Greenquest1 G.k (Gasja 1) Japan MEXico Gasja 2, G.k. Japan X Elio Mexico, Sa De Cv Mexico Gasja 3, G.k. Japan Fv Mexsolar I, Sapi De Cv Mexico Gasja 4, G.k. Japan Fv Mexsolar Ii, Sapi De Cv Mexico Gasja 5, G.k. Japan Fv Mexsolar Iii, Sapi De Cv Mexico Gasja 8, G.k. Japan Fv Mexsolar Iv, Sapi De Cv Mexico X Elio 10 G.k. Japan Fv Mexsolar V, Sapi De Cv Mexico X Elio 11 G.k. Japan Fv Mexsolar Vi, Sapi De Cv Mexico X Elio 12 G.k. Japan Gestora De Energia Renovable De Mexico Mexico X Elio 9, G.k Japan Fv Mexsolar Vii, Sapi De Cv Mexico X Elio 13, G.k. Japan Fv Mexsolar Viii, Sapi De Cv Mexico X Elio 14, G.k. Japan Fv Mexsolar Ix, Sapi De Cv Mexico X Elio 15, G.k. Japan Fv Mexsolar X, Sapi De Cv Mexico Gasja 16, G.k. Japan Fv Mexsolar Xi, Sapi De Cv Mexico USA Costa Rica X Elio North America, Inc. USA Renocaste Solar Fv, Sa Costa Rica Gasna 5, Llc (Red Bluff) USA Guanacaste Fotovoltaica Renovable Solar Fv, Sa Costa Rica Gasna 8, Llc (Paso Robles Solar Llc Meridian) USA El Salvador Gasna 12, Llc (Ladwp) USA Tencoluca Solar S.a. De C.v. El Salvador Gasna 14, Llc (Williamstown Solar) USA San Nicolas Solar S.a. De C.v. El Salvador Gasna 16, Llc (Joya Del Sol) USA Honduras Gasna 18, Llc (Convention Center) USA Constructora Solar Centroamericana Honduras Gasna 19, Llc (Irradia Morovis) USA EGYPT Gasna 40, Llc (City Of Escondido) USA X Elio, S.a.e Egypt Gasna 51, Llc (Santander Ses Proj. Sepv1 & Sepv2) USA PerÚ Gasna 58, Llc (Svep Solar Project Company Llc) USA Energia Fv Peru S.a.c Peru Gasna Usa Procurement, Llc USA X Elio Development Puerto Rico, Llc USA 81 Sustainability Report 2015 Part III Annexes X-ELIO.com
