IMPORTER & EXPORTER & FOREIGN TRADE CONSULTANT 202,BLDG -1,GREEN AVENUE, OPP. SHIVAR GARDEN, ON N.H. ENGLISH SCHOOL ROAD, MIRA ROAD (E) 401107 MUMBAI MAHARASTRA MO: 0091-9819372504 , TELEFAX : 0091-22-28128851, E-MAIL: deltaeximservices@yahoo.co.in To DT: 27/01/2017. H.E. Ban Ki-Moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA. Dear Mr. Secretary General, Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Delta Exim Services reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. In this Communication on Progress we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely For Delta Exim Services AMJAD I. SHAIKH SHAHEEN AMJAD SHAIKH Managing Partner Partner IMPORTER & EXPORTER & FOREIGN TRADE CONSULTANT 202,BLDG -1,GREEN AVENUE, OPP. SHIVAR GARDEN, ON N.H. ENGLISH SCHOOL ROAD, MIRA ROAD (E) 401107 MUMBAI MAHARASTRA MO: 0091-9819372504 , TELEFAX : 0091-22-28128851, E-MAIL: deltaeximservices@yahoo.co.in Human Rights  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights.  Delta Exim Services actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We will not carry out business with any countries or regimes where flagrant human rights abuses are known e.g. torture, politically motivated disappearances etc. Delta Exim Services is committed to ensuring that all our employees are treated fairly and with respect. In the coming years we will work with our significant supply chain partners to see if they are signatories to the Global Compact and if they are not to actively encourage them to support and join the Compact  Implementation  Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations.  Delta Exim Services has a Grievance Procedure in place and offers mediation to staff at work as a first stage resolution to any problems experienced in the work place. Where there are changes within the organization extensive consultation exercises are run to ensure staff are involved in the process. We are an equal opportunity employer and very committed to follow all the applicable statutory requirements like employee insurance, maternity leave etc.,  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance.  In the past year Delta Exim Services has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations. There have been statutory audits by local statutory bodies with no non-comformances IMPORTER & EXPORTER & FOREIGN TRADE CONSULTANT 202,BLDG -1,GREEN AVENUE, OPP. SHIVAR GARDEN, ON N.H. ENGLISH SCHOOL ROAD, MIRA ROAD € 401107 MUMBAI MAHARASTRA MO: 0091-9819372504 , TELEFAX : 0091-22-28128851, E-MAIL: deltaeximservices@yahoo.co.in Labour rights  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights.  Delta Exim Services supports the labor conventions and will not do business with any organization who uses forced labor or child labor. All our employees are issued with an employment letter which clearly states their terms and conditions including pay rates and overtime pay arrangements. All the social security & insurance benefits due as per regulations are paid to the necessary authorities  Implementation  Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations.  Delta Exim Services consults with staff on a continuous basis each year we hold a review day which everyone attends and where the MD does a re-cap on the past year, appraising staff of what we have achieved, where we are going and thanking individuals who have made a specific contribution. We value being an equal opportunity employer  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance.  At all levels we have a god mix of female and male. Delta Exim Services works in areas which are by their nature quite male dominated, but this in no way reflects our approach to encouraging and promoting staff within the organization. We run annual appraisals each year to identify personal development needs and training requirements and these are implemented as quickly as possible. We have not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labor principles. IMPORTER & EXPORTER & FOREIGN TRADE CONSULTANT 202,BLDG -1,GREEN AVENUE, OPP. SHIVAR GARDEN, ON N.H. ENGLISH SCHOOL ROAD, MIRA ROAD (E) 401107 MUMBAI MAHARASTRA MO: 0091-9819372504 , TELEFAX : 0091-22-28128851, E-MAIL: deltaeximservices@yahoo.co.in Environmental protection  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection.  Delta Exim Services meets all the necessary statutory requirements on pollution and environment protection.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents.  At Delta Exim Services we promote environmental initiatives to the extent possible.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance.  Delta Exim Services has not had any environmental incidents within the last year and has not been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions. IMPORTER & EXPORTER & FOREIGN TRADE CONSULTANT 202,BLDG -1,GREEN AVENUE, OPP. SHIVAR GARDEN, ON N.H. ENGLISH SCHOOL ROAD, MIRA ROAD (E) 401107 MUMBAI MAHARASTRA MO: 0091-9819372504 , TELEFAX : 0091-22-28128851, E-MAIL: deltaeximservices@yahoo.co.in Anti-Corruption  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption riskassessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption.  Delta Exim Services senior management team is committed not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion. Delta Exim Services supports the UN Convention Against Corruption and we will not operate in countries or with organizations who are corrupt.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents.  Briefing has been limited to senior management , finance team, purchase team and our Sales Business Development team at the current time.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance.  Delta Exim Services has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery. Delta Exim Services has an external audit company to do 4 internal audits every year and the report directly submitted to the Managing Director. Our books and accounts are subjected to statutory external audit annually. These audits are used as one of the methods of identifying any suspicious payments which could be related to bribery or corrupt behavior. There has been no such incident reported in the period Sincerely yours, For Delta Exim Services AMJAD I. SHAIKH SHAHEEN AMJAD SHAIKH Managing Partner Partner
