Road to sustainability 2017 Sustainability Report Content 007 Business 003 CEO Message Highlights 005 Company Overview 007 2016 Highlights 011 CSV Highlights 012 CSV Policy 013 The Value of Eco-friendliness Created by IONIQ 009 CSR Highlights 019 Social Contribution Activities as a Life-time Partner 027 Human-centered Technology – Supporting Archery Sustainability Performance 031 Our System 044 Our Value 108 Facts & Figures Appendices 013 115 GRI Index The Value of 118 Independent Assurance Statement Eco-friendliness Created by IONIQ 121 About This Report This report has been published as an interactive PDF, allowing readers to move quickly and easily to pages in the report, and including shortcuts to related web pages. Reference Page Related Link 019 Social Contribution Activities as a Life-time Partner CEO Message Dear valued stakeholders, I would like to extend my heartfelt gratitude for your continuing and steadfast support for the sustainable growth of Hyundai Motor Company. It is my great pleasure to welcome you to the 2017 Sustainability Report. Sustainability is at the core of future growth for Hyundai Motor Company (Hyundai), because we know that our success as a company requires us to look beyond the short-term growth. This is why we have set out five values for sustainability – product responsibility, eco-friendliness, suppliers, employees and society. These values, created by all Hyundai staff in partnership around the world, are aligned with the values of all our stakeholders, including customers, and will be the basis for our long-term growth and development. Our commitment to ‘product responsibility’ for perfect quality has extended company-wide, and enabled Hyundai to solidify its position as a top brand. We were one of the highest-ranked companies in the Initial Quality Study from J.D. Power and Associates, and number one in the quality survey from Auto Bild of Germany. In addition, the IONIQ electric vehicle (EV) has demonstrated its autonomous driving capability in an urban setting, at day and during the night, and thus proved both our technological prowess and commitment to realizing zero traffic accidents. ‘Hyundai Smart Sense’, our intelligent safety system, was first installed on the Grandeur IG in 2016, and will be applied to all Hyundai models, delivering greater comfort and safety to drivers and pedestrians. In order to deliver ‘eco-friendliness’, we have accelerated the pace of our sustainable growth. Hyundai is the first company in the world to mass-produce hybrid, plug-in hybrid and all-electric vehicles with a single dedicated eco-car platform, which we did through the IONIQ. In particular, the hybrid and EV models ranked first in fuel efficiency in President & CEO, the U.S. Furthermore, in 2013, Hyundai became the first company to Hyundai Motor Company mass-produce a hydrogen-powered fuel cell electric vehicle, the Tucson Won Hee Lee FCEV, which opened a new chapter for the future of eco-friendly cars. 2017 Sustainability Report 003 We have set out five values for sustainability – product responsibility, eco-friendliness, suppliers, employees and society – and strive to create better values for our stakeholders. We continue to upgrade and popularize FCEVs, and these efforts will be 2017 marks the 50th anniversary of Hyundai. Over the past half-century, recognized by a new FCEV-dedicated model, scheduled to be introduced we have become a truly global automaker in a country that had zero in 2018. infrastructure for the automobile industry. We have striven to create better economic, environmental and social value by being an automobile We have strengthened long-term partnerships with our ‘suppliers’. Not company that looks to a sustainable future. We never cease to step up only do we help them to improve their quality and technology, but we to challenge we have set ourselves of becoming a ‘Lifetime partner in also support them with laying the foundations for their growth through automobiles and beyond’. We will do this by offering automobiles that win-win systems. In 2016, we hosted an Employee Relations seminar for are not just a mere means of transportation, but vehicles with optimum our suppliers, which have advanced into overseas jointly with Hyundai. mobility that make people’s lives more convenient and enjoyable. In addition, the ‘Didimdol’ employment support program created jobs for young people and helped our suppliers secure human resources. We will continue to communicate and collaborate with our stakeholders, and share with them our creative thinking and pioneering action. Despite For our ‘employees’, we have undertaken various WorkSMART initiatives the challenges expected in the automobile market in 2017, all of us at which allow them to strike the right work and life balance, aimed at Hyundai will work together to create shared value and achieve win-win improving work engagement and creating a proactive culture. In particular, growth, making 2017 a new beginning of the next 50 years. I look forward the Leaders’ Morning Forums held in 2016 reinforced our commitment to your continuing interest and support for the sustainable future which to change. We also improved ICT support for a more efficient work we are building for all our stakeholders. environment. These efforts have helped our staff recognize the everevolving business landscape, and to prepare for work appropriately. Thank you. Lastly, we have continued to generate sustainable value for ‘society’ in the fields of environment, health and education of global communities. Our wide-ranging cooperation and support initiatives in 2016 included hosting the IONIQ Longest Run event and building the IONIQ Forest in Korea, environmental improvement and child educational support projects in Valparaíso Region in Chile, a pilot project in the Philippines to build a President & CEO, village with a sustainable water circulation system, and extracurricular Hyundai Motor Company activity facilities for children without proper care in rural areas of China. Won Hee Lee 2017 Sustainability Report 004 Company Overview Hyundai is leading a new culture in the automobile industry, thus improves quality of life by embracing new possibilities. Since our founding in 1967, we have pioneered the development of the automobile industry in Korea, achieving many firsts and bests in the process, and have now grown into a global brand. We will continue to think from new perspectives and take on new challenges, thus create a sustainable future for all. Company Profile 2016 Best-selling Models (Unit: Vehicle sold globally) Company Name Hyundai Motor Company Chairman/CEO Mong Koo Chung No. of Employees 118,320 persons Type of Business Manufacturing business (Production and sales of automobiles) Avante 875,275 Date of Establishment December 29, 1967 Total Assets KRW 178,835.9 billion Sales Revenue KRW 93,649.0 billion Production 4,865,500 units * As of the end of 2016; Based on K-IFRS consolidated financial statements Tucson Major Management Activities Launched the New Grandeur, Launched the New i30, 735,242 Launched the IONIQ HEV and EV, Launched the Genesis facelift model, Headquarters Launched the Porter facelift model, Launched the Avante Sport, Launched the G80 Sport, Launched the Maxcruz facelift model, Launched the Tucson facelift model, Launched the EQ900 Limousine Accent BHMC Mass-produced the new Avante, Mass-produced the new Sonata PHEV, Mass-produced the new Verna, 514,748 Mass-produced the Santa Fe facelift model HMMA Increased the production volume of the Santa Fe Mass-produced the new Avante, HMI Mass-produced the new Tucson Sonata 354,838 HMMR Mass-produced the Creta HMMC Mass-produced the new i30 HMB Mass-produced the HB facelift model * As of the end of 2016 2017 Sustainability Report 005 1 2 7 Global Network 8 6 23 32 35 26 27 19 28 34 30 20 24 33 25 21 9 42 38 29 14 31 22 3 4 41 36 12 10 37 40 39 45 17 18 44 5 11 16 46 15 43 13 Asia Pacific EUROPE Americas 1 Hyundai Motor Company 10 Sichuan Hyundai Motor Company 19 Hyundai Motor Europe Technical 28 Hyundai Motor Poland (HMP) 36 Hyundai Design Center America 42 Hyundai Auto Canada (HAC) Headquarter (HMC) (CHMC) Center GmbH (HMETC) 29 Hyundai Motor Company Italy 37 Hyundai Translead (HT) 43 Hyundai Motor Brazil (HMB) 2 Namyang Technology Research 11 Hyundai Motor India (HMI) 20 Hyundai Motor Europe Design Center (HMCI) 38 Hyundai America Technical 44 Hyundai Motor de Mexico (HMM) Center Hyundai Motor Japan (HMJ) 21 Hyundai Motor Manufacturing Czech 30 Hyundai Motor France (HMF) Center Inc. (HATCI) 12 45 Central & South America Regional 3 Hyundai Motor China R&D Center 13 Hyundai Motor Company Australia (HMMC) 31 Hyundai Motor Espana, S.L. 39 California Proving Ground Headquarters 4 Hyundai Motor Japan R&D Center (HMCA) 22 Hyundai Assan Otomotiv Sanayi (HAOS) (HMES) 40 Hyundai Motor Manufacturing 46 CV Central & South America 5 Hyundai Motor India Engineering 14 Hyundai Motor Group China (HMGC) 23 Hyundai Motor Manufacturing 32 Hyundai Motor Commonwealth Alabama (HMMA) Regional Headquarters Pvt. Ltd. (HMIE) 15 Asia & Pacific Regional Headquarter Russia (HMMR) Independent States (HMCIS) 41 Hyundai Motor America (HMA) 6 Hyundai Motor Ulsan Plant 16 CV Asia & Pacific Regional Headquarter 24 Hyundai Motor Europe GmbH (HME) 33 Hyundai Motor Czech s.r.o. (HMCZ) 7 Hyundai Motor Asan Plant 17 Africa & Middle East Regional 25 Hyundai Motor Deutschland GmbH 34 CIS & Eastern Europe Regional 8 Hyundai Motor Jeonju Plant Headquarter (HMD) Headquarter 9 Beijing Hyundai Motor Company 18 CV Africa & Middle East Regional 26 Hyundai Motor United Kingdom, Ltd. 35 CV CIS & Central Europe Regional (BHMC) Headquarter (HMUK) Headquarter 27 Hyundai Motor Netherlands b.v (HMNL) 2017 Sustainability Report 006 2016 Highlights Business Highlights 1 ● Social Interest ● Business Impact One of the best brands Beyond automaker, in the world being the most ● 12th ● 2nd P. 49 loved brand. Hyundai’s goal is not simply to become the world’s biggest car company, but to become the brand that is most appreciated by customers. To achieve this goal, we strive to offer our unique premium value at all customer contact points, guided by our brand direction ‘Modern Premium’. As a result, in 2016, our brand value grew by 11.1% year-onyear to USD 12.5 billion, and we ranked 35th on the list of ‘Best Global Brands 2016’ chosen by Interbrand, a global brand consulting group. In 2005, Hyundai became the first Korean automotive company to be chosen as one of the world’s top 100 brands, and it has sustained this success for 12 consecutive years. Hyundai first achieved a top 40 position in 2015, proving that its value has been steadily rising. Brand Homepage of Hyundai Motor Company 2017 Sustainability Report 007 2 3 Top rankings in global quality indices Completed the full line-up of the IONIQ In the 2016 Initial Quality Study (IQS) in the U.S., In February 2017, Hyundai completed the line-up conducted by the renowned global market research firm, of its eco-friendly cars with the launch of the IONIQ J.D. Power and Associates, Hyundai has ranked second Plug-in, a plug-in hybrid electric vehicle (PHEV). among non-premium brands, and third among all brands The IONIQ first emerged as an important player including luxury cars. In addition, the Accent and Azera of the eco-friendly car market when the IONIQ won the ‘Segment Winner’ at their respective segments. hybrid electric vehicle (HEV) was released in Korea Hyundai has also ranked second among non-premium in January 2016. The IONIQ EV was subsequently brands in the 2016 China IQS, and earned fourth place in launched in March 2016, followed by the release of the Vehicle Dependability Study (VDS), one place higher the PHEV, completing the line-up of Hyundai’s than the previous year. The Sonata, Tucson and Santa eco-friendly cars. A total of 31,165 units1) of the Fe were Segment Winners in the IQS, while the Verna, IONIQ have been sold world-wide as of the end of Yuedong, Tucson, ix35 and Santa Fe were Segment January 2017, including 24,350 units of the HEV Winners in the VDS, thereby earning further recognition model and 6,797 units of the EV model. for the excellence of Hyundai products. ● 8th ● 4th P. 13-18, 47, 50 ● 1st ● 1st P. 51, 55-56 1) Based on shipments 5 ER seminar for suppliers operating overseas Hyundai strictly observes all labor4 related regulations in the countries where it operates, and where its overseas subsidiaries are located. We also expect Building a hydrogen society the suppliers of our overseas business to do their best to promote stable Employee Hyundai is an official member of the Hydrogen Relations (ER). In 2016, we hosted an ER Council that was launched in January 2017, and is seminar for suppliers jointly advanced cooperating with global companies to bring about into overseas, in order to emphasize the a hydrogen society. The Council consists of 13 importance of global ER management, companies from automobile and energy industries, where participants discussed major ER and its members aim to work together to fulfill issues for each region, including the the goals of the 2015 Paris Agreement. In Korea, Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific, and Hyundai is a member of the Hydrogen Convergence suppliers also gave presentations on Alliance, established by the government in August examples of outstanding ER. 2016, with an aim to promote FCEVs and expand ● 15th ● 3rd charging infrastructure. As such, we are supporting the government’s roadmap for increasing sales of FCEVs and expanding the use of hydrogen energy. ● 7th ● 6th P. 68-69 2017 Sustainability Report 008 2016 Highlights CSR Highlights 6 ● Social Interest ● Business Impact Social contributions Beyond philanthropy, system for the decade ahead moving the ● 5th ● 12th P. 32, 90, 92 world together. In 2016, Hyundai set out its midto long-term vision of being a ‘Trustworthy Partner for Today & Tomorrow’, and overhauled its corporate social responsibility (CSR) structure. Two CSR pillars – ‘Dream Move’, to create jobs to support self-reliance and ‘Next Move’, leveraging our business expertise – were added to the existing ‘four moves’ – Easy Move, Safe Move, Green Move and Happy Move. These six major program areas are now the pillars of our full engagement in social contribution activities. Our efforts are being recognized in local communities around the world and in 2016, Hyundai Motor Group ranked first among car companies in the CSR development index from the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences for the third consecutive year, in recognition of its contributions to the practical resolution of social issues facing the local community. The Group ranked third among all companies, its highest ranking since entering the Chinese market. CSR Website of Hyundai Motor Company 2017 Sustainability Report 009 7 10 Developing compliance guidelines Successful outcomes of safety-first management Hyundai’s compliance management involves ensuring the strict observation of all laws and regulations in all business Safety is Hyundai’s number one priority. In order to activities. As part of our commitment to compliance, we improve safety and prevent accidents, we enforce the have had compliance guidelines in place since 2013 to ‘global standards on construction safety’ by integrating ensure that employees understand and respond to the relevant regulations from different countries. We legal risks inherent in our business. In 2016, we developed have also adopted the OHSAS 18001 (Occupational three further new compliance guidelines, including Health and Safety Management System), in order protecting customer location information and preventing to ensure the best in safety management at our the violation of trade secrets when signing contracts. We overseas business sites. As a result, Hyundai Motor share 39 compliance guidelines on nine areas of law with Manufacturing Czech (HMMC) achieved zero accidents our business sites in Korea, and six compliance guidelines in 2016, and became the first automotive company on six areas of law with overseas business sites, to be to win the ‘Safe Enterprise’ award two years in a row. used as guidelines in compliance management. In addition, Beijing Hyundai Motor Company (BHMC) achieved zero accident throughout the construction of ● 2nd ● 9th P. 33-34 the new plant in Cangzhou. Overall, Hyundai’s accident rate1) improved substantially in 2016, from 0.52% in 2015 to 0.33% in 2016. ● 10th ● 7th P. 86, 87~88 1) B  ased on figures of Ulsan, Asan and Jeonju plants in Korea and overseas manufacturing plants 8 Highest grade in the CDP 9 In 2016, Hyundai earned an A grade in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), a global sustainability evaluation system related to climate change. It was also the winner in the ‘consumer discretionary’ category of Supporting the recruitment of the Carbon Management Sector Honors. talent by suppliers This success was the outcome of our Hyundai helps its suppliers become global small commitment to an eco-friendly business, giants by recruiting outstanding talent, and also by including building a full line-up of ecoseeking to identify the drivers of future growth in friendly cars and improving fuel efficiency the automotive parts industry. In 2016, we hosted by 25% over 2015 levels by 2020. Our five job fairs in partnership with 349 suppliers, eco-friendly activities include reducing and operated a recruitment website dedicated to greenhouse gas emissions and energy helping suppliers recruit outstanding talent. We usage at our business sites, building high also implemented the employment ‘Didimdol’1) efficiency equipment, and maximizing the program, which provides young job seekers recovery of waste energy and heat. with job training and internship opportunities. A ● 3rd ● 13th total 805 talents were chosen, and 578 persons completed the program, which has so far enabled 313 young people to find employment. ● 4th ● 17th P. 74, 78~79 1) Didimdol means a stepping stone in Korean 2017 Sustainability Report 010 CSV Highlights Search From 003 005 CEO Message Company Overview corporate social 007 011 2016 Highlights CSV Highlights responsibility, 030 Sustainability Performance To 114 Appendices creating shared values. Going beyond corporate social responsibility (CSR), and creating shared value (CSV) through our expertise as a global automaker is the cornerstone of our homepage blog facebook youtube instagram approach to business. 2017 Sustainability Report 011 CSV Policy Lifetime partner in automobiles and beyond CSV is a similar concept to CSR, but with a greater focus on business. CSV looks to strengthen corporate competiveness and Provide new space to make a better life also creates value for the company itself, and customers and by creating the best in mobility through customer-centered, eco-friendly, innovative technology local communities as well. and comprehensive services As a global automaker, Hyundai strives to find better ways to make economic value into social value, so that we can have a Partner for a lifetime positive impact on society as a whole. Furthermore, we focus on Provide products and services to support creating shared values by constantly challenging the status quo customers at every stage of their lives based on creative thinking, thus achieving sustainable growth in partnership with our stakeholders. Partner for everyday life Provide the best customer experience in the automotive industry Partner for happiness Provide maximum comfort, convenience and pleasure by extending the concept of an automobile to a space for living Economic Value Social Value Build a leading position in the Create value for our customers and automotive industry by providing wider society and fulfill our services for customers’ responsibilities everyday lives as their life-long partner CSV Perspectives Directions for CSR/CSV Programs Youth Unemployment Mobility/Safety Environment Sharing skills Expanding markets to create jobs Strengthening mobility/safety care programs for Company-wide responses to issues around Using our core skills, such as vehicle IT, to help seniors and children the environment and air pollution address social issues 2017 Sustainability Report 012 Clean Future with Freedom in Mobility The Value of Eco-friendliness Created by IONIQ Hyundai dreams of a future in which there are no limits on mobility. We are committed to finding the best way for human beings and nature to live in harmony. We have set new standards for future mobility through our eco-friendly IONIQ model. We are also opening up a new chapter in future mobility and sharing our eco-friendly values through the Project IONIQ. The future mobility we dream of will blur the boundaries between daily life and mobility, overcoming all limitations and creating a new lifestyle. IONIQ makes the earth greener, and everyday life smarter. ● Social Interest: 8th ● Business Impact: 4th CSV perspectives for the IONIQ brand and the Project IONIQ Hyundai Value Social Value Expanding the presence in the Popularizing eco-friendly vehicles eco-friendly auto market Decreasing CO2 emissions Securing future growth drivers Promoting citizen participation in Enhancing the brand image of Hyundai eco-friendly activities 2017 Sustainability Report 013 Electric Vehicle (EV) in March 2016, and the IONIQ Plugincluding large supermarkets and theaters, which ensures in, a plug-in hybrid (PHEV) that combines the economy of easy and convenient access. We have also expanded our the EV and the driving performance of the HEV, in February new concept customized services. These include the ‘One2017. This completed the full line-up of Hyundai’s ecoStop Home Charger Consulting Service’, which supports friendly vehicles. the entire home-charging process, ranging from counseling for home charger installation to maintenance and repair. We developed the world’s first platform dedicated to all In addition, the ‘Blue Link’ service connects the IONIQ to types of eco-friendly vehicles, such as HEV, EV, and PHEV. mobile communications, enabling users to search and make We use this platform for the IONIQ, taking the lead in all reservations at charging stations. These services bring the areas of fuel efficiency, driving performance, and design. IONIQ closer to its customers. The IONIQ has achieved best-in-class fuel efficiency1) by optimizing the combination of the powertrain, including The IONIQ is also the new face of Hyundai. In January 2017, maximized aerodynamics, battery, motor, and engine. Its we unveiled the IONIQ concept car, featuring complete driving performance has also been improved. The IONIQ autonomous driving, at the Consumer Electronics Show Plug-in can travel more than 900 kilometers when fully (CES) 2017, held in Las Vegas. The concept car was charged and fueled. It has also offered major improvements successfully driven in downtown Las Vegas both during in product quality by reflecting customer opinions on the the day and at night. This demonstration showcased our IONIQ model first released in 2016. The vehicle features a advanced autonomous driving technologies, including design that minimizes air resistance, an automation-based high-performance radar sensor, object recognition camera, intelligent safety technology called ‘Hyundai Smart Sense’, and high-resolution mapping data, thus showed how we excellent energy efficiency, and a wide range of multimedia are preparing for the future of the automotive industry. The functions for driver and passenger convenience. IONIQ is more than just an eco-friendly model – it stands at the center of the future mobility envisioned by Hyundai. We will continue to launch upgraded IONIQ models with additional autonomous driving, connectivity and advanced 1) Based on the announcement of the United States Environmental Protection Agency in December 2016 intelligent safety technologies, so that we can lead the future of mobility. In addition, we will offer safe and convenient mobility services to our customers, and develop Opening up a new chapter in future mobility eco-friendly cars to protect the natural environment. The future of humankind should be free. Everyone should be IONIQ Instagram able to travel freely and conveniently, without restrictions, and that is the ‘future mobility’ that Hyundai is pursuing. We Emerging as a strong player in future therefore announced our future mobility strategy in March 2016, making known our determination to lead innovation automobile market in the mobility market. 10,558 units of the IONIQ were sold in Korea in 2016. The EV model sold 3,700 units between its launch in June and We unveiled the IONIQ to be the first means of transport the end of the year, accounting for 63.9% of the Korea’s 191km that would bring freedom in mobility to the future of EV market. Exports continued to rise steadily, and totaled humankind. In Korea, we launched the IONIQ Hybrid (HEV) 16,644 units as of the end of 2016, based on shipments. in January 2016, setting new standards for eco-friendly vehicles. This was followed by the release of the IONIQ One of the reasons the IONIQ was able to be so successful in The IONIQ Electric’s maximum driving distance on a single charge has been certified by the Ministry of Environment the EV market in Korea has been the construction of a largeat 191 kilometers, which is outstanding fuel efficiency scale infrastructure. We have installed around 200 highcompared to competitor models. However, our own tests speed and regular battery chargers at our major branches indicated that the IONIQ Electric’s actual driving distance The Beginning of Future Mobility and service centers across the nation, and now offer free is 351.1 kilometers, around 1.8 times further than the official distance. A video showing the IONIQ Electric charging services. EV chargers were previously mostly driving more than 350 kilometers on a single charge was IONIQ posted on YouTube, attracting more than 3 million views in installed at public organizations not frequently visited just six days and becoming a major issue. by the public. In contrast, IONIQ chargers are installed at facilities that are much more widely used in daily life, Video Clip of the IONIQ Electric 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 014 2030 Future Mega Trends Project IONIQ to take on challenges of Hyper-connected Society ‘freedom in mobility’ Hyper-aging Society Changes that begin with automobiles can change our lives. We strive to bring about this new tomorrow through Eco-ism the ‘Project IONIQ’, the ultimate goal of which is ‘freedom Multi-layered Mash-up in mobility’. The Project IONIQ mainly researches into four areas: freedom to use mobility easily when the need Context-awareness based Individualization arises; freedom from boundaries between life in the car High Concept Society and everyday life; freedom from inconvenience and risk of accident while traveling; and freedom from limits on energy Decentralization of Power resources and environmental pollution. Anxiety and Chaos We unveiled the Project IONIQ at the Geneva Motor Show Sharing Society in March 2016, making known our determination to lead innovation in the mobility market. Over the past year, Co-evolution we have given much thought on how to overcome the Mega-urbanization limitations and issues surrounding automobiles. We also undertook various activities relating to the Project IONIQ, Neo Frontierism including launching the Project IONIQ Lab, hosting the Longest Run and creating the IONIQ Forest. The challenges we take on, ranging from the eco-friendly vehicle ‘IONIQ’ to the ‘Project IONIQ’, are aimed at making the earth a better place for humankind through freedom in mobility. Project IONIQ to take a lead in ‘open innovation’ of mobility Respected experts in various fields are collaborating in the innovation led by the Project IONIQ. In July 2016, we launched the Project IONIQ Lab, a research group within the Project IONIQ. The Project IONIQ Lab features ‘open innovation’, and includes an advisory group of experts across various fields, such as future, society, engineering and design. The advisory group uses collective intelligencebased research to forecast changes in the mobility industry, and also actively engages with our Strategy & Technology Division to suggest roles and a future direction for Hyundai. In 2016, the Project IONIQ Lab announced the ‘2030 Future Mega Trends’, selecting 12 trends for the future that will impact the automotive industry. We continuously research the four major areas of the Project IONIQ based on these The Endgame of Mobility Evolution trends in order to realize our ultimate goal of ‘freedom in mobility’. The Project IONIQ Lab will undertake in-depth Project IONIQ analysis of how the 2030 Future Mega Trends will influence the automotive industry, and then will develop the ‘2030 Future Mobility Keywords’, ultimately presenting a complete scenario for future mobility. 2017 Sustainability Report 015 Driving for the longest time and over the longest distance, like the IONIQ, can change the world. IONIQ Longest Run – the longest race in the world to change the world for the better Avoiding environmental impacts, We hope to involve more people in the efforts we are as the IONIQ does, reduces air pollution. kilometers that they had run by running another 7 kilometers making to create an eco-friendly society. In an era of together and then enjoying a concert, a happy finale to this the rapid depletion of natural resources and widespread unique social contribution activity. Hyundai has turned an everyday race environmental destruction, we believe that joining our into a race that changes the world. efforts together will help to resolve a greater number of The donations raised by the race will be used to help people issues and create a more sustainable earth. We became the exposed to air pollution and to improve the environment, first company ever to host a 30-day race, the ‘IONIQ Longest reflecting the fact that the IONIQ contributes to reducing Run’, reflecting the power of participation and harmony. air pollution levels because it does not emit carbon. The donations have helped to fund breathing masks for street Participants in the IONIQ Longest Run use the IONIQ cleaners, window filters to filter fine dust and other harmful Running application, and donations accumulate as substances at daycare centers, and the building of the ecoparticipants run. The total distance run by the approximately friendly ‘Dream Park-IONIQ Forest’ at a metropolitan landfill 36,000 participants in the month starting October 5, 2016 site. totaled around 614,000 kilometers, well over the target of 573,000 kilometers. There were awards given to participants that reflected both their efforts and the special strengths of the IONIQ. We presented a gift to individual participants who ran 191 kilometers, and to groups that achieved a total of 1,000 kilometers. These targets reflected how the IONIQ EV can travel a distance of 191 kilometers on a single charge, and how the IONIQ HEV can travel a maximum distance of 1,000 kilometers on a single refueling. We also invited participants who ran 22.4 kilometers – mirroring the IONIQ HEV’s fuel efficiency of 22.4 km/l – to the ‘IONIQ Longest Run Festival’ held on the last day. These participants celebrated the 22.4 A world changed by 191,000 kilometers Donated breathing masks to 2,500 street cleaners Installed window filters for fine dust to protect 1,000 children from air pollution 2017 Sustainability Report 016 Planting 30,000 trees and creating the IONIQ Forest at a metropolitan landfill site over five years 191,000km In September 2016, Hyundai signed an agreement with the Sudokwon Landfill Site Management Corporation (SL Corp.) and Tree Planet to create a forest, which blocks fine dust, at a metropolitan landfill site. As the world’s largest waste landfill, this site handles around 15,000 tons of waste a day, and now efforts are being made to reduce environmental pollutants and create green areas even at this barren land. For example, SL Corp. and Tree Planet, a social enterprise, signed the ‘Dream Park Campaign to Create a Forest through Citizen Participation’ in May 2016; this is a tree-planting program that encourages local citizens to participate. As a corporate citizen, Hyundai is contributing to these Trees come together to create a forest, efforts. Using some of the donations raised by approximately 14,000 participants in the IONIQ Longest Run, we have and thoughts and actions come together begun the creation of the ‘1st Dream Park-IONIQ Forest’, to change the world. in cooperation with SL Corp. and Tree Planet. We hosted tree-plantings alongside participants in the IONIQ Longest This positive first step has now been Run, the UNEP Angel1), an environmental group made up of college students, and other participants from across Korea. taken by Hyundai, through the 1st The Dream Park-IONIQ Forest will be located on the border Dream Park-IONIQ Forest. of the second metropolitan landfill, near the western coast of Korea, to help to absorb fine dust coming in from China. Once the Forest has been completed, this landfill will be an oxygen tank supplying fresh air to the metropolitan area. We plan to plant 30,000-40,000 trees at the Dream Park‘Dream Park-IONIQ Forest – IONIQ Forest over the next five years, in partnership with forestry experts, IONIQ customers and IONIQ Longest Run A natural air purifier created by 30,000 trees participants. We will also produce PR videos about the Mongolia has been suffering from serious desertification, Forest, and will also develop an app that enables users to and this desertification has had an effect beyond Mongolian check trees using a mobile phone and the Internet. This is borders, becoming an international environmental issue. all part of our commitment to being a corporate citizen that Hyundai therefore began planting trees in Inner Mongolia in communicates with our customers, and so we are actively 2008, which was the beginning of the ‘Hyundai Green Zone aiming to resolve environmental issues through forestation. China’ project, our global ecological restoration project. This project has changed desolate sand deserts into fresh grasslands and thick forests that can even be seen by 1) UNEP Angel is an environmental volunteer corps made up of college students. satellites. This green miracle is now helping Korea, which It is affiliated with the UNEP National Committee for the Republic of Korea, and suffers from fine dust. takes the lead in carrying out activities related to environmental protection. 2017 Sustainability Report 017 It was wonderful to share our experiences I was happy to be with our customers over 30 days, running together to make through the ‘IONIQ Longest Run’ campaign – positive changes for society, and not just a new donation platform in which customers running as part of a one-day event. If another voluntarily participate while also having fun. opportunity like this arises, I would like to run again together with a friend. Hyung Jun Kim, Assistant Manager, Domestic Marketing Team, Hyundai Motor Company Hyun Jeong Yang, IONIQ Longest Run Participant I am delighted that there is a good I hope the Dream Park-IONIQ Forest partner for this forest creation, so that signals the beginning of a big increase in we can publicize the importance of the forestation to block fine dust from coming environment and the need to make into Korea. It would be great if the Forest environmental improvements. I hope this can become as dense as forests we built project matches with Hyundai’s corporate in Inner Mongolian. image as the manufacturer of the ecofriendly IONIQ, and communicates widely I am proud to take part in this campaign Soon Sang Hong, the value of the environment. to create a rich forest out of a landfill site. Deputy General Manager, CSV Strategy Team, Hyundai Motor Company I will be visiting the site to see how it is Seong Chil Kang, changing into dense forest, and to see Director, Culture Landscape Business Division, SL Corp. how the elm that I planted will serve as a protective tree line in reducing the impact of fine dust. Gyumin Lee, The 26th Class of UNEP Angel 2017 Sustainability Report 018 From Korean Automaker To Global Life-time Partner Social Contribution Activities as a Life-time Partner From a baby’s first breath to the quiet journeys of the twilight years, Hyundai is there for anyone who needs a helping hand, big or small. As a life-time partner in automobiles and beyond, we share moments and make memories based on trust and technology. We contribute to the happiness of communities by sharing our successes, so that we can achieve something more important and work together to create something new. Hyundai will always be your trustworthy partner for today and tomorrow. ● Social Interest: 5th ● Business Impact: 12th CSV perspectives for social contribution activities as a life-time partner Hyundai Value Social Value Enhancing the image as a model Contributing to health development of corporate citizen local communities Securing outstanding talents for future Creating jobs and expanding Expanding potential and employment stability loyal customers Fostering and supporting future talents 2017 Sustainability Report 019 Trustworthy Partner for Today & Tomorrow Trustworthy Partner for Today & Tomorrow Hyundai has defined its social contribution mission as ‘Contributing to the happiness of humankind and a sustainable society through eco-friendly economic activities and by actively fulfilling our social responsibilities as a company which leads automotive culture’. In 2016, we established our midto long-term vision for social contribution activities as being a ‘Trustworthy Partner for Today & Tomorrow’. Our social contribution activities utilize the strengths of Hyundai as an automotive company, and are based on six moves – convenient mobility, safety, the environment, volunteering by employees and customers, job creation and fostering talent, and social contribution activities that leverage our corporate skills. We are thus able to fulfill our social responsibilities as a global corporate citizen, without limits or borders. Newborns ‘Hyundai ix1’ – a first car for newborns It is vital to carry newborns safely, because their bones and muscles are not fully developed. Many hospitals in Slovakia however have been using old shopping carts to carry newborns, because they have found it difficult to buy proper baby carts due to high prices and budget shortages. Hyundai Motor Slovakia (HMSK) therefore developed the ‘Hyundai ix1’, a HYUNDAI ix1 hospital-grade trolley for newborns, and has been providing them to hospitals free of charge since 2014. A fully certified medical equipment company Hyundai is proud to support the produces the Hyundai iX1, to ensure that it is in compliance with all medical healthy growth of children through the Hyundai ix1, a first car for and legal regulations. The Hyundai iX1 is made of hypoallergenic materials, newborns. and can easily be sterilized and disinfected, ensuring high levels of hygiene. The ergonomic design allows newborns to lie down in comfort and safety. It has a braking system that is applied to all four wheels, and easy height and incline adjustment make it more convenient and safer for nurses using it. We also made the Hyundai ix1 to be a newborn’s ‘first car’, not simply a baby cart. That is why we named it the ‘ix1’, which is similar in branding to our ix25 and ix35 (Tucson in the Korean market) models, and why we also engraved our unique ‘H’ emblem on front. We first donated five baby carts to the largest maternity ward in Slovakia in May 2014, and by the end of 2016 we had donated a total of 50 baby carts to 12 hospitals. We will donate approximately 20 more baby carts in 2017. The Hyundai iX1 project has been very favorably received by hospitals, mothers and citizens in Slovakia, and has inspired us to continue to implement the project, so that newborns can grow up to be healthy children. 2017 Sustainability Report 020 Children ‘Brilliant Kids Motor Show’ where an imaginary car becomes reality Hyundai hosted the ‘Brilliant Kids Motor Show’, so that children could enjoy the excitement of seeing their imaginations becoming reality. The Brilliant Kids Motor Show was the first show of its kind in the world, and involved turning children’s drawings and stories of cars into models, a quarter to half the size of actual cars, and then displaying them. We held a car drawing contest for kindergarten and elementary school students, and then selected 15 of the 7,322 entries to make into models that were displayed at the Design Playground of Dongdaemun Design Plaza from April 2016 to June 2017. The Show was themed ‘imaginary cars to make the earth beautiful’, and featured exhibits in five categories – city, desert, forest, ocean, and sky – and experiential zones. Brilliant Kids Motor Show was visited by more than 10,000 people within just two weeks of its opening, and around 100,000 children and parents have visited the show thus far. Imagination is a strength that will usher in a better future. Smart cars and autonomous driving were nothing more than imagination a few years ago, but are now becoming reality. Imagination leads to new ideas, encourages people to take on challenges, and brings about rapid changes for the future of humankind. Hyundai responds to the power of the infinite imagination of children to build a society where the spirit of challenge and creativity comes to life. Brilliant Kids Motor Show A car which lures butterflies It is amazing to see an actual car made out of a drawing by emitting the scent of flowers, that I created from my imagination. Now I will study more about cars, a car that sprays sugar to make cotton so that I can make an underwater car that uses clam fuel. candy – these are the cars imagined by children, and made into reality Seon Woo Ji (Gyeongin Elementary School in Seoul) by Hyundai. Grand Prize Winner 2017 Sustainability Report 021 Traffic Safety Stories with Robocar Poli “Stop kids! Running wildly can lead to an accident!” Robocar Poli shares the importance of road safety in an easy and fun way, and serves as a safety guide for children around the world. Robocar poli with Hyundai Motor Company website ‘Traffic Safety Stories with Robocar Poli’ for children’s road safety around the world If children are to embrace automobiles as a part of their lives, they must recognize the importance of road safety and develop the right traffic safety habits early in their lives. In collaboration with Roi Visual, the Citizen’s Coalition for Safety, and the Korean TV channel EBS, we used a popular children’s character called Poli and produced 26 episodes of ‘Traffic Safety Stories with Robocar Poli’, an animated road safety education campaign to be shared through various online and offline activities. The campaign was made from the children’s point of view, and in a way with which children are familiar. Hyundai is proud to protect children’s smiles through road safety. Signed an MOU to launch ‘Traffic Safety Stories with ‘Traffic Safety Stories with Robocar ‘Traffic Safety Stories with Robocar an animated road safety Robocar Poli’ Season 2 was Poli’ was broadcasted in Taiwan Poli’ was broadcasted in Turkey education campaign, using Poli produced and broadcasted ‘Robocar Poli Traffic Park’ was open ‘Visiting Road Safety Experimental in Seoul, Korea Center’ program was run in Korea 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ‘Traffic Safety Stories with ‘Traffic Safety Stories with Robocar Poli’ was ‘Traffic Safety Stories with Robocar Poli’ Season 1 was broadcasted in China, Russia and Israel Robocar Poli’ was broadcasted produced and broadcasted in India Traffic safety campaign with Robocar Poli – signed an agreement on cultural exchanges between Korea and China (CCTV of China) ‘Traffic Safety Class with Robocar Poli’ was launched in Korea 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 022 The Youth ‘Future Automobile School with Hyundai’ fulfills the dreams of future car experts Hyundai has set up a special education program for the youth to help them better understand the future society and jobs in the automotive industry. The ‘Future Automobile School to Develop Dreams with Hyundai Motor Company’, is a specialized career education program under the Korean free semester system1). The program offers experience and practical training to learn about the automotive industry and future automotive technologies. Students go on field trips to our major bases, including the Asan Plant and the Hyundai Motorstudio Seoul. They are also provided with special lectures from Hyundai employees to help them explore their future career path. About 4,900 students from 120 junior high schools took part in the program in 2016. We gave priority to students from rural, mountain village and fishing village schools, as part of our efforts to reduce inequality in educational opportunities. As a result, the Future Automobile School won the Minister of Education Award at a contest for outstanding free semester system support in 2016. After the positive response from the education sector for this program, we will increase the number of schools taking part in the Future Automobile School to about 200 in 2017. This will offer practical help to more students to shape their plans for the future. ‘Skills for the Future’ to build the skills of the youth in Europe Hyundai Motor Europe (HME) has put its ‘Skills for the Future’ program into Future Automobile School place in cooperation with Junior Achievement Young Enterprise (JA-YE) with Hyundai Europe, the largest economic education NGO in Europe, in order to help the In a world in which we can see as youth find employment. Hyundai provided planning, finance, technology and much as we know, and feel as much expert support, while JA-YE Europe put together and ran the training courses, as we see, the more experience we produced the learning materials, and trained instructors and volunteers. have the better. That is why Hyundai provides the youth with the value of Hyundai also gave customized guidance on job skills and developed mock wide experience through the Future business start-ups for vocational school students and other youth. Automobile School. 15,099 students from 375 schools in 15 European countries have participated Skills for the Future in the program between 2012 and 2016, as Hyundai unstintingly provided its Hyundai contributed to youth resources to help the youth in Europe maximize their capabilities and become employment, a major global social experts in technology. This will help to guide them along the path of the future issue, and to the sustainable growth automotive market, and it also promotes positive change for the future of the of the automotive market, through the car market. Skills for the Future program. Number of Participants in Skills for the Future Cumulative Total 1) Free semester system: A system through which students can take discussion or practical training classes or get career education, including job experience activities, instead of taking mid-term and final exams 1,030 2012-2013 3,767 2013-2014 5,282 2014-2015 5,020 2015-2016 15,099 2017 Sustainability Report 023 Young Adults ‘H-Social Creator’ – a creative idea bank to resolve social issues ‘H-Social Creator’ is a planning program through which college students come up with creative ideas to resolve social issues, and then give shape to their ideas. The students chosen for the first group in 2015 and the second group in 2016 dealt with social issues, including environmental problems caused by fine dust, safety issues arising from technological development, and the effects of the aging population. Firstly, the students met with people experiencing the issues concerned, and they selected key issues based on design thinking methodology. They then came up with ideas that could combine with Hyundai’s key skills and resources. An interim review and feedback process enabled these ideas to be revised and improved to create outcomes based on which Hyundai implemented new CSR and CSV programs. For example, our distinctive social contribution activities in 2016, such as the ‘Donation Driving Campaign’ and the ‘Health Care Project for Taxi Drivers’, were inspired by the Green Ride1) and Support Bus2) programs suggested by H-Social Creator. We hope that all the college students who took part in H-Social Creator will become creative, hands-on people who can resolve social issues based on their experience with us. We believe in an open mindset, and taking action to help the world. H-Social Creator Who can resolve social issues, and how? Through ‘H-Social Creator’, Hyundai is showing how everyone It was good to be a part of a team alongside people with can help to resolve social issues, different university majors, personal perspectives, and experience. and how individuals’ creative ideas There was so much to learn, and it was a great experience for me to can generate strong national, expand the relatively narrow perspective that I had from only social and company support. studying engineering. Hee Jo Gong Member of the Crayon (Creative Young People) Team, 2nd Class of H-Social Creator 1) Green Ride: An eco-friendly mobility campaign to encourage behavioral changes such as using public transport, and providing reward points to help reduce air pollution 2) Support Bus: An idea to provide time for rest to people with restricted access to transport, including market merchants and daily workers, at dawn and in the middle of the night 2017 Sustainability Report 024 Connect the Unconnected! Hackathon In August 2016, 97 participants in 37 teams engaged in 30 fierce hours of competition in the finals of Hackathon 2016. With the theme ‘Connect the Unconnected’, participants built a prototype of a data-based service along a theme selected from among ‘connected car’, ‘car sharing’ and ‘electric car charging station’. Hackathon, combining ‘hacking’ with a ‘marathon’, began in Silicon Valley in the mid-2000s, hosted by major IT companies, and brings together a program designer and software developer to form a team to come up with an idea and develop software as if they were in a marathon. Hyundai forecasts that software will become an important criterion in selecting automobiles in the future. That is why we became the first Korean automaker to host Hackathon, as part of our efforts to discover and foster talented people with outstanding software skills. The winners are given an internship opportunity with the option of permanent employment, and a streamlined employment process where they do not need to submit application documents. Hackathon has therefore been a new channel in recruiting new software talent. ‘Hyundai-KOICA Dream Center’ – supporting the car experts of the future The ‘Hyundai-KOICA Dream Center’ is a vocational skill school to enable young people in developing nations to learn Hyundai’s technological skills. We have opened four Hyundai-KOICA Dream Centers, starting with a threeyear technical high school for automobile skills in Ghana in 2013, followed by the opening of a Dream Center in Indonesia in 2014, in Cambodia in 2015, Hackathon and in Vietnam in 2016. In this era of convergence between IT and the automotive industry, The Hyundai-KOICA Dream Center is based on a public private partnership Hyundai’s solutions to discovering and fostering talent are also evolving (PPP) between Hyundai, the Korea International Cooperation Agency day by day. (KOICA), Plan Korea (an international relief and development NGO), and local Hyundai-KOICA Dream Center government agencies. It is also a model for CSV activities that aim to offer The young people who have benefited both social value and economic benefits, including job creation. Of particular from the Hyundai-KOICA Dream note, the fourth Dream Center, in Vietnam, is the first CSV activity of Hyundai Center are developing new dreams Motor Group through the participation from Hyundai Motor Company and as their jobs and lives become more Hyundai Engineering & Construction. It is intended to foster experts in both affluent. This is a positive change automobile maintenance and construction, and help them find jobs. brought about by the Hyundai-KOICA Dream Center through which we share the happiness and benefits of learning with local communities around the world. 2017 Sustainability Report 025 The Elderly and Disabled ‘Easy Wheels’ – helping seniors citizens to improve their mobility According to data from Statistics Korea, there were 6,624,000 senior citizens in Korea in 2016, or 13% of the total population. One in four older people say they feel pain in their knees when they walk, which is why Hyundai operates the ‘Easy Wheels’ program, supplying mobility scooters for free to senior citizens, with an aim to help them travel safely and freely. Easy Wheels was developed by the Easy Move Inc., a social enterprise specializing in walking and driving assistance equipment, and the first of its kind in Korea. It was established in 2010, with support from Hyundai. On Senior Day on October 2, 2016, we delivered 51 folding electric scooters to community welfare centers around the nation, and 70 high-performance electric scooters to individuals in need. The folding electric scooter is lightweight, weighing just 30 kilograms, allowing it to be lifted into and transported in a car, and is perfect for outdoor activities. The high-performance electric scooter is more for medical care. It can travel 35 kilometers on a single charge, and has a maximum speed of 10 km/h, allowing it to be driven even on certain public roads. The Easy Wheels program is a part of ‘Easy Move’, a social program aimed at improving convenience in mobility for those in need. It has contributed to increased social participation and improved quality of life for senior citizens. Social Enterprise ‘The Easy Move Inc.’ – growing through kind technology Easy Wheels A specialist in producing and selling vehicles and walking assistance equipment to increase convenience in Hyundai is taking thoughtful steps mobility for the disabled and senior citizens. The first assistance equipment company to be a social enterprise. with seniors, who find inconvenience in mobility, so that they can enjoy A company established with an investment of KRW 2.91 billion from Hyundai. All these positives describe a convenient better life. the Easy Move Inc., but instead of becoming complacent with these achievements, the Easy Move Inc. has continued to focus on technology development and market competitiveness. This in turn has resulted in the successful localization of its assistance equipment, including strollers for disabled children and evacuation equipment for the disabled. In the past, these were only available as high price imports, but the Easy Move Inc.’s successful development of such products has eased the financial burden on customers, and has even expanded the market. The evacuation equipment, in particular, is now being exported. The Easy Move Inc. turned a profit for the first time in 2015, and continues to take on challenges with support from Hyundai. It fulfills its social responsibilities by giving more than two-thirds of its operating profits for social purposes, and by hiring workers from underprivileged backgrounds. The Easy Move Inc.’s growth is building a path towards a society in which people with mobility impairments are helped and respected. And this is the outcome of our commitment to being a real partner. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 026 Aim, Shoot, and Win the Game Human-centered Technology – Supporting Archery Convergence technologies are bringing down the boundaries between industries, which is how Hyundai can aim to support archery through its automobile technologies. We have stood at the side of Korean archery since 1985, providing financial and technological support based on our own advanced technologies, enabling athletes to demonstrate their skills using the best possible equipment, and in optimal conditions. Hyundai supports the development of archery by using our resources and expertise as a global automobile company. This support also enables us to take on new challenges. ● Social Interest: 5th ● Business Impact: 12th CSV perspectives for supporting sports through automobile technology Hyundai Value Social Value Improving relevant technological Contributing to the advancement of skills sports and motor sports Appling automobile development Leading the scientification of sports technology Enhancing Korea’s brand image Boosting the corporate image through sports 2017 Sustainability Report 027 Aiming for victory, with help from automobile technology I anticipated automotive R&D technologies and The 2016 Summer Olympics held in Rio de Janeiro were the first Olympics meters and tests for defects in new arrows, enabling archers to select the best promising venture technologies to innovate the training at which one national team won the gold medal in all archery events, an arrows. The arrow categorization equipment filters out defective arrows, and achievement by Korea’s national archery team that will go down in Olympic then archers can make the final selection of arrows that suit them best, while process of Korean athletes. The 2016 Summer Olympics history. This was the culmination of the success of the national team, after knowing that all arrows available are of the highest standard. is where the athletes’ efforts resulted in a valuable victories at several other international competitions. One of the factors that outcome, and where Hyundai was presented with an led to this Olympic achievement was the assistance offered by Hyundai, Hyundai also provides technological support for archery training in the form optimal opportunity to widely publicize to the world its which has supported the growth of Korean archery since 1985. of brainwave measurement. Because mental control is very important in archery, we separated out all the actions repeated by athletes when they fire technological prowess and potential for innovation. Hyundai has particularly looked into how automotive technologies can an arrow, and measured their brainwaves during each individual action. We contribute to archery, leveraging the skills it has as a global automotive then analyzed their concentration and relaxation levels during these actions. Jeong Ho Roh Associate, Strategic Investment Team, Hyundai Motor Company company. Our Technology Research Institute has worked in partnership with By using neurofeedback technology from Silicon Valley, athletes were able the Korea Archery Association, and for the 2016 Olympics, we focused this to identify which actions resulted in the highest levels of concentration and joint technological development on four areas – the non-destructive testing relaxation. of bows, customized grips, arrow categorization equipment, and brainwave measurement. Hyundai always supports the Korean national archery team. We do not restrict Winning gold in all archery events at the Olympics was a ourselves to regular sports marketing – instead, we leverage our resources long-cherished dream for the Korean archery team, and The non-destructive testing of bows helps archers to spot cracks that can and expertise as an automotive company to fulfill our social responsibilities appear inside bows. This testing was done using the analytical technology more widely. The emotional sight of the Korean national flag being raised in Hyundai’s long-term and profound support enabled this of our Materials Development Center, technology that is usually applied to a stadium in Rio de Janeiro brought great happiness to the national archery dream to come true. Their cutting-edge technologies check for defects during new car development, when pictures are taken of team, Hyundai Motor Group, and to all Korean citizens. Hyundai was delighted enabled me to be sure that my equipment had no defects, car parts using 3D CT equipment, which enables the detailed analysis of to have fulfilled its mission as a corporate citizen and as an outstanding so I could concentrate exclusively on the competition. the inside and outside of those parts. Similarly, a bow’s limb consists of five partner for the national archery team. layers, each made of a different material. For this reason, it is difficult to spot Hyundai also made detailed plans to ensure that athletes an irregularity with the naked eye, and if there is an accumulation of damage would be in the best possible physical and mental inside the limb caused by the repeated drawing and releasing of the bow, condition, including setting up a dedicated rest area and there is a risk of the bow breaking during or just before a competition. Our upgrading our airplane seats. 3D CT equipment takes tens of thousands of pictures while rotating a bow through 360 degrees, which enables highly detailed inspection of the bow to Woo Jin Kim check for minute cracks and poor adhesion. Archer, Korean National Team We also use the 3D scanning technology of the new car development process to produce a customized grip for each athlete. Athletes usually use a readymade grip that is placed at the center of the bow, and then alter the grip so that it fits their hand. A grip can become damaged if a competition lasts for several hours, and this can cause athletes to lose concentration. Grips made to an individual’s own specifications enable archers to demonstrate their optimal skills. Our technologies are embedded into arrows as well. We have created a piece of equipment that fires an arrow over a distance of 50 Interview with Bonchan Ku, Rio de Janeiro Olympics Gold Medalist 2017 Sustainability Report 028 Forming partnerships beyond sports sponsorship Non-destructive testing of bows Hyundai is the title sponsor of the World Archery Federation for three years, from January 2016 to the end of 2018. The World Archery Federation is in charge of archery competitions around the world, including hosting the Archery World Cup and the World Archery Championships. While Hyundai is the title sponsor of the World Archery Federation, we will support the ‘Hyundai Producing Archery World Cup’ and the ‘Hyundai World Archery Championships’, while customized grips publicizing the Hyundai brand, not only to archery fans, but to sports fans around the world as well. Hyundai’s position as a title sponsor is also reflected in a composite logo that combines the logos of Hyundai and the World Archery Federation. This Arrow categorization composite logo is used in the ‘Hyundai Archery World Cup’ and the ‘Hyundai equipment World Archery Championships’, and Hyundai is allowed to display brand or product advertisements on large electronic displays in stadiums, install various types of banners such as standing banners and branding flags, and to show its logo on the back wall of targets, interview backdrops and podiums. This is giving excellent publicity to the Hyundai brand. In addition, as part of marketing activities in each country where the competition is held, we provide Brainwave archery fans with opportunities to experience Hyundai through various onmeasurement site promotions. For example, we exhibit key model for each market, offer test-driving, set up a promotion booth to host such events as mini archery game, and provided cheering tools. In Korea, we hosted the ‘2016 Hyundai Motor Chung Mong Koo Korea Archery Cup’, which brought together 152 Korean archers with the best skills in the world to compete against each other. This archery festival was enjoyed by all, befitting its concept as ‘The Greatest Shooting Show in Korea’, and all 1,000 audience seats were occupied throughout the competition. The Cup was widely praised for helping to popularize Korean archery, and for expanding archery’s base of competition and support. We are also establishing midto long-term plans for the development of archery, including fostering talented archers for the future, projects that will help to popularize archery, and trying to widen the influence of archery. The presence of Hyundai’s brands and products at global archery competitions, and the special, unchanging support that Hyundai has shown for archery, will continue to highlight the importance of archery in Korea and world-wide. World Archery Federation Instagram 2017 Sustainability Report 029 As a world-renowned automaker and Search global corporate citizen, Hyundai Motor Company 003 CEO Message strives to not only create economic values but also 005 Company Overview fulfill its social and environmental responsibilities. 007 2016 Highlights 011 CSV Highlights This Sustainability Report describes business 030 Sustainability Performance activities we conducted in 2016 and also details 114 Appendices our efforts of creating shared values, keeping the environment clean, contributing to the sustainable development of society, and other meaningful milestones achieved in the pursuit of sustainable management. Sustainability homepage blog facebook youtube instagram Performance 2017 Sustainability Report 030 Sustainability Management System Hyundai will build a sustainable future by striking the right Vision 2020 Search balance between economic, social and environmental The ‘Vision 2020’ represents the Hyundai Motor Group’s value, thus grow together with our stakeholders. goals for sustainable growth and a future that Hyundai Motor 003 CEO Message Company pursues. Automobiles have gone beyond merely 005 Company Overview being a means of transportation; they help people to have a better quality of life. The philosophy and will of Hyundai are 007 2016 Highlights Management Philosophy and Vision reflected in the Vision 2020 which is designed to embrace 011 CSV Highlights the changes in what an automobile means. By pursuing this Management Philosophy vision, Hyundai has set out to become not just a carmaker, 030 Sustainability Performance The spirit and values that have driven Hyundai Motor Group are but a company that creates more value and shares in the daily Our System defined by three key phrases: ‘unlimited sense of responsibility’, lives of our customers as a lifetime partner. Hyundai sets a new ‘realization of possibilities’, and ‘respect for mankind’. Based on concept of an automobile as a ‘partner for lifetime’, tailored to 031 Sustainability the needs of customers from childhood to senior years. It is Management System these, Hyundai Motor Company has established a management philosophy to ‘realize the dreams of mankind by creating a new More information on our also a ‘partner for happiness’, a space for living, working, and corporate philosophy 036 Corporate Governance future through ingenious thinking and continuously challenging resting that provides exceptional comfort and pleasure. As a 039 Creating and Sharing new frontiers’. ‘partner for everyday life’, we will ensure the best customer Economic Value experience from the moment a customer chooses our brand ‘Unlimited sense of responsibility’ signifies the pursuit of by providing a complete range of the services associated with 042 Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis sustainable growth while maintaining responsibility towards all automobiles, from finance to product experience, IT services, of our stakeholders; the ‘realization of possibilities’ signifies the and used car sales. Our Value pioneering spirit that has motivated us to invest in new areas; 114 Appendices and the ‘respect for mankind’ represents our commitment to Partner for lifetime We provide brands, products, and improve living conditions for everyone. With this philosophy in services that cater for our customers from childhood to senior place, Hyundai will continue to grow as a respected company years. We envision our future being one in which we are the which makes a positive contribution to humanity. automobile of choice for our customers at all stages of their lives. Partner for everyday life We understand service innovation Unlimited sense • Pursuing sustainable growth with a sense of responsibility towards employees, suppliers, and their is needed to provide greater value to customers. We therefore families of responsibility • Pursuing the highest quality, to be responsible for the safety and happiness of customers provide services at all stages of the ownership process, from selection to purchase, possession, and repurchase, to ensure the best customer experience. • DNA that strives for unlimited growth and advancement Partner for happiness Our automobiles have gone beyond a Realization of • Entrepreneurship that enables us to break out of our comfort zone and to take risks possibilities means of transportation, and are now a symbol of comfort and • Creating real value by turning small possibilities into real achievements pleasure. With Hyundai, cars will become more versatile and provide innovative services to make driving faster, safer, more comfortable and more enjoyable. We will stay close to our • Improving living conditions by providing products and services of the highest quality to the greatest number of people customers, and offer them more ecofriendly and advanced IT Respect for mankind • Being proactive in tackling environmental issues technologies. • Contributing to the global community by sharing our success homepage blog facebook youtube instagram 2017 Sustainability Report 031 Vision and 3 Major Strategic Directions Socially Responsible Management Search With stakeholders voicing their concerns and regulations Vision Customer becoming increasingly stringent, businesses today are 003 CEO Message required to fulfill their social responsibilities. We at Hyundai are We promote a customer005 Company Overview Lifetime partner in automobiles driven corporate culture by committed to socially responsible management not simply to providing the best quality and and beyond impeccable service with all of our build our brand image, but to promote long-term sustainable 007 2016 Highlights efforts aimed at satisfying our development. We have put into place ethics management customers. 011 CSV Highlights Providing new space to make a better life by creating and compliance management, and we forge collaborative the best in mobility through customer-centered, eco-friendly, partnerships with a wide range of stakeholders in order to 030 Sustainability Performance innovative technology and comprehensive services fulfill our economic, environmental and social responsibilities. Our System Challenge As a ‘Trustworthy Partner for Today & Tomorrow’, we will use our business skills to build closer partnerships with all our 031 Sustainability We refuse to be complacent, embrace every opportunity stakeholders so that, as well as creating economic value, we Management System for greater challenge, and are are able to address issues such as climate change, the ageing 3 Major Strategic Directions confident in achieving our goals 036 Corporate Governance with unwavering passion and population, and youth unemployment. Providing the best Finding new growth Optimizing global ingenuity. 039 Creating and Sharing customer experience opportunities operation Economic Value Mid-to Long-term CSR Strategy Structure • Service innovation across • Launching localized • Realizing ‘smart scale’ 042 Sustainability Management all customer contact strategic models, and points improving sales channels • Creating synergy between Trustworthy Partner for Today & Tomorrow Materiality Analysis overseas business sites • Ensuring perfect quality • Expanding and Collaboration • Social contributions Our Value • Improving brand value strengthening the and globality materials and parts We create synergy through • Developing humana sense of “togetherness” 114 Appendices industries centered technology that is fostered by mutual for the future • Developing eco-friendly communication and cooperation cars, green technology, Balanced sharing within the company and with our and new materials business partners. for Gro work win to gt any og Core Values People omp eth er st c Be Local We have selected five core values to practice our management We believe that the future of our Employees communities Company with assurance Providing pleasant mobility philosophy and to realize our vision – customer, challenge, organization lies in the hearts and capabilities of individual members collaboration, people, and globality. These core values were and will help them develop their Shareholders/ created by identifying the unique characteristics embedded potential by creating a corporate Investors Stakeholders Customers culture that respects talent. in the mind-set of our employees that have contributed to our success, and then adding to that a set of values that will act as Global Suppliers guidelines for everyone at the company. The core values will Tra nsp countries Partnership are er Future value guide not only our business operations but also the decisionGlobality nt bu pa rtn sin ed making and daily work lives of our employees. They will also ess st en Tru We respect the diversity of tity help to develop a strong sense of community among our cultures and customs, aspire to employees, and provide a basis for sustainable growth. be the world’s best at what we do, and strive to become a respected global corporate citizen. Taking the lead in climate change responses homepage blog facebook youtube instagram 2017 Sustainability Report 032 Ethical Management SDGs Target types of violation against our ethical standards. For reports Search submitted on social and environmental issues that concern our Ethical Management System 16.5 stakeholders, including human rights, labor, local community, 003 CEO Message In 2001, we established the Ethics Charter, the Employee Code Related activities and supply chain, we ensure that these issues are referred to of Conduct, and the Guidelines for Ethical Business Conduct, of Hyundai the department responsible and handled appropriately. The 005 Company Overview to set clear guidelines for all employees in the practice of • Ethical Management Cyber Audit Office receives reports via the internet, phone, fax 007 2016 Highlights ethical management. Furthermore, all relevant documents • Compliance Management or letter, and notifies informants of the actions taken by the are made available on-line for effective communication and relevant departments. The identity of the informant is strictly 011 CSV Highlights protected under the policy on secret assurance, identity for on-demand reference. In 2002, we adopted a voluntary 030 Sustainability Performance fair trade compliance program (CP) to enhance fairness and protection assurance, and responsibility reduction. Ethical management website of Our System transparency in trading with suppliers. In addition, we joined Hyundai Motor Group the UN Global Compact in 2008 to declare our commitment 031 Sustainability to ethical management. In 2013, the Ethical Management Compliance Management Management System website was completely revised to make it more accessible 036 Corporate Governance for stakeholders as well as employees, so that the information Purpose Ethical Management 039 Creating and Sharing on the site can be used in ethical business conduct. In 2015, Milestones The primary purpose of our compliance management is to Economic Value we expanded and reorganized the composition and functions accurately assess various legal risks associated with all business Introduction of the existing Ethics Committee to launch the Corporate operations of Hyundai and to manage them before they become 042 Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis Governance & Communication Committee, thus strengthened • Build a compliance support a clear threat. Furthermore, through compliance management organization our will and capability to practice transparent management. • Establish compliance control within the framework of sustainability management, Hyundai Our Value standards and implementation seeks to gain stakeholders’ trust and build the basis for fulfilling guidelines 114 Appendices • Identify the status of key legal our social responsibilities. To accomplish these objectives, we Ethics Charter risks have established a compliance management support system and The purpose of the Ethics Charter of Hyundai is to help 2012~2013 through this system, implement diverse compliance programs. employees make ethically correct decisions in business operations. It also applies to the suppliers of the company. Maturity More information on the Ethics Charter is available on the Implementation • Develop and distribute ethical management website of Hyundai Motor Group. compliance guidelines Hyundai has produced compliance guidelines since 2013 to • Provide compliance training help our employees better understand the legal risks that may • Develop an IT system to support compliance occur in their work, and how to properly respond to those risks. Cyber Audit Office • Operate the Compliance In 2016, three additional guidelines were added, concerning Counseling Center Our Cyber Audit Office is always open to receive reports the protection of information about the location of customers on unfair requests or corrupt practices involving our 2014~2016 and preventing infringement of trade secrets when signing employees, and it also offers advice when our employees contracts. We share 39 compliance guidelines on nine areas face ethical dilemmas. While informants should use their of law with our business sites in Korea, and six compliance Expansion names in submitting a report, the reports are then handled guidelines on six areas of law with overseas business sites. in accordance with relevant procedures without disclosing • Designate compliance These guidelines are the basis of our compliance management. managers the name of the informant. Reports typically submitted to • Perform self-monitoring on the Cyber Audit Office include unfair transactions based on compliance In addition, we provide compliance training to new hires • Build a global compliance personal connections, a request for or the paying of bribes or support system with or without previous work experience, and to newlyrecruited executives, to improve their awareness of compliance homepage blog facebook youtube instagram inappropriate entertainment, abuse of influence, and other 2017~ 2017 Sustainability Report 033 management. We also ensure that all our employees understand Risk Management Search our commitment to compliance management, and the relevant support systems. We monitor legal trends, so that we can alert our The automobile industry today has faced an unprecedented 003 CEO Message employees about the enacting or revision of major regulations, level of wide-ranging challenges. Protectionism is spreading, and we distribute bi-monthly compliance newsletters which as seen in the U.K. with the result of the Brexit referendum, and 005 Company Overview the election of President Donald Trump in the U.S. Within the illustrate emerging legal issues in easy-to-understand terms for Compliance Slogan 007 2016 Highlights our employees. In 2016, in response to the rapidly-changing automobile industry, emerging trends such as autonomous legal environment, we strengthened our compliance support in driving, mobility, electric vehicles and connectivity are bringing 011 CSV Highlights specific legal areas, including new and modified regulations. about abrupt changes. These challenges are driving us on 030 Sustainability Performance to make proactive investments in relevant fields, collaborate We make sure that everyone at Hyundai clearly understands with other industries such as ICT, and focus on technological Our System development through mergers & acquisitions. Europe and our strong commitment to regulatory compliance as a 031 Sustainability response to the new Improper Solicitation and Graft Act, and India are implementing major restrictions on diesel vehicles Management System we briefed all our employees on the Act prior to its enactment in the aftermath of ‘Diesel-gate’, which has clearly resulted to help them better understand it. We also distributed a in reduced demand for diesel-powered cars and the rapid 036 Corporate Governance leaflet entitled ‘All You Need to Know about the Anti-Graft growth of the green car market, mainly in China and Europe. 039 Creating and Sharing Act’, published compliance guidelines for our employees With the majority of automakers focusing on their EV business Economic Value to follow on the Anti-Graft Act, and undertook companystrategy, it is possible that the automobile industry will shift 042 Sustainability Management wide preliminary reviews to minimize the risk of regulatory from internal combustion engines to EVs faster than expected. Materiality Analysis violations. We also strengthened our compliance support Hyundai therefore launched the IONIQ, a range of eco-friendly Our Value concerning data privacy, in line with increasing public interest car models, in response to the expanding eco-friendly car in the protection of personal data and tougher regulations. market, and successfully demonstrated the autonomous 114 Appendices Online training was given to all employees, in Korea and driving capability of the IONIQ EV at the CES 2017 as a way of overseas, and training was also offered to suppliers who addressing the rapidly-changing automobile market. process customers’ personal data. Risk Structure Macro environment Social factors Natural factors Voluntary Fair Trade Compliance Nation Economy Politics Society Crisis/Disaster Climate/Ecology Hyundai fulfills its duty and responsibility as a leading global company practicing fair and transparent management. In 2016, Industrial environment the CEO publicly pledged Hyundai’s will to comply with fair trade and began reflecting fair trade compliance guidelines in Governmental partners Labor unions Civil society Technology/ Alternatives New entrants Customers Competitors business activities. We also educate and train new executives and employees, and staff members at relevant departments on the importance of fair trade practices, thereby cultivating Policy-related Governance Organization Brand Communication Sustainability a corporate culture of fair trade compliance. In addition, we produce a monthly fair trading newsletter to help employees Value-creation R&D Purchase Production/ Logistics/ Marketing/ activities Quality Sales Customer service stay informed of relevant issues and practice fair trade. Strategy Operation HR/ Environmental Support activities Compliance IT/Security Finances Labor affairs safety BusinessBusiness portfolio Partnership Business plan related homepage blog facebook youtube instagram 2017 Sustainability Report 034 Stakeholder Communication Search To earn the trust of stakeholders, a company must respect them and maintain the highest standards of ethics and transparency. Hyundai has therefore shared 003 CEO Message the value of business based on trust with its stakeholders, and continues to strengthen the ethics and transparency of its business operations. 005 Company Overview 007 2016 Highlights 011 CSV Highlights 030 Sustainability Performance Our System 031 Sustainability Management System Customers/Dealers Employees Suppliers Shareholders/ Society Government Investors 036 Corporate Governance 039 Creating and Sharing Key Issues Economic Value • Sustainable mobility • Employee satisfaction • Win-win growth • Improvement of the corporate • Invigoration of local economy • Compliance with laws and 042 Sustainability Management • Excellent quality improvement • Fair trades value • Job creation regulations Materiality Analysis • Enhancement of vehicle safety • Fostering outstanding • Long-term partnership • Shareholder interests • Social contribution activities • Fulfillment of tax obligations employees protection • Customer satisfaction Our Value • Human rights protection • Stable growth improvement • Health and safety • Transparent information 114 Appendices disclosure Communication Channels • Motor show and new car • Labor-Management Council • Win-win growth and fair trade • Annual general meeting • Communication with local • Participation in policy-making launching ceremony • Occupational Safety and agreement • Corporate Governance & communities near worksite public hearings • Test driving Health Committee • Foundation of Korea Communication Committee • Youth support program • Participation in policy • Sports sponsorship • Internal publications Automotive Parts Industry • Company briefing • Website discussions and briefings Promotion • Website • Customer service • Newsletters • IR meetings • Stakeholder interview • Seminar and training for • Stakeholder interview • Customer satisfaction survey • Employee satisfaction surveys • Website • Reports suppliers • Car club • WorkSMART assessments • Reports • Reports • Stakeholder interview • Before Service • Health & safety systems • Energy-Saving Technology • Website • Websites Exchange Meeting • On-line communication • Stakeholder interviews • R&D Tech Day • Dealer seminar/ • Sustainability reports • R&D symposium conventions/events • Roundtable meetings • R&D Motor Show • Agent conventions • Management workshops • Purchasing portal • My Car Story 2.0 • Lunch meetings • Reports • Stakeholder interviews • Grievance counseling • Reports (financial reports, • Suggestion Box sustainability reports, etc.) • Home correspondence • Events with employee families • Sports events homepage blog facebook youtube instagram 2017 Sustainability Report 035 Corporate Governance A transparent and efficient corporate governance system Outside Director Candidate Nomination Committee Search centered on a BOD with integrity and expertise has been The outside directors of the BOD have all been screened by the back bone of our strong and sound growth. the Outside Director Candidate Nomination Committee and 003 CEO Message appointed with approval from shareholders at the annual general 005 Company Overview meeting (AGM). When designating new outside directors, Hyundai submits a ‘Confirmation of Qualification for Outside 007 2016 Highlights BOD Composition Director’ to Korea Exchange that ensures the independence 011 CSV Highlights of new directors and other legal compliance. As of now, more The Board of Directors (BOD) of Hyundai is the top decisionthan half the Committee members are outside directors: three 030 Sustainability Performance making body of the company, and is comprised of four outside directors – Sung Il Nam, You Jae Yi and Eun Soo Choi – executive directors and five outside directors, in line with and two internal directors – Mong Koo Chung and Won Hee Lee. Our System relevant regulations. The BOD acts on behalf of shareholders IR information of 031 Sustainability and other stakeholders to meet their interests. It also makes Hyundai Motor Company Management System decisions on key management issues and other matters Corporate Governance & Communication Committee 036 Corporate Governance stipulated in the articles of association, with the aim of In 2015, we established the Corporate Governance & continued business growth, and supervises directors and 039 Creating and Sharing Communications Committee by expanding and realigning the Economic Value executives. In addition to regular quarterly meetings, BOD composition and mandate of the previous Ethics Committee. meetings are held by the chair or appointed directors 042 Sustainability Management All four members of the Committee are outside directors, Materiality Analysis whenever a resolution of the BOD is required. A resolution is and the Committee is responsible for deliberating on and valid if supported by at least half of the votes cast, and with Our Value reviewing key management issues, the transparency of related more than half of the BOD members being present, unless transactions, and ethics management. The Committee’s ability 114 Appendices otherwise stipulated in the relevant laws. The BOD runs subto perform these tasks is fully supported by its independence committees that are in charge of certain roles to strengthen and transparency. In particular, the Committee member the supervision and execution of the duties of the directors whose mandate is to protect shareholder rights and interests while enhancing expertise and efficiency in decision-making. attends investor discussions and Non-Deal Roadshows The sub-committees are the Audit Committee, the Outside for overseas investors, in order to serve as a channel for Director Candidate Nomination Committee, and the Corporate communications between the BOD and shareholders. This also Governance & Communication Committee. promotes the transparency and independence of the BOD, protects shareholder rights and increases shareholder interest. Audit Committee Vision of the Corporate Governance & Communication Committee The Audit Committee, which is comprised of four outside Fulfill Corporate Social Responsibility by constantly increasing shareholder return, directors to ensure transparency and independence, enhancing communication with shareholders and improving transparency is responsible for auditing the company’s finances and and professionalism of BOD operations. It also requires directors to provide information Achieve global standard corporate governance on business operations and investigates the financial status of the company, which is then reported to the BOD. In addition, Shareholder return Communication Transparency Professionalism it communicates with external auditors about the plans and the results of audits of the company’s financial statements to Announce and post Corporate Provide outsourced education for Transparent dividend policy Expand governance NDRs perform efficient auditing work. Governance Charter outside directors Reach the average payout ratio of Actively hold meetings Disclose the activities of Hold seminars with homepage blog facebook youtube instagram global peers in the long-term with major shareholders the committee governance specialists 2017 Sustainability Report 036 As a result of this commitment to shareholders, we paid out Search interim dividends for the first time in 2015, made interim dividend Announcement of the Mid-to Long-term Dividend Policy payments again in 2016. In January 2017, we announced our mid003 CEO Message to long-term dividend policy as a way of improving shareholder Goal interest. Hyundai has also set out its Corporate Governance 005 Company Overview Set the course of our mid-to long-term dividend policy to Charter, to promote the transparency and accountability of strike the right balance between securing future growth drivers 007 2016 Highlights top management under the supervision of a professional and and improving shareholder value independent BOD. The Committee will continue to increase 011 CSV Highlights the transparency of the actions of the BOD and expand our Mid-to Long-term Dividend Policy 030 Sustainability Performance communications with shareholders, while also exploring a range of policies and initiatives that protect shareholder rights. Our System Payout of 30-50% of Target global industry Explain possible Activities of the Corporate Governance & Communication Committee annual free cash flow peers’ level of material changes in 031 Sustainability to shareholders payout ratio future dividend amount Management System Details Date July 6-11, 2016 036 Corporate Governance Purpose To enhance communication and form trust with major shareholders 039 Creating and Sharing Participants Outside Director, IRO and IR Team Economic Value Corporate governance managers of 31 major shareholders (2015: 25 shareholders in 3 regions) 042 Sustainability Management Governance • Hong Kong: 8 (Capital, APG, Schroders, Allianz, etc.) BOD Status Materiality Analysis Shareholders NDR • Singapore: 5 (GIC, Eastspring, UBS, ISS, etc.) • London: 11 (BlackRock, USS, F&C, M&G, Hermes, etc.) Information on the BOD of Hyundai, including the composition Hyundai Corporate Our Value • Boston: 7 (Westwood, Finepoint, Wellington, etc.) of the BOD and sub-committees, BOD resolutions, profiles Governance Charter 114 Appendices Explain the activities undertaken by the committee to of BOD members, their attendance and salaries, is available improve governance, including the announcement of Agenda Corporate Governance Charter and Governance Seminars with in our business reports and on the company website. The governance specialists AGM is notified three weeks in advance, earlier than the standard two weeks stipulated in the commercial law, so that Governance Improvements shareholders have sufficient time to examine the agenda in Details detail. We also notify shareholders with holdings of less than • Investor meetings with governance managers of major 1% about the AGM, so that all shareholders can benefit from Major Summary financial institutions Shareholder NPS, APG, Finepoint, Hermes, etc. their rights and interests. The company discloses its audit Meetings Agenda • Discussed current governance status and future plans for report two weeks rather than one week before the AGM as the Committee done in the previous years. In addition, we directly reported • Meetings with proxy advisory and governance advisors Summary ISS (Proxy advisory), GES (European governance advisory), to shareholders on the appointment of an independent GovernanceACGA (Asian Corporate Governance Association) related Advisors auditor at the AGM, all in an effort to bolster the prompt and • Discussed importance of improving ESG and discussed ways Agenda to enhance professionalism and independence of BOD transparent disclosure of information we pursue. Although • Enhanced professionalism of outside directors the BOD can approve financial statements and dividend Governance Summary through governance seminar with governance specialists payments under the current law, Hyundai handles these Seminars (Professor Kyungsuh Park and Sungmin Kim) (Jun. 14, Oct. at the AGM, to promote a focus on the shareholder. More 26) • Corporate governance codes and the role of BOD, Hyundai Motor Company Agenda dividend policy for enhancing corporate value 2016 Annual Report information on the BOD and compensation of executives are • Participated in the ACGA annual conference, providing available in our 2016 annual report. Summary outside directors with an ideal opportunity to gain expertise Governance in governance and interact with investors COnference • Corporate governance of Asia-Pacific companies including Agenda adoption of stewardship code homepage blog facebook youtube instagram 2017 Sustainability Report 037 BOD Status Search Name Title Committee Role Date of Term Gender Appointment CEO , Chair of the BOD, Mong Koo Chung Chairman & CEO Outside Director Candidate Nomination Committee Mar. 17, 2017 3 years Male 003 CEO Message Chair of the Outside Director Candidate Nomination Committee Internal Eui Sun Chung Vice Chairman Mar. 11, 2016 3 years Male 005 Company Overview Directors Gap Han Yoon President & CEO CEO Mar. 13, 2015 3 years Male 007 2016 Highlights Won Hee Lee President & CEO Outside Director Candidate Nomination Committee CEO Mar. 11, 2016 3 years Male Audit Committee, 011 CSV Highlights Sung Il Nam Outside Director Chair of the Audit Committee Mar. 11, 2016 3 years Male Outside Director Candidate Nomination Committee 030 Sustainability Performance Corporate Governance & Communication Committee, Chair of the Corporate Governance & Communication Committee, You Jae Yi Outside Director Mar. 11, 2016 3 years Male Outside Director Candidate Nomination Committee In charge of protecting shareholder rights Our System Audit Committee, Outside Dong Kyu Lee Outside Director Mar. 13, 2015 3 years Male Corporate Governance & Communication Committee 031 Sustainability Directors Audit Committee, Management System Byung Kook Lee Outside Director Mar. 13, 2015 3 years Male Corporate Governance & Communication Committee 036 Corporate Governance Audit Committee, Eun Soo Choi Outside Director Corporate Governance & Communication Committee, Mar. 17, 2017 3 years Male 039 Creating and Sharing Outside Director Candidate Nomination Committee Economic Value * As of March 17, 2017 042 Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis Our Value Qualifications for Directors Shareholders Directors of Hyundai are required to hold qualifications as (Unit: Share ‒ ordinary share) 114 Appendices specified in relevant laws and regulations, possess exemplary ethical and professional value sets, and diligently exercise the 20.8 duty of representing the rights and interests of shareholders and other stakeholders in a balanced manner. They also % should be able to allocate sufficient time to the conduct of 57.6 7.5 their duties, and demonstrate strategic thinking, practical knowledge, and the mature ability to make judgment as 6.0 well as a strong sense of responsibility. Outside directors are required to have expertise and experience in finance, 8.1 economy, management, law, accounting, or relevant fields. They are also required to have no major conflicts of interest Hyundai MOBIS 45,782,023 with the company and make independent decisions. Affiliated persons 16,416,486 Treasury shares 13,222,514 17,890,250 Expertise of the BOD National Pension Services Others (financial institutions, etc.) 126,965,206 Outside directors of Hyundai visit production plants and research centers at home and abroad on a regular basis to enhance their expertise. Also, the company helps them better perform their duties by providing educational opportunities Total 220,276,479 homepage blog facebook youtube instagram at professional institutions outside the company. * As of December 31, 2016 2017 Sustainability Report 038 Creating and Sharing Economic Value Hyundai achieves sustainable growth by creating economic Global Production Search value as a global automobile company and then sharing (Unit: Vehicle) with our stakeholders as a global corporate citizen. 003 CEO Message ■ Korea ■ Excluding Korea 005 Company Overview Korea 1,679,905 007 2016 Highlights Global Business Performance 1,679,905 U.S. 379,020 China 1,142,000 011 CSV Highlights Global Business Performance India 665,017 2016 Czech Republic 358,400 030 Sustainability Performance In 2016, the automobile industry, excluding China, saw low Turkey 230,010 Russia 207,000 Our System growth of just 1.2% due to sluggish growth in the U.S., Europe 3,185,595 Brazil 161,756 and other major economies, and the sustained slowdown in China 031 Sustainability (Commercial) 37,881 Management System Brazil, Russia and other emerging markets. The Chinese market, Consignment however, benefited from purchase tax cuts, and so the overall (Commercial) 4,511 036 Corporate Governance market growth rate was 4.4% with China included. Even with 039 Creating and Sharing Economic Value all the disruptions in the market, including difficult business conditions and uncertainties from political transformation in Total 4,865,500 042 Sustainability Management major markets and Brexit, as well as Korea’s unstable political Materiality Analysis landscape, Hyundai has remained focused on quality and Korea 1,858,395 stability by positioning our brand firmly in the premium U.S. 384,519 Our Value market and expanding the sales of green cars. These efforts 1,858,395 China 1,052,000 114 Appendices resulted in sales of 4.86 million vehicles for the year. India 645,012 2015 Czech Republic 342,200 Turkey 226,500 Market Share Russia 229,500 3,089,920 Brazil 175,002 (Unit: %) China (Commercial) 30,552 2014 2015 2016 Consignment Korea 41.2 38.9 36.0 (Commercial) 4,635 Excluding Korea 5.1 4.9 4.8 Global 5.8 5.6 5.5 Total 4,948,315 Global Production Korea 1,876,428 U.S. 398,851 Our Korean plants have an annual production capacity of 1,876,428 China 1,120,000 1.76 million units. In 2016, the plants modified their work India 610,650 shift schedule1) to improve flexibility and product quality. 2014 Czech Republic 307,450 With our fourth Chinese plant beginning operations with an Turkey 203,157 Russia 237,000 annual production capacity of 300,000 units, our overseas 3,079,108 Brazil 179,480 production capacity is now 3.198 million units, so our total China 22,520 (Commercial) global production capacity reached 4.958 million units. In 4,955,536 2016, we responded to rising global demand for SUVs by homepage blog facebook youtube instagram increasing the production of Santa Fe at our U.S. plants, Total 1) Reduced work hours from an 8-hour (day) and 9-hour (night) shift to an 8-hour (day) and 2017 Sustainability Report 8-hour (night) 039 increasing supply of Tucson from the Czech Republic and Global Sales Search mass-producing the compact SUV Creta in Russia. Overseas (Unit: Vehicle) plants are now responsible for 65% of our total production, 2014 2015 2016 003 CEO Message and with each plant also producing strategic local models, we Korea 685,191 714,121 658,642 now have a system in place that allows us to respond quickly Excluding Korea 4,278,344 4,250,710 4,201,407 005 Company Overview and accurately to changing conditions across global markets. Global 4,963,535 4,964,831 4,860,049 007 2016 Highlights * Based on shipments 011 CSV Highlights Global Sales 030 Sustainability Performance Despite the sales growth thanks to the China’s purchase tax Our System cut, Russia, Brazil and other emerging markets remained Business Performance stagnant, and persistently low oil prices resulted in a slower031 Sustainability than-expected recovery in the Middle East and Africa. As a Financial Highlights Management System result, our sales for the year fell by 104,782 units to 4,860,049 (Unit: KRW billion) 036 Corporate Governance vehicles. Sales in Korea fell by 8% due to the aging of our 2014 2015 2016 039 Creating and Sharing flagship models, such as Santa Fe, increased pent-up demand Sales 89,256 91,959 93,649 Economic Value for the new Grandeur and intensifying competition. We were Operating profit 7,550 6,358 5,194 still able to successfully launch the new Grandeur, and sales of Consolidated 042 Sustainability Management Net profit 1) 7,649 6,509 5,720 Materiality Analysis our green cars rose by 12% thanks to the launch of the IONIQ HEV and EV, which broadened our eco-friendly model line-up. 2) EBITDA 10,100 9,152 8,552 Our Value We also expanded our premium range by launching the G80 Sales 43,046 44,440 41,714 114 Appendices Sport and the G90 Limousine, which enabled our Genesis brand Operating profit 3,735 4,267 2,699 Separate to position itself firmly in the premium segment in Korea. Net profit 4,914 5,435 4,102 2) EBITDA 5,349 6,047 4,913 Overseas, we set a new record in the Chinese market, with our 1) Includes minority interest sales rising 7% to 1,142,016 units after we timed the launch of 2) Operating profit + depreciation of tangible assets + depreciation of real estate held for investment + depreciation of intangible assets strategic local models and new models to coincide with cuts in local purchase taxes. In the Middle East, Africa, Brazil, Russia and other emerging markets, however, sales fell, and as a result, our total overseas sales fell by 1% year-on-year to 4,201,407 Sales Revenue by Overseas Subsidiary units. Overseas sales comprise 86% of our total sales. By region, (Unit: KRW billion) our sales in Western Europe increased by 6% from the previous 2014 2015 2016 year to 503,048 units thanks to economic stimulus packages, which in turn improved consumer sentiment. 2016 marked the HMMA 7,437 7,510 8,217 first time our sales exceeded half a million in India, as falling BHMC 19,756 19,203 20,129 interest rates and economic promotion initiatives of the Indian HMI 4,637 5,404 5,981 government boosted sales by 5% to 500,539 units. In the U.S., HAOS 2,744 3,186 3,320 sales were down by 3% to 771,772 units as a result of the global HMMC 5,398 5,794 6,787 economic downturn and the strong dollar causing sluggish HMMR 2,384 1,930 2,041 exports and consumption. In the Middle East and Africa, sales HMB 2,263 1,710 1,636 fell by 23% to 360,034 units as consumer sentiment deteriorated homepage blog facebook youtube instagram because of continuing low oil prices and political instability. * Based on separate sales performance before adjustment for consolidation 2017 Sustainability Report 040 Distribution of Economic Gains Search Hyundai shares our economic gains with our stakeholders, including shareholders, investors, suppliers, local communities and government agencies, as part 003 CEO Message of our commitment to fulfilling our social responsibilities. We will continue to flourish through economic growth and stability, and to share more value with our stakeholders. 005 Company Overview 007 2016 Highlights Distribution of Economic Value in 2016 011 CSV Highlights 030 Sustainability Performance Our System Generated Shareholders and economic value Employees Suppliers Government Local communities 031 Sustainability investors Management System Dividends and Sales Salaries Raw materials costs Income tax Donation 036 Corporate Governance Interest expenses 039 Creating and Sharing Economic Value 93,649 1,352 8,878 52,102 1,587 76 KRW billion KRW billion KRW billion KRW billion KRW billion KRW billion 042 Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis * Consolidated figures basis Our Value 114 Appendices Distribution of Economic Value by Stakeholder (Unit: KRW billion) 2014 2015 2016 Dividends 817 1,080 1,080 Shareholders and investors Interest expenses 300 259 272 Employees Salaries 8,538 8,846 8,878 Consolidated Suppliers Raw materials costs 49,677 52,095 52,102 Government Income tax 2,302 1,950 1,587 Local communities Donation 71 66 76 Total 61,705 64,296 63,995 Dividends 817 1,080 1,080 Shareholders and investors Interest expenses 123 111 129 Employees Salaries 6,211 6,259 6,265 Separate Suppliers Raw materials costs 26,311 26,740 25,001 Government Income tax 1,194 1,245 841 Local communities Donation 50 51 50 Total 34,706 35,486 33,366 homepage blog facebook youtube instagram 2017 Sustainability Report 041 Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis We analyze the social interest and business impact of our Materiality Analysis Process Search corporate activities, so that we can effectively respond to the interests and requirements of our stakeholders. Step 1 003 CEO Message Collecting issues on We brought together key issues from existing sustainability reports, and formed sustainability management a pool of 25 issues which reflect amended regulations and our own management 005 Company Overview policies in 2016. 007 2016 Highlights Step 2 011 CSV Highlights Materiality Analysis Analyzing external issues 1. Global guideline analysis 030 Sustainability Performance The latest sustainability management guidelines, such as GRI G4, the UN Global Compact, Our sustainability reports focus on high priority issues that ISO 26000 and DJSI, were analyzed as regards to their reporting requirements and Our System have been identified, through rigorous analysis of internal and guidelines. external issues, as being of highest interest to stakeholders 031 Sustainability 2. Media coverage analysis Management System and as having a major impact on business operations. In 2016, Approximately 84,000 news articles, at home and abroad, relevant to sustainability we added media analyses and expert group interviews to the management were identified, of which about 12,000 articles were analyzed. Key issues 036 Corporate Governance scope of our external environmental analyses, to improve the were classified into categories such as the economy, the environment and society, and 039 Creating and Sharing completeness of our materiality analyses. We also hosted then divided into positive and negative. Economic Value workshops to discuss the business impact of issues with 3. Competitors’ report analysis 042 Sustainability Management staff from the relevant departments as part of our internal Sustainability reports by other automobile manufacturers were analyzed for best practices. Materiality Analysis analyses. In addition, we analyzed the sustainability activities of other automakers, and strived to disclose information 4. Expert group survey (PwC Pool) Our Value that could be significant to our stakeholders, in line with our We performed surveys through the network owned by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) to reflect sustainability issues that have garnered interest from external experts. 114 Appendices policy of expanding the disclosure of information. We will continue to publish sustainability reports that highlight issues Step 3 that could be material to stakeholders, and these reports will Analyzing internal issues 1. Analyzing meeting agenda led by the management enable us to maximize our communications concerning our Among agenda items reported or submitted for approval to BOD, management strategy sustainability management. council and other regular meetings of top management, 25 items deemed relevant to sustainability issues were analyzed. 2. Analyzing the KPIs of executives Among key performance indicators (KPI) of our executives measured in 2016, 25 items deemed relevant to sustainability issues were analyzed. 3. Identify employees’ awareness Business impacts of the issues were evaluated through the employee survey (354 persons) and workshop (12 persons). Materiality Analysis Step 4 Workshop Selecting priority issues Priority of each issue was identified through step 2 and 3, and we defined a reporting scope by considering the impact of the priority issues on stakeholders. Step 5 Building reporting frame and Priority of each issue was identified through step 2 and 3, and we defined a defining a disclosing scope reporting scope by considering the impact of the priority issues on stakeholders. homepage blog facebook youtube instagram 2017 Sustainability Report 042 Materiality Analysis Results Total: Top 10 major issues and change analysis Search Rank Year-on-year Change 100 Composite 1 Issue Social Business Page Previous Ranking Business Impact Change Analysis (Ranking Change) Interest Impact Ranking 003 CEO Message 90 Product and 1 1 1 49-52 1 Maintained top ranking (–) 2 service quality 005 Company Overview Established a more definite measurement than the Improving financial 80 2 12 2 39-41 3 previous year’s ‘economic performance’, and maintained stability top ranking (1↑) 007 2016 Highlights Won top ranking as social interest in this issue 70 Ethics/compliance 5 3 2 9 33-34 6 increased, driven by the enactment of the Improper 011 CSV Highlights management Solicitation and Graft Act (Kim Young-ran law) (3↑) 4 60 030 Sustainability Performance Developing Unchanged from the previous year: this issue fell in 4 eco-friendly 8 4 60-62 4 business impact but rose in social interest due to the 12 6 products expansion of the IONIQ line-up (–) Our System 50 15 10 3 Top ranking in business impact, but composite ranking 21 7 Labor031 Sustainability 17 fell compared to the previous year as media exposure 8 5 management 15 3 82 2 40 11 declined and it remained of middling interest to external Management System 19 16 relations experts (3↓) 23 14 18 9 25 22 13 Moved up in the ranking due to considerable external 036 Corporate Governance 30 24 20 Communications 35-36, interest in our communications activities, such as Corporate 6 with external 7 6 11 53-54 Governance & Communications Committee, and the high 039 Creating and Sharing stakeholders 20 scores in employee surveys and workshops (5↑) Economic Value Social Moved up in the ranking as its business impact 7 5 12 89-107 12 contributions increased while social interest fell slightly (6↑) 042 Sustainability Management 10 Materiality Analysis Down in the ranking compared to the previous year, with the business impact relatively low even as social Social Interest Reducing interest rose significantly due to the implementation Our Value 0 8 greenhouse gas 3 13 63-64 5 of emissions trading schemes and increasing trading 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 emissions prices, and Korean ratification of the Paris Climate 114 Appendices By issue: Matching to stakeholders Change Agreement (3↓) Growing the Moved up slightly in the ranking as social interest rose Ranking Issue Directly-related Stakeholders 9 4 17 73 10 supply chain while the business impact fell significantly (1↑) 1 Product and service quality Customer, Supplier, Shareholder/Investor 2 Improving financial stability Shareholder/Investor, Employee Moved up by 11 positions during the year as its Employee health 10 10 7 86 21 business impact increased significantly due to strong 3 Ethics/compliance management All and safety engagement from top management (11↑) 4 Developing eco-friendly products Customer, Shareholder/Investor, Society 5 Labor-management relations Employee, Customer Customer, Supplier, Shareholder/Investor, 6 Communications with external stakeholders Government, Society By area: Top 3 issues moved up the most in the ranking and change analysis 7 Social contributions Society 8 Reducing greenhouse gas emissions Society, Employee, Government Area 1. Social Interest Area 2. Business Impact 9 Growing the supply chain Supplier, Customer, Employee 10 Employee health and safety Employee Ranking in Ranking in Issue Change Analysis Issue Change Analysis 11 Sustainability management system All Social Interest Business Impact 12 Employee compensation and benefits Employee New communications 13 Reviewing sustainability of supply chain Supplier Ethics/ Communications activities, such as Enactment of the Anti-Graft compliance 7→2 with external 13 → 6 Corporate Governance & 14 Protecting employee human rights and diversity Employee, Society Act, etc. management stakeholders Communications Committee, 15 Employee education and career development Employee etc. 16 Management and recycling of raw/subsidiary materials Society 17 Job creation and employee retention Government, Society, Employee Implementation of emissions 18 Pollutant management Society, Government Reducing trading schemes, increasing Employee health Strong engagement from top 19 Roles and responsibilities of BOD Shareholder/Investor greenhouse 11 → 3 trading prices, Korean 28 → 7 and safety management, etc. 20 Water management Society gas emissions ratification of the Paris Climate Change Agreement, etc. 21 Creating shared values Customer, Society 22 Waste management Society Employee 23 Strengthened security management Customer, Employee Developing Improvement of education Expansion of the IONIQ education eco-friendly 20 → 8 25 → 8 process and content in 24 Protecting biodiversity Society line-up, etc. and career products effectiveness 25 Participating in public policy Government development homepage blog facebook youtube instagram * Boundary of stakeholders – Employee: Inside the company 2017 Sustainability Report – Shareholder/Investor, Customer, Supplier, Government, Society: Outside the company 043 01. Product Responsibility Q. What are Hyundai’s goals for product responsibility and service quality? Management Approach At Hyundai, all products are made to care for our customers. We strive to offer superior quality and innovative “emotional product quality”. Moreover, we always safety and convenience features, so that our react proactively to the rapidly changing automobile customers are cared for, and can be proud of industry, thus secure our leadership in vehicle safety driving their vehicles. To achieve this, we focus on and convenience, which in turn will provide new accelerating vehicle performance, to enhance the value to our customers. To pursue ‘Quality Excellence pleasure of driving. In particular, we put our efforts & Customer Focus’ which exceeds customer on offering features and technologies to ensure expectations, we look beyond everyday quality issues product quality, by carrying out thorough analysis on to explore all potential problems. In doing so, we values that customers truly appreciate and through improve the durability and quality of our products. UN SDGs SDGs Target Related activities of Hyundai • Development of autonomous driving technology; 3.6 and connected car technology More information is available on the UN website 2017 Sustainability Report 044 Our Achievement Plans and Achievements in 2016 Key Sustainability Data Change Analysis 2016 Plans Achievements Evaluation Sales Hyundai Customer Satisfaction Index – Korea •L aunch new localized • Completed the launching of Unit: Vehicle Unit: Score out of 100 strategic models – Verna and 3 localized strategic models – ● 2016 2016 Yuedong for China; and i30 Verna, Celesta and i30 4,860,049 79.4 for Europe •S trengthen new electronic •D  emonstrated autonomous driving technologies and upgrade of the IONIQ EV at the CES 2017 in ● autonomous driving downtown Las Vegas both during 2015 2014 2015 2014 technologies the day and at night 4,964,831 4,963,535 78.3 80.3 •E xpand the application of • Expanded the application of phone The HCSI scores a satisfaction level of customers who have bought connectivity technology connectivity technology across all Overseas D  ecreased due to the delayed economic recovery in Africa, a new vehicle within 3 years; 2016 HCSI went up 1.1 scores from the and provide region-specific regions, and completed software the Middle East and other emerging markets previous year service and content based on updates for existing customers Korea D  ecreased due to strikes over wage negotiations, supply ● disruptions caused by natural disasters, and shrinking phone connectivity • Unveiled the mappyAUTO, which consumer confidence induced by political instability Hyundai Global Satisfaction Index in maintenance pairs with smartphone navigation – Overseas app, and first installed in the Unit: Score out of 1,000 (Number of countries where the survey Grandeur IG for customers in Korea was conducted) New Vehicle Quality Index •E xpand channels and •L  aunched the H Ombudsman Unit: Point (Ranking) 2016 893 (26 countries) programs for customer to gather customer feedback communication on products, service, marketing ● 2016 92 (2nd) and others, to seek ideas for improvements 2015 2014 ● Accomplished, ◐ Partially accomplished, ○ Not implemented 882 (28 countries) 841 (25 countries) 2015 2014 95 (2nd) 94 (1st) The HGSI in maintenance scores a satisfaction level of customers four weeks after they use Hyundai maintenance services; 2016 HGSI went up 11 scores from the previous year The IQS scores a vehicle 90 days after its purchase based on the number of complaints per 100 units; Hyundai has secured top positions for three years in a row as a result of quality management Hyundai Customer Satisfaction Index in maintenance – Korea Unit: Score out of 100 (Ranking) 2016 82.7 (2nd) 2015 2014 81.8 (1st) 82.0 (1st) The HCSI in maintenance scores a satisfaction level of customers who own a vehicle older than 3 years if they use a Hyundai service center or a Blue Hands center; 2016 HCSI went up 0.9 score from the previous year 2017 Sustainability Report 045 Our Plan 2017 Plans and Mid-to Long-term Directions 2017 Plans Mid-to Long-term Directions Expand the application of connected car technology Secure quality verification capacity in autonomous driving •A  chieve zero casualty by improving vehicles technologies which help drivers avoid accidents Preemptively respond to market conditions and support sales •M  ass-produce advanced autonomous through communication paradigm innovation driving vehicles by 2020, and fully Strengthen competitiveness in fuel efficiency by installing autonomous vehicles by 2030 next-generation PT and expanding eco-friendly line-up •M  aintain global quality management Earn trust from customers through innovative service to satisfy customers and meet market experience demands • I mprove the development processes for our Regain customer trust by improving company-wide business luxury vehicles to ensure the success of the processes based on VOC feedback Genesis brand Implement ideas suggested by customers through the •C  ontinue to pursue customer-oriented H Ombudsman in 2016; and encourage customer suggestions change through sincere communication and direct engagement in product, with customers marketing and CSR sectors in 2017 Open the Hyundai Motorstudio Goyang 2017 Sustainability Report 046 Developing Technology of the Future Classification 2016 Achievements Mid-to Long-term Directions Autonomous Driving Demonstration by the IONIQ EV Search • Installed additional safety and convenience • Run an autonomous vehicle pilot program Our self-driving prototype model based on the IONIQ electric Autonomous features in the Grandeur IG in alignment with the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics (highway and downtown) vehicle (EV) made its debut at the Los Angeles Auto Show driving • Demonstrated the autonomous driving in 003 CEO Message in November 2016 to demonstrate our skills in autonomous technology downtown Las Vegas and offered the public • Reach level 4 highway autonomous driving 005 Company Overview an opportunity to test drive (Jan. 2017) 2017 (HAD) technology by 2023 driving. The self-driving EV also completed an actual road test •E  xpanded the application of smartphone • I mprove vehicle-to-external (V2X) in Las Vegas in January 2017, attracting interest from media 007 2016 Highlights connectivity technology – from North connectivity around the world. The success of the night-time test drive America and China to include Korea, • Upgrade vehicle safety features, such as around real city streets proved the capabilities of our advanced 011 CSV Highlights Europe and others eCall, V2X technology, etc. autonomous driving technology. We were the first automaker • Developed the ‘mappyAUTO’, a dedicated • Expand the area of customer convenience to 030 Sustainability Performance Connected car MirrorLink app for the Korean market to obtain the driving license required for self-driving tests in all include IoT, smart home connection, etc. technology road and climate conditions in the State of Nevada, which then Our System • Develop intelligence vehicle service technology enabled the IONIQ EV to successfully navigate its test routes Our Value • Lead the development of IT convergence in downtown Las Vegas. Our Namyang Technology Research technology, such as personalized service Center is now conducting pilot projects on level 4 autonomous 044 Product Responsibility based on voice and context recognition driving, with test drives thus far proving satisfactory. 047 Developing Technology of the Future Making FCA a Standard Feature Autonomous Driving Technology 049 Quality and Service In March 2016, an MOU between the U.S. National Highway Innovation Traffic Safety Administration and major car makers made Additional Safety and Convenience Features for 053 Enhancing the Grandeur IG Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) a mandatory feature Customer Value for all vehicles. The MOU stipulates that all car makers must Hyundai has developed its own autonomous driving technology, include this safety feature in 95% of the vehicles they sell in 055 Global Highlight ‘Hyundai Smart Sense’, to fulfill our commitment to offering Official Website of the U.S. by September 2022. Hyundai plans to include FCA 057 Eco-friendliness intelligent and safe vehicles which deliver both universal safety and Grandeur IG in vehicles sold in Korea, even though we do not have the convenience. Hyundai Smart Sense creates a safe, convenient and same legal obligation, beginning in 2017 and completed by 070 Suppliers accident-free driving environment which protects the driver and September 2021. We are widening the application of FCA as a 079 Employees passengers, other vehicles, and pedestrians. This intelligent safety standard option, alongside vehicle-sensing radar, but we are technology was first applied to the Grandeur IG, and will now be also minimizing price increases, as well as offering options that 090 Society extended to our whole product line-up. include pedestrian-sensing radar and a camera fusion sensor. In 108 Facts & Figures Safety Features of Europe, we will offer camera-enabled FCA as a standard option Hyundai Smart Sense includes technologies such as Forward Grandeur IG in every new vehicle from 2018 onwards. 114 Appendices (Azera in the US market) Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA), Lane Keeping Assist (LKA), Blind-Spot Collision-Avoidance Assist (BCA), Smart Cruise Control (SCC), and Around View Monitor (AVM). Autonomous Driving in Downtown Las Vegas homepage blog facebook youtube instagram 2017 Sustainability Report 047 Connected Car Technology Major Components Search Connected Car 4 Service directions In-Vehicle Network (Ethernet1)) 003 CEO Message A connected car is a car connected with various things including 005 Company Overview humans, homes, offices, and cities with the internet. Starting to connect a car to the cloud. Hyundai will connect people, cars and Proactive Caring 007 2016 Highlights Head unit (ccOS2)) a lot of things that are not connected yet. Through this, we would Artificial intelligence and big data analytics are used to monitor the 011 CSV Highlights like to provide comfortable and enriched lives to our customers. operational status of vehicles on a regular basis, and, when vehicle anomalies are detected, they can 030 Sustainability Performance 2016 achievements in 4 development focus areas and then be remotely checked and Car cloud (ccSP3)) Our System mid-to long-term directions corrected. Our Value In-Vehicle Network: Developing an ultra-high-speed in-vehicle communication network Big data/AI 044 Product Responsibility Hyundai has partnered with Cisco to develop Smart Convenience 047 Developing an in-vehicle ultra-high-speed communication 1) Ethernet is a next-generation in-vehicle communications network that will replace the conventional 1Mbps A vehicle can upgrade itself to controller area network. With its 100Mbps ultra-high-speed communications capability, Ethernet enables Technology of the network and switch technology that will rapid data collection, including videos, for the real-time sharing of vehicle maintenance information and Future the latest version, and provides ensure the uninterrupted exchange and customers with personalized video data. It also provides external services related to connectivity. processing of the rapidly increasing amount of 2) The connected car Operating System (ccOS) is an independent operating system for connected cars, and 049 Quality and Service services based on driver’s behavior an advanced software platform that is capable of creating a stable connectivity environment and swiftly Innovation data used in the connected car era. and pattern analysis in the entire processing and handling large quantities of data. boundary of their life. 3) The connected car Service Platform (ccSP) is an integrated management platform for a wide range of 053 Enhancing connected car services, including connecting a vehicle to another vehicle, to home, or to mobile phones Customer Value Cloud Technology: Developing connected car Service Platform (ccSP) and other smart devices, as well as managing security. ccSP also processes and analyzes the massive amounts of data generated by vehicles, and manages various other vehicle services. 055 Global Highlight Hyundai is developing an exclusive integrated cloud-based service management platform in order to expand and operate a global connected car service ecosystem. 057 Eco-friendliness Cost Saving Enabler Smartphone Connectivity Information concerning road 070 Suppliers Big Data: Established a global big-data center in China conditions, driving patterns and Because Android Auto is not available in Korea, Hyundai offers previous fuel efficiency data can 079 Employees be used to measure distance MirrorLink technology in its vehicles to help drivers to use their Hyundai has established a global big data to empty more accurately. And smartphones safely. In conjunction with Hyundai MnSoft, we center in Guizhou Province, China, to analyze maintenance data can estimate 090 Society the expected price of a used car. have developed ‘mappyAUTO’, a MirrorLink-aligned application vehicle data and develop new connected car Likewise, connected cars data 108 Facts & Figures services. that provides real-time traffic information. This app is offered will contribute to economic life in various ways. free-of-charge. In addition, we have made software updates 114 Appendices available to enable existing customers to use this new phone connectivity technology. Security System: Developing integrated security technology for connected cars Connected Efficiency Mobility Service Hyundai is developing vehicle network security and vehicle authentication When a vehicle needs charging, Our Strategy & Technology Division is in charge of our future technology, to detect and prevent hacker attacks against vehicles. it provides Information on nearby charging stations in real mobility operations. The Institute analyzes major trends in the future time. While the vehicle is being of innovative technologies – the sharing economy, AI, Internet of Mid-to long-term direction charged, vehicle diagnostics will run along with required software Things (IoT), robotics, bio-science, smart city – and undertakes updates including the navigation connected research. This will enable us not only to respond to fastHyundai will collaborate with global leading companies through open innovation update. Also, the charging fee will to develop the technologies that will be needed in our four areas of technical focus be paid automatically, thus saving changing business conditions, but also to spearhead industrial homepage blog facebook youtube instagram for connected cars. time for drivers. innovation and offer real value to our customers. 2017 Sustainability Report 048 Quality and Service Innovation Classification 2016 Achievements Mid-to Long-term Directions Brand Communication Search •O  pened the Hyundai Motorstudio Hanam •P resent the mobility innovation outcomes • Generated open innovation outcomes of the Project IONIQ Modern Premium 003 CEO Message through the Project IONIQ – Expand the open innovation platform – L  aunched an industry-academia research group •L  aunch the first model of the highHyundai has been committed to offering our distinctive 005 Company Overview Brand to predict future mobility life performance ‘N’ brand premium value at every possible customer contact point since – Held collaboration events with start-ups • Launch and operate the Hyundai Classic 2011, when we outlined our new brand direction, ‘Modern communication – Conducted research on commercializing Lab to systematically manage our brand 007 2016 Highlights Premium’. Within the company, we continue to run tailor-made innovative services through in-house ventures assets 011 CSV Highlights • I nvolved in external communication on the brand training and global brand manager programs to share process of developing high-performance what ‘Modern Premium’ aspires to achieve. In 2016, more than ‘N’ brand 030 Sustainability Performance 3,400 staff in Korea and overseas received ‘Modern Premium’ Our System •R  eleased the Kappa 1.4L turbocharged •R  each top-ranking positions in safety brand training. We have also continued to open our Hyundai engine1) quality, external quality, and market quality Motorstudios to allow customers to experience the values we Our Value • Initial Quality Study (IQS) – S ecure proactive marketand customer-oriented quality as a response to changing market are pursuing. We opened the Hyundai Motorstudio Hanam in – U  .S.: 2nd among 21 non-premium brands 044 Product Responsibility (Accent, Azera), 3rd among all 33 brands conditions 2016, following on from the Hyundai Motorstudios in Seoul and – Continue to eliminate potential risks and Improving – China: 2nd among 45 brands (Sonata, Tucson, strengthen a system to promptly handle safety Moscow. The Hyundai Motorstudio Hanam is a place where 047 Developing product quality Santa Fe) defects customers can see what we have to offer as an automaker, and Technology of the • Vehicle Dependability Study (VDS) Future – C hina: 4th among 45 brands (Verna, Yuedong, can experience ‘Project IONIQ’, the starting point of our mid-to Tucson, ix35, Santa Fe) long-term mobility strategy and lifestyle innovation initiatives. 049 Q  uality and Service Innovation • Auto Bild (Quality Report) In 2017, we opened the Hyundai Motorstudio Goyang, which will – Germany: 1st among 20 brands (2.14 points) 053 Enhancing be the largest automobile culture complex in Korea, and will set Customer Value •L  aid the basis to digitize our services such • 4 strategic directions for overseas service out the brand values of ‘Modern Premium’ not just to existing as Workshop Automation and the digital – G reen (safety/environment): Focus on the EV customers, but also to anyone interested in automobiles. 055 Global Highlight Before Service service system and customer safety Improving • Offered a sophisticated version of the – Connected (connected and digitization): Expand 057 Eco-friendliness service Before Service through the mobile units Workshop Automation and Auto Care services in Europe – Interactive (communication with work sites) 070 Suppliers – Unique (differentiation): Differentiate the • Launched the vehicle management app Genesis brand service and expand the ‘Hyundai ‘My Car Story 2.0’ Assurance+’ service 079 Employees 1) Chosen as one of the 2016 Ward’s 10 Best Engines by WardsAuto (3 years in a row) 190 Society 108 Facts & Figures 114 Appendices homepage blog facebook youtube instagram Hyundai Motorstudio Hanam 2017 Sustainability Report 049 Project IONIQ Improving Product Quality Search ‘Project IONIQ’ was launched in 2016 as a research initiative into innovation in future mobility, and to enable our customers Proactive and Creative Quality Management 003 CEO Message to experience ‘Freedom in Mobility’. The project aims to define Our quality management philosophy is to provide customers 005 Company Overview new mobility by predicting how mobility will change in the with high quality vehicles that do not break down. To support future, based on eco-friendliness, and will also lead innovation this, Hyundai has established a ‘Proactive & Creative Global 007 2016 Highlights in future-oriented transportation and lifestyle changes. The Safety Quality Management’ system, a company-wide initiative 011 CSV Highlights first step for Project IONIQ was the introduction of the IONIQ, through which everyone at Hyundai communicates and the world’s first vehicle to have three eco-friendly powertrains collaborates to bring about the best in safety and quality for our 030 Sustainability Performance – EV, hybrid and PHEV. Project IONIQ will also undertake customers. We are also committed to improving throughout Our System multiple research programs, ranging from IoT connectivity and the entire quality management chain, from development to autonomous driving to mobility services, so that we can offer a manufacturing, sales and after-sales servicing. Our Value brand-new lifestyle to our customers. Hyundai Quality Improvement System 044 Product Responsibility High Performance N 047 Developing Global Leading Company Technology of the In September 2015, our high-performance N made its debut Future Premier global brand at the Frankfurt Motor Show, where we revealed some of 049 Quality and Service the development process for the N, attracting considerable Innovation attention from the media and customers alike. N participated High-performance brand N Sales Global sales competitiveness at the 24 Hours Nürburgring 053 Enhancing in the 24 Hours Nürburgring, one of the toughest races across Customer Value BBB the world, to study and test its high-performance engine during (Best Buy Brand) Achieve the BBB 055 Global Highlight its development stage. N’s successful completion of the race demonstrated its technological prowess and potential. Quality Marketing Enhance perceived quality 057 Eco-friendliness 070 Suppliers Global Quality Winner Win global quality awards 079 Employees Customer-oriented quality Mind–set Innovation morale 090 Society 108 Facts & Figures 114 Appendices Quality Assurance to Best Respond to Customer Safety 24 Hours Nürburgring in 2016 There is increasing focus on driver safety after a number of major recalls in the automobile industry. Hyundai has undertaken a number of preemptive recalls, and is responding with continuous quality enhancement and repairs for vehicles that show potential quality problems. The company will continue to provide immediate responses to customer complaints, and will dedicate itself to quality improvements at company level. homepage blog facebook youtube instagram 2017 Sustainability Report 050 Countermeasures for Major Product Quality Issues in 2016 Product Quality Surveys Search Ward’s 10 Best Engines One of the ‘World’s 10 Best Engines’ Hyundai’s 1.4L turboby WardsAuto charged Kappa engine was chosen as one of 2016 Ward’s 10 003 CEO Message Best Engines by WardsAuto, the U.S.-based automobile trade 005 Company Overview magazine. Hyundai has now featured on this prestigious list for Recall of the Tucson for turn signal failures on trailer (North America) three years in a row and seven in total, proving our competitive 007 2016 Highlights edge in engine technology. The Elantra Eco, equipped with the 011 CSV Highlights Problem Trailer’s turn signals fail to blink while braking Kappa 1.4L turbocharged DOHC 4-cyl., is our strategic model for Gap between the turn signal period from the vehicle body the North American market: the engine produces up to 130hp Cause 030 Sustainability Performance control computer and when that signal is detected and 21.5KGF·M of torque, and is matched to a 7-speed double Our System Installed a separate wiring harness for normal signal clutch transmission. The Elantra Eco also offers improved conversion performance and efficiency, thanks to its direct fuel injection, Our Value Countermeasure – Period: May 26 2015 Jan. 15 2016 single scroll turbocharger for exhaust waste gate actuator 2016 – Vehicles affected: 2,763 units Kappa 1.4L turbocharged (EWGA), constant variable valve timing (CVVT) integrated with 044 Product Responsibility (equipped with a trailer connector) engine for the Elantra Eco an oil control valve (OCV), an integrated cylinder head with 047 Developing Modify the time of detection for the turn signal control on exhaust manifold, and a high-energy ignition coil. Technology of the In-depth solution trailer’s rear lamp Future U.S Hyundai ranked 3rd among all car brands, including 049 Quality and Service Innovation premium brands, and 2nd among non-premium brands in the 053 Enhancing 2016 Initial Quality Study (IQS) from market research company Customer Value J.D. Power and Associates, the third year in a row that we have ranked so highly. In addition, our position in the 2017 Vehicle 055 Global Highlight Dependability Study (VDS) rose from 19th the previous year to 057 Eco-friendliness 2015 6th amongst all brands, including premium brands. We ranked Recall of the Eon for battery cable failures (India) Powertrain for 3rd of the 19 non-premium brands. 070 Suppliers the Sonata PHEV Thermal damage occurs due to the damaged cover of 079 Employees Problem China Our high-level quality has also enabled us to perform battery cables very well in quality surveys for the Chinese market. The 2016 090 Society Mechanic’s mistakes in assembling battery cables, Cause resulting in intertwine with clutch cables China-IQS awarded Beijing Hyundai Motor Company (BHMC) 108 Facts & Figures 2nd place among 45 non-premium brands, including imported, Reassembled battery cables, or Replace battery cables joint venture, and local brands. We also achieved our best ever 114 Appendices Countermeasure with new ones if damaged or reassembled position in the VDS, ranking 4th among 45 brands. Five of our – Period: Jan. 1 2015 Jan. 31 2015 models were Segment Winners. – Vehicles affected: 7,657 units Ensure distance between battery cables and install 2014 Europe Hyundai’s quality has also been recognized in Europe, In-depth solution protective tubing Powertrain for the home of the automobile, where we ranked 1st in the 2016 the Tucson FCEV Quality Report from the highly-regarded European automobile trade magazine Auto Bild, which awarded us 1st place amongst 20 automakers. homepage blog facebook youtube instagram 2017 Sustainability Report 051 Improving Service Smart Customer Service Initiatives Search My Car Story 2.0 Hyundai has launched ‘My Car Story 2.0’ Proactive Customer Service Initiatives a customized vehicle management application. This app is 003 CEO Message Improving the Customer Service Environment Hyundai an updated version of My Car Story 1.0 released in 2014, and 005 Company Overview operates a variety of programs that are designed to offer features a personalized information service that is made distinctive service experiences and benefits to customers. available through local area networks, video services, and a 007 2016 Highlights In order to offer a ‘Modern Premium’ environment, we have journey data analysis service. It also offers intuitive designs to 011 CSV Highlights adopted our Global Design Space Identity standards across the enhance customer convenience. My Car Story 2.0 will establish globe, and the Dealer Service Environment Improvement (DSEI) better connectivity between our customers and the services Mobile-based 030 Sustainability Performance campaign has installed safety devices and other facilities and On-Demand 1) Service offered by Hyundai, so that we can fulfill the On-Demand service Our System training to prevent and respond to fires and accidents. This has philosophy that aims to generate new value for customers. improved the customer experience at our after-sales service Our Value workshops. Advanced Mobile-based Diagnostics Hyundai has widened 044 Product Responsibility the scope of our vehicle diagnostics from dealer workshop Hyundai Assurance Plus The ‘Hyundai Assurance Plus’ service service to pre-delivery inspection (PDI) prior to vehicle pick047 Developing Offer personalized up, Auto Link available while driving, and ‘Visiting Before Technology of the package aims to increase the ownership value of our cars, and information to customers Future is available in overseas markets. The program offers various Service’. We are creating the ability to provide self-diagnostic services to guarantee greater customer satisfaction throughout and repair services, in response to a shifting market landscape 049 Quality and Service Innovation each phase of car ownership, from purchase to use and even in which fully self-driving vehicles and the IoT are becoming 053 Enhancing repurchase, which ultimately creates a greater incentive for realities. In addition, PDI, which is an important part of our afterCustomer Value repurchase. Ensure always-on connectivity sales service but which used to be primarily confined to the with customers documentation of a diagnostic history, is now evolving to create 055 Global Highlight Before Service We were the first automaker to launch a a database of diagnostic outcomes at each of our production, 057 Eco-friendliness ‘Visiting Before Service’ across our global service network. harbor, and dealer sites, and to enable on-going analysis This novel service offers car inspection and maintenance even through mobile-based automatic vehicle diagnostics. We will 070 Suppliers before customers become aware of any issues, which improves Minimize customer action continue to develop comprehensive diagnostics tools so that 079 Employees customer convenience and experience of our service. We have we can enhance customer convenience by offering preventive also developed a more convenient and accurate ‘Digital Before maintenance ahead of any potential vehicle issues. 090 Society Service’, in line with ever-evolving digital technology. This 108 Facts & Figures service is currently available in Korea and Europe. We are fully 114 Appendices committed to extending the scope of Before Service to make it Enhance the Genesis brand available to customers across the globe. 1) On-Demand: Comprehensively Home-to-Home Service Hyundai has offered our Home-torefers to all systems and strategies whose decisions are exclusively Home Service, through which we pick up a customer’s vehicle made based on demand not supply and then return it after finishing all required vehicle maintenance since 2011, in our efforts to improve customer satisfaction. We My Car Story App even loan a luxury car to the customer whose vehicle is being repaired. This is a prime example of Hyundai’s efforts to expand our services to satisfy varying customer requirements. homepage blog facebook youtube instagram 2017 Sustainability Report 052 Enhancing Customer Value Classification 2016 Achievements Mid-to Long-term Directions Enhancing Customer Satisfaction Search •G  athered customer feedback and •C ontinue to implement customer-oriented Improving customer identified improvements in product, changes through sincere communication Customer Satisfaction Survey service, marketing and other fields programs with customers 003 CEO Message communication through the H Ombudsman The annual Hyundai Customer Satisfaction Index (HCSI) survey 005 Company Overview measures the customer satisfaction and identifies the changing •S  trengthened internal and external •D evelop a virtuous cycle of customer experience PR activities by receiving external and establish an improvement process based on customer requirements of those who bought new vehicles over 007 2016 Highlights customer satisfaction awards HCSI results the past three years, in order to identify how we are performing – Customer experience → feedback on improvements → 011 CSV Highlights and how we can make improvements. In 2016, the survey was Enhancing implementation/improvement → reward programs at the customer customer contact point conducted through individual interviews with 4,000 people, 030 Sustainability Performance satisfaction •E  stablish a year-round training support system to based on a structured questionnaire and focus group interviews. help employees build core job capacity The survey was particularly focused this year on the Genesis Our System • Guarantee customer satisfaction beyond their EQ900 brand. Based on potential improvements identified expectation through detailed care and support at Our Value during the 2016 HCSI survey, we will continue to put more every customer contact point 044 Product Responsibility improvement initiatives into place, in collaboration with our •C  onducted physical inspections on •P  revent data leakage and misuse by collecting service providers commissioned and using customer data in compliance with customers. 047 Developing by Hyundai to process its customer laws and for the purpose of proper business, Technology of the data in order to fully review if they and by immediately disposing of them after the Future Protecting take technical and managerial expiration of retention period customer Achievements in Customer Satisfaction 049 Quality and Service protection measures and make • Strengthen monitoring and training on the service information necessary improvements Innovation providers commissioned to handle customer data • National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) by Korea Productivity Center • Improve data accessibility, and supervision and – First place at all segments – compact, semi-medium, medium, 053 Enhancing management of use log by building a monitoring semi-large, large, and RV – for the first time in the Korean auto industry Customer Value scheme on customer data processing system for 2 years in a row 055 Global Highlight – First place at the segment of RV for 11 consecutive years; semi-medium, semi-large, and large for 5 consecutive years; medium for 3 consecutive 057 Eco-friendliness years; and compact for 2 consecutive years 070 Suppliers Improving Customer Communication • K orean Standard–Quality Excellence Index (KS-QEI) by Korean Standards Association 079 Employees H Ombudsman – F irst place at all segments – semi-medium, medium, SUV, and after services 090 Society H Ombudsman is our communications program for gathering customer feedback and – F irst place at the segment of semi-medium, medium, and SUV for developing improvement plans in partnership with our customers on such topics as 7 consecutive years; and after services for 6 consecutive years 108 Facts & Figures products, services and marketing. The program began in June 2016 when we invited 114 Appendices customers to participate, and we then added four mentors who are experts in their • K orean Customer Satisfaction Index (KCSI) by Korea Management respective fields – Dennis Hong, Gilyoung Song, Sungtae Hong, and Dongchul Lee – to Association Consulting explore ideas for improvements in new technology, product development, marketing – First place at all segments – passenger car and RV & communications, and sales & services. This five month program generated multiple – First place at the segment of passenger car for 23 consecutive years; and RV for 13 consecutive years outstanding ideas: ‘Safety Car Door’, which will help to rescue passengers involved in accidents, was chosen as the best idea in new technology & future mobility. ‘First-Time • K orean Service Quality Index (KSQI) by Korea Management Association Buyer Marketing’, ‘Personalized Intelligent Navigation’, and ‘Emotion-driven Services Consulting for Female Customers’ were also recognized as excellent ideas. 19 ideas suggested by – First place at all segments – sales and maintenance service – for 6 consecutive years customers were reviewed in-depth for the possible commercial application, and six of them were put into practice, including ‘Expansion of New Blue Members Partners’ and ‘Driving Academy for First-Time Car Buyers’. homepage blog facebook youtube instagram 2017 Sustainability Report 053 Protecting Customer Information Marketing Communications and Product Labeling Search Our customer data security initiatives are overseen by the We ensure that our wide-ranging customer marketing communiPersonal Information Protection Committee, under the cations initiatives are completely free from any infringement 003 CEO Message supervision of the Chief Privacy Officer for each business of privacy, dual standards, or attempts to influence children or 005 Company Overview division. We have developed a Personal Information System other vulnerable groups. In addition, we undertake preliminary which manages the entire process of distributing customer reviews and gather local feedback so that our marketing 007 2016 Highlights data, including the post-processing phase. This system enables communications programs across the world comply fully with 011 CSV Highlights stronger technical protection measures in managing, controlling local ethical and cultural standards. and monitoring the service providers commissioned by Hyundai 030 Sustainability Performance to handle customer data, and ensures stability in the distribution Our System of customer data. Furthermore, the service providers are Product Labeling Obligations and Violations in 2016 subject to thorough verification prior to contract signing and to Our Value security controls and periodical on-site inspections during their Korea 044 Product Responsibility period of service, in order to raise the bar on our data security Exhaust gas-related sign [exhaust gas certification information], fuel efficiency labeling [fuel efficiency information], self-certification mark [ID label, vehicle weight, identification number, tire information, management. etc.], front passenger seat airbag warning [in relation to children sitting in front seats] 047 Developing Technology of the Future In 2016, we were found in violation of data security-related China regulations on one occasion, and paid penalties accordingly. Ignition battery labeling, ID labeling, Vehicle Identification Number labeling, air conditioner refrigerant 049 Quality and Service While we retained customer data with their consent to ‘fulfill labeling, fuel efficiency labeling, Certificate of Conformity (COC) labeling, Child Restraint System (CRS) Innovation warning labeling, airbag labeling, anti-theft labeling 053 Enhancing the purpose’ over the mandatory retention period, which we Customer Value informed to customers in advance and received the agreement, Europe set out in the relevant regulations such as Automobile ID labeling [vehicle weight, Whole Vehicle Type Approval number], refrigerant labeling, airbag warning 055 Global Highlight Management Law, Commercial Law, this led to issues in trying to labeling 057 Eco-friendliness obtain an authoritative interpretation of the term for the ‘period to fulfill the purpose’, as well as creating regulatory interference North America 070 Suppliers Manufacturer’s Suggested Retail Price labeling [fuel efficiency, NCAP data, and other data are disclosed caused by the operational procedures of the relevant in accordance with the Automobile Information Disclosure Act], VECI labeling [certified exhaust gas 079 Employees government agencies (Ministry of Government Administration data], compliance labeling [vehicle weight, tire information, etc.], airbag warning labeling [consumer and Home Affairs, Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport, warnings/precautions in relation to deployment of airbag], tire air pressure information labeling [proper 090 Society air pressure and vehicle load capacity], refrigerant labeling [refrigerant information, refrigerant volume, and National Tax Service) and regulations (Personal Information type of compressor lubricant, lubricant volume, manufacturer information, 108 Facts & Figures Protection Law, Automobile Management Law, Value-Added Tax SAE compliance information, warning symbols, etc.] Law). We took action to ensure that the data concerned would 114 Appendices be retained for four months for quarterly tax reporting purposes and then be stored in a separate database. * V  iolation of product labeling regulations in 2016: A penalty of KRW 1.6 million was imposed due to the failure to label the fuel efficiency rating of the Hyundai Porter special dump truck Action Taken – Revised the fuel efficiency information in the Porter special vehicle catalogue on our corporate website – Revised the fuel efficiency information in the catalogue to be distributed when our vehicles are compliant with Euro 6 homepage blog facebook youtube instagram 2017 Sustainability Report 054 Global Highlight Our Quality Philosophy Recognized World-wide We believe that quality and competitiveness are inseparable. Accordingly, we strive to listen to all customer opinions, make improvements by reflecting their suggestions, and provide the best quality experience possible. As the result of these efforts, we are steadily gaining the recognition world-wide as a global brand of outstanding quality. Ranked top position for 3 3 Years consecutive years in the U.S.-IQS for non-premium brands 5 models were selected as Segment Winners in the China-VDS Winner Ranked 1st in the quality survey in Best Germany by recording 2.14 scores Azera and Accent – Segment Winners in the 2016 IQS in the U.S. Solidified our leading position in quality We were 3rd among all brands, and 2nd among non-premium The 2017 Vehicle Dependability Study (VDS) placed us 6th brands, in the 2016 Initial Quality Study (IQS) from the among 31 brands, including premium brands, 13 places higher U.S. market research firm J.D. Power and Associates, thus than in 2016. We also came in 3rd among 19 non-premium maintaining our leading position for three consecutive years. brands to join the league of top notch makers. By outperforming Four models – Genesis, Tucson, Avante (Elantra in the local U.S. prestigious premium brands including the Lincoln and the market) and Veloster – were in the top three in their respective Cadillac of the U.S. as well as the leading German brand BMW, segments, and the Grandeur and Accent were Segment Winners we demonstrated the world-class dependability of our products. in the Large Car and Small Car segments, respectively. This The Sonata was 2nd in the mid-size category and the Tucson was the 3rd consecutive year that the Accent was a Segment was 3rd in the small SUV category. Winner, and thus proved its outstanding competitiveness. 2017 Sustainability Report 055 Stakeholder Interview Secured strong quality competitiveness Beijing Hyundai Motor Company (BHMC) was 2nd among all 45 non-premium brands in the 2016 China-IQS by J.D. Power and Associates, with three of our models – Sonata, Tucson, and Santa Fe – being honored as Segment Winners. We scored 84 points to rank 2nd following the Mini (80 points), and successfully maintained our top ranking position for two years In 2016, Hyundai was in 3rd place in the IQS, and has been ranked in a row. – in 2015, we ranked 1st among non-premium brands highly for three consecutive years. What do you think is the key to for the first time. In the 2016 China-VDS, we had the highest maintaining this position? number of Segment Winners, with five of our models – Verna, At Hyundai, quality comes first. The consistent and tireless focus on Yuedong, Tucson, ix35 and Santa Fe – winning their respective quality and customer satisfaction from the top down has enabled segments. We were 4th among 45 non-premium brands, one Hyundai to become a global leader in quality. Now is not the time for position higher than the previous year. complacency, however, and efforts for improvement must continue, particularly as vehicle technology and complexity increase and customer expectations regarding quality continue to evolve. Why has Hyundai risen from 19th to 6th place in the VDS? One of the main reasons for Hyundai’s remarkable improvement is in the audio, communication, entertainment, and navigation (ACEN) category. Hyundai was an early adopter of Bluetooth technology, and, while there were problems with the technology early on, these have now been addressed, particularly in the area of connectivity. Brands that came late to Bluetooth are now going through the same growing pains that Hyundai has already worked through. Acclaimed in the home of Please give your advice on how Hyundai can improve product the automobile industry quality and customer satisfaction. Customer-defined quality and expectations for performance Our quality competitiveness was once again recognized in continue to change over time. In addition to satisfying basic Germany, the home of the automobile industry. We ranked customer requirements on pricing, quality, safety and dependability, 1st among 20 brands competing in the 2016 Quality Report companies need to consider product responsibility and environmental from Auto Bild, one of the most prestigious automobile trade sustainability. For Hyundai, a continued focus on all of these aspects of the customer experience will be critical for success in the future. magazines in Europe. This study examines in detail customer satisfaction with vehicle quality, 100,000 km durability, recall issues, customer complaints, results of regular inspections, maintenance and warranty policies. We scored 2.14 points to top the list, and this achievement was even more significant as we again able to surpass our European and Japanese Geoffrey Mortimer-Lamb Vice President, Global Automotive Consulting competitors to regain our top position, five years after we were J.D. Power and Associates, U.S. No. 1 for two years in a row, in 2010 and 2011. 2017 Sustainability Report 056 02. Eco-friendliness Q. How does Hyundai create environmental Management Approach value while generating We are endeavoring to bring our economic and social responsibilities into harmony. economic value? Ever since we set out our global environmental Company, and vehicles at the ends of their lives philosophy and guidelines, we have pursued ecoare converted into construction materials such as friendly management that guarantees sustainable rebar and H-shaped steel products at Hyundai Steel growth and environmental conservation while Company. To ensure sustainable growth through ecoachieving economic growth. We fully recognize the conscious technology, we have gone beyond simply environmental impact and consequent responsibility responding to global environmental regulations, of the automobile industry, and we therefore aim to and instead we recognize climate change as one of bring about a sustainable future through eco-friendly the fundamental challenges we need to tackle as vehicles and green management. We have a resource an automaker. We therefore develop green vehicles recycling system across Hyundai Motor Group, and technologies that improve fuel efficiency and spanning across all areas of our business, from steel, reduce exhaust gas emissions. In addition, we are components and automobiles to construction. Hotstriving to cut greenhouse gas emissions, recycle rolled steel sheets from Hyundai Steel Company are resources and control the hazardous substances in processed into cold-rolled steel sheets to be used the manufacturing processes at all our business sites. in automobile manufacturing at Hyundai Motor UN SDGs SDGs Target Related activities of Hyundai •P  ollutant control •G  HG emissions reduction at 6.3, 6.4 7.3 12.2, 12.4, 13.2, 13.3 • GHG emissions reduction at business sites 12.5, 12.6 business sites •p  ollutant control • Improving fuel efficiency • GHG emissions reduction at • reducing exhaust gas emissions business sites • resource recycling of end-of-life • participating in the carbon vehicles market • handling of hazardous materials • Global Highlight More information is available on the UN website 2017 Sustainability Report 057 Our Achievement Plans and Achievements in 2016 Key Sustainability Data Change Analysis 2016 Plans Achievements Evaluation Energy consumed in producing one vehicle Costs and investments for •E  xpand the IONIQ line-up •M  ass-produced IONIQ Hybrid, EV, Unit: Mwh/Vehicle environmental protection 1) ● (Hybrid, EV, PHEV) and PHEV Unit: KRW billion 2016 1.08 •C  omply with the fuel •S  atisfied the strengthened fuel 2016 156 efficiency regulations of the efficiency regulations across the EU and Korea, and improve globe in 2016 by improving fuel ● the average fuel efficiency by efficiency and CO2 emissions 4% over the 2015’s 2015 2014 • I nstitute the GHG Emission • Reached the target assigned 1.07 1.09 2015 2014 Management Council and by the government under the 115 133 reinforce the GHG reduction Korean emissions trading scheme activities of each business site (quarterly reviews were made ● on GHG emission plans and Remained similar to 2015 figure, but fell by 1.8% from 2013 outcomes), and reduced GHG Increased by KRW 41 billion year-on-year emissions by 1% over the previous year on a global basis 1) Sum of direct and indirect costs associated with pollution reduction, such as facility investment and waste disposal by third party, and risk management • I mprove the energy efficiency • Installed high-efficiency costs associated with pollution reduction to reduce GHG emissions compressors and air compressor through highly efficient air load sharing systems at a utility ● compressors room to reduce KRW 300 million GHG emissions per vehicle production in annual energy costs Unit: tCO2e/Vehicle •R  educe the use of highly • Reduced the use of highly 2016 hazardous chemical materials hazardous chemical materials through extensive use of reverse osmosis (RO) method at pure water manufacturing facilities (Approx. 2,200 tons) (sulfuric acid and caustic soda) by 1,554 tons through extensive use of RO method at pure water manufacturing facilities ◐ 0.523 2015 2014 ● Accomplished, ◐ Partially accomplished, ○ Not implemented 0.519 0.521 Production decreased but the company’s 4th plant in China began full operation 2017 Sustainability Report 058 Our Plan 2017 Plans and Mid-to Long-term Directions 2017 Plans Mid-to Long-term Directions Mass-produce the Grandeur IG HEV, and develop long-range EVs and the FE FCEV (mass–production in 2018) Respond to the strengthened region-specific fuel efficiency and environmental regulations in 2017 Recycle used seat foam into sound absorption & insulation components, and use them in developing sound absorption & • I mplement the eco-friendly vehicle full lineinsulation construction materials for Hyundai Engineering & up project by 2020 (2020.22.2 Project) and Construction in order to reduce waste (360 tons/year) develop clean mobility technologies Develop mix technology (convergent control of engine with • I mprove the average fuel efficiency by 25% after-treatment) for off-cycle NOx reduction compared with 2015 by 2020 Produce diesel sedans with SCR system that meet the real •S  ave energy, eliminate loss, reduce GHG driving emissions (RDE) regulation emissions and energy consumption through overhauling of unproductive heating and Develop material-phase performance and verification technology to secure the mass producibility of next-generation cooling systems lightweight cars •A  dopt high efficiency equipment, improve lighting, implement eco-friendly plants Develop next-generation engines and transmissions through recovery of waste energy and (mas–production between 2018 and 2020) waste heat Reduce the discharge of total hydrocarbon (THC) by installing additional air pollution control equipment at paint shops (reduce THC by 120 tons/year by installing 2,500CMM RTO at the paint shop No. 2) Reduce the use of chemicals by 200 tons by cutting the use of chemicals (sulfuric acid and caustic soda), and replacing sodium nitrite and methyl ethyl ketone with substitute materials 2017 Sustainability Report 059 Developing Eco-friendly Vehicles Classification 2016 Achievements Mid-to Long-term Directions Improving Fuel Efficiency Search •E  xpanded the application of GDI and T-GDI • Improve the average fuel efficiency by 25% (combining the gasoline direct injection compared with 2015 by 2020 Engine Down-sizing and Efficiency Improvements technology for improved efficiency and the 003 CEO Message Improving fuel turbo charger for improved performance) Engine down-sizing refers to reducing displacement and/or efficiency engines to all segments 005 Company Overview the number of cylinders to increase fuel efficiency while still • Improved the quality and reliability of maintaining or improving power output. Smaller engines are transmissions 007 2016 Highlights lighter, and a lower displacement and fewer cylinders result in 011 CSV Highlights •D  eveloped the technology to apply SCR •D  evelop mix technology (convergent control less friction-induced resistance and losses, which in turn leads to system to all diesel models of engine with after-treatment) for off-cycle NOx reduction gains in fuel efficiency. This, however, reduces engine power, so Reducing • Responded to the RDE regulations 030 Sustainability Performance exhaust gas – Developed the technology to reduce NOx under • Strengthen the fuel efficiency turbochargers which recycle the energy from exhaust gases are Our System emissions real driving conditions competitiveness of new engine used to compensate for losses in output. Turbochargers come – F inalized and developed systems by engine • Respond to new emission regulations and with gasoline direct injection (GDI) technology that enhances Our Value and model develop relevant technology efficiency by injecting fuel directly into cylinders. Hyundai 044 Product Responsibility •D  eveloped aluminum body design •E  xpand the use of aluminum suspension currently offers a GDI engine line-up across all segments, and technology that takes into account the parts to include mid-size cars and ecohas now completed the development of the T-GDI engine that process of joining dissimilar materials friendly cars 057  co-friendliness E Lightweight combines GDI with a turbocharger for both compact (Kappa) and vehicles • Applied new high corrosion-resistant alloy • Maximize lightweight technology using more 060 Developing into the mass–production of high voltage hot stamping (150k segment) parts large (Lambda) cars. Engine right-sizing aims to maximize fuel Eco-friendly junction blocks for the IONIQ EV • Develop cost-saving light plastic mix efficiency by selecting the right displacement for different vehicle Vehicles materials segments. It is not directly related to the use of turbochargers, 063 Responding to •D  eveloped recycled materials for vehicle • Expand the use of materials recycled from instead looking for fuel efficiency and performance gains by Climate Change battery trays end-of-life cars optimizing combustion within the engine cylinders. We use 065 Minimizing • Developed recycled lightweight materials • Lay a basis to develop recycled materials at engine down-sizing and right-sizing to ensure that each of our Environmental for radiator fans and shrouds overseas plants Resource vehicles is fitted with the optimal engine. We will develop new Impact • Newly adopted the sound absorption • Build a stable recycling system for seat recycling of engines that are optimized for fuel efficiency to replace existing components made from recycled materials foams collected from end-of-life cars 068 Global Highlight end-of-life vehicles • Collaborated with Hyundai Engineering & engines which are now limited in their scope for improvement. Construction to develop sound absorption 070 Suppliers construction materials by recycling seat foams, and carried out evaluation at the Greater Efficiency by Using More Transmission Gears 079 Employees construction site Following the development of the continuous variable transmission 090 Society •L  aunched the IONIQ Hybrid in North •F  lexibly respond to markets with four types (CVT) in 2012 and the 7-speed double clutch transmission (DCT) in 108 Facts & Figures Eco-friendly America of green vehicles (HEV, PHEV, EV, FCEV) 2014, in 2015 we completed the development of a new transmission vehicle • Ranked 1st in fuel efficiency certification • Expand HEV and PHEV to all segments for full-sized vehicles, and improved the existing front-wheel drive strategy in North America (IONIQ HEV/EV) • Develop long-range EVs with 300km or 114 Appendices transmission by increasing the number of gears to eight. Compared ‘2020.22.2’ • Launched the IONIQ PHEV longer in driving range to a 6-speed transmission, an 8-speed automatic transmission • Develop next-generation FCEVs has better acceleration and launch performance in low gears, and improved fuel efficiency and ride quality in higher gears. The new transmission is 3.5kg lighter than the 6-speed transmission, despite the increase in the number of gears. The DCT delivers the cost effectiveness of manual transmissions and the convenience of automatic transmissions, and is 5-7% more fuel efficient compared to automatic transmissions at the same speed. Our choice of transmissions varies according to the vehicle model, and we ensure homepage blog facebook youtube instagram that their respective advantages are put to best use. 2017 Sustainability Report 060 Reducing Exhaust Gas Emissions 2017 onwards. This has prompted us to develop exhaust gas Search emissions reduction devices, including [LNT+SDPF] + assistive Clean Diesel Engine SCR or [LNT+DPF] + uf_SCR systems which will widen the use 003 CEO Message In order to respond to the increasingly stringent regulations of EGR to reduce an engine’s raw NOx emissions. We will also governing diesel engine exhaust emissions, and to reduce add the urea-water injection SCR system to existing exhaust gas 005 Company Overview our own carbon emissions, we are committed to developing purification systems. 007 2016 Highlights lighter weight engines and electronic control technology, as well as improving combustion performance. We increased U.S. The U.S. has established new standards that aim to lower 011 CSV Highlights the threshold for exhaust gas emissions to one-quarter of the the efficiency of our new engines by improving combustion 030 Sustainability Performance through 2,200 bar high-pressure injection, the LP-EGR system current threshold. These new standards will be applied step by and lower compression ratios, and by reducing friction between step until 2025 (NMOG + NOx threshold: currently 0.125g/mile → Our System moving components. We now use aluminum blocks instead of 0.030g/mile by 2025). In California and nine other states (Oregon, Our Value cast iron blocks, which has reduced both vehicle weight and New York, Maine, Vermont, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, CO2 emissions. We have also adopted adjustable oil pumps, Connecticut, New Jersey, and Maryland), the mandatory ratio 044 Product Responsibility for zero-emissions vehicles (ZEV) as a percentage of sales for integrated thermal management systems and other electronic 057  co-friendliness E controls which improve fuel efficiency and reduce harmful automakers is constantly increasing. We are therefore continuing exhaust emissions. We fitted the engines of our passenger diesel to expand our line-up of green cars, as well as endeavoring to 060 Developing models with the SDPF and SCR systems for the first time, to reduce exhaust gas emissions. Eco-friendly Technologies to respond to Vehicles maximize combustion efficiency and to meet Euro 6b standards. Euro 6b standards 063 Responding to In addition, we are developing engines that are optimized for a Climate Change wide range of real road and environmental conditions through SDPF Lightweight Vehicles 065 Minimizing the use of Design of Experiments testing and environmental SCR-Catalysed Diesel Environmental chambers. We constantly improve our diesel models, and Particulate Filter Increasing the Application of New Materials Impact have introduced diesel options for our passenger cars. These With more and more eco-friendly cars being produced, and 068 Global Highlight 070 Suppliers passenger diesel models are already available in our small, semimidsize, midsize and large segments, and we plan to adopt SCR more electrification of vehicles from in-vehicle comfort systems, Hyundai is exploring new high value-added materials. Selective Catalytic them across all segments, including our flagship models. Reduction For example, we are developing functional alloys for mass– 079 Employees production which improve the thermal conductivity and 090 Society Reducing Exhaust Emissions corrosion resistance of the aluminum alloy which is mainly Korea We apply Euro 6 standards to all diesel models in Korea, used for the heat sink and housing of electronic components. In 108 Facts & Figures addition, we are extending the application of these materials to just as we do in Europe. We are currently developing exhaust 114 Appendices gas reduction devices because new diesel cars will be subject include the electric water pumps and audio devices, as well as to European standard real driving emissions (RDE) testing from in the high-voltage battery and power conversion units of green September 2017 onwards. cars. A highly corrosion-resistant alloy has been developed to address the issue of white rust corrosion in existing aluminum Europe Europe is implementing the ‘Euro 6 (80mg/km)’ components, and this alloy is also now being used in the housing standard, which lowers the NOx standards for diesel cars by 56% components within the engine room of EVs. We also developed from the existing ‘Euro 5 (180mg/km)’ standard. Because of the a technology to replace part of the panoramic sunroof glass increasing emphasis on reducing exhaust gas emissions in real panel with highly shock-resistant transparent plastics (PC) which driving conditions, new vehicles will be subject to RDE testing are laminated to improve anti-scratch and weather-proofing on NOx and particle number (PN) emissions from September performance. homepage blog facebook youtube instagram 2017 Sustainability Report 061 Developing New Process Technology Resource Recycling of End-of-life Vehicles Search Hyundai has continued to develop new processes that minimize cost increases in our lightweight aluminum manufacturing. Recycling Vehicle Plastics 003 CEO Message We are currently working on centrifugal casting, to improve Engineering plastics (EP), used in automobile parts, are known 005 Company Overview quality and reduce the cost of the low-pressure casting used to for their outstanding mechanical properties, and are therefore manufacture aluminum wheels. In centrifugal casting, a mold Fan and shroud made of mainly used in functional components such as engine and 007 2016 Highlights is rotated at high speed as the molten aluminum is poured in, recycled PA chassis parts. We use inorganic additives to further reinforce the 011 CSV Highlights which increases the pressure and cooling efficiency, which in strength of these EPs, and we are also developing a wide range turn reduces processing time and improves reliability. We are of lightweight technology. We have used polypropylene (PP) in 030 Sustainability Performance also developing counterpressure low-pressure casting, which battery tray components, and developed radiator fan and shroud Our System uses the pressure differences between the mold and the molten components by using glass bubble material technology. aluminum to increase the pressure and quality. We aim to use Our Value this technology for the mass–production of FE rear carriers. Recycling Automobile Seat Foam Fan and shroud made of recycled PA 044 Product Responsibility Because automobile seat foams are thermoset polyurethane Developing Next-Generation Lightweight Technology foams, they are difficult to recycle, especially compared to 057  co-friendliness E We are fully committed to expanding the use of aluminum to plastic parts made of thermoplastic polymers. However, Hyundai 060 Developing improve the fuel efficiency and driving range of our eco-friendly has successfully developed physical recycling technology Eco-friendly Vehicles models. This demands that we adopt aluminum and carbon to convert these foams into automobile sound absorption Recycling Automobile fiber materials in producing vehicle body frames, in addition Seat Foam materials. We are currently using this technology to mass– 063 Responding to Climate Change to the steel sheets that we currently use. The key to achieving produce package trays and luggage coverings, and will extend this is a technique to join dissimilar materials. We are therefore its use to other components. In addition, we plan to use these 065 Minimizing Seat foams from Environmental developing detailed joining methods for a wide spectrum of end-of-life cars recycled sound absorption materials in other ways, including Impact materials, and conducting research on joining techniques that sound absorption construction panels. 068 Global Highlight can be used in mass–production. Managing Hazardous Chemicals in Components 070 Suppliers Strengthening R&D in Metal Forming Technology Grinding and mixing We joined the International Material Data System (IMDS) 079 Employees At Hyundai, the development of new technology and quality in 2004 to ensure that our vehicles comply with chemical improvement processes is being helped by high-pressure regulations at home and abroad, especially regulations on the 090 Society molding machines installed in the material casting research Carding and four restricted heavy metals and EU REACH, and to prevent the 108 Facts & Figures building of our Materials Development Center. In 2016, we stacking use of regulated materials in any part of our vehicle process. In completed the development of a new aluminum casting process 2007, we developed an independent e-Chemical Management 114 Appendices in which pipe insertion occurs prior to forming. This process System (e-CMS) to use the data collected from the IMDS to allows us to reduce defects in the flow line and eliminates Recycled sound systematically manage information about the chemicals in the need for the processing. Following the completion of absorption materials our components, and to undertake preliminary reviews into initial-phase development for components of diff cases and the replacement of any chemicals that become subject to technology transfer to suppliers, this technology was first regulations. At the end of 2016, we created a dedicated team adopted in mass–production for the Genesis G80. Package tray responsible for responding promptly to hazardous substance regulations at the company level, which will help us to ensure the safety of our customers. homepage blog facebook youtube instagram 2017 Sustainability Report 062 Responding to Climate Change Classification 2016 Achievements Mid-to Long-term Directions GHG Emission Reductions at our Business Sites Search •M  et the target allocated by the government • Mid-to long-term direction for GHG To comply with Korea’s climate change and energy-saving under the Korean emissions trading scheme emissions reduction at business sites policies, we implemented the energy target management system 003 CEO Message • Introduced the energy storage system (ESS), – Supply equipment: Improve equipment efficiency, operation, and technology between 2011 and 2014, and joined the ETS in 2015 in order to GHG emission and began to develop a co-generation system – Production equipment: Standardize operating 005 Company Overview reduction at • Continued efforts to save energy and work hand-in-hand with the Korean government in reducing hours and energy sources business sites improve process efficiency – changed – Indirect equipment: Standardize management GHG emissions. We met in full the targets given us by the 007 2016 Highlights lighting and heat source for material facilities, and adopted high efficiency equipment guidelines and optimize energy uses of buildings government over that period, and all our sites in Korea have been 011 CSV Highlights – New technology: Adopt self-power generation and committed to reaching the targets assigned to them since they renewable energy sources joined the ETS in 2015. 030 Sustainability Performance Our System Asan Plant The Asan Plant has put into place a wide range of GHG Emission Reduction at Business Sites energy conservation programs, including introducing new highOur Value efficiency equipment and optimizing its processing equipment 044 Product Responsibility The GHG Emission Management Council in order to maximize energy efficiency. It installed highefficiency air compressors in its utility room and introduced an 057  co-friendliness E At the Paris Climate Conference in 2015, the world community agreed to work on climate change issues to curb rises in global KRW an air compressor load sharing system which has cut KRW 300 060 Developing Eco-friendly temperatures. Hyundai also strives to minimize the GHG 300 million million in annual energy costs. The paint shop uses insulation paint to reduce losses from radiation energy, thereby resulting Vehicles emissions generated from our manufacturing processes, to Reduction in annual energy in KRW 60 million in annual cost savings. In 2017, the Plant will 063 Responding to develop fuel efficiency technology, and to conduct research in costs at the Asan Plant switch to LED lighting for its street and office lights, to improve Climate Change the mass–production of eco-friendly cars, in order to address efficiency and reduce GHG emissions. 065 Minimizing the global issue of climate change. We review our business sites Environmental Impact every quarter for their GHG emission plans and achievements as part of the Korean emissions trading scheme (ETS), and we 3.7% Ulsan Plant The Ulsan Plant’s commitment to reducing GHG Year-on-year reduction emissions has brought about energy-saving initiatives such as 068 Global Highlight also analyze our GHG emissions reduction performance from a in GHG emissions introducing high-efficiency equipment, optimizing processing financial perspective. We use and share new energy technologies, at the Ulsan Plant 070 Suppliers equipment and adopting new sources of energy. In 2016, the and operate energy review and promotion programs to improve Plant invested KRW 1.35 billion in replacing its air compressor 079 Employees the efficiency of energy-intensive processes. We have increased equipment with high-efficiency equipment, and invested investment in energy saving, and all our overseas business sites 090 Society another KRW 2.82 billion in replacing 34,400 units of lighting in undertake energy-saving initiatives to meet their country-specific the assembly shop. It has also installed a 2MWh-capacity ESS 108 Facts & Figures regulations and business conditions. to support the Korean government’s green policies. The Plant is 114 Appendices currently planning to install a co-generation system by early 2018, Organization to Respond to GHG at Business Sites following a review process. These efforts enabled the Plant to GHG Emission Management Council reduce its GHG emissions by 3.7% in 2016, down to 931,000tCO2. Assistant Administrator Technology Technology Strategy Strategy Planning Team Planning Team Jeonju Plant The Jeonju Plant has reduced the energy consumption of its production equipment and replaced lowProduction efficiency equipment to cut its GHG emissions. In 2016, it installed Business Sites Buildings Technology better oven equipment in its paint shop, which has reduced Ulsan: Facility & Utility Asan/Jeonju: General Affairs R&D General Service Sales Support Equipment the operating time for paint booths and thus led to a 1,391 tCO2 Production Administration Engineering Management Support Group Group Affairs Group Group Group Group reduction in emissions. The Plant has also invested KRW 600 Group homepage blog facebook youtube instagram million to replace low-efficiency water heaters/coolers with high2017 Sustainability Report 063 efficiency double-effect refrigerators, and thus reduced 385 Participating in the Carbon Market Search tons of CO2. In addition, it made investments into high-efficiency equipment such as high-efficiency motors and air compressors, In accordance with the Paris Climate Conference agreement, the 003 CEO Message and has switched to LED lighting. It has also changed its Korean government has set a goal of reducing the nation’s total dehumidifying system in compressed air and office cooling GHG emissions by 37% from the estimated business as usual (BAU) 005 Company Overview systems. These efforts enabled the Plant to reduce its GHG emissions in 2030. 007 2016 Highlights emissions by 4.2% over the previous year. In December 2014, we finalized our allocation target for the 1st 011 CSV Highlights Namyang Technology Research Center The Namyang phase (2015-2017), and we are endeavoring to meet this target 030 Sustainability Performance Technology Research Center is involved in a wide spectrum through our internal GHG emissions reduction programs. We of research projects to design body frame, engines and other have also developed a system to meet the target by purchasing Our System automotive components, to develop prototypes and to conduct allowance units through the emissions exchange at times when Our Value performance tests that assist our vehicle development. As these the target has not been met. projects inevitably generate GHG emissions, the Center strives 044 Product Responsibility to minimize these emissions by using high-efficiency equipment Response to Climate Change Risks and Opportunities 057  co-friendliness E and efficient operational systems. While the construction and Category Status Response expansion of buildings (Pilot Building 3 and five other buildings in 060 Developing Regulations on fuel efficiency and emissions 2016) naturally leads to increases in energy consumption, highStrict regulations on fuel Enhance fuel efficiency technology for all across the world, including Korea, the U.S., Eco-friendly efficiency globally Europe, China and India models and develop eco-friendly cars Vehicles efficiency insulation materials, motors and experimental devices 063 Responding to were introduced to curb the consumption of energy. In addition, Taxes on fuel and energy Tax benefits and penalties through CO2-based Enhance fuel efficiency technology for all Regulatory vehicle taxes in 17 European countries models and develop eco-friendly cars Climate Change 500kW-capacity photovoltaic generators generated ‘green’ power, risks 065 Minimizing resulting in 720,000 kW or KRW 110 million in annual power cost Reinforced regulations on Regulations on new refrigerants to be Develop refrigerant technology refrigerants, tires and fuel implemented in Europe and the U.S. Environmental savings. Older buildings within the Center are gradually switching Impact to high-efficiency LED lighting, and an automatic lighting control Emissions reporting system Greenhouse gas emissions regulations in most Ensure the reliability of greenhouse gas worksites emissions across the globe 068 Global Highlight system has been introduced to reduce 3.83 million kW in energy Enhance competitiveness in fuel efficiency consumption and 17.83 million tons of CO2 in GHG emissions. Regulatory Regulation on product Increase in sales of eco-friendly cars due to through consistent R&D efforts in 070 Suppliers opportunities efficiency reinforced GHG regulation comparison with competitors 079 Employees Optimized Logistics Tropical low pressures Risk of tornadoes during summer in the U.S. Risk of flood, snowstorms, drought and yellow 090 Society We have established an optimized logistics network, from the Changing rain patterns and dust in Korea and China drought transport of raw materials to the delivery of components and Risk of snowstorms in the Czech Republic 108 Facts & Figures finished products. Because road transport accounts for the Physical risks Risk of hot temperatures during summer in Abnormal temperature 114 Appendices majority of our logistical operations, reducing GHG emissions Korea, Turkey and the Czech Republic on the road is key to reducing our overall GHG emissions in Risk of tsunami in India Other climate risks logistics. As of 2016, we are operating vehicle processing centers Possibility of disruption in imports and others due to abnormal climate change in 13 areas around Korea, and optimize their routes to curb the Physical Climate changes in countries GHG emissions created through road transport. We also aim to opportunities where competitors are located Opportunity for sales increases of the company maximize our use of railroad transport, which generates fewer Change in consumer behavior Increase in consumers’ demand for eco-friendly Managerial Enhance fuel efficiency technology for all GHG emissions than road transport. opportunities that prefers eco-friendly cars as a result of eco-friendly car support models and develop eco-friendly cars products policy in the U.S. and Europe homepage blog facebook youtube instagram 2017 Sustainability Report 064 Minimizing Environmental Impact Classification 2016 Achievements Mid-to Long-term Directions our manufacturing processes, and standardized our facility Search inspections and management. We provide preemptive training [Ulsan Plant] • A pply reverse osmosis (RO) method to pure • Improved processes to reduce the generation water manufacturing facility at the auto to increase emergency preparedness, and all our employees paint shop 003 CEO Message of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) participate in chemical leak and oil spill drills as a way to make • Replace harmful chemicals (MEK, acetic – Installed new waste thinner recovery pipes and acid ethyl, water-soluble paint) our plants safer and more eco-friendly. 005 Company Overview replaced old ones (primer process at the paint shop No. 41, KRW 80 million) • Minimize water pollutants 007 2016 Highlights – Improved old waste thinner recovery pipes – Install additional diaphragm seal type water-oil Minimizing Air Pollutions (top coating process at the paint shop No. 41, separators at the major source of oil spills 011 CSV Highlights KRW 40 million) – Install CCTVs and oil detector monitoring systems The Ulsan Plant generates two main types of pollutants: dust across business divisions – Improved regenerative thermal oxidizer (RTO) and volatile organic compounds (VOCs). VOCs are primarily storage materials (paint shop No. 3, KRW 300 million) – Increase the efficiency of wastewater treatment 030 Sustainability Performance contained in the paints and thinners used in the paint shops, – Expanded the waste thinner recovery and storage facilities by removing sediments within wastewater Our System tank (paint shop No. 1, KRW 200 million) collection tanks and, because they can be harmful to the human body and the •E  stablished an integrated environmental environment, we undertake various initiatives to minimize them. Pollutant Our Value facility control system For example, we installed waste thinner recovery pipes in the control – Developed an RTO monitoring system at paint 044 Product Responsibility shops (10 units) primer process and replaced old waste thinner recovery pipes – Installed CCTVs to prevent oil spills into drains and in the top coating process in paint shop No. 41 at the Ulsan 057  co-friendliness E streams (8 units) Plant, which enabled us to increase our recovery of organic – Installed pollutant interceptors inside drains (6 spots) 060 Developing solvents by 152 tons compared to the previous year. Our annual – Established a real-time dust collector monitoring Eco-friendly system at the material shop (22 units) total VOC emissions fell by 12.4% to 5,564 tons in 2016, and Vehicles – Established an environmental map system across our dust emissions declined by 2.2% to 176 tons, thanks to the all drains at the Plant 063 Responding to replacement of old dust collectors in the materials shop and Climate Change [Asan Plant] shortening the dust filter replacement cycle from two years to 065 Minimizing • I nstalled dual filters at deadener booths one and a half years. We will continue to tighten our pollutant Environmental • Improved the dust collectors installed at the controls to reduce pollution throughout the entire cycle, from Impact pre-treatment equipment at paint shops reducing emissions at source to dust collectors in the final phase. 068 Global Highlight • Provided training and technical support • Continue to offer training in the fields of 070 Suppliers Health & safety mentoring in the fields of environment, environment, safety, health, and firefighting In order to increase the efficiency of its air pollutant reduction system for safety, health, and firefighting by reflecting the needs of suppliers equipment, the Asan Plant has improved the air environmental 079 Employees suppliers – Ulsan Plant: 46 suppliers participated control facilities at its paint and material shops, where the most – Asan Plant: 27 suppliers participated pollutants in the vehicle manufacturing process are produced. 090 Society The dust collectors in the paint shop’s pre-treatment equipment 108 Facts & Figures were supplemented to make sure that aging facilities were not 114 Appendices reducing efficiency, while the dust collectors in the deadener booths were improved by replacing old components and Pollutant Control 12.4% installing dual filters to efficiently process dust and VOCs. Other improvements include installing better dust collectors at the Hyundai has set internal control criteria that are stricter than Year-on-year reduction smelting furnace, and the installment of sander dust collectors. in VOC emissions regulatory requirements for the air and water pollutants at the Ulsan Plant These efforts enabled the Plant to reduce its air pollutant generated in our manufacturing processes, and we are fully emissions by 24.4% over the previous year. We continue our committed to preventing environmental accidents. In 2016, we installed an integrated environmental facility control system 24.4% effort to reduce pollutants through the stringent management of the entire emissions cycle. Year-on-year reduction to enable more systematic management of pollutants. We in air pollutant emissions homepage blog facebook youtube instagram also reinforced the monitoring of the pollutants generated by at the Asan Plant 2017 Sustainability Report 065 Search Minimizing Water Pollutants 16% plant, and is then sent to the integrated wastewater treatment facility for re-processing prior to being moved to the water In 2016, our discharge of water pollutants fell by 16% to 152 tons, Year-on-year reduction in quality improvement center. Our in-house threshold is 30% compared to 177 tons in 2015. This is attributable to an increased discharge of water pollutants 003 CEO Message number of strike days, as well as our continued endeavors to lower than legal standards, and a TeleMetering System (TMS) is reduce water pollutants. While the production of new cars and in place in three locations, so that we can automatically monitor 005 Company Overview increases in production volume naturally lead to increases in the discharge of pollutants and comply more efficiently with 007 2016 Highlights the amount of wastewater generated and the discharge of TMS in-house standards. The Asan Plant operates a zero-discharge system, which requires it to reuse all sewage and wastewater 011 CSV Highlights water pollutants, we always strive to reduce the generation of TeleMetering System to water pollutants. The Ulsan Plant has installed new dissolved monitor the discharge of generated at the Plant and in nearby residential areas. Recycling 030 Sustainability Performance air flotation equipment at its integrated wastewater treatment pollutants the final rinsing water used in electro-coating at the paint shop facility, and is eliminating sediments within the wastewater reduced our consumption of industrial water by 6,694 tons, Our System collection tank installed in the paint shop. In addition, we and this type of zero liquid discharge initiative will continue to Our Value installed CCTVs, oil detectors and drains within the plant and contribute to our environmental improvements. 044 Product Responsibility nearby streams, as well as pollutant interceptors contained inside drains to constantly monitor potential leaks of water pollutants. Minimizing Waste Materials 057  co-friendliness E We have also installed diaphragm seal type water-oil separators Our top priority in handling waste is to reduce its weight, and 060 Developing along the major drains leading to nearby streams, in order to set a convert it into valuable resources that can be used to improve Eco-friendly fundamental solution in place to prevent water pollutants flowing profitability. We undertake proactive improvement initiatives, Vehicles into streams through rainwater. which expand the number of items that we recycle, increase 063 Responding to recycling ratio, and reduce the amount of waste, and thus Climate Change Recycling Water improve profitability. Examples include cutting the moisture 065 Minimizing The shortage of water resources is emerging as a serious issue content of waste paint sludge by 8.5% in 2015 and 12.2% in 2016, Environmental across the globe. The Ulsan Plant therefore sets out a detailed and changing water separation and recovery processes to help Impact water management policy and consumption reduction targets, reduce the incineration of waste oil by more than 21.9% over 068 Global Highlight and puts matching strategies into place. Due to its size, the Plant the previous year, and then converting that waste into useful 070 Suppliers processes more than 5.13 million tons of wastewater every year, resources through recycling. Our recovery of waste solvents and is therefore fully committed to minimizing the discharge increased by more than 30% in 2015 by improving recovery 079 Employees devices, and these improvements continued in 2016 which in of water pollutants and managing the streams within its site to 090 Society limit any risks. The Plant targets zero discharges of oil into nearby turn helped recycling ratio rise again. We recycle more than 90% 108 Facts & Figures streams by creating a map to figure out optimal layout for its +90% of our general waste, and the recycling of designated waste drains, and by installing CCTVs and oil detectors along streams. Recycling ratio of increased to more than 50% last year, which both contributed to 114 Appendices The mid-to long-term goal is to install floodgates and air pockets, general waste profitability and helped to prevent air pollution. We will continue in order to better manage nonpoint pollution sources. to recycle waste through sorting and separation, widen the use of new technology, reduce the moisture content of waste, and Most of the wastewater generated at the Ulsan Plant comes from increase the recycling ratio to improve profitability. the painting process: the wastewater goes through physical, chemical and biological processing prior to being transferred to The Asan Plant increased its waste recycling by improving the Bang-eo-jin water quality improvement center, where it is old waste equipment and changing its waste collection re-processed before being discharged into the Taewha River. In methodology. In 2016, waste generation fell by 12.9% compared order to minimize the release of water pollutants, wastewater is to the previous year, to 41,236 tons, and the recycling ratio was first processed at the wastewater disposal facility at each unit 96.5%. It will continue to identify and implement programs that homepage blog facebook youtube instagram reduce waste and improve waste management. 2017 Sustainability Report 066 Management of Hazardous Chemical Materials Green Company status for the fifth time in 2016 in recognition Search of its outstanding achievements in developing green vehicles The Ulsan Plant has improved its facilities inspection and replaced highly hazardous materials with less hazardous ones and creating an eco-friendly work environment. The Asan Plant 003 CEO Message in order to comply with the Toxic Chemicals Control Act, which was first designated as a Green Company in 1998, and won took effect in 2015. The Plant reduced its consumption of highly Green Company designation for the fourth time for its eco005 Company Overview hazardous chemicals by 1,554 tons in 2016. It changed the friendly management system. The Plant is committed to green 007 2016 Highlights cleaner used to treat coating sludge inside the pipes of the heat management initiatives which strike the right balance between exchangers in the chemical conversion coating process from environmental preservation and economic development through 011 CSV Highlights the production of eco-certified hybrid cars and by taking part in caustic soda and nitric acid. In its pure water manufacturing 030 Sustainability Performance equipment, the Plant moved away from the ion exchange 2016 environmental social projects. Our System technique that used hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid and caustic The Ulsan Plant renewed soda, and instead uses reverse osmosis (RO) method. In 2017, its Green Company status in 2016 Our Value the Plant will expand the application of RO to reduce the use of 044 Product Responsibility hydrochloric acid and caustic soda in its raw water treatment facility, which will lower consumption of highly hazardous 057  co-friendliness E chemicals by 450 tons per year. We will continue to cooperate 060 Developing closely with our chemical suppliers to minimize any leaks of Since 1998 Eco-friendly hazardous chemicals. The Asan Plant has Vehicles maintained its Green Company status 063 Responding to The Asan Plant uses fewer hazardous chemicals as a way to since 1998 Climate Change reduce its environmental impact. It did not use 35% hydrochloric 065 Minimizing acid and 20% caustic soda by replacing the ion exchange Environmental technique with RO method at pure water manufacturing facility. Impact In addition, while conventional water soluble paint contains 068 Global Highlight 5.5% N-methylpyrrolidone (NMP), the Plant uses a new type of Integrated environmental 070 Suppliers paint that does not contain NMP for new models. In 2016, its facility control system at the Ulsan Plant consumption of hazardous chemicals decreased to 1,335 tons, 079 Employees down 8.1% year-on-year, and it will continue to seek to use more 090 Society eco-friendly chemicals. 108 Facts & Figures Eco-friendly Worksite 114 Appendices The Green Company program recognizes businesses that have Installed dual filters at established a strong green management system and are making deadener booths of significant contributions to environmental improvement through the Asan Plant green management initiatives which reduce the use of energy and resources and minimize the discharge of pollutants. The program (former Environmentally Exemplary Company) began in 1988 when the Ulsan Plant became the first automobile plant in Korea to be designated as the eco-friendly business. In 1995, as the program renamed as the Green Company, the Ulsan Plant Improved the dust collectors installed at the pre-treatment was designated as a Green Company, and then renewed its equipment at paint shops of homepage blog facebook youtube instagram the Asan Plant 2017 Sustainability Report 067 Global Highlight Stakeholder Interview Eco-friendly Car Strategy ‘2022.22.2’, Putting Hydrogen in the Spotlight The green vehicle market in 2016 was 2.26 million units, and it is forecast to grow to 7.65 million units by 20201). With HEV, PHEV, EV, and FCEC in our technology portfolio, Hyundai aims to develop 28 green models2), up from 22 previously announced, and to make ourselves the global No. 2 green vehicle brand by 2020. We have launched a number of initiatives to keep up with the global trend towards hydrogen fuel. 1) Reference: Market research firm IHS 2) Based on Hyundai Motor Group What was the motivation behind launching ‘hype’? In December 2015, our company STEP launched the world’s first fuel cell taxi fleet ‘hype (Hydrogen Powered Electric)’ to facilitate clean future mobility in our everyday life. We chose Hyundai’s ix35 Fuel Cell whose only emissions from the tailpipe are water vapor to replace Tucson xi35 FCEV, diesel-powered taxis, and this is expected to reduce nearly 1,000 tons First world’s first mass-produced FCEV in CO2 emissions and four tons in NOx emissions by the end of 2017. The fleet, which started out with five ix35s, is currently serving the Greater Paris Area with 12 vehicles. Number of the Tucson xi35 FCEV sold What is your outlook for the FCEV industry? How satisfied are 700+ as of 2016 year-end customers with the overall quality of Hyundai products? In line with the increasing need for the means of transportation that neither emits air pollutants nor requires long charging times, mobility providers are recognizing the potential of clean mobility. We believe Plan to cut the price of FCEVs by 40% that one of the breakthrough solutions can be hydrogen fuel cell 40% in Korea by 2020 vehicles. Customers also highly appreciate traveling in zero-emission cars that help keep our city clean while still providing the same level of convenience. The drivers are astonished by the comfort driving experience enabled our noise-free, vibration-free cars. What do you expect for Hyundai in response to climate change? We firmly believe that Hyundai is at the forefront of hydrogen mobility, both in terms of developing technology and pushing the boundary of the market. Specifically, we expect to strengthen our partnership Tucson ix35 FCEV ‒ the FCEV for with Hyundai, the widely recognized leader in developing hydrogen fuel cell cars, by introducing its new hydrogen fuel cell model that Eco-friendly Nations ‘hype’ taxi service delivered by Hyundai’s FCEVs will be released in 2018. We take a great pride in expanding our fuel cell service fleet with Hyundai, and we would like to join hands with The Tucson xi35 FCEV is the world’s first mass-produced fuel the company in bringing massive and concrete solutions to climate cell electric vehicle (FCEV). Since its debut in 2013, more than change and air pollution issues. 700 units have been sold in a total of 17 countries. The Tucson Mathieu Gardies ix35 forms the basis for Hyundai’s commitment to hydrogen CEO energy. STEP (Société du taxi electrique parisien), France 2017 Sustainability Report 068 Stakeholder Interview Hyundai has signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the French industrial gas supplier Air Liquide, with an aim to invigorate the FCEV market by working in collaboration with Air Liquide, which has extensive technical know-how in relation to hydrogen. This will also improve the availability of hydrogen energy and expand hydrogen filling stations. We have cooperated with Air Liquide for the ‘hype’ FCEV taxi project, in partnership with STEP, an eco-friendly French taxi company in Paris. As part of this project, we delivered 12 Tucson ix35 FCEVs, and will increase this number to approximately 50 by the end of 2017. In addition, we have supplied 50 Tucson ix35 FCEVs What were the motivations behind launching ‘BeeZero’? to ‘BeeZero’, the world’s first FCEV-sharing service launched in We wanted to break through the “chicken and egg” dilemma: no Munich by the German industrial gas maker Linde Group. fuelling stations so no cars and vice versa. ‘BeeZero’ is the solution adopted by the Linde Group to address this dilemma. Linde became the first in the world to establish a complete value chain ranging from hydrogen production to infrastructure development and – with BeeZero – now also with the hydrogen experience for the end consumers. By bringing together two of today’s most important trends Hyundai, a Pioneer in Leading the FCEV Market in mobility – car sharing and zero-emission vehicles – to take this novel the Korean Hydrogen Market concept of clean mobility to a whole new level, our hydrogen fuel cell car sharing service has witnessed a steady increase in the number of As a founding member of the Hydrogen Council, an organization users since we initiated our service in the summer of 2016 in Munich In Korea, a goal has been set to reduce the price of FCEVs of global hydrogen leaders, we will spearhead global endeavors with 50 ix35s. by 40% through R&D by 2020, and establish 210 hydrogen to bring about a hydrogen society and expand the hydrogen filling stations by 2025. To reach this goal, Hyundai serves as a market. In 2017, we unveiled the ‘FE Fuel Cell Concept’ at the What is your opinion on the outlook for the FCEV industry? member of the Board of Directors at H2KOREA, an organization 2017 Geneva International Motor Show. This concept car – the We do believe that hydrogen mobility will play a significant role in launched jointly by central and local governments and culmination of our technological prowess in FCEV – will be the tomorrow’s automobile industry. Hydrogen-powered fuel cell vehicles can travel long distances and their fueling time is far shorter than businesses in August 2016, in order to disseminate FCEVs and catalyst for Hyundai to widen FCEV technology and bring about electric vehicles, which allows consumers to stay within their known develop a hydrogen station infrastructure. Included in our efforts a hydrogen society. We will launch a new FCEV equipped with driving behavior. Furthermore, electric vehicles may face their own to expand the presence of FCEVs in Korea are a pilot FCEV taxi price competitiveness by utilizing the technological skills, which challenges, especially in cities where not everybody has his/her project launched in cooperation with Ulsan City and local taxi have enabled us to mass–produce the world’s first FCEV, and own parking spot to charge their electric vehicles that usually take a industry, and a car-sharing project undertaken in partnership thus solidify our market leadership. significant amount of charging time. with venture firms incubated by the Gwangju Center for Creative How satisfied are customers with Hyundai products, and what do Economy & Innovation. you expect from Hyundai? Our customers are very fond of the ix35 with its acceleration and quietness. Also, the range that the vehicle offers is something our customers appreciate. We hope that Hyundai will continue to be a global leader in the field of hydrogen mobility, and we look forward to undertaking more lighthouse projects for a broad roll-out of hydrogen mobility across the globe. Sandra Scherb, Andreas Wittmann Managing Directors 50 Tucson ix35 FCEVs supplied to BeeZero, Germany the ‘BeeZero’ car-sharing service 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 069 03. Suppliers Q. Why does Hyundai focus on achieving win-win growth with its suppliers? Management Approach We believe that the competitiveness of our suppliers is the basis for our true competitiveness. The automotive industry is a major assembly our suppliers, so that they are fully self-reliant business, and suppliers provide an automaker with and competitive. Hyundai has a number of teams 95% of parts used in building finished cars. Hyundai dedicated to helping its suppliers, including Supplier therefore strive to help its suppliers improve their Cooperation Team, R&D Technical Support Group, competitiveness by providing education, system and Foundation of Korea Automotive Parts Industry and human resource supports for their quality Promotion. Employing these and other organizations, improvement, technology development and Hyundai seeks mutual growth in three strategies: environmental protection endeavors. We also know cultivating global competitiveness; reinforcing the the importance of collaboration and co-prosperity basis for sustainable growth; and establishing a joint between large corporations and SMEs, which is why growth system. we strive to improve trade practices and support UN SDGs SDGs Target Related activities of Hyundai •S  ustainable management foundation •M  anagement system for suppliers 8.3 • Expanding global sales channels • Global Highlight • Infrastructure for growth More information is available on the UN website 2017 Sustainability Report 070 Our Achievement Plans and Achievements in 2016 Key Sustainability Data Change Analysis 2016 Plans Achievements Evaluation Korea Automotive Parts Industry Promotion − New recruitment of suppliers •E nhance competitiveness in •H osted quality seminars on Quality and Technology Volunteer Group Unit: Person complete vehicles through around 1,450 occasions to assist Unit: Company quality seminars and their suppliers in improving their quality 2016 13,000 ● 2016 efficient operation (create competency and contribute to 101 more synergy) securing the finished vehicle competency •H osted job fairs in five regions – •H ost 5 supplier job fairs 2015 2014 Seoul, Daegu, Gwangju, Ulsan, and including local small giants Changwon, with the participation ● 2015 2014 18,600 17,510 of 349 suppliers including 24 local 97 97 small giants Reduction in recruitment of suppliers due to economic slowdown, etc. •P ay by cash for goods delivered • Expanded cash payments to midto mid-sized companies – sized companies – sales under sales under KRW 500 billion KRW 500 billion – from which ● around 300 tier 1 suppliers were benefited Korea Automotive Parts Industry Promotion − Number of suppliers participated in joint growth Supplier Support Group and fair trade agreements •E xpand the win-win payment •H elped suppliers secure stability Unit: Company Unit: Company system in receiving payment through the ● win-win payment system 2016 2016 ● Accomplished, ◐ Partially accomplished, ○ Not implemented 50 298 2015 2014 2015 2014 46 43 298 293 Number of suppliers participated in Energy-Saving Technology Exchange Meeting Unit: Company 2016 33 2015 2014 32 26 2017 Sustainability Report 071 Our Plan 2017 Plans and Mid-to Long-term Directions 2017 Plans Mid-to Long-term Directions • Cultivating global competitiveness Host 5 supplier job fairs – strengthen the alignment with – Fostering quality competitiveness, improving the ‘Didimdol’ program and assist suppliers in recruiting productivity, and developing R&D capability outstanding talents • Reinforcing the basis for sustainable growth – S ustainable management foundation, expanding global sales channels, and infrastructure for growth Expand the win-win payment system to include tier 2 and 3 • Establishing a joint growth system suppliers – Culture of joint growth, expanding supports for tier 2 and 3 suppliers, and strengthening the collaborative network 2017 Sustainability Report 072 Cultivating Global Competitiveness Classification 2016 Achievements 2017 Plans Supporting Productivity Enhancement Search •O  ffered quality seminars and trainings to • Improve quality seminars and ensure their We help our tier 2 suppliers undertake innovation initiatives to improve quality of auto parts: around 550 efficiency times (approximately 130,000 persons) improve their technology, work environment and manufacturing 003 CEO Message • Continue to operate the Foundation of • Offered trainings to improve and support Korea Automotive Parts Industry Promotion process as a way to enhance their quality and productivity. We also 005 Company Overview job competency: around 450 times (including tier 1 and 2 suppliers) provide our tier 1 and 2 suppliers with consultation on how to adopt (approximately 24,000 persons) – Quality and Technology Volunteer Group, smart plant systems and offering financial support for their facilities. Fostering • Offered trainings to enhance qualityat 100 suppliers 007 2016 Highlights In addition, we operate on-site programs for tier 2 and 3 suppliers, quality driven mind set and ethics: around 400 – Supplier Support Group, at 48 suppliers 011 CSV Highlights competitiveness times (approximately 59,000 persons) and provide them with guidance and support for body part • Operated the Foundation of Korea inspections, quality management of manufacturing processes, and 030 Sustainability Performance Automotive Parts Industry Promotion quality assurance management, so that we can proactively manage (including tier 1 and 2 suppliers) Our System – Quality and Technology Volunteer Group, product quality while helping suppliers build quality mindset. at 101 suppliers Our Value – Supplier Support Group, at 50 suppliers 044 Product Responsibility Developing R&D • Provided R&D support • Provide R&D support Developing R&D Capability – 1,575 joint R&D projects – 1,500 joint R&D projects capability 057 Eco-friendliness – 77 exhibitions for new technologies (65 companies) – 84 exhibitions for new technologies (70 companies) R&D Technology Support Group 070 Suppliers The R&D Technology Support Group supports Hyundai suppliers improve R&D quality, secure customized technologies, and make 073 Cultivating Global progress in other technological aspects. In addition to sharing Competitiveness Fostering Quality Competitiveness Suppliers Seminar System technology development know-how, the Group tracks common 074 Reinforcing issues facing the suppliers and reflects their requests through the Basis for Seminar to Boost the Competitiveness of Suppliers CEOs exchange meetings and councils among those engaged in same Sustainable Growth • Enhance quality-driven Hyundai provides seminars to executives and employees of its mind set business. In addition, it runs the Value Engineering (VE) system, 075 Establishing a Joint which aims to reduce costs without compromising quality. Growth System suppliers to share its strategic directions and to enhance their • Share global management information business competencies. The seminars are categorized in terms of • Share vision of mutual growth 077 Global Highlight Guest Engineers positions, departments and programs. The company also provides 079 Employees seminars with a focus on quality, technology and job competency Executives From the beginning of the development of a new car, Hyundai enhancement as well as ethical management education. • Responsible for a relevant department works with guest engineers to reduce the development period 090 Society • Enhance leadership to lead and minimize the risk of design failure. The average number of changes 108 Facts & Figures Korea Automotive Parts Industry Promotion • Follow the same work guest engineers per month is approximately 400 people from Hyundai Motor Group created the Foundation of Korea Automotive direction as that of Hyundai around 40 tier 1 and 2 suppliers. 114 Appendices Parts Industry Promotion in 2002, as a non-profit organization. Managers The Foundation spend three to 12 months a year working on • I mprove mid-level Protecting the Patents and Technologies of Suppliers the business site of Hyundai suppliers to provide guidance and manager’s role Hyundai applies for co-ownership alongside the suppliers of • Develop business expertise support for quality management. This program is provided not • Improve problem solving skills the intellectual property (IP) on technology which Hyundai and only to tier 1 suppliers but to tier 2 and 3 suppliers, which are those suppliers have developed together, with an aim to protect relatively small in size. Staff the patents and technologies of our suppliers. We also protect • Improve competitiveness for business practices suppliers’ valuable trade secrets and key technologies through • Promote quality-driven technology escrow agreements. mind set • Give motivation for better homepage blog facebook youtube instagram performance 2017 Sustainability Report 073 Reinforcing the Basis for Sustainable Growth Classification 2016 Achievements 2017 Plans flow of orders while attaining positive achievements in quality Search competitiveness and substantial increases in sales. Of particular •P  aid by cash for goods delivered to •M  aintain cash payment for goods mid-sized companies (sales under delivered to mid-sized companies note, many of our suppliers are steadily expanding their overseas KRW 500 billion) (sales under KRW 500 billion) 003 CEO Message Sustainable operations as they have gained recognition for their product • Joint purchasing with suppliers: • Expand the Joint purchasing with suppliers management KRW 58.5 billion to KRW 59 billion quality from other automakers. Such positive results also bring 005 Company Overview foundation about greater synergies in joint operations including job creation * Joint purchasing: A system to use Hyundai’s purchasing 007 2016 Highlights power through our online marketplace to help suppliers and expense reduction, and thus serve as a stepping stone for the reduce their purchasing costs suppliers to further develop into global parts suppliers. 011 CSV Highlights Expanding •S  upported the global expansion of about •E  xpand the global expansion with suppliers global sales Supporting Joint Overseas Expansions 030 Sustainability Performance 700 suppliers and create synergy channels Our System •H  osted 5 job fairs for suppliers – •H  ost 5 supplier job fairs – strengthen the Consulting service 349 companies participated alignment with the Didimdol program We provide our suppliers interested in expanding their operations Our Value overseas with information on industry regulations, business • Promoted the venture ecosystem through • Promote the venture ecosystem and procedures and other relevant matters. the Gwangju Center for Creative Economy increase supports for commercialization of 044 Product Responsibility Infrastructure & Innovation – helped 29 companies start technology – help 37 companies start up for growth Local license support up their businesses their businesses 057 Eco-friendliness We support our suppliers to build better relationships with local • 805 participants were selected through governments by guiding them through the procedures required the Didimdol program; 578 completed for local plant construction and production line installations, in 070 Suppliers the course; and 313 were hired addition to help with tax benefits. 073 Cultivating Global Cooperation council Competitiveness We support the operation of cooperation councils of our suppliers in overseas markets, with the purpose of building 074 Reinforcing collaborative network and sharing information. the Basis for Sustainable Management Foundation Sustainable Growth 075 Establishing a Joint Hyundai employs various means aimed at supporting its Growth System suppliers’ efforts to achieve business stability. We pay small and Infrastructure for Growth 077 Global Highlight medium suppliers by cash for goods delivered, and help them to cut cost through joint purchasing; we also help small and In 2012, Hyundai hosted the first cooperative job fair for our 079 Employees medium suppliers with liquidity problem by providing loans to suppliers struggling to attract outstanding talent. In 2016, we 090 Society operate their business, improve quality and productivity, and launched job fairs by region together with 349 suppliers. 24 small invest in facilities. In addition, we provide family network loans to giants – local SMEs with excellent capabilities recognized by the 108 Facts & Figures tier 1 suppliers, thus help them improve the payment condition for Small and Medium Business Administration and local governments 114 Appendices goods delivered by tier 2 suppliers. – also participated, and thus secured outstanding talents. We also continue to promote our suppliers’ recruitment and PR efforts by operating a website dedicated to employment of our suppliers. Expanding Global Sales Channels In 2016, we launched the ‘Didimdol’ – meaning a stepping-stone Hyundai proactively supports the growth of approximately 700 in Korean – program and will run it through 2018 to provide 2,400 suppliers working with our 12 overseas subsidiaries through young job seekers with on-the-job training and an internship consulting services, local license support and others, in order to opportunity at our suppliers. Under the program, participants help them grow into small giants with global competitiveness. undergo an eight-week job training at Hyundai Motor Group, We help our tier 1 and 2 suppliers establish local plants in the followed by a three-month internship at our tier 1 suppliers, thus homepage blog facebook youtube instagram international market, which enables the suppliers to secure a stable gaining hands-on work experience with a full-time job opportunity. 2017 Sustainability Report 074 Establishing a Joint Growth System Classification 2016 Achievements 2017 Plans performances, such as payment term improvements between Search Strengthening • Operate a system to check raw material tier 1 and tier 2 suppliers since 2009. As of January 2017, a total of •C  ontinue to operate a system to check the prices, to ensure joint growth between raw material prices 27 suppliers have been awarded as an outstanding contributor to collaborative tier 1 and 2 suppliers 003 CEO Message network win-win growth. 005 Company Overview Expanding • Expanded the win-win payment system •E  xpand the win-win payment system to supports for include tier 2 and 3 suppliers 007 2016 Highlights tier 2 and 3 Management System for Suppliers suppliers 011 CSV Highlights •H  eld the Energy-Saving Technology •S  hare knowledge on reducing greenhouse Management System Certifications Exchange Meeting for suppliers gas emissions and energy usage, and widen 030 Sustainability Performance the sharing of relevant technology We recommend our suppliers to acquire the OHSAS (Occupational Environmental – 33 companies participated Our System safety system • Provided education programs in the area • Continue to provide education programs Health and Safety Management System) 18001 certification in for suppliers of environment, safety and health on the environment, health, safety, and order to prevent or manage risks related to production operations Our Value – Ulsan Plant: 46 companies participated firefighting for suppliers to meet their needs and establish a voluntary safety and health management system. – Asan Plant: 27 companies participated 044 Product Responsibility Most of suppliers completed with the acquirement. We also encouraged them to acquire ISO (International Organization 057 Eco-friendliness for Standardization) 22301 certification, with an aim to respond 070 Suppliers to accidents and disasters in a systematic manner, and also Strengthening the Collaborative Network encouraged them to nominate a disaster management officer. In 073 Cultivating 2017, we will share the best practices of our Korean suppliers in Global Competitiveness Hyundai shares its procurement and quality policies with its acquiring these certifications, and we expect more suppliers to suppliers. To help establish a rational and fair trade culture become certified. 074 Reinforcing the Basis for between our tier 1 suppliers and tier 2 and 3 suppliers, we operate Sustainable Growth a cooperation council for tier 1 suppliers. In addition to sharing 075 Establishing a Joint company policies and announcements, the council serves as a Growth System communication channel through which to receive suggestions 077 Global Highlight and complaints from tier 2 and 3 suppliers. 079 Employees 090 Society Culture of Joint Growth 108 Facts & Figures Hyundai signs a ‘Joint Growth Agreements’ with its suppliers 114 Appendices every year and carries out various support programs. Included are four action agendas for subcontract, financial support, reinforcement of support for tier 2 and 3 suppliers, consultation of price adjustment on raw materials, and others. Also, we operate the Transparent Purchase Center on Hyundai’s website, through which we share our code of conduct and guidelines with our suppliers and receive suggestions from them. Of particular note, prohibition of child or forced labor is clearly spelled out in the practical principles we have set for employees, including those of our suppliers, to follow. To further expand a culture of win-win Signing the Fair Trade Agreement homepage blog facebook youtube instagram growth, we have been rewarding our suppliers based on their of Hyundai Motor Group 2017 Sustainability Report 075 Environment, Safety and Health Management Energy-Saving Technology Exchange Meeting Search To grow and prosper together with our suppliers, the Ulsan Plant Since 2012, Hyundai has been hosting the ‘Energy-Saving conducts an education support program for tier 1 suppliers in the Technology Exchange Meeting’, a program helping suppliers 003 CEO Message Youngnam region in the areas of the environment, safety and better manage their energy uses, grow sustainably and become 005 Company Overview health. In 2016 which marked the 10th year of the program, we self-reliant. In 2016, 33 suppliers participated in the program, identified people who wanted to participate in the program among sharing their success cases of energy-saving and relevant 007 2016 Highlights managers of 163 companies, of which 57 people from 47 companies technological information. To help further improve its suppliers’ 011 CSV Highlights voluntarily participated in the program. The program provided energy management, Hyundai will continue to develop its energyinformation on how to respond to safety accidents, on-site accident related cooperation with small and medium suppliers into a main 030 Sustainability Performance investigation techniques, the Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) model for bilateral progress. Our System system, chemicals management at Hyundai, understanding the Toxic Chemicals Control Act and its implementation at Hyundai, Sharing energy-saving technology We introduced successes Our Value and tour around our underground smoke chamber. There were in reducing energy consumption of production facility, improving 044 Product Responsibility also education programs with the theme of present state and utility efficiency, and curtailing and managing cooling and heating future prospect in the area of the environment, and case studies energy. 057 Eco-friendliness of improvements. The Asan Plant also provides its suppliers with 070 Suppliers technical support in the environment, health and safety areas Sharing successes in energy efficiency Three suppliers were through win-win solutions and social contribution activities. chosen to share how they had saved energy. The creative ideas 073 Cultivating Last year, it helped complete seven internal suppliers’ adoption shared by then include recycling waste heat and installing a Global Competitiveness of an accreditation system evaluating in-house worksite risk centrally controlled air conditioning system. assessments, thus helping them further improve their health and 074 Reinforcing the Basis for safety management. It also provided technical guidance to 20 Sustainable Growth external suppliers on regulatory matters, facility management, 075 Establishing a Joint legal compliance and chemicals management. By continuing Growth System its technical support and mentoring, Hyundai will strengthen its 077 Global Highlight suppliers’ abilities to meet regulation and manage their facilities. 079 Employees 090 Society 108 Facts & Figures 114 Appendices 2016 Energy-Saving Technology Exchange homepage blog facebook youtube instagram Activities to support suppliers Meeting 2017 Sustainability Report 076 Global Highlight ‘Didimdol’ – a stepping stone linking the dreams of young talents and the growth of suppliers Nurturing talents armed with job competency The Didimdol program provides young people interested in Hyundai believes that its competitiveness improves with suppliers getting stronger in manpower. Our ‘Didimdol’ program working at automotive parts companies with systemic job trainoffers both young job seekers an opportunity to gain practical job experience and suppliers an easy access to a pool of ing as well as an internship opportunity at Hyundai suppliers. outstanding talents, increasingly establishing itself as a win-win strategy for all. This program is participated by approximately 200 suppliers of Hyundai Motor Company and Kia Motors, and operates under the goals of ‘sharing the vision on the automotive parts industry Number of young people who landed a job and SMEs’, ‘building job competencies through practical 313 persons through the Didimdol program in 2016 learning and internship’, and ‘improving employability through strengthening of the ability to adapt’. Prior to launching this program, we surveyed our suppliers on Number of suppliers who participated in the Didimdol program in 2016 what they look for in prospective employees, and accordingly 289 companies developed a curriculum that would foster essential basic competencies and competence. By setting up training facilities in major cities in each region, we sought to give local talents of Promoting co-prosperity and different regions equal opportunity in applying for the program. Win-win collaboration for all – job seekers, Once selected, young job seekers go through 45 courses – 17 suppliers and Hyundai job competence, 15 basic automotive, 5 business skill, and 8 character development courses – as well as consulting sessions, for a total of eight weeks. This is followed by a three-month internship at our suppliers, which can lead to employment. In December 2015, we made an announcement inviting would-be or graduates of college or university to the Didimdol program, and 405 people were selected as the program’s first class. As the program courses are similar to those new Hyundai employees go through, participants of the program were able to learn job skills relevant to automobile manufacturing. The success of Class 1 led to the formation of Class 2 in the 2nd half of 2016, resulting in an employment of 313 people. Our plan is to operate this program twice a year and offer opportunities of developing practical job competencies and gaining vocational experience to a total of 2,400 young people by 2018. 2017 Sustainability Report 077 Stakeholder Interview Jobs for Young People, Talents for Businesses The Didimdol program is a big help to job seekers wanting to gain job skills in demand and to realize their aspirations in an increasingly challenging job market. Of particular note, the program is useful in that it teaches them the business manners, leadership skills and team spirit that are required of employees of today, in addition to industry-specific job training, thus helping trainees adapt to their work environment early on. Meanwhile, participating suppliers can not only save resources in recruiting and training new employees, but also assign talented individuals armed with Can you introduce DY AUTO? And why did DY AUTO participate in broad-ranging job skills to relevant positions right away. the ‘Didimdol’ program? DY AUTO manufactures products that operate on automotive D/C motors. We supply Hyundai with motors for windows and sunroofs, cooling fan Not only does this program assist young job seekers in preparmotors, and wiper systems each comprising a motor, windshield wiper ing themselves for jobs of their choice, but also strengthens blades and a washer system. Through the Didimdol program, we share the growth engine of the automotive parts industry. This is Hyundai’s desire to give hope to young people of today facing a tight job why we expect that this program will grow into a new model of market. Another reason we decided to join this program is that the recent mutually-beneficial cooperation through which both Hyundai state of our company has made public hiring difficult. and its suppliers can grow together. We will operate this proWhat are DY AUTO’s thoughts on the strengths of this program? Do gram in the 1st and 2nd halves of 2017 to discover and nurture you have any ideas for improvement? talented individuals, while continuing to improve the program The biggest strength is that the two-month training helps people be based on feedback from participants and suppliers and thus to ‘prepared’ for employment in the automobile industry. The diverse pursue shared growth with our suppliers. courses, which range from such norms as workplace etiquette to hands-on training in all automotive segments, allow trainees to Didimdol Program Content adapt to the work environment more easily and suppliers to provide additional training more effectively. Meanwhile, we think that a bit more specialization by segment would further improve the program, and that more time should be available to allow for a more in-depth interview. Job training Nurture talented individuals possessing basic competences How does DY AUTO develop human resources, and what do you and the drive to excel expect of Hyundai to this end? Basic job competence At DY AUTO, we aim to develop humane and creative talents who lead by example. To this end, we provide training programs that are based on the job training systems of our various departments and give our employees Basic automotive project-driven assignments. We have been taking part in Hyundai’s Young talents participating in the job competency internship program from the very beginning. Currently 13 of the program course of Didimdol program Business Character Employment participants are in the hiring process, and 15 program participants are skill development consulting working at our company as interns. We hope that we can continue to pursue shared growth together with Hyundai through diverse support programs. Internship at Comprehensive suppliers employment support Put to work and use the knowledge Offer job information; and arrange Yeonjung Kim and skills gained through job training employment if both the intern and Staff in Charge of Human Resources (Practical training at automotive suppliers, supplier desire DY AUTO, Korea Practical training evaluation) 2017 Sustainability Report 078 04. Employees Q. How does Hyundai attract outstanding talents and develop them into global experts? Management Approach We strive to hire and foster creative talents equipped with proper leadership. We also respect diversity of hundreds of thousands international regulations on human right protection of employees around the world, and provide equal as well as all labor-related laws and regulations of opportunities and fair compensation. As part of these individual countries where we operate our business. efforts, we declared the ‘Code of Ethics’ by which we We will continue our efforts in creating a safe work pledge the respect for individual human rights of all environment, in order to assist our employees in employees. Also, by including ‘People’ in our five core maximizing their potentials, and provide continued values, we have pronounced our commitment to supports so that they can sustain a happier life. human rights protection. In addition, we comply with UN SDGs SDGs Target Related activities of Hyundai • Safe work environment • Human rights protection and 3.4 5.2 • Global Highlight employee distress counseling More information is available on the UN website 2017 Sustainability Report 079 Our Achievement Plans and Achievements in 2016 Key Sustainability Data Change Analysis 2016 Plans Achievements Evaluation Number of employees Employee accident rate* •E xpand job rotation among •S  upported self‒initiated career Unit: Person Unit: % business divisions and job development and fostered postings to help employees convergence talent ● 2016 2016 118,320 0.33 develop their career and capacity •R ecruit those who respect •E  stablished a new employment human dignity and uphold brand and improved its brand value 2015 2014 2015 2014 work ethics – Delivered consistent messages on our company, work, and people 112,072 109,748 0.52 0.56 • I mproved corporate image and ● secured talent to build future *  Based on figures of Ulsan, Asan and Jeonju plants in Korea and overseas competitiveness / fostered manufacturing plants interviewers and improved screening process Percentage of overseas workforce Percentage of employees with disabilities (Korea) Unit: % Unit: % •O perate a global leadership •N  ine new locally-hired executives development program visited the headquarters 2016 2016 43.5 2.79 for locally recruited new – S hared headquarters’ strategic executives and candidates directions and discussed key business performance and tasks •P  rovided trainings to 16 outstanding ● talents at overseas subsidiaries – Helped them understand various 2015 2014 2015 2014 business value chains and offered education on global management 41.5 40.8 2.84 2.72 paradigm Overseas workforce and the ratio have continued to increase due to the new plants built at overseas business sites in North America and •O verseas manufacturing • Overseas manufacturing plants: China, and growing production and sales volume plants: aiming for zero fatal recorded 2 fatal accidents and ◐ accident and lowering the accident rate of 0.1% overall accident rate below 0.1% Number of female executives Training hours per employee (Korea) Unit: Person Unit: Hour ● Accomplished, ◐ Partially accomplished, ○ Not implemented 2016 2016 22 56 2015 2014 2015 2014 23 10 71 62 Training hour per person fell by 21% due to improvement efforts to increase qualitative effectiveness of trainings in the aspect of process and curriculum 2017 Sustainability Report 080 Our Plan 2017 Plans and Mid-to Long-term Directions 2017 Plans Mid-to Long-term Directions Build a job applicant-driven recruitment system and recruit outstanding talent to respond to future changes Strengthen the development of a global workforce management • Foster leaders who lead changes at the system and preemptively foster future leaders with consilience workplace and create future values leadership • Build an organizational culture of promoting Continuously manage performance system and improve respect for human rights and cultural organizational culture to secure future competitiveness diversity while embedding employee safety Improve competitiveness by responding to the changing into daily operations automobile landscape and build advanced labor-management •F  orm labor-management relations based on relations partnership, and thus improve soundness and competitiveness of the company Refine the training curriculum for new locally-hired executives and diversify global leadership development programs for •P  romote consistent change of leaders and executive candidates encourage voluntary work engagement through work-life balance Improve work environment and strengthen the support system • C  ontribute to the sustainable growth of for work-life balance to build an advanced organizational culture Hyundai Motor Group through preemptive Employee accident rate management of global Employee Relations • Plants in Korea: 0.47% (ER) risks • Overseas manufacturing plants: 0.1% Provide H-Culture Class year-round and expand the program 2017 Sustainability Report 081 Respecting Human Rights and Communication Classification 2016 Achievements Mid-to Long-term Directions was given to team managers and executives, and these leaders Search signed a pledge to eliminate all forms of sexual harassment. This • Provided mental health care programs •B  uild a system to prevent and respond to the Human rights protection/ through team leaders emotional crises of employees has raised awareness about this issue, and about the detailed roles 003 CEO Message Employee • Provided additional sexual harassment • Develop an organizational culture where and responsibilities that we have in preventing sexual harassment. distress prevention training to team managers and sexual harassment is eliminated, so that all counseling executives; and made team managers sign employees fully concentrate on their work and 005 Company Overview the pledge to eliminate sexual harassment generate outcomes regardless of their gender 007 2016 Highlights •R  an the Labor-Management Council •E  nhance the corporate image by establishing Labor-Management Relations for the improvements of wage system, a sound organizational culture 011 CSV Highlights to ensure wage competitiveness • Enhance manufacturing competitiveness to Labor-Management Communications • Carried out joint labor-management create jobs 030 Sustainability Performance CSR activities Hyundai guarantees employee rights to organize labor union • Respond to labor-related laws and policies Our System Labor• Formed a labor-management committee • Strengthen the preemptive ER risk activities, to take collective actions and to exercise collective management on eco-friendly vehicles to respond to management of overseas subsidiaries to bargaining. In Korea, 48,150 employees, or 72.0% of our total relations changing industrial conditions maintain stable labor-management relations Our Value workforce, were members of the ‘Hyundai Chapter of the • Hosted an ER seminar for suppliers 044 Product Responsibility jointly advanced into overseas, in order Korean Metal Workers’ Union’ as of 2016. In 2016, the Laborto emphasize the importance of global Management Council developed measures to provide a better ER management, and discussed major 057 Eco-friendliness ER issues for each region and shared best working environment for our employees, including improving the practices of outstanding ER cafeterias and work uniforms. The collective negotiations in 2016 070 Suppliers •R  ecorded the highest satisfaction score • Improve and develop the survey into a brought labor and management together to seek sustainable 079 Employees ever since the initiation of the survey culture survey by understanding the status of growth by signing agreements to help our response to the everEmployee (3.55 points out of 5) organizational culture from the comprehensive changing landscape of the automobile industry, including the 082 Respecting satisfaction perspective and identifying key issues Human Rights and survey Labor-Management Future Development Strategy Committee Communication • Drive integrated change initiatives through collaboration among relevant business and an agreement on eco-friendly vehicles. In addition, we hold 083 Recruiting and divisions regular briefing sessions to build a consensus between labor and Fostering Outstanding Talent management. 085 Creating Great Workplaces Human Rights Protection/ Overseas Employee Relations Management 087 Global Highlight Employee Distress Counseling Hyundai complies with all overseas labor-related laws and regulations, and guarantees and respects the legal right to take 090 Society Mental Healthcare Programs collective actions and exercise collective bargaining. BHMC 108 Facts & Figures We offer a wide range of mental healthcare programs to help and CHMC in China have public assembly organizations, and our staff ease stress and enjoy a successful work life. We have HMI in India and HMMC in the Czech Republic each have their 114 Appendices psychological counseling centers at each business site, staffed own labor unions to represent the voices of employees. Workers by licensed professional counselors who help with mental health at HMB, our Brazilian subsidiary, joined the local labor union issues and offer assistance through counseling, special lectures and Round-table meetings of HMB in the early stage of its existence, and the company maintains meditation. For those who prefer not to, or cannot, visit the centers strong employee relations (ER). Although HMMA in the U.S., in person, we offer the ‘One Clock HR’ online counseling service. HMMR in Russia, and HAOS in Turkey have no labor unions, they address staff requests through round-table meetings, Preventing Sexual Harassment employee committee activities and other regular activities. In 2016, our headquarters selected best practices in ER on a regular In 2016, we took further steps to eliminate sexual harassment basis and rewarded them, in order to encourage our overseas entirely within our company. As well as existing training which subsidiaries to better manage their ER. homepage blog facebook youtube instagram establishes a sense of responsibility in this area, further training 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 082 Recruiting and Fostering Outstanding Talent Employee Diversity Classification 2016 Achievements Mid-to Long-term Directions Search • I ntegrated job capacity interviews across all • Diversify recruitment channels and enhance Recruitment at Overseas Worksites areas into presentation interviews for newly recruitment brand hired – Promote recruitment and build a proactive talent 003 CEO Message As of the end of 2016, the total number of Hyundai employees is Recruiting • Streamlined the recruitment process of sourcing system outstanding 005 Company Overview 118,320, grew by 6,248 over the previous year. We have 66,890 talent internship by improving interview process employees in Korea, which accounts for 57.0% of the total • Created a dedicated interview space on the 007 2016 Highlights 9th floor of the headquarters’ West Wing workforce of Hyundai. The remaining 51,410 work at overseas building 011 CSV Highlights business sites, mostly locally recruited employees. The number of local employees has slightly increased from the previous year •E  stablished a job training system for staff •B  uild Hyundai’s distinctive leadership at the commercial vehicle division, and development system to establish leadership 030 Sustainability Performance due to completion of new plants in North America and China, developed and operated training courses capabilities required by job position/rank Our System and the continued growth of production and sales volume. • Developed and operated programs to and to exercise public leadership promote employee change, such as the • Establish an organizational culture as a Our Value training on ideal partnerships basis to generate performance and ensure Decision-making at Overseas Worksites sustainable growth Fostering 044 Product Responsibility The number of executives at our overseas subsidiaries consists outstanding • Form strategic partnerships with the of 90 overseas-stationed employees and 159 local employees, talent management by providing educational 057 Eco-friendliness solutions aligned with the company which brings locally hired executives to 56.6% of total. Our directions on HR issues at business sites 070 Suppliers management strategy guidelines emphasize local market in Korea and abroad conditions and local customer characteristics, and so we employ • Enhance the collaborative capacity in 079 Employees automobile technology, and foster creative a high percentage of outstanding local employees to lead talent by developing specialized technology 082 Respecting decision-making overseas. We are also aiming to create a work and new cutting-edge technology Human Rights and Communication environment which enables prompt decision-making based on Career • Expanded the operation of the voluntary job • Foster future leaders with convergence an understanding of local markets and culture. development rotation system and job postings leadership to respond to the shifting 083 R  ecruiting and system business conditions in Korea and abroad Fostering Outstanding Talent 085 Creating Great Employee Satisfaction Survey Workplaces 087 Global Highlight In 2016, we surveyed our employees on 73 items ‒ 81 items for those in managerial positions and above ‒ across nine areas, 090 Society including job assignments, evaluations, promotion, remuneration, Recruiting Outstanding Talent and welfare & benefits. The response rate was 55.7%, and the 108 Facts & Figures Widening Recruitment Channels satisfaction levels recorded were the highest since this survey 114 Appendices began. Our employees were highly satisfied in categories such Hyundai has launched a new employment brand called as team work, welfare & benefits and remuneration, suggesting ‘What makes you move? Moving the world with you’, and that they have colleagues they can depend on, they have a good is promoting Hyundai as a place to work in alignment with work-life balance, and are well compensated for their work. This this brand. We also have been increasing our early recruiting is thanks to company-wide endeavors such as seminars and the channels, including through internships and ‘The H’ program. WorkSMART campaign that have embedded our core values into We have also eliminated the dress code for first interviews, to our daily operations, in our effort to improve competitiveness and help interviewees feel free to express themselves. build efficient organizational culture. homepage blog facebook youtube instagram 2017 Sustainability Report 083 Fostering Outstanding Talent Career Development System Search 1,638 Leadership Program Education Program Voluntary Job Rotation System Participants by Subsidiary 003 CEO Message Hyundai defines a leader as someone who shares the (Unit: Person) The voluntary job rotation system, implemented at the 005 Company Overview company’s vision and goals with members, thus aligns staff, headquarters, is designed to reinforce the cooperation among company and vision. Our leadership program is a continued, departments and foster cross-functional talent. It also offers 007 2016 Highlights long-term process which equips the right people with the right employees an opportunity to reach their career goals in a self011 CSV Highlights skills, relationships and knowledge to successfully perform guided way. Since its launch in 2010, the number of applicants their current roles and to prepare for future roles as leaders. 457 for the program has consistently increased; in 2016, about 030 Sustainability Performance The company provides both leadership courses for each job HMB 500 employees transferred to different departments through Our System position and also preliminary courses which help candidates this system, and thus expanded their areas of expertise and be fully prepared ahead of their promotions. improved job competency. Our Value Programs to Promote Change 400 Job Postings 044 Product Responsibility HATCI Hyundai runs programs that help our staff work together to We have a job posting system which enables us to maximize 057 Eco-friendliness respond rapidly to changes in the business environment, the potential and expertise of our human resources across 070 Suppliers developments in management strategy and key issues at different fields, and also gives employees the opportunity work. In 2016, we provided training on ‘ideal partnerships’ to 389 to achieve their career development goals. There were two 079 Employees HMIE encourage our staff to maintain fair and responsible business job postings in both the first and second half of 2016, and we 082 Respecting relationships with our suppliers. In 2017, we are offering relocated staff to some 20 strategically important projects. Human Rights and Communication special training on ‘Being proud of Hyundai cars’, so that our We will continue to seek to identify outstanding employees employees take greater pride in our products and give accurate with expertise in various fields across the company, and assign 083 R  ecruiting and 166 Fostering information to customers. HMMR them to roles which both boost the company’s success and Outstanding Talent enable the employees to achieve their individual career goals. 085 Creating Great HRD at Overseas Business Sites Workplaces Global Professional Program Hyundai runs a special program 087 Global Highlight to foster outstanding talent at its overseas subsidiaries, to 100 HMMC establish a pool of outstanding candidates for executives. 090 Society The program consists of three phases over three years, and 108 Facts & Figures in 2016, we helped participants to develop a company-wide 114 Appendices business perspective through education on business theory 56 and practice. In 2017, diverse leadership capacity-building HAC programs will be offered to assist participants in moving onto the next phase of leaders. Job Competency Program for the Locally-hired Hyundai has 40 HMCA been running the on-line job competency program to improve general job skills of the locally-hired since 2014. As of the end of 2016, there were 64 educational programs, and 1,638 people have participated in these programs in 2016. 30 homepage blog facebook youtube instagram HME 2017 Sustainability Report 084 Creating Great Workplaces Classification 2016 Achievements Mid-to Long-term Directions WorkSMART Leadership Briefings Search •P  rovided leadership programs to strengthen • Launch the WorkSmart+ initiative to build an Hyundai operates various leadership improvement programs, leaders’ commitment to change, such organizational culture based on horizontal as WorkSMART leadership briefings and communication and trust including the company-wide WorkSMART leadership briefings 003 CEO Message Leaders’ Morning Forum1) for all our executives and team managers. These briefings set • Promote changes based on the Smart+ 005 Company Overview • Offered ICT support to create an efficient Principle which specifies detailed ways of out the ‘SMART Leader Ten Commandments’, detailed tasks work environment, such as SMART reporting doing business and directions which can bring about positive change for the WorkSMART and SMART meeting systems • Implement leadership programs as well 007 2016 Highlights company. as initiatives to change perceptions for 011 CSV Highlights employee motivation • Form the right condition for change by 030 Sustainability Performance bringing visible changes to the work environment, such as ICT and office space, and establish relevant systems Performance Evaluation and Reward System Our System Our Value •C  ompleted the multifaceted evaluations •S  ecure objectivity and reliability by constantly Multifaceted Evaluation System on around 1,800 employees in Korea and improving the multifaceted evaluation working overseas system In our multifaceted evaluation system, employees above the 044 Product Responsibility Performance evaluation and • Provided detailed feedback to everyone • Strengthen feedback and coaching programs position of team manager are evaluated by team members, 057 Eco-friendliness reward system evaluated through the multifaceted to help employees subject to multifaceted to motivate them to continue to improve and become better evaluation, and the HR Division offered evaluations improve their leadership individual coaching to improve their capabilities and pursue self-development leaders. People skills and business capabilities are measured, 070 Suppliers leadership capabilities as well as how much the leaders embody Hyundai’s core 079 Employees • Increased employee satisfaction by • Expand welfare and benefits for employees’ values. Detailed feedback enables the employees being Employee 082 Respecting benefits & improving the quality of welfare and benefits work-life balance evaluated to continue to make improvements. Human Rights and welfare • Diversified support for employees to enjoy • Expand healthcare programs to promote the Communication healthy leisure activities health of our employees HR Evaluation and Remuneration Systems 083  ecruiting and R •H  ave posted a consistent decline in the •R  educe the accident rates at overseas Safe work We undertake year-round assessments of the business Fostering accident rates at overseas subsidiaries subsidiaries to the advanced level by 2020, environment Outstanding Talent since 2012 with a target of 0.1% performance and individual skills of all our employees to gather 085 Creating Great 1)  basic evaluation data for the HR assessments that take place in Leaders’ Morning Forum is to provide quality insights leader with the company’s general management policies and key issues, and to Workplaces facilitate exchange among leaders the first and second half of each year. Employees in the position 087 Global Highlight of manager and above have individual performance evaluations measured against individual targets that are set in accordance 090 Society WorkSMART with the target management system, and capacity evaluations based on the core values shared across Hyundai Motor Group. 108 Facts & Figures WorkSMART Index in 2016 Team managers and team manager candidates receive 114 Appendices Hyundai developed the WorkSMART Index (WSI) to encourage multifaceted leadership evaluation, and the outcomes are our employees to engage fully with their work, so that they can be used to make or change job assignments. Executive evaluation creative and promote sustainable growth. In 2016, 15,517 employees, results are used across our HR operations, from promotions or 65.5% of the total, replied to the WSI survey. The composite WSI and compensation to selecting and training leaders, and the score was 64.7 points, up by 0.4 points over the previous year. Of fairness of these evaluations is guaranteed through regular particular note were the positive changes measured in promoting evaluation monitoring and performance management change among team members and management’s commitment training offered to those subject to evaluations. Evaluation to change; this shows the positive impact of our leadership systems at our overseas sites are set up in consideration of improvement programs. There were also significant improvements the requirements and characteristics of each country, and are in the scores relating to documents and meetings as a result of based on our Global HR Standards. There is no gender wage homepage blog facebook youtube instagram adopting the SMART reporting and SMART meeting systems. gap at any site. 2017 Sustainability Report 085 Employee Benefits & Welfare Overseas Safety Management Search In 2016, the accident rate of our overseas business sites fell by Support for Leisure Activities 38% compared to the previous year, and is now 0.1%, meaning 0.1 003 CEO Message Hyundai runs a ‘refresh vacation’ program for employees and person out of every 100 employees was injured during the year. The 005 Company Overview assist them in enjoying their vacations at more affordable prices. accident rate has decreased by 76% over the past five years due We also operate the ‘leisure point’ which can be redeemed at to our efforts to prevent accidents by making safety our highest 007 2016 Highlights leisure activities including traveling, watching performance and Private-public joint fire drill priority. The score has improved thanks to our new global standards at HMMA 011 CSV Highlights self-development. The H-Culture Class is available year-round to on construction safety, which integrated the relevant regulations make it more convenient for our employees to enjoy their leisure from different countries, the total safety inspection which detects 030 Sustainability Performance life. Furthermore, we support refresh activities of their families’ and eliminates potential risks of accidents before they occur, and Our System leisure activities by providing overseas travel opportunities to technological support to improve accident prevention. long-term employees and their spouses. Our Value Major Safety Management Activities of Overseas Subsidiaries in 2016 044 Product Responsibility Retirement Pension Key Activities • Hosted the Central Alabama Safety Conference Hyundai has put into place a retirement pension system to help • Conducted disaster response drills for employees (evacuation in case of tornadoes, 057 Eco-friendliness HMMC honored with the its staff fund and plan for their lives after retirement. Pension Safe Company Award in the practice to use fire extinguishers, private-public joint firefighting drills and fire evacuation drills) 070 Suppliers contributions are invested outside the company as a way of Czech Republic HMMA • Strengthened the safety management of construction on holidays (3 times) protecting retirement pensions, and the company also provides • Hosted seminars for safety officers from suppliers (quarterly) 079 Employees • Provided employee health management programs (weight loss competitions, health education for pension subscribers about retirement planning, and safety fairs, hearing tests, flu vaccinations) 082 Respecting including all necessary information on personal pension products. • Beijing: Established safety standards for group and part, the basic organizational unit Human Rights and -S  tandardized basic documents, work conditions, equipment safety, and work procedures of Communication group and part BHMC • Cangzhou: Completed the construction of a new company without accident, and 083  ecruiting and R received the plant inspection and evaluation by the local government Fostering Safe Work Environment Inspections by the local government on safety design, construction and production safety Outstanding Talent • Held a monthly Safety Committee meeting led by the head of the subsidiary 085 Creating Great Health and Safety Principles and Organization Fire drill at HMI HMI • Launched campaigns to spread a safety culture Workplaces • Carried out safety inspections and campaigns with suppliers Under the vision of ‘Safe Together for Happier Tomorrow’, Hyundai • Improved protective gear for employees such as hardhats, safety shoes for visitors, etc. 087 Global Highlight has established a safety-first management policy, ‘reaching the • Performed regular private-public joint safety inspections on fire safety equipment (every Tuesday) production of the highest possible quality by placing safety at the • Zero Injury Award to reward accident-free departments (100, 500 and 1,000 days 090 Society top’. The Safety Health & Environment Center oversees overall HMMC without an accident) • Received the ‘Safe Enterprise’ award (2 years in a row for the first time in automotive 108 Facts & Figures safety management at the company level, and each division industry) has a team dedicated to the health and safety. Medical Care • Reacquired the OHSAS 18001 114 Appendices • Recorded zero accident in 2016 Center carries out employee health-involving tasks, and teams • Received regular safety inspections performed by governmental agencies of hygiene experts conduct occupational diseases-preventive (every 3 years) Firefighting contest at HMMR measures. In addition, Industrial Occupational Safety and Health HMMR -S  afety inspections by the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection of the Russian Federation; Federal Service for the Oversight of Consumer Protection and Welfare; Federal Service Committee, comprising an equal number of members from labor for Environmental, Technological, and Nuclear Supervision; and Ministry of Civil Defense, Emergencies and Disaster Relief of the Russian Federation (result: good) and management, deliberates on and decides policies and issues related to safety and health, and strengthens relevant policies. • Conducted preliminary inspections on the risk factors of gas pipelines installed within the plant in preparation for earthquakes (by external professional organizations) Our business sites in Korea are certified by such health and safety HAOS • Launched the ‘Drive Safe Campaign’ to prevent traffic accidents management systems as KOSHA 18001 and OHSAS 18001, and • Performed fire/safety inspections on fire-affected areas and areas vulnerable to fires • Renewed the OHSAS 18001 overseas business sites have also acquired OHSAS 18001, and HMB • Conducted special safety/fire inspections and fire drills (quarterly) homepage blog facebook youtube instagram have continued to maintain and reacquire the certificate. • Performed joint drills with fire stations (quarterly) 2017 Sustainability Report 086 Global Highlight HMMC ‒ Setting Global Standards in Workplace Safety Recognized for excellence in the Czech Republic At Hyundai, we believe that a safe working environment and sharing a safety-first culture are essential parts of being a global company. We are therefore fully committed to creating a safe workplace at all our business sites across the globe. HMMC, our Hyundai Motor Manufacturing Czech (HMMC) became the first subsidiary in the Czech Republic, was particularly successful in improving worksite safety in 2016. automobile company in the Czech Republic to win the Safe Enterprise award for two consecutive years. Given under the safety management award system directly audited and certified by the Czech government, this award evaluates companies Won its local sector at the in 12 categories, including the prevention of occupational No. 1 ‘Employer of the Year’ award for 2016 injuries, occupational health and safety (OHS) systems, work environment, manufacturing equipment and lift equipment. The award is official recognition from the Czech government of our Became the first automobile company efforts to make work environment safe, including through on2 Years in the Czech Republic to be honored site safety patrols, safety analyses of employees’ actions and the with the ‘Safe Enterprise’ award for two years in a row causes of accidents by type, improving the safety mindset, and initiatives to reduce the accident rate to zero. HMMC recorded a zero accident rate in 2016 HMMC also won its local sector and was second in the national Zero sector at the ‘Employer of the Year’ award in 2016, sponsored by the Czech Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and supervised by Klub Zaměstnavatelů (Group of Employers). The award recognizes top-performing companies in the fields of employment, training, work conditions, and social contributions. We have now ranked highly for three years in a row thanks to our continuing commitment to a safe and happy workplace. In particular, we were noted for our achievements in solidifying ties with our local community in the Moravian-Silesian region, where HMMC is located, and where we contribute to the development of the local economy and foster local talent. Received the ‘Safe Enterprise’ award in 2016 2017 Sustainability Report 087 Stakeholder Interview Full commitment to workplace safety HMMC launched the Zero Injury Award in 2016, to share the idea that creating a safe workplace requires the efforts not only of safety personnel, but of all employees. The Award has the goal of reducing the accident rate to zero, and so departments are given prizes when they reach 100 days, 500 days and 1,000 days of zero injuries. This program encourages departments to develop safety awareness and alert employees to workplace safety by displaying the number of injury-free workdays on Improved worksite safety by providing staff better hardhats an electronic signboard. Together, these endeavors enabled What are the potential safety risk factors in the production process, HMMC to post a zero accident rate in 2016. and how will you address them? It is critical to constantly monitor local and European laws and regulations, so that our manufacturing equipment and technology HMMC also improved its private-public joint fire inspections, always meet or exceed the required standards. Mandatory safety in order to prevent potential fire and accident risks more training for all employees is also vital. At HMMC, we are always effectively. The frequency of equipment inspections increased looking for ways to improve many safety programs, with a focus on from three times per month to four times, and inspection dates, our employees’ work-related safety. These programs include safety which were previously randomly selected, were fixed for every patrols, motivating our employees to think about safety, and the direct involvement of the management in on-site safety tasks. Tuesday The scope of fire inspections was also significantly widened, to include manufacturing process equipment and, How satisfied are you with the new hardhats introduced in 2016? thereby building better awareness about fire risks and fire We are very satisfied. Our Health & Safety Section carefully reviewed safety throughout the company. several potential new hardhats, including having frontline workers wear them for an extended period. The new hardhat was chosen as a HMMC also focuses on providing safety support to employees result of these tests, and we are very happy with it. who work at the frontline of automobile manufacturing. The What more do you think that Hyundai needs to do in creating a safe company improved its protective gear, which both increased workplace? work efficiency and helps to prevent injuries. HMMC will Hyundai will continue to strengthen its safety awareness and systems, continue to put the health and safety of our employees alongside improvements in productivity and quality, because safety first, and this principle will be applied at all of Hyundai’s is our highest priority. In fact, safety directly affects our business overseas business sites, which will further improve our global performance in quality, productivity, and efficiency, so we believe that competitive edge. safety will contribute directly to the sustainable development of our Achieved 1,000 accident-free days at the transmission planthardhats company. Jiří-Pavlík Manager, Head of Health & Safety Section Hyundai Motor Manufacturing Czech, Czech Republic 2017 Sustainability Report 088 05. Society Q. What are roles and responsibilities of Hyundai as a global corporate citizen? Management Approach We want to create positive changes in society, together with our stakeholders. ‘Moving the world together’ is Hyundai’s slogan for refers to how we can support ‘movement’ towards its social contributions. We have set the ‘6 Moves’ for change and innovation, and create a better society. major areas of our social contribution activities – the In pursuit of fulfilling our social responsibilities, we ‘6 Moves’ are Dream Move, Next Move, Easy Move, will take the lead in creating a sustainable future, in Safe Move, Green Move, and Happy Move. A ‘Move’ partnership with our stakeholders. UN SDGs SDGs Target 3.2, 3.4, 4.1, 4.2, 5.2 6.3, 6.4 8.3, 8.6, 9.1, 9.4 10.2 11.4 12.5 14.2 15.1, 15.2, 3.6 4.4 8.b 15.3 Related activities Easy Move ●● Dream Move ●●● of Hyundai Safe Move ●● Next Move ●● Green Move ● CSR activities of Happy Move ●●●● overseas ●●●●●●● subsidiaries More information is available on the UN website 2017 Sustainability Report 089 Our Achievement Plans and Achievements in 2016 Key Sustainability Data Change Analysis 2016 Plans Achievements Evaluation Expenditures in social contributions (Korea) Traffic Accident Zero for Children campaign •R  eorganize mid-to long-term • Expanded into 6 Moves by adding Unit: KRW million Unit: Number of vehicles donated strategy system for socially Dream Move and Next Move to the 2016 2016 responsible management existing 4 Moves 75,502 14 ● (vision announcement, expansion of core CSR activities) •H  ost a conference on global •C  hanged into a mid-to long2015 2014 2015 2014 social contributions term project and thus was not ○ implemented in 2016 70,499 65,200 13 11 • I nitiate the ‘Traffic Accident •P  rovided new school vehicles Investments in culture and sports have increased (support for ‘Dream Stadium’ in Busan) Zero for Children’ campaign and supported the installation of Expenditures in emergency relief have increased (support for those affected Unit: Number of organizations supported new safety technology equipment ● by the Typhoon Chaba) (mandatory safety devices required 2016 115 by regulations on the child safety of school vehicles) Voluntary performance of employees (Korea) Unit: Person •E  xpand the ‘H-Social Creator’, • Improve participants’ understanding a program to solve social of Hyundai and promote our brand 2016 ● 28,462 issues in partnership with by expanding work site visits and 2015 2014 college students experience programs 27 37 •R  un the ‘Health Care Project •5  Energizing Stations: Joined and for Taxi Drivers’: Energizing used by approximately 2,000 taxi 2014 and 2015 figures are the performance results of the ‘H-together’ Station, Energizing Bus drivers 2015 2014 projects ● •E  nergizing Bus: Provided customized 24,499 23,480 exercise therapy to approximately 900 taxi drivers Unit: Hour •M  aintain the mid-to • MMCA Hyundai Motor Series 2016: long-term partnership with Kimsooja – Archive of Mind 2016 144,697 the three major art museums (Jul. 27, 2016-Feb. 5, 2017) •H  yundai Commission 2016: ● Philippe Parreno (Oct. 14, 2016-Apr. 2, 2017) *T he 2015 program was extended to continue at the LACMA 2015 2014 ● Accomplished, ◐ Partially accomplished, ○ Not implemented 166,912 132,887 Number of people participated in volunteer activities has increase while volunteering hours have decreased due to more engagement in small-scale self-initiated voluntary activities and talent donations 2017 Sustainability Report 090 OUR PLAN 2017 Plans and Mid-to Long-term Directions 2017 Plans Mid-to Long-term Directions •A  rea 1: Build an integrated group-wide social contribution system Prepare to open the fifth Hyundai-KOICA Dream Center 1. I mplement a new social contribution strategy of Hyundai Motor Group 2. Build a standardized system to measure social contribution performance 3. Hold a group-wide global social Adopt a new program that converts employees’ volunteer contribution conference contributions to mileage points that can be donated (promote a virtuous cycle in fulfilling corporate social responsibility) •A  rea 2: Strengthen the social contribution capacity of the Group affiliates 1. S upport the development of signature social contribution projects of affiliates 2. Reinforce human resources for social Continue our partnerships with three art museums and contribution activities sponsor the Korean Pavilion at the Venice Biennale 2017 3. Introduce an incentive system to encourage employee participation 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 091 Key CSR Activities Classification 2016 Achievements Mid-to Long-term Directions Enhancing Mobility for People with Disabilities Search Hyundai has helped the disabled become more self-reliant by •E  asy Move Inc. won orders of 50 welfare • Improvement in convenient movement for vehicles and recorded KRW 5.88 billion in sales trafficking weak and disadvantaged upgrading facilities at institutes dedicated to their support since 003 CEO Message • Easy Move Inc. was honored with the 2006. We support the installation of facilities such as automatic Easy Move Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy Award at the fourth ‘Most Loved Companies’ award doors, handrails, ramps, anti-slip rolls, height adjustable 005 Company Overview • Successfully operated the ‘Cha-Car-Cha-Car countertops and braille blocks, the construction of interior rubber 007 2016 Highlights Playground’ (5,793 children visited) block, and the repair of external walls and disabled bathrooms at welfare institutes. 1,088 institutes have been benefited from this •T  raffic safety campaigns with Robocar Poli • Improvement in traffic safety and social safety 011 CSV Highlights project by 2016. • Kids Hyundai (Children Safety the Best, Best 030 Sustainability Performance Safe Move Safety Exhibition, Wing of Angels) • Energizing Stations used by 1,978 taxi drivers, Cha-Car-Cha-Car Playground Our System and Energizing Buses used by around 900 taxi drivers In 2016, a total of 5,793 children visited Hyundai’s Cha-Car-ChaOur Value Car Playground and experienced a variety of new automobile •H  yundai Green Zone China participated by 927 • Actions for environment conservation and employees, their families, college students and climate change technologies. The children drove small-scale Sonatas equipped 044 Product Responsibility Green Move other volunteers since 2014 with such safety features developed in connection with Hyundai’s 057 Eco-friendliness • Created 1,300 square meters of grasslands self-driving technologies as automatic collision avoidance, •S  ent 8,500 college students of the Happy • Social contribution that involves participation emergency braking and resumption. Since the sensors installed 070 Suppliers Move Global Youth Volunteers for nine years of employees and consumers through the 18th class, in order to participate in on the vehicles tract and process spatial information and send 079 Employees overseas volunteer work audio/tactile signals to the drivers, the children were able to Happy Move – S ent to five countries – China, India, Indonesia, experience the wonder and joy of driving safely even under poor 090 Society Laos, and Vietnam – in 2016 (21 countries in total) visibility. These future drivers all received a personalized driver’s – M arine ecosystem preservation was added to the 092 Key CSR Activities scope of volunteer work since the 18th class license as a memento of their memorable experiences. 096 CSR Activities • ‘Looking for Three-Leafed Clovers’ – supporting • Independence support for second-class of Overseas children who lose parents in car accidents citizens and promotion of talented people Subsidiaries Dream Move • ‘H-Social Creator’ – creating ideas to solve Safe Move 105 Supporting the social issues Arts and Culture Next Move •O  pened the fourth Hyundai-KOICA Dream •S  ocial contribution using business resource Health Care Project for Taxi Drivers 106 Global Highlight Center in Vietnam, benefiting 65 trainees and capability of affiliated companies Korean taxi drivers drive 250km on average per day; but due to a 108 Facts & Figures lack of time and places to take breaks, many suffer from illnesses related to the lumbar and nervous system. Such health and age 114 Appendices issues may cause traffic accidents and have negative impacts on Easy Move road safety as well. In order to contribute to solving these social issues, Hyundai began to put together a project to help improve Supporting the Easy Move Inc. taxi drivers’ health. Hyundai has established and supports the operation of Easy Move Hyundai has set up Energizing Stations to help taxi drivers to stay Inc., Korea’s first social enterprise in the mobility aids sector. In Energizing Station healthy. Located in five areas in the Seoul metropolitan region, the 2016, the company made a full-scale entry into the welfare vehicle stations are each equipped with a three-stage healthcare system market and its competitive pricing and stellar product quality that allows taxi drivers to check their blood pressures, measure helped secure orders for 50 vehicles. For its accomplishments, the body fat and composition, and do stretching exercises that the Easy Move was given a Minister of Trade, Industry, and Energy Health Care Project for system recommends based on its diagnoses. By keeping a record Award at the fourth ‘Most Loved Companies’ award. Taxi Drivers homepage blog facebook youtube instagram of their measurements in the system, taxi drivers also can receive 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 092 detailed counsel from a fitness expert who visits each station Traffic Accident Zero for Children Campaign Search once a week. In 2016 alone, approximately 2,000 drivers used the Since March 2016, we have cooperated with the traffic safety stations. Hyundai also has in place an Energizing Bus, a 45-seat organization Citizen’s Coalition for Safety in launching a ‘Traffic 003 CEO Message bus renovated to enable a customized exercise therapy service. Accident Zero for Children’ campaign through which we provide The bus is fitted with cutting-edge instruments for measuring school vehicles and install new safety technologies to help protect 005 Company Overview physical constitution and body mass as well as fitness equipment children from traffic accidents. Together with our partner, we invite 007 2016 Highlights for muscle development and flexibility. As one of the 100 public applications from parents and child care centers, carry out onfitness programs operated by the Korea Sports Promotion Traffic Accident Zero for 011 CSV Highlights Children Campaign site investigations and have safety experts review our findings. To Foundation, Hyundai’s Energizing Bus enabled approximately 900 those found to be more worthy of our support, we provide new 030 Sustainability Performance people to experience customized exercises in 2016. school vehicles and safety features as well as safety devices that are Our System mandatory following the passage of the ‘Serimi Act’ requiring school Traffic Safety Stories with Robocar Poli vehicles carrying children under 13 years old to have guardians on Our Value Hyundai offers diverse traffic safety programs for children such board. By further expanding the uses of new safety technologies 044 Product Responsibility as traffic safety classes, exhibition and training. Traffic safety class and utilizing our automobile technology, we plan to consistently in particular is conducted at kindergartens and daycare centers explore ways of protecting children from traffic accidents. 057 Eco-friendliness throughout Korea. All programs are based on the animation Traffic Safety Stories with Robocar Poli ‘Traffic Safety Stories with Robocar Poli’ created by Hyundai as 070 Suppliers a global project for the traffic safety of children. In 2017, we plan Green Move 079 Employees to create within our Ilsan building a ‘Hyundai Poli Traffic Safety Playground’ where children and their parents can play together Hyundai Green Zone China 090 Society and learn about traffic safety. Hyundai launched the second phase of ‘Hyundai Green Zone 092 Key CSR Activities China’, which is an ecological restoration project carried out in 096 CSR Activities Give Driving Campaign China. Our plan is to create 40 million square meters of grassland of Overseas Subsidiaries Hyundai launched a ‘Give Driving’ campaign in 2016, in partnership populated by local native flora in Zhenglan Qi for five years until with the maker of CARIV, an app that awards drivers points for safe Hyundai Green Zone China 2018. As of 2016, a total of 927 people from the Happy Move 105 Supporting the Arts and Culture driving. Drivers earn more points as they drive longer within speed Global Youth Volunteers, volunteer groups of college students in limits, and lose their points for each sudden start or acceleration China, and employees of Hyundai and BHMC as well as their family 106 Global Highlight or speeding they make. The app also offers diverse features that members have visited the Hyundai Green Zone to participate in 108 Facts & Figures help drivers manage their driving data and vehicle maintenance. volunteer activities for desertification prevention, and created 13 We matched the accumulated points of participating drivers with million square meters of grasslands which accounts for 33% of the 114 Appendices donations which then were used in the installation of safety signals total project area. Local residents are hired which contributes to in school zones and road-kill prevention features. the economic self-reliance of the local community. Safety Quiz Campaign Dream Park-IONIQ Forest Hyundai has run the Safety Quiz Campaign, to address the In cooperation with SL Corp., Hyundai built a ‘Dream Park-IONIQ importance of safety education and to enable children to learn Forest’ in a landfill site in Incheon, with donations collected from about safety in an easy and fun way. From the first one through the the IONIQ Longest Run campaign. On the 191,000 km collectively eighth quiz in 2016, a cumulative number of around 148 thousand run by some 14,000 IONIQ Longest Runners was launched the children participated, and some 3.3 million people visited the quiz first Dream Park-IONIQ Forest in December 2016. We plan to contest website. As such, Hyundai is taking the lead in spreading a plant approximately 30,000–40,000 more trees over the next homepage blog facebook youtube instagram safety culture for children and preventing safety-related accidents. five years. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 093 Happy Move Dream Move Search Happy Move Global Youth Volunteers Gift Car Campaign 003 CEO Message Hyundai’s Happy Move Global Youth Volunteers to train young ‘Gift Car’ is Hyundai’s social contribution program that provides 005 Company Overview leaders and to contribute to the international community was people possessing the will, plan and other things but economic established in July 2008. Every year, approximately 1,000 college means to become self-reliant with opportunities to start their 007 2016 Highlights students are selected, and cumulative total of 8,500 young own business. In addition to compact cars, 1-ton trucks, vans or 011 CSV Highlights people have participated in the Happy Move Global Youth other types of vehicles, we provide low-income households with Volunteers. In 2016, the 16th class of the volunteers (Jan.-Feb.) seed money, startup education and management consulting Happy Move Global Youth 030 Sustainability Performance and the 17th class (July-Aug.) visited China, India, Vietnam, Laos, Volunteers in a systematic manner so that they can become economically Our System and Indonesia. While staying in those country for about a month, self-reliant based on the ‘gift car’ of their choice. Furthermore, each class taught local children traffic safety and engineering, ‘Gift Car for Youth Startup’ was added in 2016 to provide start-up Our Value helped preserve world cultural heritage sites, built up mangrove opportunity to young people who are poor but rich in creativity 044 Product Responsibility forests in shoreline areas, and built houses and educational and the drive to succeed. Our Gift Car programs go beyond institutions in impoverished areas. vehicle donation to funding, education and consulting support 057 Eco-friendliness and thus ensure beneficiaries can stand on a sound economic 070 Suppliers Employee Volunteer Groups footing they have built up. There are a total 134 employee volunteer groups across Hyundai’s 079 Employees business sites. They have established ties with 168 social welfare H-Jump School 090 Society facilities across the nation, and conduct volunteer work on a ‘H-Jump School’ is a social contribution program that aims regular basis. Around 9,000 employees participated in volunteer to narrow the educational gap and to develop future leaders 092 Key CSR Activities activities in 2016. Volunteer activities on the Group level were also possessive of the volunteer spirit and knowledgeable of the 096 CSR Activities carried out on national holidays and at the end of the year to share humanities. Initiated by Hyundai, the program is operated of Overseas Subsidiaries moments of happiness with the marginalized at our sisterhood in cooperation with the Seoul Scholarship Foundation, the H-Jump School organizations. In addition, as part of our efforts to contribute to Kyungpook National University, and the social enterprise Jump. 105 Supporting the Arts and Culture urban-rural coexistence and to resolve the labor shortage issue Teachers are selected among undergraduate volunteers to serve in rural communities, Hyundai has established ties with 70 rural as after-school teacher and mentor to teens in underprivileged 106 Global Highlight villages located near our business sites, and help them by lending areas, helping them with their studies for eight hours a week for 108 Facts & Figures a hand during the busy farming seasons in spring and autumn. one year. In return for their service, the volunteer teachers are given scholarships and an opportunity to be mentored for a year 114 Appendices H-self Sharing Planner by leaders in the fields of their choice. In addition, they receive Hyundai introduced the ‘H-Self Sharing Planner’ in 2016 to enable various opportunities to attend talk concerts, special lectures, and staff to plan their volunteer activities. This was devised to satisfy cultural performances. demands for volunteer activities that go beyond visiting specific partner organizations over a defined period, and enabled staff H-Social Creator to engage more in volunteer activities. 196 creative volunteering We have been operating the ‘H-Social Creator’ program since activities were planned by staff in 2016, including installing heating H-Social Creator 2015 to foster young social innovators. In 2016, the second year films for seniors who live alone, offering music concerts and of the program, 30 selected college students refined their social musical instrument education for children at community child innovation ideas for six months through solution workshop on centers, and touring around the Ulsan Plant with foreign employee. resolving social issues, mentoring by our employees, and sharing homepage blog facebook youtube instagram The company provided consulting and funding for these activities. of their expert knowledge. In carrying out their missions on such 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 094 topics as environmental protection, safety issues arising from Next Move Search technological development, aging, and social issues related to inconveniences faced by seniors in their daily lives, the Hyundai-KOICA Dream Center 003 CEO Message participants suggested a slew of innovative ideas such as ways of The ‘Hyundai-KOICA Dream Center’ is a global social contribution improving electric wheelchair safety for users, developing apps project based on private-government cooperation to contribute 005 Company Overview for preventing smartphone hacking, and supporting seniors in to solving social issues, such as educational imbalance and 007 2016 Highlights their retirement. job creation in developing nations, in partnership with Korea 011 CSV Highlights International Cooperation Agency (KOICA), Plan Korea, and other Looking for Three-Leafed Clovers related organizations. The fourth Hyundai-KOICA Dream Center 030 Sustainability Performance ‘Looking for Three-Leafed Clovers’ provides children who have established in February 2016, is located within the Hanoi Industrial Our System lost their parents to traffic accidents with mentoring support Vocational College in Vietnam, and consists of automotive and opportunities to explore career options and develop the maintenance and construction safety facilities on a 1,570.25 Our Value option of their choice into their dream career. Started in 2005 square meter land. This center also is Hyundai Motor Group’s 044 Product Responsibility with material donations, this program in 2013 shifted its focus first overseas case of creating shared value (CSV) launched in to career mentoring by undergraduates. Over the past 11 years, cooperation with Hyundai Engineering & Construction with 057 Eco-friendliness the program has helped about 1,460 children. Since 2015 when the aims of fostering experts in construction and automotive it doubled in size, the program has grown to offer 80 children maintenance and helping them secure a job. As Vietnam’s 070 Suppliers a one-on-one tutoring, on a monthly basis, by 80 mentors on average occupational injury rate is over ten times higher than 079 Employees study courses related to their dream career. While funding the Korea’s, the construction safety practice courses included in the Hyundai-KOICA Dream Center education opportunities of the children’s choice, the program in construction training curriculum are expected to contribute not 090 Society 2016 formed ties with various business leaders and thus enabled only to job creation but also to reduction of occupational injuries 092 Key CSR Activities the children to experience working in the diverse worksites of and safeguarding of the people’s lives. 096 CSR Activities businesses related to their career goal. of Overseas Subsidiaries Achievements of Hyundai-KOICA Dream Centers 105 Supporting the 1st Dream Center (Ghana) Arts and Culture – 94 trainees graduated (on a cumulative basis); nine trainees landed 106 Global Highlight a job; and 92 trainees passed the national standard qualification test in the vehicle maintenance sector 108 Facts & Figures 114 Appendices 2nd Dream Center (Indonesia) – 391 trainees completed the course; and 237 trainees landed a job 3rd Dream Center (Cambodia) – 66 trainees completed the course; and 32 trainees landed a job 4th Dream Center (Vietnam) – 65 trainees are receiving training * As of January 2017 homepage blog facebook youtube instagram Looking for Three-Leafed Clovers 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 095 CSR Activities of Overseas SubsidiariesActivities ③ Search ① Free Dental Clinic on Wheels 003 CEO Message • Convert trailers into mobile clinics for dental care • Treat an average of 20-25 patients per day, and refer 005 Company Overview children with severe conditions to dental specialists • 2016 Performance: Provided dental care to 9,368 ④ 007 2016 Highlights patients 011 CSV Highlights Hyundai Soccer Program for Youth 030 Sustainability Performance • Enable children to experience their local cultural heritage Our System • Assist children in visiting stadiums and enjoying ⑤ Our Value football with professional players • 2016 Performance: Participated by 2,591 children 044 Product Responsibility National Week of Transport 057 Eco-friendliness • Share the importance of traffic safety and 070 Suppliers responsibility across the company during the ‘National Week of Transport’ Hyundai Motor India (HMI) 079 Employees • 2016 Performance: Participated by 65 employees 090 Society Support for the Play Hyundai Motor Brazil Dream Village Project – ② 092  ey CSR Activities K ‘Monica and Cebolinha’ Cultivating Social Enterprises ③ (HMB) 096  SR Activities C • Sponsor the production of the play, which adapts • Assist the establishment of social enterprises for the of Overseas ‘Romeo and Juliet’ for family viewing as well as development of local communities and to help them Subsidiaries its performance become economically independent • 2016 Performance: Performed a total of 25 times, • 2016 Performance: Established four social enterprises, 105 Supporting the and attended by approximately 26,000 people and benefited 84 families Arts and Culture 106 Global Highlight Dream Village Project – ④ 108 Facts & Figures Developing Infrastructure • Strengthen the local community infrastructure by repairing 114 Appendices ① public institution buildings • 2016 Performance: – High schools: Repaired buildings and classrooms – Elementary schools: Donated equipment, and overhauled bus stops ⑤ ② Educational Support • Support public schools with aging facilities and/or a lack of teachers due to insufficient government funding • Donate benches, desks, and computers while assisting with building construction • 2016 Performance: Supported 15 schools in nearby areas, homepage blog facebook youtube instagram and donated 50 computers 2017 Sustainability Report 096 Summer Camp ① Search • Provide a summer camp program to the children of employees • 2016 Performance: Participated by 50 003 CEO Message children 005 Company Overview ① Good Neighbor Campaign ② 007 2016 Highlights • Provide financial support to residents of 13 local districts in nearby areas to help Hyundai Motor 011 CSV Highlights them enjoy culture, sports and other Manufacturing Alabama 030 Sustainability Performance leisure activities (HMMA) • 2016 Performance: Participated by 25 ④ Our System employees and local residents United Way Campaign • Four week program in cooperation with the Our Value ② Korea Day ‘United Ways of Alabama’, a local charity organization, to raise funds for philanthropic 044 Product Responsibility • Host cultural events to promote Korea institutions chosen by our employees • 2016 Performance: Hosted events at • 2016 Performance: Raised funds totaling 057 Eco-friendliness 11 venues USD 302,000 070 Suppliers Vehicle Donation Hyundai Motor ⑤ 079 Employees • Donate pre-production vehicles and Manufacturing Czech Spina Bifida Walk-N-Roll components to schools so that students (HMMC) • Host a one-mile walkathon and an 090 Society can use them for educational purposes educational exhibition to publicize the rare • 2016 Performance: Made donations to disease Spina Bifida and raise funds for the 092  ey CSR Activities K eight schools Spina Bifida Association • 2016 Performance: Raised funds totaling 096  SR Activities C USD 25,000 of Overseas Subsidiaries ⑥ ④ 105 Supporting the Jingle Bell Run Arts and Culture • Host walkathon and race events to publicize the Arthritis Foundation and raise funds 106 Global Highlight • 2016 Performance: Raised funds totaling USD 107,000 108 Facts & Figures ③ 114 Appendices Sisterhood Ties with Schools ⑤ • Form sisterhood ties with schools to nurture talents equipped with capabilities required at Hyundai and to promote the development of local communities • 2016 Performance: Opened the ‘Hyundai Classroom’, donated vehicles, and built labs Hyundai Assan ③ ⑥ Otomotiv Sanayi (HAOS) homepage blog facebook youtube instagram 2017 Sustainability Report 097 Vocational Trainings ② Search • Donated test vehicles to Auto Service College for teaching aids, with an aim to create an educational environment that fosters talents 003 CEO Message who meet the ‘WorldSkills Russia’ requirements 005 Company Overview Beijing Hyundai Motor Road Safety Campaign for ③ ② 007 2016 Highlights Company (BHMC) Children • Launched a campaign for youth to publicize 011 CSV Highlights the importance of road safety 030 Sustainability Performance • Developed the board game ‘Hyundai Experts of Traffic Rules’ – sponsored a team that Our System participated in the ‘Safety Wheel’ competition, and served as a judge ④ Our Value • 2016 Performance: 12 teams of four members participated in the Safety Wheel competition, 044 Product Responsibility and the team sponsored by HMMR came in third place 057 Eco-friendliness ③ 070 Suppliers Robocar Poli Playground • Built a ‘Robocar Poli’ playground to raise 079 Employees awareness for the importance of road safety to children Pravo Rulya Transportation 090 Society • Provide road safety games for children and an ④ Festival 092  ey CSR Activities K Vehicle Donation Campaign opportunity to test drive the Creta for parents • 2016 Performance: Participated by • Run in collaboration with the Ministry • Donate test vehicles and engines to automobile 096  SR Activities C approximately 300 people of Transport of the Russian Federation technique schools and colleges across China of Overseas and the Ministry of Education and Subsidiaries • Contribute to fostering professionals in the automobile Science of the Russian Federation to sector Autumn Day of Environment raise awareness for the importance of 105 Supporting the • 2016 Performance: Donated cumulative total of 544 transportation, innovation, production Arts and Culture • Hosted to motivate employees to become vehicles and 1,113 engines for experimental purposes professionals and engineering to youth more interested in environmental issues 106 Global Highlight • 2016 Performance: Attended by nearly • Environmental clean-ups, tree planting, Anti-Desertification Campaign in teamwork games, visit to the Sestroretsk Razliv 5,500 people 108 Facts & Figures Inner Mongolia Museum 114 Appendices • 2016 Performance: Participated by around 60 • Implement the 5-year plan for anti-desertification for employees at HMMR and its suppliers as well the area of 40 million square meters in Zhenglan Qi as their families as volunteers • Participated by employees and college students majoring in environmental engineering • 2016 Performance: Participated by 55 employees ① Hope Elementary School ① • Completed the construction of the 2nd BHMC Hope Hyundai Motor Elementary School Manufacturing Russia • 2016 Performance: Donated 51 computers and offered teaching support (HMMR) homepage blog facebook youtube instagram 2017 Sustainability Report 098 ① ① Hyundai Hope on Wheels Hyundai Motor Europe (HME) ② Search • Designed to support children with cancer and is co② sponsored by HMA and our dealers in the U.S. Skills for the Future • Tour around the nation between March and October • Designed to provide technology-driven education 003 CEO Message to host events and provide research fund for childhood to assist young people in finding the right career cancer path and to address youth unemployment 005 Company Overview • 2016 Performance: Donated USD 13 million in 2016 • Participated by small businesses to recruit talents 007 2016 Highlights alone, and a cumulative total of USD 115 million for start-ups • 2016 Performance: Participated by 5,020 students, 011 CSV Highlights 95 volunteers, and 150 small businesses between Hyundai ST Math Labs 2015 and 2016, made classroom visits on 94 030 Sustainability Performance • Create classrooms at kindergarten and elementary occasions levels to help outstanding pupils get extra education in Our System science, technology, engineering and math • 2016 Performance: Donated USD 2 million to Our Value 45 schools, participated by a cumulative total of 19,500 students 044 Product Responsibility 057 Eco-friendliness Coats for Kids • Designed to donate new winter clothes to low-income 070 Suppliers families, and two cities are chosen every year as 079 Employees beneficiaries • 2016 Performance: Donated approximately 2,000 090 Society coats to people in Detroit and Pennsylvania 092  ey CSR Activities K Employee Volunteering 096  SR Activities C • Employees either make direct donations or engage in of Overseas volunteer activities in their spare time Subsidiaries • Food donations, environmental clean-ups for parks 105 Supporting the on Earth Day, participation in the ‘Read Across Arts and Culture America’ event, donation to the armed forces, wetland protection activities, participation in the 106 Global Highlight Career Day events, serving as a judge for science fairs, participation in the Habitat for Humanity, blood 108 Facts & Figures donations, and the celebration of cultural heritage ③ Hyundai Motor Espana, S.L. 114 Appendices (HMES) Sponsorship for the ③ Cancer Research Foundation • Sponsor the ‘Charity Dinner for Young Cancer Researchers’ hosted by FERO1), a Spanish cancer Hyundai Motor research foundation America (HMA) • 2016 Performance: Participated by 490 people, provided the IONIQ for shuttle service 1) FERO: A foundation which engages in a wide array of cancer research initiatives, from developing cancer treatments and nurturing young cancer researchers to supporting the early approval of new cancer treatment and sponsoring young cancer homepage blog facebook youtube instagram researchers 2017 Sustainability Report 099 ① Hyundai Motor Czech (HMCZ) Search ① SOS Children’s Villages • Raise funds through the race event hosted for ‘SOS Children’s Villages’, 003 CEO Message a foundation that supports underprivileged children 005 Company Overview • 2016 Performance: Raised funds totaling CZK 68,000, and total distance run by participants recorded 36,000 kilometers 007 2016 Highlights 011 CSV Highlights ② Hyundai Motor Netherlands (HMNL) 030 Sustainability Performance ② Hyundai for All Our System • Designed to support youth soccer as the official FIFA partner Our Value • Assist youths with disabilities in playing soccer • 2016 Performance: Participated by 180 youths 044 Product Responsibility 057 Eco-friendliness 070 Suppliers 079 Employees 090 Society 092  ey CSR Activities K Hyundai Motor United Kingdom (HMUK) ① 096  SR Activities C Street League of Overseas • Support ‘Street League1)’ with facility development since 2012 Subsidiaries • 2016 Performance: Donated GBP 25,000 and vehicles, and provided 105 Supporting the internship opportunities at Hyundai dealer shops Arts and Culture 1) Street League: A program to assist young people aged between 16 and 25 in learning skills 106 Global Highlight for communication, teamwork, and writing cover letters, to help them find jobs ② 108 Facts & Figures RMHC Mission 2020 • AUD 500 is given in discounts to consumers 114 Appendices who purchase Hyundai cars through the Ronald McDonald House Charities (RMHC) network, Hyundai Motor Poland (HMP) and that amount is matched and forwarded as donations by HMCA. ② Internship Program Hyundai Motor • Provide internship opportunities to undergraduates in Warsaw Company Australia • 2016 Performance: Hired 12 interns per year on average (HMCA) homepage blog facebook youtube instagram 2017 Sustainability Report 100 Great Music for Young Generation Employee Volunteering Search • A program to enable children and youths to learn • In September 2015, HMCIS volunteer about classical music and historic composers club was created to raise funds among • Implemented in cooperation with the Moscow employees and engage in social 003 CEO Message contribution activities Conservatory, and HMCIS supports with making arrangements for performers and presentations • Cloth donation to orphanages, sending 005 Company Overview • 2016 Performance: Provided a total of 8 teaching New Year cards to war veterans, and 007 2016 Highlights sessions between October 2016 and May 2017, fund-raising for patients suffering severe diseases Hyundai Motor and participated by 600 children and their parents 011 CSV Highlights • Approximately 40 employees or one Deutschland (HMD) ① fourth of the total have joined the club 030 Sustainability Performance Hyundai Traffic Safety Programs • 2016 Performance: Visited nursing • Developed as a program to raise awareness for homes to host Christmas Bazaars, Our System the importance of traffic safety to children and and participated in the fund-raising promote their participation marathon Our Value • Hosted the Robocar Poli traffic safety poster ① competition, developed a traffic safety program 044 Product Responsibility based on Robocar Poli characters, and launched a pilot teaching program at kindergartens 057 Eco-friendliness • The programs developed by HMCIS will be 070 Suppliers provided at kindergartens after the approval granted by the Russian transport police and 079 Employees educational authorities ② • 2016 Performance: Ran the programs between 090 Society June and December in 2016, more than 200 children participated in the poster competition, 092  ey CSR Activities K and more than 100 children participated in the 096  SR Activities C pilot traffic safety program of Overseas Subsidiaries ② Hyundai Student Exchange Program 105 Supporting the • In 2008, Ulsan University in Korea and the Arts and Culture Moscow Polytech University signed an MOU to Team Spirit for Humanity promote cooperation in science and industry, and 106 Global Highlight • Designed to promote pro-refugee sentiment in Germany have run a student exchange program since 2009. • Sponsor soccer matches 108 Facts & Figures • HMCIS hosts technology project competitions for students who want to participate in this exchange • 2016 Performance: Hosted soccer matches in six cities, participated program in topics including Korean history, by more than 2,500 children 114 Appendices Hyundai Motor Company, new automotive technology, English, etc. The winners are awarded Hyundai Motor Rental flight tickets and financial support with expenses. • Provide vehicles free of charge to Caritas when it runs educational • 2016 Performance: Benefited a cumulative programs for children total of 35 students; five were selected among • 2016 Performance: Provided five H-1 Travels and one i40, benefited 50 students at the Moscow Polytech University a total of 530 people on 64 occasions participated in the competition Every Kilometre Counts Hyundai Motor • Designed to donate EUR 0.30 per every kilometer traveled by Caritas to run educational programs Commonwealth Independent • 2016 Performance: Traveled 36,275 kilometers, homepage blog facebook youtube instagram States (HMCIS) and donated EUR 10,000 2017 Sustainability Report 101 Green Move Search Phase 2 of the Hyundai Green Zone China Project • Create grasslands upon the dry lake in Inner Mongolia in collaboration with the Communist Youth League of China and EcopeaceAsia in order 003 CEO Message to combat desertification and restore the local ecosystem • Remove weeds across tree nurseries, and plant perennial shrubs and 005 Company Overview reeds Hyundai Motor Group 007 2016 Highlights • Use the WeChat (Chinese social network channel) account of Hyundai China (HMGC) Motor Group dedicated to CSR to exhibit the photos of volunteering 011 CSV Highlights work by college volunteer teams • Successfully transplanted perennial reeds 030 Sustainability Performance • 2016 Performance: Sent a total of 360 volunteers, including volunteer ④ Our System corps of Korean and Chinese college students, employee volunteer corps, and media volunteer corps of Korea and China Our Value Safe Move 044 Product Responsibility Traffic Safety Campaign 057 Eco-friendliness • Provide experience-based education to elementary schools in Beijing ⑤ to raise children’s awareness on traffic safety and to improve their 070 Suppliers response to dangerous traffic situations • Educational videos for traffic safety, mini driving experience programs, 079 Employees traffic safety quiz contests, and the production of traffic safety signs 090 Society • 2016 Performance: Provided education to 1,033 students at two elementary schools since November 2016 which this campaign 092  ey CSR Activities K was launched 096  SR Activities C of Overseas Happy Move Subsidiaries Dream Move Employee Volunteer Corps ① 105 Supporting the Dream Class • Developed to raise employees’ interest and importance of CSR Arts and Culture • Provide educational supplies – books, computers, and sports goods • Anti-desertification in Inner Mongolia, environmental protection, visit – to elementary schools with old facilities in deprived areas in 106 Global Highlight to nursing homes, and emergency relief training for employees collaboration with the China Children and Teenagers’ Fund • 2016 Performance: One staff at each department participated in • Raise funds with local Hyundai dealers, customers and media outlets 108 Facts & Figures volunteer programs to donate educational equipment to elementary schools in deprived ② areas 114 Appendices • 2016 Performance: Donations were made in a total of eight areas Tong Xin Yi • Designed to address the major social issue in China of protecting children left behind when their parents moved to cities to work, and to keep them away from juvenile delinquency ③ • Built extracurricular facilities for left-behind children in rural areas – libraries, mental health counseling, arts and music activities, outdoor sports, vegetable gardens, etc. • 2016 Performance: Opened the first Tong Xin Yi1) in Cangzhou, Hebei Province, and employee participated in volunteer activities 1) homepage blog facebook youtube instagram Tong Xin Yi: A Chinese word meaning hearts of children railway station 2017 Sustainability Report 102 ① Kazakhstan – Traffic Safety Campaign for Search Children ② • Abay bol1) Drive·Think·Care Campaign: Provide venues 003 CEO Message where children can experience traffic safety within public facilities, and carry out campaigns to encourage drivers to 005 Company Overview abide by traffic rules within school zones Asia & Pacific 007 2016 Highlights Regional Ukraine – H-Road Campaign 011 CSV Highlights Headquarter • Camps for children from war-affected families and orphanages 030 Sustainability Performance • Culture of traffic safety campaigns and support for underprivileged children Our System • Sell stickers with a pledge to observe traffic safety rules, and use the profits to make donations for the education of Our Value Vietnam – Care Together Center Malaysia under-privileged children • Established to help Vietnamese women, who • Assist automotive department students 044 Product Responsibility returned to their home country after divorce from at the University of Malaysia Perlis their Korean husband, become self-reliant and (UniMAP) in receiving automotive Serbia – Safer Road with Hyundai 057 Eco-friendliness support their children technology education • Invite traffic experts to provide traffic safety education for • Support with the renovation and operation of the • Industry-academia cooperation children 070 Suppliers center located in Can Tho in southern Vietnam, between automotive schools and • Offer traffic safety experience programs through games 079 Employees near Ho Chi Minh City Hyundai dealers, planning and and play • Vietnam-Korea family law counseling center, providing automotive technology 090 Society employment and start-up training, children’s education and field experience 1) Abay bol: A Kazakh phrase meaning ‘be safe’ or ‘be careful’ library, and research and survey support programs, joint R&D on green car 092  ey CSR Activities K technology, etc. 096  SR Activities C Vietnam – Medical Support for of Overseas Children with Facial Disfigurements Philippines – Village with a CIS & Eastern Europe Subsidiaries Sustainable Water Circulation 105 Supporting the • Support children with facial disfigurements System ① Regional Headquarter in Vietnam and Laos, so that they can receive Arts and Culture medical treatment, in alignment with Korea’s • A pilot project to address issues 106 Global Highlight medical volunteer corps on water contamination and the • 2016 Performance: Around 10 Korean medical shortage of drinking water, and to 108 Facts & Figures professionals were sent to volunteer for one week raise awareness for hygiene and per year health, in collaboration with the 114 Appendices Rainwater Research Center of the Seoul National University and the non-profit Vietnam organization Better World • Provide ‘Dreams Come True’ and other programs • Install drinking water equipment for underprivileged children and elementary and provide hygiene and healthcare school students from low-income families, so that education they can travel, have fun at amusement parks, and • Install drinking water equipment be benefited from comprehensive educational that uses rain water at newly-built ② support programs elementary schools • Offer regular water quality monitoring as well as hygiene and healthcare education • Expanded our support for drinking homepage blog facebook youtube instagram water vehicles and beneficiary areas 2017 Sustainability Report 103 Peru Search • Assist an underdeveloped mountain village (Tilina) in breeding livestock and commercializing local specialties in order to Africa & Middle East improve their quality of life 003 CEO Message Regional Headquarter 005 Company Overview Chile – Environmental Improvement and Child ② Education Support in Valparaiso 007 2016 Highlights • A program operated in collaboration with Good Neighbors in 011 CSV Highlights order to address the environmental pollution issues caused by waste as well as educational inequality issues 030 Sustainability Performance • Operate recycling trucks and environmental educational centers for children Our System • Plan to operate visiting educational programs and promote recycling in 2017 Our Value • 2016 Performance: Recycling trucks are under pilot operation 044 Product Responsibility for 27 schools, 57 schools confirmed their participation, and donated the profits generated through recycling campaign to 057 Eco-friendliness school development funds 070 Suppliers 079 Employees 090 Society 092  ey CSR Activities K ① 096  SR Activities C of Overseas Subsidiaries Central & South America 105 Supporting the Regional Headquarters Arts and Culture 106 Global Highlight ① Morocco 108 Facts & Figures • Provide elementary schoolers aged between 7 and 11 with educational program on road safety and environmental protection 114 Appendices • Provide on-site education package (teachers, teaching aids, stationary supplies, etc.) • 2016 Performance: Provide supports to approximately 50 schools in 10 cities (100 occasions per year) South Africa ② • Build libraries at local elementary schools located in impoverished areas to benefit both schools and their students • 2016 Performance: Built libraries and donated books and equipment Nigeria homepage blog facebook youtube instagram • Donate educational equipment to schools in impoverished areas 2017 Sustainability Report 104 Supporting the Arts and Culture Classification 2016 Achievements Mid-to Long-term Directions Tate Modern Search National • MMCA Hyundai Motor Series 2016: •M  MCA Hyundai Motor Series 2017: Museum Kimsooja – Archive of Mind IM Heung-soon – Things that do us part We have formed a long-term partnership with the worldof Modern and 003 CEO Message Contemporary renowned Tate Modern in London, a modern art museum that Art attracts more than 5 million visitors each year, to present the 005 Company Overview ‘Hyundai Commission’ exhibitions. This project selects one •H  yundai Commission 2016: •H  yundai Commission 2017: 007 2016 Highlights Tate Modern Philippe Parreno Superflex globally-acclaimed artist per year to create large-scale installation artworks, and will last for 10 years from 2015. Following the 011 CSV Highlights •T  he Hyundai Project at LACMA: •T  he Hyundai Project at LACMA: exhibition presented by Abraham Cruzvillegas in 2015, in 2016 the Los Angeles art + technology art + technology (ongoing) 030 Sustainability Performance French artist Philippe Parreno showcased his exhibition ‘Anywhen’, County – Supporting the art + technology Lab – Supporting the art + technology Lab (ongoing) Museum of Art – ‘Rain Room’ by Random International – Alejandro Inarritu which allowed visitors to experience time and space in ways Our System (extended and closed in November) never before possible. Our Value 044 Product Responsibility Los Angeles County Museum of Art 057 Eco-friendliness Hyundai delivers a wide array of values and experiences to our The ‘Hyundai Project at LACMA’ is a partnership between 070 Suppliers customers by supporting the arts and culture on global stage. We Hyundai and Los Angeles County Museum of Art (LACMA), and 079 Employees also generate creative brand values and promote technological will continue until 2024. LACMA is known for its commitment to innovation based on understanding and respect for the art the cultural diversity of the Pacific Rim, and the values integrated 090 Society community. into its perspectives on both history and the future. Hyundai 092  ey CSR Activities K respects and shares LACMA’s philosophy and vision of pursuing MMCA Hyundai Motor cultural diversity and constant innovation. 096  SR Activities C Series 2016: Kimsooja – of Overseas National Museum of Modern and Archive of Mind Subsidiaries Contemporary Art Based on the common denominators of technology and arts 105 Supporting the innovation, we pay homage to LACMA’s spirit of challenge in Arts and Culture exploring new possibilities in ‘art + technology’, creating whole The ‘MMCA Hyundai Motor Series’ aims to expand the boundaries 106 Global Highlight of Korean arts, and give Korea’s prominent artists a platform at an new areas of convergence between arts and technology. We international level. By showcasing exhibitions for Korean artists, therefore formed a long-term partnership with LACMA, and 108 Facts & Figures such as LEE BUL in 2014 and Ahn Kyuchul in 2015, the MMCA Hyundai Commission 2016: sponsor the ‘art + technology’ project which supports the Philippe Parreno 114 Appendices Hyundai Motor Series has enabled contemporary Korean artists innovative research and creative activities undertaken by artists to unleash their spirit of creativity and experimentation, which looking to combine arts with science and technology. In 2015, has resonated widely with a huge audience. the ‘Rain Room’ exhibition was presented by the artist group Random International, featuring a fantastic area of rainfall created The third MMCA Hyundai Motor Series was held in 2016, and was within the exhibition space. This was followed by a retrospective entitled ‘Archive of Mind’, a solo exhibition created by Kimsooja, The Hyundai Project at LACMA – exhibition of the Los Angeles-based media artist Diana Thater, art & technology a world-renowned conceptual and installation artist. Archive and thus opened the first chapter in our long-term partnership. of Mind unveiled nine artworks between July 27th 2016 and In 2016, James Turrell, a prominent artist and a pioneer in ‘art February 5th 2017, and was one of the largest solo exhibitions + technology’, presented his artwork ‘Light Reignfall’, which held at MMCA Seoul. has since become part of LACMA’s collection. We have also supported a wide range of creative research undertaken by the ‘art homepage blog facebook youtube instagram + technology Lab’. 2017 Sustainability Report 105 Global Highlight H-OnDream Audition for young social entrepreneurs, celebrating its 5th class in 2016 Reliable Partner for Social Entrepreneurs Building a Better Future At the core of our social philosophy of ‘Moving the World Together’ are social enterprises which use their innovative business models to create jobs and address local community issues. Guided by our commitment to sustainable social enterprise, we foster leading social enterprises, support them in each phase of their growth, and develop a platform to facilitate the social enterprise ecosystem. Number of annual beneficiaries of 140,000+ ‘Easy Life’ Number of jobs created through 1,439 ‘H-OnDream Audition’ Easy Life to promote senior welfare H-OnDream Audition to cultivate while creating social jobs young social entrepreneurs Compound annual growth rate of 25% Easy Move Inc. ‘Easy Life’ is Korea’s first social enterprise to serve the mobility The ‘H-OnDream Audition’ was initiated in 2012 by Hyundai needs of seniors and people with physical or mental challenges. Motor Group and Hyundai Motor’s Chung Mong Koo It provides vehicle transport, mobile nursing care and bathing, Foundation to support social enterprises which help young nursing homes, and the sale and rental of welfare equipment. social entrepreneurs with creative and innovative ideas to It also offers middle aged women with career discontinuation address social issues. Every year, teams compete in the sectorthe opportunity to find a stable job and realize their potential. specific preliminaries and nationwide finals, and 30 winning There are 140,000 beneficiaries of Easy Life every year, and as of teams are awarded not just prize money but also financial and 2016, the company employs nearly 800 women whose careers management support, resource alignment and the mentoring had previously come to an end. Hyundai has supported Easy that is critical to ensure their sustainable growth and business Life since 2006, in particular by building ‘Easy Hub’, which offers success. In the fifth H-OnDream Audition held in 2016, the nursing and leisure programs for seniors, and by developing Grand Prize went to the ‘Two-Together’ team, which had the its mobile nursing care centers. We provide financial and idea of providing tour services for physically or mentallymanagement support to boost the growth of the company, challenged people, and improving their tourism infrastructure. and we also help to improve the quality of the welfare services From 2012 to 2016, we have supported 150 start-up teams and create quality jobs, which ultimately contributes to the and created jobs for 1,439 people. We will continue to align development of local communities. with innovative social enterprises in order to help resolve social Easy Life – Korea’s first social enterprise to serve the mobility needs of seniors and people with disabilities issues and create jobs. 2017 Sustainability Report 106 Stakeholder Interview Easy Move Inc. honored with the Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy Award at the ‘Most Loved Companies’ award in 2016 Employees of Easy Move Inc. What is the value of Easy Move Inc. as a social enterprise and what is your business direction? Our value lies in how we have remained consistently sustainable in the Electric Scooters manufactured by seven years since our foundation as a social manufacturing enterprise, Easy Move Inc. and how we have positioned ourselves as a viable member of the corporate ecosystem. Just as with any other business, our success as a social enterprise depends on critical building blocks such as ensuring the best quality and offering swift and reliable services. At Easy Move, we aim to build on these fundamental endeavors, and also to give back to society through our business. How can you create a virtuous cycle through which social enterprises make profits and therefore attract investment? The most important requirement is to create sufficient capital. Even if you have great values and purpose when you start your business, the chances of success are low if you have insufficient capital. Continued investments from major companies and investments from financial institutions have therefore played a key role in ensuring the growth of Easy Move. We beEasy Move Inc., getting in step with lieve that if major investments flow continuously into social enterprises, people with mobility challenges this would help to develop a successful social investment model. How do you expect Hyundai to promote social contributions and Easy Move Inc. was founded in 2010, and was the first social sales service. In addition to our initial investments, Hyundai the growth of social enterprises? enterprise in Korea in the mobility aid industry. Backed by has continued to provide additional support, and has used our The investment and support that Hyundai provided to Easy Move was investments from Hyundai, ten non-profit foundations joined expertise in R&D and marketing to contribute to strengthening not just about making philanthropic contributions, but instead repretogether to create Easy Move to provide safer and more its business. As a result, it turned a profit for the first time six sented a sustainable model for creating shared value (CSV) that all of convenient mobility assistance devices to people with mobility years after its establishment, and has been growing at an annual us aspire to achieve. It is our profound hope that this example can benefit other social enterprises as well. We hope that the model of having challenges, including senior citizens and people with physical/ rate of 25%. In 2016, Easy Move posted KRW 5.8 billion in sales, a large business as an investor becomes deeply rooted, and is adopted mental disabilities. It manufactures and sells high-technology and also became the first social enterprise to receive impact by other large businesses and institutions joining in with Hyundai’s and high value-added mobility aids – rehabilitation training investments from financial institutions, as well as being honored CSV initiative to help our society change for the better. equipment, strollers, mobility aids, and welfare vehicles – for with the Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy Award in the a range of age groups. While imported products are expensive social venture category at the fourth ‘Most Loved Companies’ Doyoung Oh CEO and limited in after-sales service, Easy Move products are award in 2016. Easy Move has thus become widely recognized Easy Move Inc., Korea recognized for their competitive pricing, quality and afteras a success story in social enterprise investment. 2017 Sustainability Report 107 Facts & Figures Classification Index Unit 2014 2015 2016 Note Search Number of training sessions in Korea Case 41 45 83 Compliance Sum of online trainings (two sessions since its launch in 2015), Number of participants in Korea Person 2,900 57,100 27,470 management collective trainings, and others 003 CEO Message education Number of training sessions overseas Case 14 2 1 Number of participants overseas Person 765 1,940 610 005 Company Overview Total number of security staff (Internal) Person 359 359 359 Scope : Personnel responsible for patrol and building security 007 2016 Highlights Security practices Total number of security staff (Outsourced) Person 614 614 614 (Korea) No. of security personnel trained in the Person 926 926 933 Training on manuals to respond to building tenants, work ethics, etc. 011 CSV Highlights organization’s human rights policies Korea % 41.2 38.9 36.0 030 Sustainability Performance Market share Excluding Korea % 5.1 4.9 4.8 Our System Global % 5.8 5.6 5.5 Korea Vehicle 1,876,428 1,858,395 1,679,905 Our Value U.S. Vehicle 398,851 384,519 379,020 China Vehicle 1,120,000 1,052,000 1,142,000 044 Product Responsibility India Vehicle 610,650 645,012 665,017 057 Eco-friendliness Czech Republic Vehicle 307,450 342,200 358,400 Global production Turkey Vehicle 203,157 226,500 230,010 070 Suppliers Russia Vehicle 237,000 229,500 207,000 079 Employees Brazil Vehicle 179,480 175,002 161,756 China (Commercial) Vehicle 22,520 30,552 37,881 090 Society Consignment (Commercial) Vehicle 4,635 4,511 Total Vehicle 4,955,536 4,948,315 4,865,500 108 Facts & Figures Our System Korea Vehicle 685,191 714,121 658,642 114 Appendices Global sales Excluding Korea Vehicle 4,278,344 4,250,710 4,201,407 Global Vehicle 4,963,535 4,964,831 4,860,049 Sales KRW billion 89,256 91,959 93,649 Operating profit KRW billion 7,550 6,358 5,194 Statements of income (Consolidated) Net profit KRW billion 7,649 6,509 5,720 Includes minority interest Operating profit + depreciation of tangible assets + depreciation of EBITDA KRW billion 10,100 9,152 8,552 real estate held for investment + depreciation of intangible assets Sales KRW billion 43,046 44,440 41,714 Operating profit KRW billion 3,735 4,267 2,699 Statements of income (Separate) Net profit KRW billion 4,914 5,435 4,102 Operating profit + depreciation of tangible assets + depreciation of EBITDA KRW billion 5,349 6,047 4,913 real estate held for investment + depreciation of intangible assets Total assets KRW billion 147,225 165,368 178,836 Statements of financial position Total liabilities KRW billion 84,604 98,487 106,491 (Consolidated) Shareholders’ equity KRW billion 62,621 66,881 72,345 Total assets KRW billion 61,342 66,977 69,851 Statements of financial position Total liabilities KRW billion 15,681 17,281 17,271 (Separate) Shareholders’ equity KRW billion 45,661 49,696 52,580 Profitability ratio Operating profit margin % 8.5 6.9 5.5 (Consolidated) Net profit margin % 8.6 7.1 6.1 Profitability ratio Operating profit margin % 8.7 9.6 6.5 homepage blog facebook youtube instagram (Separate) Net profit margin % 11.4 12.2 9.8 2017 Sustainability Report 108 Classification Index Unit 2014 2015 2016 Note Search HMMA (America) KRW billion 7,437 7,510 8,217 BHMC (China) KRW billion 19,756 19,203 20,129 HMI (India) KRW billion 4,637 5,404 5,981 003 CEO Message Sales by overseas HAOS (Turkey) KRW billion 2,744 3,186 3,320 subsidiary 005 Company Overview HMMC (Czech) KRW billion 5,398 5,794 6,787 HMMR (Russia) KRW billion 2,384 1,930 2,041 007 2016 Highlights HMB (Brazil) KRW billion 2,263 1,710 1,636 Dividends (Shareholders and investors) KRW billion 817 1,080 1,080 011 CSV Highlights Interest expenses KRW billion 300 259 272 (Shareholders and investors) 030 Sustainability Performance Salaries (Employees) KRW billion 8,538 8,846 8,878 Distribution of economic Our System value by stakeholder Raw materials costs (Suppliers) KRW billion 49,677 52,095 52,102 Our System (Consolidated) Income tax (Government) KRW billion 2,302 1,950 1,587 Our Value Donation (Local community) KRW billion 71 66 76 Total KRW billion 61,705 64,296 63,995 044 Product Responsibility Dividends (Shareholders and investors) KRW billion 817 1,080 1,080 Interest expenses KRW billion 123 111 129 057 Eco-friendliness (Shareholders and investors) Distribution of economic Salaries (Employees) KRW billion 6,211 6,259 6,265 070 Suppliers value by stakeholder Raw materials costs (Suppliers) KRW billion 26,311 26,740 25,001 (Separate) Income tax (Government) KRW billion 1,194 1,245 841 079 Employees Donation (Local community) KRW billion 50 51 50 090 Society Total KRW billion 34,706 35,486 33,366 Score a vehicle 3 years after its purchase based on the durability Product durability index Point (Ranking) 169 (16th) 188 (15th) 158 (9th) quality (points per 100 vehicles) 108 Facts & Figures Quality index Score a vehicle 90 days after its purchase based on the number of New vehicle quality index Point (Ranking) 94 (1st) 95 (2nd) 92 (2nd) complaints (points per 100 vehicles) 114 Appendices Hyundai Customer Satisfaction Index Score 80.3 78.3 79.4 (Composite index) Survey of customers who have bought a new vehicle in recent 3 years No. of customers participated in the HCSI Person 3,100 4,000 4,000 1st place at 5 External evaluation – segments; 1st place at all 1st place at all Conducted by Korea Productivity Center Ranking National Customer Satisfaction Index 2nd place at segments segments (compact, semi-medium, medium, semi-large, large, RV) 1 segment Customer satisfaction survey External evaluation – 1st place at all 1st place at all 1st place at all Conducted by Korean Standards Association Ranking Korean Standard-Quality Excellence Index segments segments segments (semi-medium, medium, SUV, after service) External evaluation – 1st place at all 1st place at all 1st place at all Conducted by Korea Management Association Consulting Ranking Korean Customer Satisfaction Index segments segments segments (passenger car, RV) External evaluation – 1st place at all 1st place at all 1st place at all Product Ranking Korean Service Quality Index segments segments segments Conducted by Korea Management Association Consulting Responsibility (sales, maintenance) External evaluation – 1st place at all 1st place at all Ranking Korean Net Promoter Score segments segments Point Hyundai Customer Satisfaction Index – Korea 82.0 (1st) 81.8 (1st) 82.7 (2nd) Service centers and bluehands (Ranking) Satisfaction level of Score (Number of customer service countries where 841 882 893 Scoring system has been changed due to changes in survey structure Hyundai Global Satisfaction Index – Overseas the survey was (25 countries) (28 countries) (26 countries) and questions in 2015 conducted) Marketing communication activities (Korea) Case 0 0 0 Incidents of non-compliance with laws and regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications such as advertising, Marketing communication activities (Overseas) Case 0 0 0 sales promotion, and sponsorship; based on a business report Non-compliance with Incidents of non-compliance with customer information-related laws regulations and voluntary Customer information protection Case 0 0 1 and regulations and number of administrative actions (Korea) codes Incidents of non-compliance with laws and regulations and number of homepage blog facebook youtube instagram Product information provision Case 0 0 1 administrative actions regarding information provided to customers to inform vehicle performance and function such as fuel efficiency 2017 Sustainability Report 109 Classification Index Unit 2014 2015 2016 Note Search LNG Mwh 1,683,424 1,569,306 1,606,054 Electricity Mwh 3,595,979 3,619,249 3,596,858 Energy Diesel, Kerosene, Gasoline Mwh 111,087 82,307 72,244 003 CEO Message consumption Liquefied fuel Mwh 1,796 105 152 005 Company Overview Gaseous fuel Mwh 2,914 457 1,280 Total Mwh 5,395,200 5,271,424 5,276,588 007 2016 Highlights Energy intensity Energy consumed in producing one vehicle Mwh/Vehicle 1.09 1.07 1.08 011 CSV Highlights Scope 1 tCO2e 835,240 816,952 806,933 Greenhouse gas emissions Scope 2 tCO2e 1,745,981 1,753,243 1,737,914 030 Sustainability Performance Total tCO2e 2,581,221 2,570,195 2,544,847 Greenhouse gas emission Greenhouse gas emissions per vehicle Our System tCO2e/Vehicle 0.521 0.519 0.523 intensity production Our Value Scope 1 tCO2e 7,395 -18,288 -10,019 Year-on-year change of Scope 2 tCO2e 147,266 7,262 -15,329 greenhouse gas emissions 044 Product Responsibility Total tCO2e 139,871 -11,026 -25,348 International certification on Certification in accordance with international standards on vehicle 057 Eco-friendliness Vehicle 11 12 12 eco-friendliness eco-friendliness Cumulative number of models certified as eco-friendly vehicles GHG emission certifications Vehicle 14 15 15 070 Suppliers Carbon labeling certification Low-carbon product certifications Vehicle 2 4 4 079 Employees Steel (amounts used) Ton 801,851 1,234,078 1,249,939 Steel (scrap) Ton 270,178 499,860 458,982 090 Society EcoRaw materials friendliness Aluminum (amounts used) Ton 30,170 120,785 109,122 Aluminum (scrap) Ton 7,094 34,314 30,593 108 Facts & Figures Total Ton 709,602 767,512 663,796 114 Appendices Regular waste (by type) Ton 662,977 721,794 617,795 Weight of waste Specified waste (by type) Ton 46,625 45,718 46,001 Korea (by region) Ton 388,310 434,812 359,438 Overseas (by region) Ton 321,292 332,700 304,358 Total Ton 739,417 664,834 586,303 Landfill Ton 119,437 26,189 27,275 Weight of waste by disposal Incineration Ton 48,636 34,439 60,978 method Recycling Ton 564,571 597,769 493,102 Others Ton 6,773 6,436 4,948 Water consumed Ton 20,845,135 20,747,991 18,817,437 Korea Ton 13,277,468 13,067,942 12,895,791 Overseas Ton 7,567,667 7,680,049 5,921,646 Water recycled Ton 2,146,680 1,853,393 2,300,269 Consumption Korea Ton 601,128 605,627 649,310 2015 figures of worksites in Korea have been recalculated of water Overseas Ton 1,545,552 1,247,766 1,650,959 Recycling ratio % 10.3 8.9 12.2 Korea % 4.5 4.6 5.0 Overseas % 20.4 16.2 27.9 homepage blog facebook youtube instagram 2017 Sustainability Report 110 Classification Index Unit 2014 2015 2016 Note Search Total Ton 1,221 1,117 1,172 CO (by type) Ton 345 334 275 SOx (by type) Ton 40 37 37 003 CEO Message Air pollutants NOx (by type) Ton 399 411 460 005 Company Overview PM (by type) Ton 437 335 400 Korea (by region) Ton 330 292 342 007 2016 Highlights Overseas (by region) Ton 891 825 830 011 CSV Highlights COD kg 225,977 183,653 173,092 BOD kg 58,330 23,919 21,525 030 Sustainability Performance Water pollutants SS kg 44,732 28,722 25,313 Our System n-H kg 417 507 166 Others kg 378,123 374,673 463,254 Our Value Consumption of refrigerant Total Ton 1,121 930 528 (HFC, R135a, etc.) 044 Product Responsibility Total kg 707,579 611,474 683,350 EcoCOD (by type) kg 225,977 183,653 173,092 057 Eco-friendliness friendliness BOD (by type) kg 58,330 23,919 21,525 070 Suppliers SS (by type) kg 44,732 28,722 25,313 Water pollutants n-H (by type) kg 417 507 166 079 Employees Others (by type) kg 378,123 374,673 463,254 Korea (by region) kg 47,835 34,932 33,355 090 Society Overseas (by region) kg 659,744 576,542 649,995 108 Facts & Figures Total Ton 10,631 11,772 9,615 VOC emissions Korea Ton 8,429 8,130 7,241 114 Appendices Overseas Ton 2,202 3,642 2,374 Total Ton 13,610 13,479 4,521 Consumption of hazardous Korea Ton 1,679 1,237 900 chemical substances Overseas Ton 11,931 12,242 3,621 Non-compliance with regulations Penalty and fine for non-compliance with Overseas manufacturing plants have been added to the reporting KRW 61,388,000 480,000 5,860,000 and voluntary codes environmental regulations scope since 2016 Costs and investments for Figures for the year 2014 and 2015 have been recalculated due to the Total KRW billion 133.2 115.4 156.4 environmental protection corrections and additions made by overseas subsidiaries Support for Foundation of Quality and Technology Volunteer Group Company 97 97 101 Korea Automotive Parts Industry Promotion Supplier Support Group Company 43 46 50 Suppliers in joint growth and Number of suppliers in the agreements Company 293 298 298 fair trade agreements Joint recruitment with suppliers Number of people hired Person 17,510 18,600 13,000 Suppliers Cumulative number of suppliers Number of suppliers Company 607 600 700 in joint expansion partnership Non-compliance with regulations Legal sanction against the violation of Case 0 0 0 Unfair competition such as collusion and monopoly-related violations and voluntary codes fair trade Energy-Saving Technology Number of suppliers participated Company 26 32 33 Exchange Meeting Supply chain management Some 300 tier 1 suppliers; some 5, 000 tier 2 and 3 suppliers; Number of supplies Company 8,800 8,800 8,800 (Korea) and some 3,000 raw material suppliers and others homepage blog facebook youtube instagram 2017 Sustainability Report 111 Classification Index Unit 2014 2015 2016 Note Search Korea Person 64,956 65,614 66,890 Overseas Person 44,792 46,458 51,430 Number of employees Portion of employees working overseas % 40.8 41.5 43.5 003 CEO Message Total Person 109,748 112,072 118,320 005 Company Overview Korea Person 64,956 65,614 66,890 North America Person 6,558 7,881 9,886 007 2016 Highlights Europe Person 6,693 6,277 6,625 Workforce 011 CSV Highlights China Person 17,173 17,951 19,447 by region India Person 8,984 9,343 9,284 030 Sustainability Performance Others Person 5,384 5,006 5,257 Our System Total Person 109,748 112,072 117,389 Management Person 183 265 369 Our Value Research committee Person 12 16 19 Research Person 9,161 9,701 10,037 044 Product Responsibility Office work Person 11,668 12,078 11,756 Workforce by 057 Eco-friendliness duty in Korea Technology, production, maintenance Person 33,337 34,529 35,439 Sales Person 6,199 6,166 6,185 070 Suppliers Includes such special-duty employees as flight attendants, nurses, Others Person 4,396 2 ,859 3,085 and helicopter pilots 079 Employees Total Person 64,956 65,614 66,890 Number of people with labor union 090 Society Labor union membership Person 46,217 46,844 48,150 membership (Korea) Labor union membership percentage % 71.2 71.4 72.0 108 Facts & Figures Employees New recruitment Global Person 6,453 6,681 7,053 114 Appendices Employee turnover Number of employee turnover Person 85 69 104 (Korea) Employee turnover rate % 0.13 0.11 0.16 Number of employees on parental leave Person 19 34 50 (Male) Number of employees on parental leave Person 150 176 212 (Female) Parental leave (Korea) Return rate after parental leave (Male) % 95.0 94.1 89.1 Ratio of employees excluding those who resigned Return rate after parental leave (Female) % 97.0 96.6 89.1 Retention rate after parental leave (Male) % 96.0 Ratio of employees who have stayed at work for at least 12 months Retention rate after parental leave (Female) % 85.6 after returning back to work; new indicator added in 2016 Number of female employees (Korea) Person 3,046 3,166 3,436 Number of female executives (Korea) Person 3 3 4 Female employment rate (Korea) % 4.7 4.8 5.1 Number of female employees Person 960 1,291 1,390 (North America) Number of female executives Person 4 9 6 (North America) Female Female employment rate (North America) % 14.6 16.4 14.1 employees Number of female employees (Europe) Person 1,058 965 1,212 Number of female executives (Europe) Person 3 2 2 Female employment rate (Europe) % 15.8 15.4 18.3 Number of female employees (China) Person 2,044 1,777 2,152 homepage blog facebook youtube instagram Number of female executives (China) Person 0 9 10 Female employment rate (China) % 11.9 9.9 11.1 2017 Sustainability Report 112 Classification Index Unit 2014 2015 2016 Note Search Number of female employees (India) Person 140 144 160 Number of female executives (India) Person 0 0 0 Female employment rate (India) % 1.6 1.5 1.7 003 CEO Message Number of female employees (Others) Person 470 292 527 005 Company Overview Female Number of female executives (Others) Person employees Female employment rate (Others) % 8.7 5.8 10.0 007 2016 Highlights Total number of female employees Person 7,718 7,635 8,877 011 CSV Highlights Total number of female executives Person 10 23 22 Total number of female executives % 7.0 6.8 7.5 030 Sustainability Performance Number of employees with disabilities Person 1,766 1,864 1,867 Employees with disabilities (Korea) Percentage of employees with disabilities % 2.72 2.84 2.79 Our System Outstanding talent work rotation Korea Person 19 7 6 Our Value program participants Overseas Person 16 10 0 Employees Training expenses per employee KWR 10,000 67 61 55 044 Product Responsibility Employee training Training hours Training hours per employee 62 71 56 (Korea) per employee 057 Eco-friendliness Total training expenses KRW billion 43.6 40.2 36.9 070 Suppliers Employee satisfaction Score Score out of 5 3.46 3.55 Survey was not conducted in 2015 No. of employees involved in occupational Person 345 339 217 079 Employees accidents (Korea) Based on figures of Ulsan, Asan and Jeonju plants in Korea Accident rate (Korea) % 0.90 0.87 0.55 090 Society No. of employees involved in occupational Person 82 55 38 Occupational accidents accidents (Overseas) Based on figures of overseas manufacturing plants 108 Facts & Figures Accident rate (Overseas) % 0.22 0.15 0.10 No. of employees involved in occupational 114 Appendices accidents (Total) Person 427 394 255 Based on figures of Ulsan, Asan and Jeonju plants in Korea and overseas manufacturing plants Accident rate (Total) % 0.56 0.52 0.33 Social welfare KRW million 24,058 26,109 22,252 Medical and healthcare KRW million 102 806 380 Education KRW million 15,236 15,431 10,369 Culture & Sports KRW million 9,722 21,341 27,004 Social contributions Environmental protection KRW million 1,285 921 1,310 (Korea) Emergency relief KRW million 4,662 368 5,508 International exchange KRW million 2,713 2,633 1,941 Society Othres KRW million 7,422 2,840 6,738 total KRW million 65,200 70,449 75,502 Number of volunteer activities Case 2,691 2,546 2,348 Voluntary performance of employees Number of participants Person 23,480 24,499 28,462 (Korea) Number of hours participated Hour 132,887 166,912 144,697 Traffic Accident Zero for Children Number of vehicles donated Vehicle 11 13 14 2014 and 2015 figures are the performance results of the campaign Number of organizations supported Organization 37 27 115 ‘H-together’ projects homepage blog facebook youtube instagram 2017 Sustainability Report 113 Search 003 CEO Message 005 Company Overview 007 2016 Highlights 011 CSV Highlights 030 Sustainability Performance 114 Appendices Appendices homepage blog facebook youtube instagram 2017 Sustainability Report 114 GRI Index General Standard Disclosures Search GRI G4 No. Description Page Reference G4-1 Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organization 3~4 Strategy and analysis 003 CEO Message G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 34, 64 G4-3 Name of the organization 5 005 Company Overview G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services 5 G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters 121 007 2016 Highlights G4-6 Countries with significant operations 6 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 38 011 CSV Highlights G4-8 Markets served 5~6 030 Sustainability Performance G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization 5~6 Organizational profile G4-10 The total workforce by employment type, gender, employment contract and region 112 114 Appendices G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 82 G4-12 Description of the organization’s supply chain 70, 111 115 GRI Index G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period relating to size, structure, or ownership or its supply chain No significant change 118 Independent Assurance G4-14 Implementation of the precautionary approach or principle 13~18, 68~69 Statement G4-15 External initiatives that the organization endorses 121 121 About this Report G4-16 Memberships of associations such as industry associations 22, 28, 53, 69, 121 G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents 6 G4-18 Process for defining report content 42~43, 121 G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 43 Identified material aspects and G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization 43 boundaries G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization 43 G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements 111 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 5 G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 35 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 35 Stakeholder engagement G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement by type and by stakeholder group 35 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has G4-27 35, 43 responded to them G4-28 Reporting period 121 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 121 G4-30 Reporting cycle 121 Report profile G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 121 G4-32 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 115~117 G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 118~119 G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body 36~38 Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. If G4-37 36~38 consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body G4-38 The composition of the highest governance body and its committees 36~38 G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 38 Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and G4-40 36 Governance selecting highest governance body members G4-41 Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed 38 Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social G4-43 38 topics Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of performance, including relevant G4-45 36~37 risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct and principles Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and homepage blog facebook youtube instagram G4-46 34 social topics 2017 Sustainability Report 115 GRI G4 No. Description Page Reference Search G4-47 The frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities 36 G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered 36, 121 Governance The nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to 003 CEO Message G4-50 36~37, 53, 85 address and resolve them G4-52 Process for determining remuneration 37 005 Company Overview G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 33~34 The internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as 007 2016 Highlights Ethics and integrity G4-57 33~34 helplines or advice lines Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational G4-58 33 011 CSV Highlights integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines 030 Sustainability Performance Specific Standard Disclosure 114 Appendices GRI G4 No. Description Page Reference a. The mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach Disclosure on 42~46, 57~59, 70~72, 79~81, 115 GRI Index G4-DMA b. The results of the evaluation of the management approach Management Approach 89~91 c. Any related adjustments to the management approach 118 Independent Assurance Economic Statement G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 39~41 Economic G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 13~14, 64, 68~69 121 About this Report G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s definedbenefit plan obligations 86 Market presence G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation 83 G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 16~29, 92~107 Indirect economic impacts G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 92~107 Environmental G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 110 Materials G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 110 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 110 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 58, 110 Energy G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 63~64 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 13~14, 68~69 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 110 Water G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 110 G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas N/A Biodiversity G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored 17, 93 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 63~64, 110 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 63~64, 110 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 58, 110 Emissions G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 63~64 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 111 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions 65, 111 G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 66, 111 Effluents and waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 66, 110 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 67, 111 Products and services G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 13~14, 68~69 Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 111 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting Transport G4-EN30 64 members of the workforce Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 111 homepage blog facebook youtube instagram Supplier environmental G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 75~76 assessment 2017 Sustainability Report 116 GRI G4 No. Description Page Reference Search Social Labor Practices and Decent Work G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 112 003 CEO Message Employment G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation 86 005 Company Overview G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 112 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on G4-LA5 86 occupational health and safety programs 007 2016 Highlights Occupational Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of workrelated fatalities, by region and by health and safety G4-LA6 86, 113 gender 011 CSV Highlights G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 82, 86 030 Sustainability Performance G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 80 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career Training and education G4-LA10 84 endings 114 Appendices G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category 85 115 GRI Index Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group Diversity and equal opportunity G4-LA12 112~113 membership, and other indicators of diversity 118 Independent Assurance Supplier assessment for labor G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken 8, 75~76 practices Statement Human Rights 121 About this Report Investment G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of 108 human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Freedom of association and Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant G4-HR4 8, 82 collective bargaining risk, and measures taken to support these rights Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition Child labor G4-HR5 75 of child labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the Forced or compulsory labor G4-HR6 75 elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Society Local communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 92~107 Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 33~34, 108 Anti-competitive behavior G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes 111 Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations 54 Product Responsibility G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement 47 Customer health and safety Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and G4-PR2 54 services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage G4-PR3 54 of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Product and service labeling Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by G4-PR4 54 type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 53, 109 G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products N/A Marketing communications Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, G4-PR7 54 promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Customer privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 54 Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services 54 homepage blog facebook youtube instagram 2017 Sustainability Report 117 Independent Assurance Statement To the Stakeholders of Hyundai Motor 6. The scope and boundaries of the assurance process have been conducted according Search to the boundaries of the time period, region, and value chain of the report. Therefore, The Korea Productivity Center (the “Assurer”) was requested by Hyundai Motor to the scope of the assurance process meets 100 percent coverage of the nonprovide an independent assurance on the “Hyundai Motor 2017 Sustainability Report” consolidated revenue of the company, and data regarding the supply chain has not 003 CEO Message (the “Report”) and hereby provides the following assurance statement. been included unless specified. 005 Company Overview Responsibility and Independence Findings & Conclusion 007 2016 Highlights Hyundai Motor is entirely responsible for all information and opinions presented in this The Assurer verified that the Report accurately and fairly illustrates Hyundai Motor’s Report. The Assurer is solely responsible for the assurance statement on the content of 011 CSV Highlights sustainability management activity and performance. Moreover, through the assurance, the Report. As an independent assurance agency, the Assurer was neither involved in the Assurer verified that Hyundai Motor’s Report fulfilled the requirements of the GRI 030 Sustainability Performance the process of preparing this Report nor in any conflicts of interest that may undermine G4 Guidelines' Core Option. In the case of General Standard Disclosures, the Assurer our independence. verified that the Report is written in compliance with the requirements of the Core 114 Appendices Option. For Specific Standard Disclosures, the Assurer reviewed the Disclosure on Assurance Standards 115 GRI Index Management Approach (DMA) and indicators about material issues by using the The independent assurance was performed in accordance with Type 2 and moderate reporting criteria process below. The Assurer also reviewed the indicators regarding the 118 I ndependent Assurance level of assurance engagement based on the AA1000AS (2008) assurance standards. Statement non-material aspects of the Specific Standard Disclosures. The assurance statement checked the suitability of inclusivity, materiality, and 121 About this Report responsiveness by following the AA1000APS (2008) assurance principles. Moreover, it Material Issue GRI Material Aspect GRI Indicator verified whether the information on the Report is compliant with the GRI G4 Guidelines. Customer Health and Safety PR1, PR2 Product and Service Quality Product and Service Labeling PR3, PR4 Limitations Improvement of Financial The Assurer conducted an assurance engagement on Hyundai Motor’s 2016 Stability Economic Performance EC1, EC2, EC3 performance by following the assurance standards above. We verified the reliability of Compliance EN29, SO8 Hyundai Motor’s performance on the Report in the following manner: financial data Ethics/Compliance Anti-corruption SO4 were verified through the financial statement and disclosed documents audited by an Management Customer Privacy PR2, PR8, PR9 auditing agency, and other data including GHG data and homepage linkage, etc. were Development of Eco-friendly verified with the existing assurance results. Furthermore, the on-site inspection was Products Products and Services EN27 limited to the Seoul headquarters, research centers (Namyang, Uiwang), and the Ulsan Labor-Management Relations Labor/Management Relations LA4 Plant. The Assurer states that if an additional assurance process is performed in the Communication with External future, the results may be different. Marketing Communications PR5, PR7 Stakeholders EC7, EC8 Methodology Social Contribution Marketing Communications HR2 The following method was used to provide the assurance about the Report: Reduction in GHG Emissions Emissions EN15, EN16, EN17, EN18 1. Verified whether requirements from the Core Option of the GRI G4 Guidelines were Support for the Growth of the Supplier Environmental Assessment EN3 fulfilled. Supply Chain Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices LA15 2. Verified consistency with the principles dictating the content and quality of Employee Health and Safety Occupational Health and Safety LA5, LA6, LA7 sustainability reports based on the GRI G4 Guidelines. 3. Verified the objectivity and appropriateness of the material issues selected and the content of the Report by conducting media research and a benchmark analysis. 4. Verified the suitability of the information and expression errors through a comparison analysis with other publications. 5. Verified the evidence of data and information, internal process, and system through an on-site inspection of the Seoul headquarters, research centers (Namyang, homepage blog facebook youtube instagram Uiwang), and Ulsan plant. 2017 Sustainability Report 118 1. Inclusivity: Participation of Stakeholders ● Expanding the data management scope: There is a need for Hyundai Motor to Search The principle of inclusivity articulates that organizations should include stakeholders manage the results of CSR/CSV according to the social, cultural, and environmental in the process of developing strategic responses to and achieving sustainability. In characteristics of each country. In terms of the important issues of each country that this regard, the Assurer could verify that Hyundai Motor made various efforts to abide Hyundai Motor operates in, the Assurer recommends that the company expand the 003 CEO Message by and improve the principle of inclusivity in 2016. The Assurer verified that Hyundai scope of data management to manage the results of activities not only from a global 005 Company Overview Motor categorizes its major stakeholders into six groups, including customers/ perspective but also at the regional level. dealers, employees, and suppliers, and that the company is collecting stakeholders’ 007 2016 Highlights opinions by actively communicating with them. Hyundai Motor has particularly 011 CSV Highlights expanded communication with shareholders through the Corporate Governance & Communication Committee and is actively promoting stakeholder engagement through 030 Sustainability Performance interviews with a wide range of stakeholders. 114 Appendices 2. Materiality: Significant Issue Identification and Reporting 115 GRI Index The principle of materiality articulates that organizations should focus on issues relevant 2June, 2017 118 I ndependent Assurance and material to both the organization and its major stakeholders. The Assurer found CEO Sun-jick Hong Statement that Hyundai Motor successfully identified issues relevant and material to the company and its major stakeholders based on a reasonable materiality analysis process. Hyundai 121 About this Report Motor deduced 10 core issues in 2017 and the Assurer could verify that the activities and key performance of the core issues are evenly covered in each page of the Report. Dong-soo Kim, Yang-ho Lee, Dae-kwon Yang, Within this process, the company’s efforts to select issues that are important to the Director Team Manager Senior Fellow company through the direct and indirect participation of employees is evident. 3. Responsiveness: Response to Issues The principle of responsiveness articulates that organizations should be responsive to the issues that may influence the performance of their stakeholders. The Assurer found that Hyundai Motor successfully identified issues which may impact stakeholders’ performance, implemented measures to address them, and adequately presented relevant information in the Report. Regarding the CSV activities that Hyundai Motor is pursuing as a priority, the company has composed a Report that is easy for stakeholders to understand and has also presented the social and business impact of each activity on the company. Hyundai Motor has made it easy for stakeholders to understand the company’s response to each issue by presenting the 2016 plans and results as well as the 2017 plans and midto long-term direction. Recommendations Upon appraising Hyundai Motor’s various efforts and performance for enhancing its sustainability, the Assurer makes the following proposals for future publications of the The Sustainability Management Center of the Korea Productivity Center is an assurance agency officially certified by AccountAbility [the organization that established AA1000, the international standard for Report and a higher standard of sustainability. stakeholder participation and verification] and is qualified to conduct independence assurance engagements. Our Assurance Committee is comprised of competent experts who have in-depth experience in sustainability ● Measuring external social and environmental effects: There is a need to calculate management consulting and assurance and have completed the relevant training. and manage the financial impact of the positive and negative social and environmental • AA1000AS (2008): The AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) is an international assurance standard, set by AccountAbility, that provides the method of reporting sustainability management issues by evaluating the effects occurring from business activities. Through this, stakeholders will be able organization management on performances, compliance with principles, and reliability of performance to recognize Hyundai Motor’s CSR/CSV activities as financial information and information. appropriately evaluate the company’s value. • AA1000APS (2008): The AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (2008) is an international assurance homepage blog facebook youtube instagram standard set by AccountAbility that provides the principles of the AA1000 standards. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 119 Search 003 CEO Message 005 Company Overview This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Hyundai Motor. LRQA’s Opinion 007 2016 Highlights Based on LRQA’s approach, except for the effect of the matter described in the following 011 CSV Highlights Terms of Engagement qualification, we believe that the GHG and energy data presented in the Report are Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) was commissioned by Hyundai Motor to materially correct : 030 Sustainability Performance assure its GHG Inventory Report for the calendar year 2015 (hereafter referred to as “the 114 Appendices Report”) and the GHG data summarised in Table 1 below. The Report has been prepared • The GHG emissions from LNG and electricity consumed by the companies which are in accordance with GHG Target Management Scheme for quantification and reporting of subject to GHG Target Management Scheme in Korea and are occupying Hyundai 115 GRI Index GHG emissions in Korea. The Report relates to direct GHG emissions and energy indirect Motor’s own buildings have not been excluded from Hyundai Motor’s organizational GHG emissions. boundary, but we are confident that they are below the materiality level. 118 I ndependent Assurance Statement 31st March 2016 121 About this Report Management Responsibility The management of Hyundai Motor is responsible for preparing the Report and for maintaining effective internal controls over all the data and information disclosed. LRQA’s responsibility was to carry out an assurance engagement on the Report in accordance with our contract with Hyundai Motor. Ultimately, the Report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of Hyundai Motor. SANG-KEUN YOO On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. 17th Floor, Singsong Building, 67 Yeouinaru-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, 07327, Korea LRQA’s Approach LRQA Reference: SEO 6012382 Our verification has been conducted in accordance with GHG Target Management Table1. GHG emissions reported in the Report Scheme in Korea: Specification with guidance for verification of greenhouse gas Scope (as defined within GHG Target Management Scheme in Korea) Year 2016 assertions to reasonable level of assurance. Direct GHG Emissions 488,537 Energy Indirect GHG Emissions 1,005,763 In order to form our conclusions we have : Total GHG Emissions 1,494,300 • Visited sites and reviewed processes to control the data and records regarding GHG Data is presented in tonnes of CO2 equivalent. emissions and energy uses • Interviewed the relevant persons responsible for managing and maintaining raw and consolidated data • Verified the historical data and information back to source for the calendar year 2015. Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as the ‘Lloyd’s Register Group’. The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register Group entity for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set Level of Assurance & Materiality out in that contract. The opinion expressed in this Assurance Statement has been formed on the basis of a Because of the inherent limitations in any internal control it is possible that fraud, error, or non-compliance with laws and regulations may occur and not be detected. Further, the verification was not designed to detect all weakness or errors in internal controls so far reasonable level of assurance and at a 2.5% level of materiality. as they relate to the requirements set out above as the verification has not been performed continuously throughout the period and the verification carried out on the relevant internal controls were on a test basis. Any projection of the evaluation of control to future periods is subject to the risk that the processes may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with them may deteriorate. The Korean version of this statement is the only valid version. The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility for versions homepage blog facebook youtube instagram translated into other languages. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 120 About this Report Search About This Report UN Global Compact Index 003 CEO Message This is the fifteenth Sustainability Report of Hyundai Motor Company, with the focus of this year’s Hyundai joined the UN Global Compact in 2008 and has since complied with the principles and report being on the company’s five core values for sustainability management. In particular, this report publishes its compliances through sustainability reports. 005 Company Overview focuses primarily on data analysis and accessibility of information. For data analysis, we monitored the Principles Page Reference 007 2016 Highlights tasks for this year which we presented in the previous report, and reported the results after analysis Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of 79, 82 of key indicators. To ensure easy accessibility of information, we have published this report in an Human Rights internationally proclaimed human rights; and 011 CSV Highlights interactive PDF format. In addition, there are special sections on the highlights for major issues, as Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 79, 82 selected through the materiality analysis, and on new activities in creating shared value (CSV) over the Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the 82 030 Sustainability Performance effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; period covered by the report. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 75, 79 114 Appendices Labour Standards Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and 75, 79 Reporting Principle Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and 115 GRI Index Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Core guidelines occupation. 33, 85 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental 118 Independent Assurance 57, 68~69 Reporting Scope challenges; Statement Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Hyundai Motor Company and its subsidiaries Environment responsibility; and 64, 68~69 121 About this Report Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Reporting Boundary 60~62 friendly technologies. Dconomic (based on Korean International Financial Reporting Standards), social and environmental Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, performance Anti-Corruption 33~34 including extortion and bribery. Reporting Period January 1st, 2016 December 31st, 2016; also includes some data and information from 2014 March 2017 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Reporting Cycle The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) consist of agenda items that Annual (last report was published in June 2016) aim to mitigate wide-ranging risk factors that pose threats to sustainable development – economic and social polarization, aggravating social inequalities in their diverse Assurance forms, and environmental destruction – during the period between 2016 and 2030. Separate independent assurances are given by third-party assurance service providers concerning Hyundai’s The SDGs present 17 goals and 169 targets that all nations in the world are required to sustainability management as a whole, and its greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption reach through joint endeavors. To share the spirit of the SDGs and to contribute to the sustainable development of the global community, Hyundai defined five values through Headquarters which our business conduct is aligned with the SDGs. 12, Heolleung-ro, Seocho-gu, Seoul, 06797, Korea Contact Information CSV Strategy Team, Hyundai Motor Company Sustainability Report Publication History (Phone: +82-2-3464-2025, E-mail: hmcsr@hyundai.com) CSV Management Organization We have established the CSV Strategy Team under the Business Strategy Planning Division at our company headquarters, in order to create both corporate and social value, and to improve our sustainability at the company level. The CSV Strategy Team is responsible for planning our CSR/CSV programs, supporting the implementation of these programs, and publishing a sustainability report a major communication channel 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 with stakeholders. Our sustainability report is reviewed and approved by the Chief Corporate Planning Officer prior to publication. Publication Date June 30, 2017 Publisher Hyundai Motor Company Production CSV Strategy Team Design Talantone Creative Group Website www.hyundai.com 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2003/2004 2003 homepage blog facebook youtube instagram 2017 Sustainability Report 121 Thanks to Ah Rom Kim Andreas Wittmann Dong Hyeok Son Dong Seok Kim In Ho Noh In Kyo Jeong Ji Hyung Lee Ji Min Song Man Ki Lee Mathieu Gardies Seung Yoon Shin Sin Jae Kim (In alphabetical order) Ba Mi Kim Dong Woon Jeong Ja Hun Koo Ji Young Park Mi Dol Ryu Soon Hyeong Kwon Beom Soo Kim Eui Jeong Kim Jae Ho Choi Jin Kyung Kim Mi Hye Ban Soon Jeong Jeong Bon Chan Koo Eun Jin Seok Jae Hwan Lee Jin Oh Park Mi Jin Na Soon Kim Bong Kyu Choi Geoffrey Mortimer-Lamb Jae Kyung Shin Jin Seok Ryu Min ho Choi Soon Sang Hong Chang Gu Han Geun Hee Cho Jae Min Shin Jiří-Pavlík Min Seong Yoo Tae Eun Park Chang Hee Kang Hae Bi Chi Jeong Jang Ho Kook Jong Taek Jeong Myung Roh Lee Won Bae Kim Chang Ho Yoo Ho Yeol Ryu Je Hyung Jeon Jong Wook Hwang Nam Soo Han Won Jun Choi Chang Jae Lee Hong Mo Koo Je Jun Park Ju Yong Lee Sandra Scherb Yeon Jeong Kim Chang Min Lee Hwi Bong Seo Jeong Ah Kim Jun Ho Kim A Sang Beom Kim A Yong Sik Yoon Chang Wook Jeong Hye Joo Jeong Jeong Ho Noh Jun Ho Kim B Sang Beom Kim B Yoo Sun Koo Dae Han Wie Hye Mi Park Jeong Ho Park Ki Bum Song Sang Hwi Lee Young Eun Choi Dae Hwan Jeong Hyo Il Park Jeong Hwan Kim Ki Hun Lee Sang Mi Han Young Jae Lee Deok Hoon Kim Hyun Gui Jeong Jeong Hwan Park Ki Tak Yoo Seok Hwan Kim Young Ju Jeong Deuk Yong Cha Hyun Jeong Yang Jeong In Jang Kwang Su Kim Seong Chil Kang Young Soo Yoon Do Young Oh Hyung Jun Kim Jeong Jun Lee Kyo Young Jeong Seong Hee Bang Yu Kyung Choi Dong Ho Kwak Hyung Ryul Lee Jeong Yeon Kim Kyu Min Lee Seong Woong Seo Dong Hun Kang In Ho Jeong Ji Hyun Choi Kyung Min Doh Seung Min Ryu
