•)) Infrastructure v Mini ng & Metallurgy Oil & Gas v Power v Q EN SNC•LAVALIN BUILDING WHAT MATIERS, SUSTAINABLY2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Home President's Message Our Approach v Ethics & Compliance Employees v Health & Safety Environment v Economic impact v Social Impact v Project execution UK Modern Slavery Act GRI index President's message I OUR PROGRAM'S GENDER DIVERSITY TARGETS 2016-2017 RAIS E AWARENESS THROUGH TRAI NING AND COMMUNICATIONS ESTABLISH GENDER DIVERSITY POLICIES AND PROCESSES 2018 MARKET V ISIBILITYAND ENGAGEMENT T O EXPAND OUR TAL.£NT POOL President's message BUILDING WHAT MATTERS, SUSTAINABLY Building what matters requir es that we approach every decision and action from a sustainability mindset to drive improvements for our clients, communities and shareholders. It means cont i nually asking ourselves: how can we opti mize our activities' economic, environmental and social benefits for all stakehol ders? Finding innovative answers to this question allows us to create longterm value. It also motivates us to always strive to do better. Driving sustainability As engineers, we're uniquely positioned to hel p bui ld a more sus tainable worl d. At SNCLavalin, we' re constantly look i ng for the best ways to fu lfill this responsibility. Our sustainability strategy is guided by our core values. It focus es us on generating value across the triple bottom lin e of e nv ironmental, social and economic sustainability. I n 2016, we continued implementin g our strategy and, as the next step in our evolution, developed a roadmap with a consolidated view of our exis ting and new targets. The roadmap wil l help us improve and better integrate sustainability pr actices across our bus iness sectors. Executing our s trategy and roadmap translates into projects such as Montreal's new Champlain Br idge, currently one of North America's biggest works ites, that lead the way in integrating sustainable development pr ac tices. As an example, we integrated r i gorous e nv ironmental monitoring and mitigation measures into the proj ec t to protect the surrounding natural habitat. When completed in 2021, the Crosstown light rail transit project, Toronto's largest trans it expansion, will ease traf fic congestion and related emissions. I n addition to creating tens of thousands of jobs, it's also Canada's first transit project to receive green bond funding for environ mentally fr iendly infrastructure. Our extensive loc al development expert is e on ma or infrastr ucture and resource projects lies at the heart of our j besti n-class Local Resource Development Init i ive (LRDI™) progr am. Through the LRDI™, we help clients at maximize thei r projects' social and econ omic benefits locally. Phases one and two of EMAL, the worl d s ' largest singlesite aluminum smelter in Abu Dhabi, ar e good examples. We stren gthened the local supply chain and workforce, achieved safety performance r ecords, re located animals prior to groundbreaki ng and built the city's first soil treatment facility. Our partnershi p with Emirates G lobal Aluminium on the EMAL projects began in 2007 and continue to this day with us providing on-s ite operations support services. ExxonMobil 's Baytown facility in Texas, the US's largest integr ated refining and petrochemical comp lex , is another example, among many, of endur ing partnerships that hel p us build what matters. We began working at Baytown in 1967 and, over the years, have won s ever al awards for our commitment to safety excellence. Since July 2005, we've worked 12 years and more than 8.5 million hours without a recordable injur y. Our commitment to the Baytown com munity is equall y important. Our goal is always to leave a positi ve legacy wherever we work. Our economic impact Greater financial strength and operational effici ency transla te into an increased capac ity to make a difference in the world. I'm pleased to report that, for the secon d year in a row, we pos ted strong financial resu lts in Iine with our 2016 earn in gs guidance. Throughout the year, cl ients se lected us to del iver sever al large-scale manda tes. We continued to earn their trus t by c om pleting major mileston e pro ects an d driv ing local economic, social and environmental benefits j through the LRDI™ program. Today, we're well -positioned to cap italize on or ganic grow th in infr astructure , nuclear, renewables and susta ining capital across all our businesses. We also expect our C apital group to continue to perform well, especial ly in Cana da where we've concluded multiple publicpriva te partners hips, often winning awards for our innovati ve fin ancing solu tions. I n 2016, we launched Operational Excellence to help us improve the way we work and every aspect of our business as well as br ing us even cl oser to customers. We took steps to enhance our project execution on all sizes and typ es of projects. This inc luded conducting a sur vey to better understand what we needed to improve from our c lients ' perspecti ve. In Janu ary 2017, surveying our employees, another cr itical stakeholder group, provided us with key feedback to he lp us foster a more collabor at ive an d constructive culture to become an employer of choice. We'r e also committed to enhancing our rep orting transp arency. This year's report includes more detailed informat ion on grievances received thro ugh our whis tleblow ing program. We initi ated an independent monitoring control process to assess the effici ency of and adheren ce to our Ethics & Compliance Program. And our annu al Management Proxy Circular provides extensive information to our shareholders on a variety of topics. Our environmental impact We help clients deliver projects cert ified to stringent envi ronmental s tandards. In Montrea l, we applied Envision guidel ines to the city's subway expansion pref easi bility studies for the Societe de Transport de Montreal (STM). Envision is the Institute for Sustain able Infrastructure's rating system. The STM will seek Envision certi fication for the fac ility we designed. We're also applying for a Bronze-le vel Envision rating for the Champ lain Br idge proj ect. I n British Columbia, we're helping build a 'near zero net carbon emissions' refinery in partnership with a First Nations bus iness and investment group focused on sustainable economic deve lopment. We also established a Renewable Energy Centre of Excell ence in Ontario to advance our work in designing and building some of Canada 's largest photovoltaic and win d plants. We sign ed an agreement in pr inciple to deve lop next-generati on CANDU reactors running on recyc led uranium with partners in China, the wor l d's largest n uc lear market. This agreement brings us one step closer to mak ing safe, reliable, affordable and low-car bon e ner gy more acc essible world wide. In public transit, our global Rail & Tr ansit team has del ivered projects tha t sup port sus tainable ur ban growth and mobil ity and reduce CO2 emissions in North Amer i ca, Austr al ia, New Zealand, I ndia, Afr i ca, the UK, Scandinavia, Central Europe and beyond. While our biggest contribution to environmental stewar dship occurs through our cl ients' projects, we str i ve to continuous ly improve our own environmental footprint. As part of our Operational Excel lence program, we continue to assess our propert ies with a vi ew to optimizing occupancy in our offices and regrouping employees more efficiently . This process allowed us to reduce associated greenhouse gas emissions by 24% between 2015 and 2016. Our social impact Attracting, retaining and developing the best talent and s upporting local community initiati ves figure among our social contribut ions. We also make a differ enc e socially by adherin g to the highest ethical standards, building a 'zero harm' cultur e and mak ing div ersity and incl usion a priority. We roll out programs to promote skills development and workforce inclusion in countries such as Sa udi Arabia, A lgeria and Angola. Our focus on Abor igi nal i nclusion in client projects also fosters social we ll -being. We remain committed to the United Nat ions Global Comp act and to engaging in collaborative projects that promote the UN's broader development goals. Excel lence in ethics and compliance is another non -negotiable at SNC-Lavalin. I n 2016, we took steps to reach a comprehens ive , final and fair settlement with Canadian and Quebec entities to resolve past iss ues. Over the last four years, we'v e placed a new leader in every position on the Executive Committee team. For the third consecutive year, we s ucc eeded in training and c ertif ying over 99% of our employees to our Code of E thics and Business Conduct. We introduced man datory insider trading and antitrust training for employees in at-risk positions. We' re also in the process of developing a training program for senior leaders on human r ights and worker welfare. Our Program's Gender Diversity Targets 2016 2017 2018 > Raise Awareness Throught Training And > Market Visi bi lity And Engagement To Expend Our Commun ications Talent Pool > Establish Gender D ivers ity Policies And Processes I n hea lth and safety, dr ivi ng down our lost time injury frequency rate by an impressive 50% reinforced our g lobal health and safety leadership. Our first company-wide Health & Safety, Security and Environment (HSSE) Week hel ped r aise em ployee awareness aro und the world. We launched an initia tive called Perfect Days that's captu ring people's attention. It measur es the number of work days fr ee from all safety, secur ity and environmental incidents. Even a scra tch on one of our 35,000 employees anywhere in the worl d counts as an incident. The entire Executive Committee is motiva ted by our new Divers ity & Inclus ion Program. It rallies us around increasing the number of women in engineering and management positions from our current 13% to 20% by 201 8. In time , we' ll expand the program's foc us to include mor e minorit ies. We joined the 30% Club, a global organization that promotes a better ge nder balance at board and senior management levels. In May 2017, we made Board appointments that brought our percentage of female corporate directors to 25%, placing us well above our 2018 target of 20%. These are just some of the ways that, at SNC-Lavalin, we continue to build what matters, sustainably, around the world. Home I Sustainabi l ty i I H ome I President's Message SITE FOLLOW US Markets & Services Projects Geographies About Us Media Investors Careers Sustainabi lity Contact Health & Safety Suppliers Ethics and Compliance Hotline Code of Ethics Stock Information Glossary Founded in 1911. S NC -Lavalin is a global fully integrated profe ssion al services and project management company and a major player in the owners h ip of infrastructure. Fro m offices aro und the world, SNC· Lavalin's employees are proud to bu ild what matters. Our teams provide comprehens ive end· to-end project •)) solutions includin g capital investment consulting. design. engineer ing . construction, sustai ning capit al and operations and maintenance to clients in oil and SNC•LAVALIN gas, m ining and meta llurgy , infrastructure and power. On July 3, 201 7. SNC-Lavalin a cquired Atkins. one of the world 's most respected design, engi neer ing and project management consultancies. © 2017 SNC-Lavalin Legal Notice
