4 SOCIAL, E N V I R O N M E N TA L A N D S O C I E TA L I N F O R M AT I O N 198 Essilor | Registration Document 2016 INTRODUCTION 4.1 ESSILOR’S APPROACH TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 201 4.1.1 The value chain and stakeholders 201 4.1.2 Essilor’s sustainable development priorities 203 4.1.3 Sustainable development strategy and associated commitments 205 4.2 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 206 4.2.1 The CSR Committee 206 4.2.2 The Sustainable Development Department 206 4.2.3 Organization of non-ﬁnancial reporting 207 ESSILOR MISSION 4.3 IMPROVE LIVES BY IMPROVING SIGHT 208 4.3.1 Raising awareness of the importance of good vision 208 4.3.2 Sustainable innovation to cater for customers’ current and future needs 209 4.3.3 Development of inclusive business models 209 4.3.4 Strategic giving 210 SOCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 CARING FOR PEOPLE 212 4.4.1 Ensuring health and safety with a quality working environment 215 4.4.2 Training and the development of skills and talent 216 4.4.3 Employee integration and inclusion of all forms of diversity 218 4.4.4 Employee shareholding & management / employee consultation 220 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 4.5 OPTIMIZING ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 222 4.5.1 Strengthening environmental management 222 4.5.2 Reducing water use 223 4.5.3 Energy efficiency in production and distribution 225 4.5.4 A limited carbon footprint 226 4.5.5 A circular economy approach to raw material optimization and waste management 228 SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.6 WORKING WITH SOCIETY 230 4.6.1 Fair business practices 230 4.6.2 Commitments and actions dedicated to the respect and promotion of human rights 231 4.6.3 Sustainable purchasing in supplier relations 231 4.6.4 Sustainable product marketing 232 4.6.5 Direct and indirect socioeconomic contribution 233 4.7 METHODOLOGY NOTE & CORRESPONDENCE TABLES 234 4.7.1 Methodology note 234 4.7.2 Correspondence table for the criteria of the Grenelle 2 law 235 4.7.3 Correspondence table for the Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative Standards 237 4.8 REPORT BY THE STATUTORY AUDITOR, APPOINTED AS INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY, ON THE CONSOLIDATED HUMAN RESOURCES, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL INFORMATION INCLUDED IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT 242 Registration Document 2016 | Essilor 199 IN BRIEF FOREWORD Engaging with all our stakeholders and innovating constantly, on a large scale, to develop new products and business models that help meet the world’s vision protection and vision correction needs have been the cornerstones of our success for close to 170 years. Essilor’s mission to improve lives by improving sight, combined with the company’s unique principles and values, are at the heart of the Group’s long-term commitment to sustainable development. Our 64,000 employees are driven by the desire to contribute to a constantly developing society and to help tackle social and ecological issues. Since 2013, Essilor’s Mission Division has been the standard-bearer of this commitment. Our inclusive business models and philanthropic initiatives reached a milestone this year when we provided access to eyeglasses to more than three million people previously excluded from any kind of vision care. Essilor is also fully committed to the United Nations 2030 Agenda. In 2016 we assessed the extent to which our Mission, our social and environmental objectives, and our value chain contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals. What we learned validated our sustainable development roadmap and highlighted the Group’s major positive social impact. Our strong growth in recent years and our leadership position constantly encourage us to raise our standards ever higher in terms of our commitment to working responsibly. This year, we stepped up our initiatives in key areas such as human rights and climate change adaptation, and set a clear roadmap based on the main pillars of our sustainable development strategy. These are presented in detail in this document. Lastly, we have continued to improve the organization of our non-ﬁnancial reporting so that we can evaluate our actions and report on our progress on an ongoing basis. We are proud that our approach has been recognized by the most stringent non-ﬁnancial-assessment bodies, and namely the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, World and Europe which included Essilor in 2016. For all of these reasons, I am pleased to renew our long-term commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, both in our strategy and in our day-to-day operations, and to share our progress in this chapter of our 2016 Registration Document. H u b e r t S AG N I È R E S Chairman and Chief Executive Officer As of December 31, 2016, Essilor was included in the following non-ﬁnancial indices: DJSI World & Europe, MSCI World ESG & SRI and World Low Carbon Leader, FTSE4Good, STOXX Global ESG Leaders, ECPI Leaders and Ethibel Sustainability Indices Excellence Europe & Global. Essilor also participates voluntarily in the disclosure of CDP, an international, independent non-proﬁt organization that assesses companies’ efforts to measure and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and water footprint. In 2016, the CDP recognized the ongoing progress made by Essilor in these areas, rating it B for carbon footprint management and Afor efficient water use. In addition, US magazine Forbes ranked the Group among the World’s Most Innovative Companies for the sixth year running and Essilor named n°5 in Newsweek’s 2016 Green Ranking. 200 Essilor | Registration Document 2016 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.1 E ss i l o r ’s a p p ro a c h to s u sta i n a b l e d eve l o p m e n t 4 I NT R OD U C TI O N 4.1 Essilor’s approach to sustainable development 4.1.1 The value chain and stakeholders Essilor’s approach to sustainable development is based on f optical retailers and chains: The Group is a supplier for consideration of the environmental, social and societal impacts optical retailers and chains worldwide and sells optical of its business activities on the various stakeholders along the products online (contact lenses, prescription eyeglasses and value chain. sunglasses) through several local websites, serving a rapidly expanding global distribution channel; Value chain f operating, R&D and administrative divisions: A limited portion of the Group’s employees works in registered offices, R&D Throughout the Essilor value chain, from product design to centers, and operating and administrative divisions. While marketing, the Company’s business activities impact on the the social impact of these facilities is very significant, the environment and on society at large. The nature and magnitude of environmental impact is low (energy from buildings, paper, these impacts differ according to the Group’s ﬁve main business greenhouse gas emissions associated with business travel, activities: electrical and electronic waste, etc.). f production plants: The Group has 33 production plants across See Section 1.3.1.3 of this document. 17 countries. Each year, they produce more than 500 million lenses via lens polymerization or resin injection molding. The production plants account for the majority of direct environmental impacts because of the chemical products and raw materials that they use, the energy they consume, the Ecosystem Essilor has daily interaction with a whole host of stakeholders 4 throughout the world. Engaging with them is therefore at the heart emissions they generate and the waste they produce. Given of the Group’s sustainable development strategy. Essilor strives the concentration of impacts, Essilor places the emphasis on to understand each component of its value chain and to adapt environmental actions, with the management of water and to the constant evolution of its ecosystem. As the significance energy and the processing of waste, as well as on occupational and handling of social and environmental issues differ between health and safety measures; countries, relations with stakeholders are generally managed f distribution centers: Essilor has 16 distribution centers in locally, under the responsibility of the senior management of 13 countries. Situated close to manufacturing units, the role the legal entities. Essilor has introduced a “guide to partnership” of these centers is to coordinate the logistics ﬂows between for its business partners that delineates Essilor’s role and suppliers and customers. Most of the impacts of these centers responsibilities and those of the partner, facilitating transparent are therefore felt in terms of greenhouse gas emissions from and effective working relations. Moreover, all employees are transportation (air and road freight, etc.). Furthermore, the high actively encouraged to apply the Essilor Principles and Values in concentration of employees and the nature of their activities their interactions with stakeholders. also demand extreme vigilance in terms of occupational health Depending on the stakeholder concerned, Essilor’s dealings with and safety; them have a variety of objectives: f prescription laboratories: The Group has 490 laboratories, f to listen, by setting up a consultation process for the purpose edging facilities and local distribution centers which are of anticipating developments in business, the market and major sources of local jobs. As the final link in the value regulations, to manage risks and to identify opportunities; chain, surfacing and coating ﬁnished lenses before they are marketed to professional customers, prescription laboratories f to engage in dialogue in order to involve stakeholders in are crucial for ensuring product quality and conformity. The strategic decisions, through customer satisfaction surveys, environmental footprint of the prescription laboratories is employee opinion polls, organizing forums and training, etc.; fragmented and limited, and derives primarily from the use of chemical products and the consumption of energy and water; Registration Document 2016 | Essilor 201 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.1 Ess ilo r ’s approach to su st ain able d eve l o p m e n t f to inform, by providing reliable factual data via different Stakeholder relations are therefore key for the Group, as they kinds of communication tools adapted for each stakeholder bring and create positive impacts. The new issues arising (brochures, website, annual reviews, questionnaire responses, from their needs and viewpoints fuel the Group’s strategy and various requests, etc.); operations. Essilor is aware of what is at stake and strives for continuous improvement to maintain a relationship of trust f to contribute to development by conducting partnership with its stakeholders. The Group documents and addresses its projects, particularly in the fields of health and the stakeholders’ main concerns. The table below presents the key environment, with support for patients’ associations, points. humanitarian aid programs and partnerships with universities. Main stakeholders Main issues Employees & representative Quality of working conditions organizations Recruitment / Attracting and retaining talent Skills development Equal opportunities, diversity and inclusion Business partners Shared commitment to social and environmental concerns Collaboration on innovation and development Integrity in business relations Clients & Prescribers Offering high quality, innovative products Responsible marketing / Transparency and validation of the beneﬁts of Essilor lenses Integrity in business relations Sustainable purchasing Consumers Product quality and efficiency Sustainable purchasing Innovation to cater for new visual health needs resulting from societal trends (digitalization, urbanization, etc.) Shareholders, investors Governance and rating agencies Transparency and evaluation of non-ﬁnancial activity Management of CSR risks Suppliers Integrity in business and adherence to regulations Constructive collaboration Sustainable procurement & supplier CSR audit NGOs and consumer organizations Dialogue & Partnership Communication – Transparency (on social initiatives, environmental footprint, product performance, etc.) Sponsorship & philanthropy Educational institutions Cooperation for research and innovation Attracting and developing talent Public authorities & governments Social and economic impact Contribution to visual health and the inclusive economy Fair business practices Dialogue & Education Local communities Quality of life: Provide quality vision for all Social and economic impact (jobs, support for the local economy and inclusive business) Raising awareness 202 Essilor | Registration Document 2016 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.1 E ss i l o r ’s a p p ro a c h to s u sta i n a b l e d eve l o p m e n t 4 4.1.2 Essilor’s sustainable development priorities Materiality assessment In 2016, regulatory changes and input from our stakeholders (key customer accounts, investors, new UN development targets, etc.) For the past two years, the Group has based the deﬁnition and confirmed the priority and strategic direction of the actions development of its sustainable development strategy on a undertaken by the Group Mission Division, strengthened the need materiality assessment in order to continually anticipate and for sustainable purchasing, and highlighted three main issues: prioritize stakeholder requirements, identify new risks and the circular economy (see Section 4.5.5), climate change (see opportunities related to social and environmental issues, focus Section 4.5.4) and human rights (see Section 4.6.2). The Group reporting and non-financial publications on the overarching has updated the materiality matrix below based on the above issues, and ensure the Group’s reporting further complies with elements. international standards. Strategic topics • Awareness and access to quality vision care solutions • Inclusive business & BoP • Strategic partnership • Innovation and R&D Stakeholders perspective • Human capital development & talent attraction Priority topics • Water use • Energy efficiency • Sustainable procurement • Climate Change adaptation & mitigation • Diversity & inclusion • Responsible marketing • Resource & waste Core topics • Stakeholder dialogue • Safety & well-being • Customer Relationship 4 • Human rights Management (CRM) • Governance • Employee shareholding • Product quality management • Local economic development • Compliance & business ethics Business impact for Essilor Note: Strategic: key themes linked to the development of Essilor business model. Priority: key subjects for Essilor’s short, medium and long term value creation. Core: pillars of Essilor’s business culture. Registration Document 2016 | Essilor 203 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.1 Ess ilo r ’s approach to su st ain able d eve l o p m e n t UN Sustainable Development Goals. In September 2015, 193 countries adopted the United Nations 2030 Essilor is fully involved in this effort through its Mission. The Group Agenda for Sustainable Development. This Agenda has 17 core therefore assessed its contribution by mapping 13 SDGs according goals and 169 targets. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), to two dimensions: its sustainable development program (see the which entered into force in January 2016, are a global call for action materiality matrix) and its value chain. to eradicate poverty, protect the planet and ensure prosperity for all. The involvement of civil society, the private sector and ordinary citizens is crucial to the success of these goals. STRATEGIC/HIGHEST CONTRIBUTION STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS AWARENESS & ACCESS TO QUALITY VISION CARE SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABLE WATER USE INNOVATION TALENT SOURCING: USE & DISCHARGE & R&D MANAGEMENT OF CHEMICALS INVESTMENTS / RAW MATERIAL IMPACT ON EXTRACTION WATER STRESS ESSILOR MATERIALITY ANALYSIS AREAS INCLUSIVE BUSINESS, ADVOCACY & PHILANTHROPY PRIORITY/CONTRIBUTION ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT (ENERGY EFFICIENCY, WASTE, CARBON FOOTPRINT) LOCAL PRODUCT END ECONOMIC OF LIFE IMPACT ON PROMOTION OF SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBLE ECONOMIC PROMOTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS CONSUMPTION/ DEVELOPMENT DIVERSITY & INCLUSION IMPACTS ALONG RESPONSIBLE THE VALUE CHAIN SAFE & HEALTHY MARKETING WORKING CONDITIONS CORE COMPLIANCE BUSINESS ETHICS HUMAN RIGHTS RAW MATERIAL PRODUCTION PRESCRIPTION DISTRIBUTION DISTRIBUTION FINAL SUPPLIERS PLANTS LABORATORIES CENTERS CHANNELS CUSTOMERS This conﬁrmed the Group’s positive contribution to the SDGs, especially through its Mission, and validated the strategic objectives of the Group’s sustainable development roadmap. See Section “Sustainability” and “Mission” on Essilor.com 204 Essilor | Registration Document 2016 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.1 E ss i l o r ’s a p p ro a c h to s u sta i n a b l e d eve l o p m e n t 4 4.1.3 Sustainable development strategy and associated commitments On the basis of the 2016 materiality study, supplemented by 2. Optimizing environmental footprint an analysis of the Group’s contribution to the SDGs, Essilor has strengthened its sustainable development strategy, which is Despite an environmental footprint that is fragmented and still organized centered around the Group’s mission and three limited in comparison to industrial processing activities, Essilor supporting pillars, by specifying the actions it will take in certain strives to reduce its impacts. Based on continuously improving key areas (see details on www.essilor.com): environmental management processes, actions are focused on reducing water use, improving energy efficiency, reducing the carbon footprint, adapting to climate change and lastly, reducing Group Mission: Improve lives by improving sight and recovering waste. See Section 4.5 of this document. In line with its Mission, the Group is committed to the global challenge of helping to correct, protect and prevent risks to the 3. Working with society visual health of the planet’s seven billion inhabitants. To this end, Essilor has identified four levers of action: raising awareness, As a leader in its sector, the Group has made a commitment product and service innovation, inclusive business and strategic to introducing preventive and vigilance mechanisms to ensure giving. See Section 4.3 of this document. respect for human rights and the rules of integrity in the conduct of business. Essilor joins forces with its suppliers in its approach to sustainable development via a policy of sustainable purchasing 1. Caring for people and also gets involved with local communities to contribute to their development. Furthermore, Essilor takes care to market products The Group’s employees are the leading players in and contributors with stated levels of quality and performance that meet customers’ to Essilor’s sustainable development. The Group’s employment needs most effectively. See Section 4.6 of this document. policy is structured around four program areas: ensuring employee health, safety and quality working conditions; training, developing skills and talents; integrating employees and all forms of diversity; and lastly, promoting employee shareholding and consulting staff through practices for dialogue between management and employees. See Section 4.4 of this document. Improving lives by improving sight Section 4.3 4 Optimizing Caring Working environmental for people with society footprint Section 4.4 Section 4.6 Section 4.5 Registration Document 2016 | Essilor 205 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.2 Govern an ce an d man age me n t of s u sta i n a b l e d eve l o p m e n t 4.2 Governance and management of sustainable development 4.2.1 The CSR Committee Set up in 2013, the CSR Committee reports directly to the Board of f the review of the sustainable development strategic roadmap Directors. It is chaired by an Independent Director and comprises and the key measures to be implemented; three members (the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and f the evaluation of the direct and indirect economic and societal two Directors). The Chief Mission Officer is also invited to attend impacts of Mission activities; meetings as a guest. f the perception of Essilor’s non-financial performance by The CSR Committee met three times in 2016, with an attendance recognized appraisers; rate of 100%. In its supervisory role, it was consulted primarily on: f the assessment of the main CSR risks; f the progress made in “Essilor’s Mission” Department activities and, in particular, the development of new, innovative, inclusive f the review of the reports published regarding CSR and business models through the “2.5 New Vision Generation” especially pursuant to regulatory obligations under the French entity; Grenelle 2 law. See Section 2.2.2.6 of this document. 4.2.2 The Sustainable Development Department Essilor has opted for a strong management support to drive and responding to questions from key accounts or other environmental, social and corporate governance challenges. stakeholders; Accordingly, the Sustainable Development Department reports f communicate on Essilor’s initiatives, contribute to the public to the Chief Mission Officer, who in turn reports directly to the debate on the challenges of sustainable development and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. engage in dialogue with stakeholders; The role of the Sustainable Development Department is to f engage employees in the approach to sustainable development coordinate the associated actions taken by the various functional through training and employee recognition measures (e.g., EHS departments (Environment-Health-Safety, Human Resources, Awards). Marketing, etc.) and the three main geographic areas of North America, Europe and the rest of the world (Asia / Latin The Sustainable Development Department oversees a Global America / Middle East / Russia / Africa), with the following main Steering Committee that brings together all the major functional responsibilities: and geographic divisions to coordinate the deployment of the Group’s sustainable development roadmap, report best practices f deﬁne and deploy Group Sustainable Development program; and discuss cross-cutting issues such as human rights, reporting, f steer the non-ﬁnancial reporting and lead the community of and responsible marketing. correspondents in various countries and functions; Lastly, the Sustainable Development Department is regularly f provide expertise to Group entities in their deliberations consulted by the CSR Committee. on CSR, the implementation of associated action plans 206 Essilor | Registration Document 2016 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.2 G ove r n a n ce a n d m a n a g e m e n t o f s u sta i n a b l e d eve l o p m e n t 4 4.2.3 Organization of non-financial reporting The aim of non-ﬁnancial reporting is to provide Essilor with a tool The Group made considerable progress in this area in 2016, most for managing and measuring the effectiveness of its sustainable notably by incorporating recently acquired entities. The coverage development program, as well as ensuring compliance with rate is now 91.9%, expressed as full time equivalent employees the French Grenelle 2 law and with the principal CSR reporting (FTEs), exceeding its goal of 85% by 2017. See Section 4.7 of this standards. document. Organization and protocol Reporting period Essilor collects environmental, social and societal data using To optimize the organization, coordination and integration of a software application named “Sustainability” that replicates ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial reports, Essilor collected the majority the structure of the Group’s uniﬁed ﬁnancial reporting system. of its social, environmental and societal information over a period “Sustainability” has similar procedures for consolidating ﬁnancial of 12 months from October 1, 2015 to September 30, 2016. information and a speciﬁc glossary outlining the indicators and However, certain information was collected during the calendar their definitions. A network of multidisciplinary contributors year from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016; this is followed (from Human Resources Department, Environment-Healthin the text or the indicator tables by a superscript at sign(@). Safety Department, etc.) reports information, which is reviewed by the Financial Departments of each entity and then checked and consolidated at Group level by the Sustainable Development Compliance and standards Department. Essilor has made public its social, environmental and societal A non-financial reporting campaign is organized annually information since 2002, in accordance with the French NRE law to consolidate data from different departments. In 2016, the of May 2001. The Group has been compliant with the Article 225 reporting protocol, that describes the reporting process and the of the French Grenelle 2 law since 2012 and continues to follow deﬁnitions of associated indicators, was updated to take account the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative Standards. See of regulatory changes (Update of Grenelle 2 law, Article 173 of the Section 4.7 of this document. French law on energy transition for green growth) and stakeholder The information presented in this chapter has been reviewed by requirements. New environmental and social indicators have KPMG, a Third-Party Independent Organization, in accordance with been created and all deﬁnitions harmonized so that non-ﬁnancial the regulations related to Article 225 of the Grenelle 2 Law. See in performance can be better managed and appraised. In addition, the protocol is now available in ﬁve languages, French, Chinese, Section 4.8 of this document the Report of the Independent ThirdParty Organization for further details. 4 English, Portuguese and Spanish, to facilitate the work of subsidiary staffs and improve data quality. See Section 4.7 of this document. Scope of reporting The reference scope of reporting is currently all Essilor entities and subsidiaries that have been in the Group for more than one year. Against a backdrop of strong growth, the Group is continuing to gradually integrate recent ﬁnancially consolidated companies to its non-ﬁnancial reporting scope. Registration Document 2016 | Essilor 207 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.3 Improve live s by im prov in g sigh t ESS I LO R M I SS I O N 4.3 Improve lives by improving sight Providing everyone, everywhere, with access to quality vision Accordingly, Essilor designs, manufactures and markets an care is Essilor’s biggest challenge in terms of sustainable extensive range of vision care solutions intended to correct, development. This challenge lies at the point of intersection protect and prevent risks to visual health for the planet’s between the Group’s economic activity and its social contribution seven billion inhabitants. Action on four fronts helps to fulfill with the major positive impacts on the quality of life that comes this Mission: 1) make as many people as possible aware of the with better vision. importance of good vision; 2) innovate responsibly for current and future customer needs; 3) develop inclusive business models; and This Mission to improve lives by improving sight encourages the lastly, 4) drive strategic giving initiatives. Group to keep serving more countries and people to ensure equal access to vision care for all. 4.3.1 Raising awareness of the importance of good vision The main reason that large numbers of people are lacking the In 2012, Essilor lent its support to the founding of the Vision visual correction they need is primarily a lack of awareness of Impact Institute. The Institute’s aim is to highlight the importance vision problems: many of them have never had an eye test or been of visual health and the benefits of proper visual correction able to see properly. in everyday life (in academic achievement, social integration, business productivity, etc.). Its mission is to examine and then To address this, Essilor is investing at local, national and communicate the results of relevant scientific studies and to international level to raise awareness of the importance of visual work with networks of inﬂuence to guide changes in public health health. The measures adopted take the form of: policy. f public events, such as “Think About Your Eyes™” in the United The Institute is governed by a consultative committee of four States and the United Kingdom, organized in partnership with independent members focusing on two objectives: to accelerate players in the sector or directly by local Essilor entities. In the production of new studies on visual health, particularly 2016, several campaigns were conducted, especially in India in areas where there is a dearth of data, and to reach an everand the United Kingdom, to raise public awareness of the broader audience on these topics. importance of good vision for driving; Since it was founded, the Institute has launched a website – f creation of consumer information websites to educate on www.visionimpactinstitute.org – providing a single database the importance of regular eye tests, protecting one’s eyes of 200 peer-reviewed reports and studies to prove the need from the damage caused by UV light (e.g. www.eyes-and-sun. for advances in visual correction and visual health in general. com), and how to choose frames to suit one’s face (e.g. www. This year, 66 new studies were published and the website was mavuemeslunettes.fr); translated into a new language, Spanish, in addition to the English, f regular eye exam campaigns, arranged at local level by Essilor Chinese and Portuguese versions already available. subsidiaries or by the Group’s philanthropic organizations. In In 2016 the Institute was actively engaged in raising awareness addition, the Group contributes to World Sight Day each year, among the global population of the importance of visual health. Its organizing events and public information campaigns. On World work is illustrated in the following two examples: Sight Day in 2016, Essilor led a global campaign called “Love to see change™” (www.lovetoseechange.com) in more than f in India, the Institute supported media events that led to 50 countries; dialogue with government departments on conducting awareness programs for students and drivers; f support for initiatives for gathering statistical data to convince governments to invest in programs to improve visual health. In f in the United States, the Institute created a multi-stakeholder 2016, Essilor joined the ranks of the new Eyelliance coalition, partnership called “Kids See: Success”, aimed at providing contributing to a report published by the World Economic every child with an eye exam prior to entering kindergarten. Forum. This report demonstrated that investing in access to vision correction would lead to considerable gains in terms of economic and social development, entirely in line with the SDGs. 208 Essilor | Registration Document 2016 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.3 I m p rove l i ve s by i m p rovi n g s i g h t 4 4.3.2 Sustainable innovation to cater for customers’ current and future needs Innovation is the linchpin of the Group’s growth strategy and f Eco-designed. Essilor endeavors to develop products with central to Essilor’s model. It is a major differentiating factor and an ever-reducing impact on the environment by analyzing applies to products, services, business models and governance the product’s life cycle, giving preference to eco-design, structure. As such, it characterizes the unique way the Group working with its suppliers (purchasing raw materials with carries out its Mission. less environmental impact, low-carbon logistics, etc.) and optimizing the production processes. For example, To respond to market trends in visual health driven in particular by Essilor now only promotes lighter, more resistant and a number of major social trends (population aging, use of digital more environmentally friendly corrective lenses that are technology, new “Base of the Pyramid”, or BoP, consumers, etc.), manufactured from thermosetting resins or thermoplastic Essilor devotes a signiﬁcant proportion of its revenue to research materials. As such, the Airwear® corrective lenses are made and innovation each year. In 2016 it spent €214 million before from a material that can be recycled at the end of its life cycle research tax credits. to produce items other than corrective lenses. Furthermore, The Group’s research is focused on understanding the needs of no new chemical component requiring toxicology tests is used consumers and professional customers from the optical industry in the Group’s innovations. Lastly, Essilor does not conduct any across the three dimensions of visual health, which are: visual tests on animals; correction, the protection of eyes and the prevention of eye diseases. The structure of Essilor’s global R&D organization f Transparent. To guide end users in their choices as effectively as possible, Essilor is careful to provide high quality, relevant comprises five Centers for Innovation & Technologies, at the information on new products. By working with visual health heart of the major current and future markets and close to professionals, training them and providing them with technical centers of international expertise. It operates as a collaborative, documentation and informative materials, Essilor ensures that creative network, fostering synergies, speeding up execution and its products are promoted in a compliant way. See Section 4.6.4 promoting the emergence of new applications. This approach has of this document; resulted in Forbes magazine ranking Essilor as one of the 100 most innovative companies in the world for the sixth consecutive f Accessible to all. For the Group, any innovation must support year. See Section 1.5.3 of this document. its Mission. New products are therefore developed to address specific or even local issues (such as population aging, the Essilor has expanded its culture of global innovation through emergence of a middle class in high-growth countries, or gradual integration of the challenges of sustainable development. the development of digital technology) and reach as many For the Group, as well as being compliant with regulations, innovation must be: people as possible. To provide more complete protection against harmful blue light and UV, both of which contribute to 4 f Collaborative. This means that stakeholders (universities, age-related vision loss, the Group introduced the Eye Protect research centers, suppliers, customers, professional System™ innovation in 2016. This innovative system integrates associations, etc.) can be involved from design through to ﬁltering properties directly into the lens itself for maximum the launch of the innovation. Essilor has developed more protection. For the 2.5 billion people without visual correction than 20 partnerships with universities and public research living mainly in emerging countries with limited visual health organizations, including the Vision Institute in Paris, CNRS, structures and complex logistics chains, Essilor has developed Inserm, Polytechnique Montréal, and the universities of Shanghai Ready-to-Clip™, a range of symmetrical, interchangeable and Wenzhou in China. The Group has also formed joint ventures lenses that can be ﬁtted instantly in a wide range of frames. with other manufacturers, such as Nikon in Japan with NikonThis enables consumers on low incomes to buy an affordable Essilor International Joint Research Center (NEIJRC). In addition, pair of glasses locally, immediately after their eye test, the Group relies on open innovation, such as the See Change avoiding any issues with logistics and order tracking. Challenge launched in 2016 by its 2.5 New Vision Generation™ program. See Section 4.3.3 of this document; 4.3.3 Development of inclusive business models A large number of individuals suffer from poor vision because they keys to expanding access to good vision. It also helps create local cannot access eye care professionals in the rural communities or jobs and combat poverty. urban areas where they live. The challenge is to ﬁnd sustainable economic models that will Reaching people on low incomes, often designated as Base of continue to support communities as they develop and their the Pyramid (BoP) consumers, requires a totally different and correction needs evolve. innovative approach in terms of products, pricing and distribution. Since 2013, Essilor has leveraged significant resources to Training micro-entrepreneurs in primary vision care is one of the develop and roll out solutions that focus on empowering local Registration Document 2016 | Essilor 209 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.3 Improve live s by im prov in g sigh t communities, by transferring skills and creating jobs that require key geographical areas of Asia, Latin America and Africa. It qualiﬁed labor and setting up infrastructures where basic vision focuses on the adaptation and local deployment of solutions care can be dispensed. These solutions imply close collaboration for BoP customers so as to create an initial network of with local organizations, hence Essilor is co-constructing infrastructure and vision care micro-entrepreneurs (“Primary partnerships with NGOs, social entrepreneurs and regional or Vision Care Providers”). These poorly served communities national governments for its inclusive business models. This often lack access to vision care facilities. Essilor’s goal is to provides the Group with a better understanding of local needs create 25,000 primary vision care providers by 2020. This and obstacles to build a framework for ensuring long-term implies agile, scalable business models. For example, in sustainability projects. The Group aims to improve 50 million lives India, where the 2.5 NVG structure originated, Essilor has at the BoP by 2020. developed the Eye Mitra™ (“friends of the eyes” in Sanskrit) program with the aim of training under-employed villagers as To this end, Essilor has created two dedicated complementary vision technicians. They receive training and the equipment structures: needed to start a “micro-business” carrying out eye exams f the “BoP Innovation Lab ”, supported by the Singapore and dispensing eyeglasses for the inhabitants of rural or Economic Development Board, evaluates and provides semi-urban areas. In 2016 there were 2,500 Eye Mitra™ advice on inclusive business models. As an incubator, it partners. An impact assessment highlighted the major sociohelps to accelerate projects and to strengthen relationships economic contributions of this program (see Section 4.6.5), with social enterprises, foundations and public and private which also won the award for best sustainable development development funds. It works in close collaboration with ﬁlm in the “Transforming Society” category at the tve’s Global Essilor’s inclusive business structure, 2.5 New Vision Sustainability Film Awards in the United Kingdom in 2016. Generation™ (see paragraphs below), on selecting programs, Based on the expertise acquired from the Eye Mitra™ program, the evaluating their social impacts, any adaptations that may be 2.5 NVG teams also developed the Vision Ambassador™ program, necessary and the development of new products, solutions which is designed to train individuals to screen for near-vision and business models in line with the needs of BoP consumers. problems in adults over the age of 45 and sell over-the-counter In 2016, Essilor launched an open innovation challenge to reading glasses as a complementary business. At the end of 2016, develop new technologies for measuring visual defects in the program had more than 1,000 partners of Vision Ambassador™ populations lacking access to vision correction. The challenge in ﬁve countries: China, Brazil, India, Vietnam and Ivory Coast. led to collaboration between the Group’s entire ecosystem (startups, universities, application developers, eye care In 2016, the 2.5 NVG structure ramped up its development and now professionals, etc.) in a bid to develop low-cost, easy-to-use distributes its products across 30 countries, thereby increasing and easy-to-deploy solutions in 2017; its impact. Almost 2.2 million people were ﬁtted with eyeglasses, compared with 1.2 million in 2015 and 300,000 in 2014. f the “2.5 New Vision Generation™” (“2.5 NVG”) business structure leverages dedicated sales and logistics teams in 4.3.4 Strategic giving Essilor continued to deploy its philanthropy initiatives around the In 2016, thanks to the Group’s own philanthropic initiatives and world in 2016, considering that it is a duty to provide the most those of its partners, some 150 programs in almost 50 countries disadvantaged individuals, who live below the international provided vision screenings for over one million people and poverty line, with the vision care that they need. eyeglasses for 300,000. One thousand Group employees were involved in this effort on a volunteer basis. Group subsidiaries also Essilor’s philanthropic activities include awareness-raising donated 700,000 pairs of eyeglasses to two NGOs, Restoring Vision campaigns, eye exams, donations of lenses and frames, and and Kids Right to Sight, taking the total number of beneﬁciaries of funding for local programs led by charities, health care voluntary free eyeglasses to more than a million in 2016. organizations or institutional partners. As such, the Group works with many NGOs, including Lions Clubs International, Brien Holden Vision Institute, Optometry Giving Sight, Samusocial de Paris, Essilor Vision Foundation™ Secours Populaire Français, Sight Savers, Standing Voice, and Orbis International. Following the establishment in 2007 of the Essilor Vision Foundation in the United States, the Group extended its impact To carry out these various initiatives through to completion, the by establishing foundations in India, Singapore and China. In 2016 Group has established a Foundation (Essilor Vision Foundation), the Foundation was established in Canada, Australia and New with legal entities in seven countries and in 2015 launched the Zealand. Vision For Life™ funds in France and in the United States which ﬁnance programs around the world with long-term impact. The Group’s goal for 2020 is to provide €30 million in funding to philanthropy programs related to access to vision care. 210 Essilor | Registration Document 2016 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.3 I m p rove l i ve s by i m p rovi n g s i g h t 4 Some examples of projects in 2016: The projects to which support was provided included the following strategic initiatives in 2016: f in the United States, one child in four has a vision problem that affects learning. According to the Center for Disease f in France, the numerous initiatives undertaken in 2015 with Control and Prevention, vision impairment is one of the most health care partners, humanitarian associations and public common disabling conditions in children in the United States. sector organizations continued. The Foundation operates in every state through more than The emphasis was on providing help to very underprivileged 50 partnerships with other NGOs and works with more than populations, with partners such as the Secours Populaire 900 schools to bridge the gap between vision care needs and Français, a non-proﬁt organization devoted to ﬁghting poverty vision care access. One of its ﬂagship programs, Kids Vision and discrimination in France and beyond, and the Samusocial For Life™, provides direct vision care in schools by offering de Paris humanitarian emergency service. A number of eye exams. A mobile clinic with facilities to create eyeglasses awareness-raising initiatives took place throughout the year on-site means that most students leave with their own pair in addition to campaigns on ophthalmic examination and of eyeglasses the day of the exam. Every year, more than essential equipment in the majority of cases. 30,000 students have free access to this service; A large-scale educational campaign that also involved vision f in China, the Essilor Foundation rolled out a number of testing took place during the Salon Jeunes d’Avenirs youth programs aimed at children in 279 schools in ﬁve provinces career fair, educating more than 10,000 young school or and provided eye exams to more than 200,000 children. The college leavers about the importance of good vision for their “Eye Do” program, designed to train teachers to conduct a future. vision diagnosis, was awarded the prize for best philanthropy program by the China Charity Festival; Some 2,000 young people received an eye exam at the fair, and almost 50% of them were diagnosed as having a vision f in India, 300,000 people in 15 provinces were given problem requiring an ophthalmologic follow-up. For those with free screening, including 175,000 children. Almost insufficient social security coverage, the program Vision for 100,000 individuals received UV protection equipment in the Life™ allowed them to be examined by an ophthalmologist and most exposed areas; ﬁtted with eyeglasses. f for the rest of the Asian region, the Foundation rolled out All of this was made possible through the establishment programs in nine countries, raising awareness and providing in 2015 of a “PASS-O” unit, which provides access to free vision screenings to more than 100,000 people; ophthalmology care for people without medical insurance, f lastly, in Australia and New Zealand, more than 30 initiatives in an Adolphe de Rothschild Foundation health care center. 4 were conducted in schools, with almost 3,000 children This was supplemented in 2016 with a PASS-O unit for the screened for vision problems. These initiatives were reported Hôtel Dieu hospital in Paris, managed by the Paris Public by local media and helped educate millions of people about the Hospital Network (AP-HP – Assistance Publique – Hôpitaux de importance of good vision for academic success. Paris), with sponsorship from the Vision For Life™ program. These new facilities, the largest in France in the field of Meanwhile, under the Special Olympics Opening Eyes global ophthalmology, have allowed 3,000 underprivileged individuals program supported by Essilor, the Special Olympics and Lions to be seen for a full vision care pathway and the provision of Club International, the Essilor Foundation has screened more optical equipment if required. than 180,000 children with intellectual disabilities since 2002. In 2016, a total of 139 events took place around the world, with more Plans to extend access to facilities outside Paris and the Île-dethan 24,000 athletes screened. More than 12,000 of them received France region, i.e. to the rest of France, in the next two years eyeglasses and 11,000 received sunglasses. are under discussion. Lastly, a pilot project with the French Ministry of Education to Vision For Life™ train doctors and nurses at the Académie de Paris in how best to teach students, children and parents about vision has been Created in January 2015, Vision For Life™ (the Essillor Social Impact approved and will be implemented in February 2017. It will endowment fund in France and the non-proﬁt-making Essilor Social focus on providing them with special tools to better educate all Impact Fund in the United States) aims to accelerate initiatives that concerned about the importance of good vision for academic tackle the global challenge of poor vision by raising awareness, success; developing skills in regions with no access to the most basic visual health solutions, supporting the creation of infrastructure such f in Africa, projects have been carried out in six countries, as vision centers and improving access to vision care. Essilor has including Côte d’Ivoire, Algeria, Morocco and Tanzania, as part made an initial contribution of €30 million to these two structures, of a three-year program signed with the British NGO Standing making it the world’s largest strategic giving program dedicated to Voice to provide high-quality sunglasses to 4,200 albino eliminating Uncorrected Refractive Error. children to protect their eyes from UV light. Forty percent of these children have been diagnosed with a fairly serious vision problem and will also receive appropriate corrective and protective eyeglasses. Lastly, in Ethiopia, almost 180,000 individuals have been screened over the last three years under a partnership with British NGO Vision Aid Overseas and with the support of UK Aid. Registration Document 2016 | Essilor 211 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.4 Car ing for pe ople S OCI A L I N FO R M ATIO N 4.4 Caring for people Essilor’s success is deeply intertwined with the 63,676 employees a global, diversiﬁed, multicultural and multilocal Group. This aim throughout the world who, irrespective of their role and the work entails a working environment that respects their physical and that they do, are committed to developing and marketing the moral integrity and ensures equal treatment at all times. innovative products and services that contribute to the Group’s By putting these conditions in place, Essilor is able to develop the Mission: to improve lives by improving sight. employability of its staff (in particular, by making it easy for them With a history dating back almost 170 years, the Group has to access training throughout their career and by broadening their a unique corporate culture that is based on strong values roles and experience with increased autonomy and responsibility), established in all areas and subsidiaries of the business: and to attract and retain talent. entrepreneurship, respect for others and mutual trust, and a spirit Essilor’s employee shareholding structure is a key characteristic of cooperation, diversity and innovation. of the Group’s social policy. It not only beneﬁts employees but also Through its human resources policy, Essilor also hopes to shareholders by aligning their common interests regarding the encourage the development and personal fulfillment of its Company’s performance and the value created as a result. employees, by offering them opportunities for growth as part of Total workforce and breakdown of employees by geographical area, gender, function and age As of December 31, 2016, Essilor had 63,676 full time equivalent employees worldwide using the ﬁnancial consolidation method. The average workforce for 2016 was 63,107 (full time equivalent employees corresponding to the amount reported for consolidated personnel costs for the period). 2016 2015 2014 Total workforce (FTEs) 63,676 (@) 60,883(@) 58,032(@) at the end of the period Average workforce (FTEs) 63,107 (@) 60,503(@) 58,480(@) in 2016 Breakdown of the workforce North America 13,476 (@) (21.2%) 12,456(@) (20.5%) 12,105(@) (20.9%) (FTEs) “at end of period” (@) (@) Europe 12,141 (19.1%) 10,613 (17.4%) 10,029(@) (17.3%) by geographical area Latin America / Africa / Asia / 38,059 (@) (59.7%) 37,814(@) (62.1%) 35,898(@) (61.8%) Australia / Middle East / Russia Note: FTE = Full Time Equivalent employees. 2016 2015 2014 Workforce (FTEs) covered by 2016 reporting on the period 57,985 51,787 40,371 Reporting Coverage 91.9% 85.6% 69.0% Number of employees (headcount) covered by 2016 reporting on the period 61,995 51,787 40,371 Note: The workforce covered by the reporting is the average number of FTEs calculated over the period from October 1st, 2015 to September 30th, 2016. Reporting coverage is calculated based on Group total average workforce (FTEs). Reporting coverage increased from 85.1% in 2015 to 91.9% in 2016, a signiﬁcant rise due to the integration of new reporting entities. The increase in workforce (FTEs and Headcount) reported is mainly due to the expansion of the scope of consolidation, which accounts for 18% of the total reported number of employees. Eliminating the impact in the scope of consolidation, there was no signiﬁcant change in the workforce compared with the previous year. The difference between FTE and Headcount numbers of 2016 is due to the integration of one entity who has a speciﬁc business model using part time employees. All the detail workforce information below (workforce breakdown by gender, workforce breakdown by function, workforce breakdown by age, new hires, layoffs and turnover) and reporting coverage rate per indicator are based on average number of employees (headcount) covered by 2016 reporting on the period. 212 Essilor | Registration Document 2016 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.4 C a r i n g fo r p e o p l e 4 Workforce breakdown by gender 2016 2015 2014 Women 33,587 (54.2%) 27,437 (53.0%) 21,306 (52.8%) Breakdown of the workforce by gender (based on the workforce covered by reporting) Men 28,408 (45.8%) 24,350 (47.0%) 19,065 (47.2%) Women Men 61,995 33,587 51,787 54% 28,408 27,437 46% 40,371 53% 24,350 47% 21,306 53% 19,065 47% 2016 2015 2014 Workforce breakdown by function 2016 2015 2014 4 Breakdown of the workforce by function Production staff 31,558 50.9% 35,196 68.0% 29,635 73.4% (based on the workforce covered by reporting) Supervisors 22,780 36.7% 10,608 20.4% 6,005 14.9% and administrative employees Managerial personnel 7,657 12.4% 5,983 11.6% 4,731 11.7% Production staff Supervisors & administrative employees Managerial 35,196 31,558 68% 22,780 29,635 51% 37% 73% 10,608 7,657 20% 5,983 6,005 4,731 12% 12% 15% 12% 2016 2015 2014 Note: Workforce breakdown by function is based on the total number of employees covered by the reporting for 2016. According to the Group’s deﬁnition, “Production staff” includes workers working on production sites; “Supervisors and administrative employees” includes individuals who have management responsibility and/or is employed in an office. Lastly, “Managerial personnel” comprises Executive Directors, managers and experts. The population of “production staff” has decreased compared with previous year. The decrease between 2016 and 2015 was mainly due to the lack of data from a subsidiary in Asia in 2016 reporting and an error of mis-classiﬁcation from an American entity In 2015. Due to limited information of previous year, we did not restate the numbers of 2015. The population of “supervisors and administrative employees” increased signiﬁcantly mainly due to the integration of a large number of non-production sites in the reporting of 2016. It is also a reﬂection of the enriched business model of Essilor, with the increase of sunglasses & readers distribution and online business. Registration Document 2016 | Essilor 213 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.4 Car ing for pe ople Workforce breakdown by age 2016 2015 2014 Breakdown of the workforce by age group 16 to 18 years 167 (0.27%) 161 (0.31%) 177 (0.44%) (based on the workforce covered by reporting) 18 to 24 years 6,297 (10.16%) 5,644 (10.90%) 3,839 (9.51%) 25 to 34 years 20,245 (32.65%) 16,537 (31.93%) 12,112 (30.00%) 35 to 44 years 17,065 (27.53%) 14,179 (27.38%) 11,623 (28.79%) 45 to 54 years 10,968 (17.69%) 8,946 (17.28%) 7,941 (19.67%) 55 to 59 years 3,769 (6.08%) 3,341 (6.45%) 2,850 (7.06%) 60 years and over 3,484 (5.62%) 2,979 (5.75%) 1,829 (4.53%) 20,245 17,065 10,968 6,297 3,769 3,484 167 60 years 16-18 18-24 25-34 35-44 45-54 55-59 and above Note: The reported workforce under 18 years old is mainly from entities in China and Brazil where the minimum legal working age is 16. The other, very limited, cases are trainees or apprentices whose employment is compliant with local regulation. New hires, layoffs and turnover 2016 2015 2014 Total new hires 14,548 NA NA Note: First year of publication of this indicator. Reported data are based on an identical scope to the workforce covered by 2016 reporting on the period. 2016 2015 2014 Total layoffs 1,632 NA NA Note: First year of publication of this indicator. The reporting coverage is 98.5%. 2016 2015 2014 Voluntary turnover rate 10.0% 10.0% 8.9% Note: As part of the continuous improvement in reporting for 2016, the Group further updated its method for calculating turnover to make it more relevant and representative. Turnover rate is now calculated as a weighted average based on an expanded sample which represents 68.1% of the workforce covered by 2016 reporting. The turnover rate indicated in this document is based on voluntary departures (resignation) from the Group. Salary changes Average weighted salary changes could be calculated but this would not be relevant globally since there are too many variants (@) Total salaries in 2016: €2,142 million from one year to the next (the Group’s growth being one of the Total salaries in 2015: €2,045 million (@) major variants). Total salaries in 2014: €1,743 million (@) 2016-2015 change: +4.74% 214 Essilor | Registration Document 2016 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.4 C a r i n g fo r p e o p l e 4 4.4.1 Ensuring health and safety with a quality working environment Maintaining the health of all employees and offering them a quality it provides assistance and technical operational support, such as working environment are priorities for Essilor. This involves standard procedures, action plans and on-site audits. To improve preventing accidents and occupational illnesses, taking measures safety and reduce workplace accidents to zero, the Group aims to to minimize the severity of accidents and the implementation of reduce by 30% the frequency rate by 2020. corrective action plans to prevent repetition. In addition to the OHSAS 18001 guidelines represent an entry point to occupational human factor, the accident may involve signiﬁcant direct costs health and safety policies at all facilities. One of the goals of these (related to absences and temporary replacement staff, fines, policies is to improve occupational health and safety awareness, contributions and increased insurance costs) and indirect costs training and communication. (a drop in productivity and disruption to services). Essilor, its employees and their representatives therefore have a mutual As of December 31, 2016, the production facilities in Brazil (1), interest in working together to reduce accidents to a minimum. China (1), the United States (1), France (2), Ireland (1), Mexico (1), the Philippines (2) and Thailand (1) were OHSAS 18001-certiﬁed. As a result, the percentage of certified environmental Health and safety in the workplace management systems in the Group’s upstream production plants Action plans have been implemented with speciﬁc objectives and was 83% (10/12). targets for better prevention and reduction of occupational health The development and launch of new products now includes a and safety risks. new process called Stages & Gates to coordinate the work of the In collaboration with the Human Resources Department, the various departments, from design to deployment at production Global EHS (Environment-Health-Safety) Department, including sites. The process includes occupational health and safety and experts in occupational health and safety, the management of environmental requirements in an effort to prevent occupational chemical products and ergonomics, leads the Group’s approach to illnesses and accidents and reduce environmental impact. These health and safety. It deﬁnes the annual targets and is supported by requirements pertain to safe machines and processes, ergonomic a network of EHS coordinators at the Group’s main sites, to whom workstations, chemicals management, regulatory aspects and change management, among other topics. Health & safety indicators Work-related injuries with lost work time 2016 193 2015 197 2014 172 4 Work-related injuries without lost work time 333 431 338 Fatal accidents 0 0 0 Lost work days due to work-related injuries with lost work time 6,550 5,674 4,379 Frequency rate of work-related injuries with lost work time for the period 1.9 2.1 2.0 Severity rate of work-related injuries with lost work time for the period 0.06 0.06 0.05 Accidents with lost work time Lost work days (Frequency rate) (Severity rate) 193 197 1.9 2.1 172 6,550 2.0 0.06 5,674 0.06 4,379 0.05 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 Note: Reporting of work-related injuries is based on entities where the Group Health and Safety standards and policy are applied and the reporting coverage in 2016 was 74.8% of total number of employees reported. There was a slight reduction in injury frequency rate, and severity rates of working accidents with lost work time remain at the same level. Registration Document 2016 | Essilor 215 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.4 Car ing for pe ople Occupational illnesses special emphasis is placed on chemical management with a focus on preventing employee exposure. Based on a risk assessment Identifying and monitoring the possible occurrence of occupational approach, preventive and protective actions consist of substitution illnesses is the task of each entity and the number of cases programs led at Group level, engineering measures like fume and has not been consolidated due to the difference between local vapor extraction systems, automated ﬁlling machine or redesigned regulations. The vast majority of reported occupational illnesses workstations, dedicated training sessions and specially adapted fall within the category of musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs). personal protective equipment. The effectiveness of such actions An ergonomics position has been created within the Global EHS is veriﬁed by periodic sampling and analysis or via continuous Department to initiate and monitor programs set up to reduce the monitoring, plus appropriate medical surveillance of employees. existing number of cases and prevent the occurrence of new ones. These programs were continued in 2016. Because the manufacturing of lenses involves the use of numerous chemicals, including some hazardous substances, a Absenteeism 2016 2015 2014 Absenteeism rate 3.4% 5.1% 4.8% Note: As part of the continuous improvement in reporting for 2016, the Group further updated its method for calculating absenteeism rate to make it more relevant and representative. Absenteeism rate is now calculated as a weighted average based on the number of lost work days reported. The coverage rate of absenteeism rate is 70.4% of the total workforce covered by 2016 reporting. Organization of working hours The Group promotes ﬂexibility initiatives in the organization of work (part-time, teleworking, etc.). Local decisions in terms of the Working hours vary considerably within the Essilor group. Each organization of working hours are based primarily on adapting legal entity has the autonomy to decide the most appropriate to customers’ needs, discussions with employees and their working hours. For that reason, Essilor does not disclose the representative bodies, compliance with local regulations and consolidated data regarding working hours. optimizing operational efficiency. 4.4.2 Training and the development of skills and talent With a rapidly growing international business, a presence in At the Group level, a specific team is responsible for devising, emerging countries, areas of specific know-how and growth rolling out and overseeing training, and constantly updates content in new segments, training and the development of skills and to best support the organization’s new key themes. Training on talents are strategic challenges for the Group. It may be difficult Group level falls into three categories: to hire and retain trained, experienced employees, particularly in competitive areas of the labor market and in emerging countries. This situation affects all levels of employees (workers, Essilor University, an online training platform supervisors and managers) and calls for speciﬁc measures. In Distance learning (e-learning) provides complete access to consequence, such measures have a prominent role in Essilor’s general-interest content or content that is designed for new hires. human resources policy. Programs where employees take responsibility for their own Developing employees’ skills and employability is both an development are also offered. essential criterion for operational efficiency to support the Group’s In 2016, Essilor University (Essilor U) added a new dimension to growth, and a sustainable commitment by the employer towards its talent development with the introduction of a modern, online its staff. training and administration tool that connected more than 16,000 Training also supports internal mobility and helps in building new employees around the world from all Group entities, including fulﬁlling career paths, and Essilor has a strong commitment to its key partners. Essilor University is now accessible to more than employees in both these respects. 32,000 employees who are offered training initiatives to support the Group’s development at all levels: global, regional and local. Essilor created its training schemes and mechanisms for These initiatives will be strengthened in 2017 with more content, identifying and developing talent from very early on. Today, there broader curricula and improved access from mobile devices are a number of initiatives taking place in training and talent (smartphones and tablets). The Group’s goal is to ensure all management. employees to have access to Essilor U by 2020. Training and development The Essilor group has set up a flexible and consistent training platform that aims to support the growth of the Group (e-commerce, sun, etc.) while meeting the needs of individuals and teams in terms of employability. 216 Essilor | Registration Document 2016 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.4 C a r i n g fo r p e o p l e 4 The offer has been redesigned in line with the Group’s from coaches so as to identify their strengths and work on their fundamental principles: its Mission, Strategy, Leadership, areas for development, also with support from their peers. Finance, Regulatory Compliance, Optics, and Products. It is In 2016, 158 managers took part in the GMP (at least one also structured around the need for skills in key functions. The per region), 33 in the AMP, and 22 in the SMP. In addition, content library has been upgraded with new content offered in 45 managerial staff participated in the TML, making a total of 258. several languages. In 2016, more than 43,800 courses have been completed. The availability of more content, either onlineonly or in combination with other programs, has boosted career Programs for speciﬁc topics, business areas development opportunities and given more concrete expression to and regions the “digital” aspect of learning, encouraging each employee to play an active role in their own development. To cater for the speciﬁc needs of a region or a business area or address an operational constraint (e.g., a community of experts who are dispersed throughout the world), specific training Managerial career paths programs are devised by the subsidiaries and the Group function. There are three classroom-based training programs on offer for f “Grow Your Team” – Devised by the Group’s Operations Group managerial staff: Department, this program aims to strengthen management practices and management excellence (lean f the General Management Program (GMP) is aimed at those manufacturing, etc.). It involves the entire management chain who primarily work with their teams to perform strategyand is designed not only to create momentum for learning and related operational tasks. It offers a selection of business cohesion based on shared management principles but also to topics (strategy, marketing, finance, innovation and change develop a culture of feedback for collective improvement and management) as part of a learning program that focuses on increased commitment, and enhance employees’ performance the Group’s management methods and approaches. Organized and personal development. The course was developed centrally in three major regions, the program is run in partnership and is being rolled out with local trainers in conjunction with with three prestigious management schools: ESSEC (France), the entire HR structure. Nanyang Business School (Singapore) and McCombs School of Business (USA). It has a common curriculum to which In 2016, almost 370 managers were enrolled in this program, an appropriate local component is added to help with the which involved classroom sessions, online modules supported acquisition of new theories and sharing of internal practices. by Harvard Manage Mentor®, joint-development between peers, In 2017, a Chinese-language program will be offered to and ongoing managerial support. employees and partners in China, Taiwan and Hong Kong; f “LOFT” – The purpose of the LOFT (Learning Organization f the Advanced Management Program (AMP) is aimed at those who are primarily involved in transforming key strategic For Tomorrow) program launched in 2007 is to promote the exchange of best practices and the generation of shared 4 objectives and then sharing them with their operating know-how. Since then, an organizational structure for learning teams. This program has a dual purpose. Firstly, it develops has been introduced, with trainers in laboratories and on a strategic approach for steering change in an environment production sites who are trained as trainers and then train where analyzing value creation is essential and where their colleagues at their workstations. Content is now managed innovation plays a key role in the relationship with customers in conjunction with Essilor University. and consumers. Secondly, it focuses in particular on personal f “EVE” – The EVE program, created in 2010 by French development and managing teams or projects in a global multinational food products company Danone, is a leadership context. This program has been put together in partnership program for women which aims to contribute to the with Thunderbird School of Global Management (USA); development of strong, inspiring individuals in sufficient f a new Senior Management Program (SMP) in conjunction numbers to bring change to the business. Essilor has joined with INSEAD was delivered in 2016. Aimed primarily at forces with other sponsor companies and in 2016 took part in managers who play a direct role in developing and conducting sessions organized in France and China. management strategy, it has two key objectives: firstly, to In 2017, Essilor will continue to connect more employees to Essilor maximize value created from strategic agility, innovation University, stepping up the training offer and communicating and managing partnerships and negotiation, and secondly best practices in an effort to enhance the digital learning culture to achieve organizational efficiency by managing complex of each employee. The Group will include more partners in its structures, analyzing value and optimizing commitment. training and development network to bring even more consistency To complement the aforementioned business management to the Group’s initiatives. Essilor will also continue to devise programs, a special leadership program, Transition from Manager innovative solutions tailored to the needs expressed or perceived to Leader (TML), was revisited and rolled out on a regional basis to by the business units. These solutions will be closely related to the meet a growing demand from managerial staff. Its goal is to help development of skills and talent at both the local and the global them to develop as leaders, to make an impact and to coach their level. teams in respect for the Group’s values. They receive guidance Registration Document 2016 | Essilor 217 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.4 Car ing for pe ople Total number of local training hours To monitor overall local training activity within the Group, the subsidiaries are asked to assess the “Number of training hours” indicator for production staff and all other management positions (supervisors, administrative employees and managerial personnel). 2016 2015 2014 Number of training hours for production employees 357,196 378,727 318,164 Number of training hours for non-production employees 259,819 170,940 238,167 TOTAL 617,015 549,667 556,331 Local training for production employees Local training for non-production employees 617,015 259,819 549,667 556,331 170,940 238,167 378,727 357,196 318,164 2016 2015 2014 Note: The process of continuous improvement in the quality of the data made it possible to identify a reporting error in 2015 from a subsidiary of the Group. The 2015 data has been restated to ensure consistency of information. The reporting coverage of local training information covers 63.9% of the total headcount reported. Talent management software for all managerial staff, to identify areas for personal development, possible individual career development and In order to attract, develop and retain talent, in 2016 Essilor’s succession plans for key positions; Talent Management Department continued with the rollout of a comprehensive approach built on several lines of action: f use the e-Talent software as a comprehensive talent management tool to appraise performance, review talent and f develop “employer branding”: maintain a regular presence prepare succession plans at the global level; on the international campuses of top-ranking management schools (INSEAD, ESSEC, HEC, NUS, NTU, SMU, CEIBS, etc.) f incorporate a hiring module directly in LinkedIn™ to manage through presentations on the Group’s activities, job and career vacant positions, both internal and external. In 2017, a platform fairs, leading a case study on Essilor, and so on. This is in dedicated to mobility will be also introduced; addition to action on LinkedIn™; f develop the COMET Project, which is an accelerator for talented f drive and coordinate talent management through the young employees in the Group, and help them with their career worldwide implementation of shared performance analysis plans. 4.4.3 Employee integration and inclusion of all forms of diversity The promotion of diversity, one of Essilor’s five values, has promotes diversity. Inclusion begins with the Group’s ability to contributed to international expansion, product and service welcome new employees, introduce them to the Group’s culture innovation, performance, and exceptional growth for the Group. and strategy, respect the uniqueness of each individual, and Encouraging diversity in all its forms is also a means of fostering promote the value created at Essilor when all these different personal initiative and the development and professional growth proﬁles work together. of Essilor’s employees. This culture of diversity and inclusion is also a key factor for success in integrating newly acquired companies. Integrating new employees Essilor ﬁrmly believes that getting the best ideas and different At the Group level, integration efforts in 2016 included opening perspectives is crucial to the Group’s success and therefore is Essilor University to more than 32,000 employees. The goal is to committed to developing an inclusive work environment that connect even more group or partner-company employees in 2017. 218 Essilor | Registration Document 2016 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.4 C a r i n g fo r p e o p l e 4 An induction program is made available to new employees when disability, etc. In addition, the development of internal women’s their account is created. The program also appears in a special networks is continuing: following positive feedback from the section of the Group’s intranet site and contains information on USA and France, a new network was established in 2016 at the foundations of Essilor’s business, its Mission and Principles Clearly in Canada and another will be created in Singapore in and Values, and key points regarding safety and regulatory the ﬁrst half of 2017; compliance. It allows each new employee to feel that they are fully f to enhance the HR and management processes so that there involved in helping to achieve the Group’s goals. is richer diversity and greater beneﬁts as a result: for every There are a number of induction initiatives at the regional level, new job offer for a key position, whether internal or external, such as the Somos Essilor program in Brazil, the Y.Essilor initiative there must be a woman on the shortlist who meets the desired for trainees and interns in France, and the 90-day Smart Start profile; in some countries, such as France, any job offered program in the USA which is aimed at providing more information externally must ﬁrst be publicized with ﬁrms specializing in on the optics sector, the Essilor group, the Essilor of America finding jobs for people with disabilities; at the Group level, subsidiary, and the participant’s business area. a quarterly discussion committee (the Best Practices D&I Committee) is set up and comprises some 15 “local diversity ambassadors”; local initiatives also exist, such as the IDEA Challenges, priorities and key themes Committee – Inclusion & Diversity @ Essilor of America – of the diversity and inclusion policy introduced in early 2016. Composed of 12 leaders, it is The main challenges of Essilor’s diversity and inclusion policy sponsored by the President of the North America region and are guaranteeing equal opportunities; supporting geographical decides on, adapts and announces the Inclusion & Diversity expansion and adapting to local cultures; optimizing the strategy in the USA; organization; and using the Group’s social, human and cultural f to introduce initiatives to support the professional development diversity to drive economic performance. of all employees: the “Female Leadership” program, such as Most importantly, it is a broad approach that covers all aspects of the EVE program initiated by Danone and in which Essilor diversity. Essilor also adopts a thematic approach to: has participated since its creation five years ago; special curricula to attract and develop young talent in the United f cultural diversity to ensure that teams better reﬂect markets States, Europe and Asia; rollout of training courses on diversity and customers in terms of cultures and nationalities; and unconscious bias for large numbers of people, with pilot f gender diversity, one of the goals of which is to increase the courses targeting all managers in France and all employees in representation of women in the Group’s senior executive the United States. positions; f inter-generational diversity to develop a pool of young talent, draw on the experience of older workers and strengthen Measures taken to promote the employment 4 and integration of people with disabilities the effective collaboration between all Group employees, regardless of their age. The Group pays keen attention to the issue of disability. Efforts made within the Group are reflected around the world in To drive this process, the Group’s “Diversity, Let’s Aim Higher” awareness campaigns and training initiatives, actions to promote program launched a year ago has four key priorities: fair and sustainable recruitment, job security for people with f to follow changes in the situation through relative indicators, disabilities, and the development of a purchasing policy that including for gender, age, nationality, participation in training, involves the protected worker sector. For example, Servioptica, a and new hires. This allows the Group to identify action points business partner in Colombia, received an award from the United and progress made, such as the percentage of women in the Nations in December 2016 in recognition of its good employment AMP (Advanced Management Program), which increased from practices for people with disabilities. 11% in 2012 to 39% in 2016; Similarly, Essilor entities have introduced measures to promote f to encourage local teams to be more active when it comes to the employment and integration of people with disabilities. diversity; since 2016, the month of March has been dedicated Recruitment procedures allow such individuals to access genuine to diversity and inclusion; many subsidiaries involve their job opportunities. All reasonable efforts are made to make a staff in breakfasts on the theme of gender diversity, evening workstation suitable for and accessible to an individual with a events with traditional costumes and food from different disability. Essilor does not engage in any discrimination based on cultures, quizzes on diversity, exhibitions to raise awareness of a person’s disability in respect of employment, the job itself or promotional opportunities. 2016 2015 2014 Number of employees with a disability 577 466 437 Percentage of employees with a disability 0.9% 0.9% 1.1% Number of associated jobs created 137 81 20 Note: In 2016, the Group has aligned the Group deﬁnition of disability. The data for 2015 and 2014 were restated according to the new Group deﬁnition. The reporting coverage rate is 98.7% of the Group’s total workforce. The increase of number of employee with disability and associated job creation are mainly due to the expansion of reporting scope. Registration Document 2016 | Essilor 219 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.4 Car ing for pe ople In France and since 2007, Essilor has signed four collective f rollout of a sustainable recruitment plan with decisions based bargaining agreements on the continued employment of people on objective skills-related criteria; with disabilities and their integration within the Group. In France, f developing the use of the protected worker sector; Essilor is a member of two non-proﬁt associations that support the inclusion of people with disabilities, “Club Handicap & f continuing with training, awareness and communication efforts Compétences” and “Club Être”, sharing best practices and in respect of disability. taking part in think tanks on the issue with other stakeholders. This commitment by the Company and its social partners to the Anti-discrimination policy practical implementation of a sustainable, coherent proactive policy, is reflected in an increase in the employment rate for Essilor has implemented a speciﬁc procedure that is invoked in employees with disabilities, from 3.44% in 2007 to 5.36% in 2015. the event of employees reporting allegations of discrimination. Such issues may relate to a job or to an occupation. The few The fourth collective bargaining agreement on the integration and allegations brought to the Group each year and which have continued employment of people with disabilities was signed in triggered the procedure to classify incidents of discrimination (on late 2015 for a term of three years, from 2016 to 2018. average two to ﬁve a year Group-wide) have not been proven. This agreement, implemented by Essilor’s Mission Handicap and a network of 21 internal officers, is structured around four main lines of action: f continued employment of Essilor staff with disabilities, through the use of a range of appropriate aids; 2016 2015 2014 Total number of recognized incidents of discrimination 0 0 0 4.4.4 Employee shareholding & management / employee consultation As a result of its culture, which is heavily influenced by its aligned with those of shareholders. The employee shareholding is origins, its history and its two-fold economic and human goal, the multi-faceted and tailored to the legal framework of each country. Group promotes employee profit-sharing, particularly through Valoptec Association, a non-proﬁt association under the French shareholding and encourages dialogue between management and law of 1901, brings together more than 8,500 active and retired employees regardless of whether they are covered by a collective employee shareholders. Internal shareholders have the largest bargaining agreement. All Group employees have access to single shareholding in the Group. health and social security cover, which varies according to local Essilor International’s Employee Shareholding Department sets characteristics. up and manages employee shareholding plans in most part of The practices for management / employee dialogue also Essilor group companies. In 2016, new plans were set up with the allow Essilor and its staff to manage necessary changes in the Group’s partners in Turkey and Canada. organizational structure with ease. This capacity for dialogue The Group decided to launch a plan to roll out and extend is essential to safeguard the agility of the Company, business employee shareholding on a global scale so that employees would continuity even in case of grievances, and the excellent reputation continue to be involved in the Group’s development and success that Essilor enjoys amongst all its stakeholders. on a long-term and broader basis. Eventually, Essilor expects 50% of employees to become shareholders in the Company. This goal to Employees – Essilor’s main shareholder develop and further strengthen the shareholding culture includes all the Group’s host countries and all employees, regardless of Since its founding, Essilor has been committed to a strong internal their professional status. shareholding policy, and today nearly one in four employees hold shares in the Group. Employees are Essilor’s main shareholder, As of December 31, 2016, employees and equity partners held and this has given rise to an original method of governance that 8.4% of the share capital and 14.5% of voting rights. encourages dialogue and involves employees in the Group’s Note that all Essilor shareholders who keep their registered key decisions. It also means that the interests of employees are shares for at least two years have a double voting right. 2016 2015 2014 (@) (@) Number of employee shareholders 13,557 12,944 12,558 (@) Percentage of employee shareholders 21.5% 21.4% 21.5% Note: Data concern only active employee shareholders on December 31st, 2016. Percentage calculation is based on an average of 63,107 employees for the full year 2016. The disclosure of 2015 included both active employee shareholders and retired employee shareholders. To keep the data consistency, 2015 number has been restated 220 Essilor | Registration Document 2016 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.4 C a r i n g fo r p e o p l e 4 Organization of dialogue between Staff negotiations vary from one establishment to another, but management and employees Essilor consistently promotes these throughout the world as a factor in employee satisfaction. Global staff opinion polls continue When it comes to dialogue between management and employees, to be conducted periodically within the Group. Essilor promotes listening, discussion and transparency in local In late 2015, the Group launched its ﬁfth employee opinion poll, decision-making. It also encourages open communication with which achieved a high response rate of nearly 80%. The poll employees and strives to ensure that everyone can participate revealed that 93% of employees said they were satisﬁed working without hierarchical boundaries. Dialogue between management at Essilor and that the average satisfaction rate for all questions and employees varies widely within the Essilor group. Each legal combined was 85%. These results had improved over the previous entity has complete autonomy to decide on the most appropriate survey. labor-related dialogue. Labor-related dialogue is generally organized by employee representatives through any means possible or directly for the smallest entities or those not wishing Overview of collective agreements to be represented by one or more third-parties. Such dialogue covers more than 90% of the Group’s total workforce. There are a vast number of collective bargaining agreements per legal entity, each of which has the autonomy to implement Representative bodies include: Optical Union in Brazil; Shanghai collective bargaining agreements according to the regulations in Essilor Optical Company Limited Trade Union in China; Essilor force. European Dialogue and Information Committee (EEDIC) in Europe; the Group Committee in France; Karmika Sangha in The majority of collective bargaining agreements pertain to the India; Confederation of Filipino Workers, Essilor Manufacturing introduction of long-term beneﬁts (medical coverage, pensions, Philippines Incorporated Chapter in the Philippines; Essilor diversity and disability, life insurance, etc.) as well as short-term Workers’ Union of Thailand in Thailand; and numerous activity benefits (performance bonuses, distribution of performance committees, communication committees, employee committees, shares, shareholding, etc.), allowing the Group to attract and factory committees, safety committees, welfare committees and retain employees who contribute to its performance by virtue similar bodies. of their expertise and talent. Agreements signed on such issues typically have a broader framework in respect of general working Numerous initiatives are conducted in the countries of operation conditions and therefore include occupational health and safety. in the spirit of labor-related dialogue that the Company embodies. 2016 2015 2014 % of subsidiaries with collective bargaining agreements 63.7% to 73.3% in 2016. 41% 36% Note: The percentage of subsidiaries that have signed collective bargaining agreements has increased due to the increase in reporting coverage, which has risen from N/A 4 Compliance with the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining Essilor complies with International Labor Organization right to organize and collective bargaining. To date, no activity has Fundamental Conventions No. 87 on freedom of association and been identiﬁed as presenting a compliance risk in this area. protection of the right to organize convention, and No. 98 on the Registration Document 2016 | Essilor 221 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.5 Optimizin g e nv iron me n t al foot pr i n t ENV I R O N M E N TA L IN FO RMATIO N 4.5 Optimizing environmental footprint In the mid-20th century, Essilor revolutionized the optics industry, consumption, special-waste management and water discharge substantially reduced its environmental footprint through the treatment. The materials and chemical products used in the introduction of the ORMA lens (for ORganic MAterial®). This production process are subject to stringent regulations in terms would replace the mineral lens and lead to the abandonment of of environmental protection and are supplied by industries with manufacturing methods that were far more polluting. Since this good environmental practices that enable the associated impacts innovation, the environmental impact of production activities has to be controlled. been signiﬁcantly reduced and is now limited to water and energy Given the operational, ﬁnancial and reputational challenges associated with the environment, Essilor has set ﬁve priorities: 1. Strengthen environmental management processes. 2. Reduce water consumption and guarantee supply. 3. Improve the energy efficiency of manufacturing and transportation processes. 4. Decrease the carbon footprint and adapt to climate change. 5. Limit waste generation and optimize recycling. Responsibility for overseeing the Group’s environmental impact this responsibility, it relies on a network of EHS coordinators who reduction program lies with the Global EHS Department. To fulﬁll are present on the production sites. 4.5.1 Strengthening environmental management Environmental assessment and certiﬁcation Furthermore, some of the most significant prescription and service laboratories and distribution centers in terms of volume of Given its industrial activities, historically, Essilor has implemented throughput have also introduced and maintain ISO 14001-certiﬁed environmental management systems that conform to the environmental management systems where this is relevant. ISO 14001:2004 standard. Since December 31, 2005, the Essilor mass production sites in Brazil (1), China (1), the United States (1), France (2), Ireland (1), Mexico (1), the Philippines (2) and Thailand Environmental training (1) have all been certiﬁed to ISO 14001. Some Essilor partners are In 2016, in addition to the training and awareness-raising also ISO 14001-certiﬁed, such as Nikon Essilor in Japan. initiatives inherent in ISO 14001-certiﬁed systems, the various As a result, the percentage of certified environmental entities saw the delivery of numerous training courses on aspects management systems of the Group’s upstream production of environmental management. The Global EHS Department facilities was 83% (10/12). In 2016, inspection audits were carried continued with the rollout of a program to raise partners’ out as planned. awareness of the EHS policy and management tools via Essilor University (e-learning) and dedicated seminars. Provisions and guarantees for environmental risk Essilor made no provision for environmental risks in 2016. 2016 2015 2014 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes 0 0 0 222 Essilor | Registration Document 2016 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.5 O p ti m i z i n g e nvi ro n m e n ta l fo o tp r i n t 4 Noise pollution worldwide, to be updated in 2017. Four sites are located within an area of biodiversity interest. The biodiversity audit of one of these No complaints about noise, odor or any other form of specific sites by an external company showed that there was no signiﬁcant pollution were received in 2016. potential impact and no significant dependency in respect of biodiversity and ecological services for this site and the activities Biodiversity & land use taking place there. Essilor carries out its business in industrial buildings, usually Finding potential significant impacts on biodiversity is one of located in existing industrial areas or commercial premises. Land the aims of the environmental management systems. Essilor is therefore not used in the Group’s operations per se, but rather has drawn up a biodiversity mapping of the majority of its sites is associated with the buildings the Group occupies. 4.5.2 Reducing water use Management of water investments, demonstrating its leadership in the management of its water footprint. Essilor aims to continue these efforts by The mass production plants and the prescription laboratories use reducing by 20% its water use per good lens produced by 2020 on considerable quantities of water for lens machining, surfacing a scope that represents the majority of its water impacts. and rinsing operations. However, net water consumption is not significant since the water used in the production processes is subsequently treated and returned in near-equal volume, Reduction program excepting leaks, a low level of evaporation and everyday site To ensure a more effective rollout of initiatives to reduce the consumption. consumption of natural resources, Essilor has launched the Access to high quality water for production operations is an “Reboost” program, which aims to define and roll out Group essential factor in ensuring the quality of the ﬁnished and semiperformance standards, along with associated ﬁeld projects, to ﬁnished lenses that the Company distributes. Most Group sites reduce the main environmental impacts. are generally located in industrial or urban areas where access The following actions have been taken within the “Reboost Water” to water is provided by local authorities. They are dependent on program: these local authority managed utilities. Water is also used in sanitary networks. A number of entities use recycled production water or collected rainwater for sanitary f a water mapping of the main mass production sites and laboratories; 4 networks. f a comparison of the sites’ water performance with the benchmark process, or “water model”; The Group has a few sites located in areas of water stress, such as in India (EMIL) and Mexico (SOFI). The Group may be faced with f a medium-term plan for reduction by water use operation. restrictions on water withdrawals imposed by local authorities, As part of “Reboost Water”, each region has to define its own an increase in the cost of water and potentially, questions from Water roadmap, a process which is overseen at Group level. local stakeholders who are also dependent on water resources. To mitigate these water-related risks, sites are introducing In 2016, the water use of the first sites to participate in the more stringent water-management programs and setting Reboost program decreased. The scope of the Reboost program’s speciﬁc water-reduction targets. In this case, the Group fosters action has now been extended to all mass production sites and and sustains the conditions for dialogue between public sector export laboratories, as well as to the 15 largest prescription services, water suppliers and NGOs to anticipate changes in the laboratories. The program has focused in particular on coating availability and cost of water, so as to adjust production. machines, implementing solutions to reduce and reuse water. The Group has also installed smart meters at its main sites. The Aware of its impact on the environment, Essilor has voluntarily ultimate goal is to equip some 50 sites with these solutions. In contributed to the work of the CDP regarding its water footprint. 2017, the EHS Department will roll out eco-design and eco-driving The Group was awarded an Arating for its efforts and ongoing solutions across the entire scope of the “Reboost Water” program. Registration Document 2016 | Essilor 223 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.5 Optimizin g e nv iron me n t al foot pr i n t Water Withdrawals (m3) 2016 2015 2014 Water Withdrawals (m3) 6,048,575 4,821,609 3,755,782 Breakdowns by source Municipal water 5,661,638 4,469,088 3,567,921 Natural water 386,937 352,521 187,861 Natural source Municipal source 6,048,575 1,254,862 5,661,638 4,821,609 4,469,088 -27,869 3,755,782 3,567,921 187,861 352,521 386,937 Variation Scope 2014 2015 on same scope impact 2016 Note: The increase in water withdrawals in 2016 is mainly due to the expansion of the scope of reporting. The data reported this year covers 85.1% of the total number of employees reported. On the basis of the scope of reporting for 2015, water withdrawals decreased by less than 1%. The impact of the expansion in the scope of consolidation between 2015 and 2016 accounts for 20.7% of total reported water withdrawals of 2016. Water discharge control program In 2016, the Group had only two incidents related to water discharge in Thailand. The impact was non-significant and The prevention and reduction of water discharges are taken remediation plan has been put in place. One of the lessons into account whenever relevant. This involves investing in learned was that the measures taken to reduce water withdrawals wastewater treatment systems, from single or combined ﬁltering, led to an increased concentration of pollutants. The Group neutralization, settling and degreasing processes to complete has implemented measures for more accurate monitoring of processing units, puriﬁcation plants or similar treatment facilities. wastewater. Meanwhile, Essilor has introduced the “Wastewater These measures are designed to reduce loads in existing effluent, Model” program, on the same scope as Reboost Water, to compare which, in the case of prescription laboratories, are essentially sites’ performance to the benchmark process and facilitate the suspended solids related to surfacing that are ﬁltered at the job rollout of initiatives designed to control water discharge. The site and sent to a dump as solid waste. program has identiﬁed the action that must be taken to avoid such The Group controls the quality of its water discharges. Suspended incidents in the future. materials, COD, five-day BOD, heavy metals and other general Essilor also continued to invest in water treatment plants, criteria like pH or other more speciﬁc indicators depending on particularly in China, on the three production sites in Danyang. The the requirements of local water agencies are monitored locally Group had more than 85 water treatment plants in 2016. through the environmental management systems. 224 Essilor | Registration Document 2016 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.5 O p ti m i z i n g e nvi ro n m e n ta l fo o tp r i n t 4 2016 2015 2014 TOTAL VOLUME OF WATER DISCHARGED (m3) 4,838,860 3,857,287 3,004,625 Total volume of water discharges 4,838,860 1,003,890 3,857,287 -22,317 3,004,625 Variation Scope 2014 2015 on same scope impact 2016 Note: To improve the comprehensiveness of its reporting, the Group updated the methodology for calculating water discharges in 2016. The volume of water discharges is calculated from the difference between water withdrawals and water consumption. Essilor’s water consumption is mainly due to evaporation during the manufacturing process. Knowing the percentage of water consumption of different manufacturing operations and geographic regions can vary from one mass production plant or prescription laboratory to another, we estimated the Group level of water consumption at 20% of the water withdrawals based on the Group’s expertise and reinforced on the basis of a sample of entities accounting for 75% of the Group workforce. That is to say, the volume of water discharges of the Group is estimated to be 80% of the Group water withdrawals. Data for 2014 and 2015 have been recalculated using the same methodology. 4.5.3 Energy efficiency in production and distribution 4 Energy & Production training sessions available on the Essilor Academy – Save Energy (EASE) intranet site is designed to provide training Compared with industrial transformation processes, the energy and a continuous ﬂow of information on good practices, and requirement for manufacturing ﬁnished and semi-ﬁnished lenses monitor energy saving technological developments; is minimal. However, Essilor is committed to improving its energy efficiency, as reﬂected in a steady fall in energy consumption over f improving the energy efficiency of existing buildings. the last 15 years. With regard to the associated energy mix, to date it is still difficult Beyond Essilor’s corporate commitment, energy efficiency is also for most sites to use renewable energies, except in countries a lever for cost reduction, since energy accounts for a signiﬁcant where these are available and offered as an option to industrial proportion of operational costs. The action plans implemented customers by energy providers. This year, for instance, the Dudley also allow the Company to control the rise in energy costs and site increased the percentage of renewable energies in its energy increase its ability to avoid interruptions to or restrictions on mix to 21%. energy supply in particular business regions. Lastly, energy The Reboost Energy program will continue in 2017 and beyond, efficiency helps to reduce direct greenhouse gas emissions. with a goal of 15% reduction in energy intensity per good lens As with water, the Reboost program incorporates energy efficiency produced by 2020 on a scope that represents the majority of its initiatives. Reboost Energy now incorporates three areas of focus: energy impacts. f review of the energy consumption of manufacturing processes, The program is led by an internal committee of energy experts looking at compressed air facilities, heat chambers, vacuum whose goal is to (i) share best practices, (ii) report on proven processing machines, etc.; solutions / innovations (for production processes as well as for non-process equipment and process operating parameters), and f raising awareness among technicians and maintenance teams (iii) prioritize the solutions to be deployed throughout the Group and providing them with training. One of the three online based on the criteria of simplicity, costs and expected beneﬁts). Registration Document 2016 | Essilor 225 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.5 Optimizin g e nv iron me n t al foot pr i n t Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 2016 2015 2014 Total consumption (units: GWh) 830.7 709.4 573.9 Breakdown by type Electricity 759.1 643.7 501.2 Gas 61.0 56.7 64.4 Liquid fuel 10.6 9.0 8.3 Electricity Gas Liquid fuel 830.7 709.4 10.6 118.9 61.0 573.9 9.0 2.4 56.7 8.3 64.4 501.2 643.7 759.1 Variation Scope 2014 2015 on same scope impact 2016 Note: The increase in total energy consumption is mainly due to the expansion of the scope of reporting. The associated coverage in 2016 was 88.6% of the total number of employees reported. In like-for-like terms, energy consumption increased by less than 1%. The impact of the expansion in the scope of consolidation from 2015 to 2016 accounts for 14.3% of total reported energy consumption of 2016. Energy & transportation and tertiary (flows to the customer, regardless of the point of origin). Energy use in transportation is assessed on the basis of three categories: primary (flows to a distribution center or offshore All categories of transportation were reviewed in 2016; they are prescription laboratory, regardless of the point of origin), reﬂected in the indicator for greenhouse gas emissions as metric secondary (ﬂows to a subsidiary, regardless of the point of origin), tons of CO2 equivalent emitted. See section below. 4.5.4 A limited carbon footprint Building on the Paris Agreement and United Nations COP22 (ii) the act of transporting items between the plants, the conference, Essilor renewed its commitment to limit its laboratories and the customers. Essilor actively monitored the greenhouse gas emissions and maintain its position as a lowfootprint of these two most significant carbon producers and carbon business. The Group’s growth strategy also includes set up an action plan to reduce its energy consumption (see plans to accelerate the reduction of its environmental impact, Section 4.5.3) and its greenhouse gas emissions. including the carbon footprint of its operations. Essilor has set Despite the fact that the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions a goal of reducing the energy intensity of its production (see are largely “indirect” (Scope 2 and 3 of the GHG Protocol. See Section 4.5.3) and is working on the upstream section of the value Section 4.7), reducing the carbon footprint provides an opportunity chain in partnership with its suppliers to improve its products’ to reduce associated costs (of energy and transportation), limit environmental profile (by reducing packaging, eco-design for energy dependence, although modest, anticipate the application of instance) and help combat climate change. binding agreements on climate (with taxes, quotas, etc.) and fulﬁll Essilor created a first mapping of the carbon footprint along expectations in this area from investors or ﬁnancial institutions its value chain, including product usage, in order to identify the and key accounts. signiﬁcant producers of greenhouse gas generated as a result of Lastly, analysis of the consequences of climate change on Essilor’s the Group’s business. It appears that the two key producers are: business plays a part in controlling associated operational risks (i) the lens manufacturing plants and prescription laboratories on the Group’s production sites and those of its strategic suppliers. 226 Essilor | Registration Document 2016 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.5 O p ti m i z i n g e nvi ro n m e n ta l fo o tp r i n t 4 In 2015, Essilor expanded the scope of reporting for its greenhouse de la Maîtrise de l’Énergie, the French Environment and Energy gas emissions and revised the associated calculation methodology. Management Agency (www.ademe.fr) and the International Energy The Group updated the main conversion factors according to Agency (www.iea.org) and reviewed the reporting framework for the databases of the Agence française de l’Environnement et the transportation of lenses. Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions deriving from energy consumption (Scope 1 and 2) 2016 2015 2041 TOTAL SCOPE 1 + 2 EMISSIONS (UNITS: T CO2-EQ) 395,093 348,542 260,439 Scope 1 17,470 16,743 18,391 Gas 13,661 13,841 15,702 Liquid fuel 3,809 2,902 2,689 Scope 2 377,623 331,799 242,048 Electricity 377,623 331,799 242,048 Scope 1 Scope 2 395,093 42,089 377,623 348,542 4,463 331,799 260,439 242,048 4 18,391 16,743 17,470 Variation Scope 2014 2015 on same scope impact 2016 Note: The increase in GHG emissions is mainly due to the expansion of the scope of reporting, with an impact of 10.7% of the total reported emissions. If the impact of the change in the scope of consolidation is discounted, Group GHG emissions increased by only 1.3% due to the slight increase of energy consumption. The scope of coverage of the GHG emission is 88.6%, same as energy consumption. See Section 4.5.3. Indirect greenhouse gas emissions deriving from transportation previous year. Simultaneously and within the Group continuous (Scope 3) improvement approach, Essilor has extended the analysis of its carbon footprint by including new subsidiaries and new products Three main areas of emissions have been deﬁned: (consumables and instruments) in its annual reporting. The f primary transportation (flows to a distribution center or increase of reporting scope represents 7.4% of the 2016 total GHG offshore prescription laboratory, regardless of the point of Scope 3 emissions reported. origin); The 2016 emissions cover 25 mass production plants, ﬁve offshore f secondary transportation (ﬂows to a subsidiary, regardless of prescription laboratories and 13 distribution centers, representing the point of origin); 81% of the locations with international transportation ﬂows. f tertiary transportation (ﬂows to the customer, regardless of the The Group will continue to optimize its supply chain by promoting point of origin). regional flows between production plants and prescription In 2015, to focus on its material issues, the Group has defined laboratories, extending the use of maritime transport instead of a referent reporting scope in terms of volume and geographical air transport and engaging logistics subcontractors regarding the coverage, covering all the three types of transportation. use of less polluting transport methods. In 2016 and on the same scope as 2015, Group emissions increased by less than 1%, remained at same level compared to Registration Document 2016 | Essilor 227 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.5 Optimizin g e nv iron me n t al foot pr i n t 2016 2015 2014 TOTAL SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS ASSOCIATED WITH TRANSPORTATION (UNITS: T CO2-EQ) 226,371 207,915 155,390 Development factors Impact related to transported volume 209,578 207,915 Impact of reporting scope expansion 16,793 Note: The process of continuous improvement in the quality of the data made it possible to identify a reporting error in 2015 from a distribution center of the Group. The 2015 data has been restated to ensure consistency of information. Adapting to the consequences of climate Faced with the consequences of climate change, Essilor has change deﬁned two key areas of concern: f risk management in operations: from the initial stages As a signatory to the United Nations Caring for Climate initiative preceding the potential acquisition of a new partner to the and cognizant of the consequences of climatic change, Essilor has implementation of specific action plans in environmental gradually been incorporating climate change-related objectives management systems, the Group strives to identify all possible into its operations. The Group assesses these risks and integrates risks, including the risks of natural disasters related to climate them into its overall risk management strategy so that it can seek change. Essilor wants to protect against such risks as much the most appropriate solutions. The main risks identiﬁed are: as possible and react early and optimally should they occur. To f the increased frequency and intensity of precipitations that this end, the Group pays particular attention to the locations of could slow down the production process; its industrial facilities; f the volatility of energy and raw material costs; f changes in the product offer: needs relating to the protection f severe weather events (cyclones, hurricanes and typhoons) of eyes through corrective lenses in a context where climate that could damage sites and slow down the supply chain; change may influence the quantity and/or the nature of harmful rays have not yet been evaluated with sufficient f episodes of extreme drought that could affect the availability precision. However, the protective function of the corrective of resources. lens may be incorporated, particularly as a response to the harmful nature of ultraviolet light in general, which is ﬁltered by Xperio® lenses and several other ranges of sun lenses with different E-SPF® index values. 4.5.5 A circular economy approach to raw material optimization and waste management Essilor mainly uses resins, monomers, minerals and chemical products in the manufacture of lenses. It also buys in packaging products (cardboard, plastic casing, plastic ﬁlm, etc.). 2016 2015 2014 (@) (@) Materials used (tons) 18,000 16,700 15,726(@) Note: resins, monomers, minerals. Environmental impact studies show that Essilor’s business f the development by the Equipment Division of a system for activities present no risks of air, water or soil discharges that blocking lenses in surfacing operations which breaks with could seriously affect the environment. However, these activities existing technologies and paves the way for the gradual generate special waste, which must be handled and processed in replacement by all market players of conventional blocking a particular way. systems, some of which use metal alloys; For many years, Essilor has pursued an approach that aims f the compacting of polycarbonate shavings and residues from both to improve production yields (through quality management, the surfacing process to reduce the weight of waste and continuous improvement, eco-design, etc.) and to promote a recover water, which is then ﬁltered and reinjected into the process known as the “3Rs”: Reduce the volume of materials prescription laboratory’s in-house system; used in the various processes (manufacturing and distribution), f partnerships with waste managers for incineration of waste and Reuse and Recycle raw materials and packaging. To cite a few with recovery of the energy; examples by way of illustration: f recycling by subcontractors of certain used effluents (oils, f the use of cupless cardboard boxes; these offer a number of acids etc.), for reuse in Group facilities. beneﬁts, including dispensing with the plastic cup previously used for the semi-ﬁnished lens, without altering the level of Essilor is pursuing this as part of a more comprehensive circular protection; economy approach. For instance, in 2016 the Group developed 228 Essilor | Registration Document 2016 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.5 O p ti m i z i n g e nvi ro n m e n ta l fo o tp r i n t 4 reusable shuttle bins, or “Bulkpacks,” to transport items between The possibility of discharges into soil that would be likely to production plants and laboratories, signiﬁcantly reducing packaging impact the environment, even slightly, has been assessed and has waste. Essilor also analyzed the amount of waste generated by led to the implementation of appropriate prevention measures, its main plants, export laboratories and 15 largest prescription such as retention devices to deal with accidental spills or the laboratories, allowing it to map the quantity and type of waste, outﬁtting and special management of chemical storage premises. along with associated treatment solutions. It became apparent that Essilor entities also have a waste sorting system to manage their existing local waste-treatment measures play an important role ordinary and special industrial waste. This waste is recorded and when it comes to managing waste sorting at Group sites. taken away by certiﬁed specialist companies. The prevention and reduction of air discharges are taken into Lastly, Essilor believes that combating food waste is a collective account whenever relevant. For example, the Group’s entities challenge, even if it is not a challenge for the Group in the invest in devices to treat volatile organic compound (VOC) context of its own activities. However, the Group still educates its emissions, ranging from simple on-site extractors to computeremployees about this issue. controlled biofilters and activated carbon filters or similar devices adapted as needed. They set objectives and targets for the reduction of existing discharges. Total volume of waste 2016 2015 2014 TOTAL WASTE (UNITS: T) 34,683 27,113 22,360 Ordinary (non-hazardous) waste 27,328 21,139 16,101 Recycled / Recovered 10,875 9,947 7,741 Not recycled / not recovered 16,453 11,192 8,360 Special (hazardous) waste 7,355 5,974 6,259 Recycled / Recovered 2,434 N/A N/A Not recycled / not recovered 4,921 N/A N/A Non hazardous waste recycled/recovered 4 Non hazardous waste not recycled/not recovered Hazardous waste recycled/recovered Hazardous waste not recycled/not recovered 34,683 6,516 4,921 1,053 2,434 27,113 22,360 5,974 6,259 11,192 16,453 8,360 7,742 9,947 10,875 Variation Scope 2014 2015 on same scope impact 2016 Note: The hazardous / non-hazardous waste was classiﬁed according to local classiﬁcation systems of different entities. The reporting coverage for waste is 77.3% of the total number of employees reported. The increase in the quantity of waste is mainly due to the expansion of the scope of reporting, with an impact of 18.8% of total reported waste of 2016. Disregarding the scope impact, waste increased slightly by 3.9%. Accidental spills 2016 2015 2014 Number of accidental spills 2 2 0 Note: In 2016, there were two accidental chemical spills, one in Brazil and one in the Philippines. The spills were dealt with immediately and had no signiﬁcant environmental or social impact. Actions and remediation plans were implemented. Registration Document 2016 | Essilor 229 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.6 Wor kin g wit h Socie t y S OCI E TA L I N FO R M ATIO N 4.6 Working with Society As Essilor has grown internationally, it has based its success against corruption. Essilor also contributes to the United Nations on the proper consideration of local impacts, dialogue with Sustainable Development Goals through its Mission. stakeholders and the creation of shared value with partners, Within Essilor’s scope of consolidation, this undertaking is suppliers, governments and local communities. The establishment reflected in internal control procedures to prevent, detect of Essilor sites provides access to meaningful jobs in a buoyant and remedy any situations that undermine integrity and the sector and generates signiﬁcant direct and indirect income. The principle of free competition as well as in employee management Group’s Principles & Values are the foundation of all business procedures that comply with best practices. With its partners, relations, ensuring fair and honest collaboration which is the Group ensures that it does not work with entities that fail transparent for stakeholders. to respect the provision of decent working conditions for their As a signatory of the Global Compact, Essilor has undertaken employees, employ people below the local legal age or prohibit to promote the ten universally accepted principles relating to employee representation. human rights, labor standards, the environment and the fight 4.6.1 Fair business practices Given the diversity of the countries in which Essilor operates, f the Group Standards Guide, which brings together the various the Company has to remain vigilant to changes in local labor and rules of internal control covering the main Group-level environmental regulations. organizational processes; This requires a specific organizational structure, ongoing f detailed rules and policies (local, regional and/or Group level); monitoring and close collaboration between the Legal Affairs, HR f ad hoc working groups devoted to the implementation of and Environment / Operations functions. speciﬁc regulations, such as REACH, UK Bribery, the Modern Given its business activity and its commitment as a responsible Slavery Act and California Proposition 65; company, Essilor has to combat all forms of corruption and fraud, f development of a formal compliance and competition law particularly in geographic areas that are sensitive to this type of program; risk. f preparation of a formal Group-wide guide to prevent corruption, This entails devising a system to prevent risks of corruption and explaining the rules and principles to be observed throughout training employees in how to apply it properly, in compliance with the Group in addition to local laws. local regulations and the Essilor Principles and Values. In 2016, the Group strengthened this commitment by appointing a Chief Compliance Officer. Prevention of corruption Lastly, as a major player in its market in association with its The sector in which Essilor operates is not considered a sector policy of external growth, Essilor is highly vigilant with regard in which corruption is a characteristic challenge. This does not to compliance with competition rules and takes care to prevent prevent the Group from taking action within its sphere of inﬂuence conﬂicts of interest. against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. As To promote fairness in its business practices, Essilor International a signatory to the Global Compact and member of Transparency has introduced procedures which are formalized in a number of International, Essilor complies with, supports and promotes the documents: UN convention against corruption. f the Essilor Principles and Values are a formal record of the Tools for training on and raising awareness of the different forms general guidelines to be followed by every employee; of corruption have been rolled out via audio kits available on the intranet; training in local languages is provided as a suite of f the Minimum Control Standards (MCS) formally enshrine programs for raising awareness which are gradually cascaded 75 internal controls which are generally considered to be from the Group’s Executive Committee. With infrequent exceptions the most crucial to have in place. The brochures explaining as a result of very recent hires or other extraordinary events, all these procedures to employees have been translated into Directors of the Group have been made aware of and trained in the 33 languages. The MCS also form the basis of the annual selfprevention of corruption and conﬂicts of interest, via e-learning. assessment questionnaire for internal control; 230 Essilor | Registration Document 2016 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.6 Wo r ki n g w i th S o c i e ty 4 Compliance with competition rules competition law and commercial practices is an essential pillar of its risk prevention policy. The compliance program has been The Group’s legal risk prevention policy is structured around the formally established and its rollout allows the Group to promote three main risks associated with its business activity. As such, for and reinforce good competition law practices in trade relations Essilor, a major player in its market, compliance with the rules of with Group partners and stakeholders. 4.6.2 Commitments and actions dedicated to the respect and promotion of human rights A Mission that helps promote human rights The development in recent years of international human rights standards has led Essilor to update its approach. Since 2010 and Seeing well is essential for daily wellbeing and good quality of the adoption of several international laws, human rights must be a life. Good vision allows an individual to acquire knowledge, access core focus of any responsible corporate policy. Accordingly, Essilor employment and integrate socially within their environment. This decided to base its sustainable development strategy on the is why Essilor teams around the world join forces to “improve United Nations Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights, lives by improving sight” and serve the 2.5 billion people with the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the Modern uncorrected vision. Essilor contributes to one of the fundamental Slavery Act and the ILO’s Tripartite Declaration of Principles rights of access to vision care through its Mission, activities concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy. More and organizational structure. Its expertise, global presence and generally, Essilor makes every effort to ensure that its activities capacity for innovation have resulted in more than a billion people comply with the International Bill of Human Rights and the worldwide becoming wearers of Essilor products. principles on fundamental rights set out in the ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Operations and the respect for human rights In 2014 the Group created a map of the human rights-related risks in its activities. This led to a better understanding of the challenges Essilor operates in some “sensitive” geographic regions, where involved in each type of activity (lenses, equipment, Sunglasses & regulations and the implementation of laws on human rights Readers) and geographic region, as well as the human rights that may be poor. Despite this, Essilor has an ongoing commitment Essilor could impact. On the basis of that analysis, Essilor spent to prevent any potentially adverse impacts on human rights, or several months working with human rights experts to formulate a avoid contributing to such impacts through its activities, and to vigilance plan for the years ahead. take remedial action should this occur. It is a process that requires constant improvements to the Group’s With regard to the areas marked for improvement, Essilor will: 4 policies, commitments, procedures and actions in order to remain f roll out the alert system existing in North and South America vigilant at all times. Essilor’s commitment to the respect and across the entire Group. This system allows employees to promotion of human rights was marked by its signing of the report any concerns they may have, including on human rights, United Nations Global Compact in 2003, a commitment that has via a secure website; been renewed every year since. Signature of this Global Compact f step up the training of Group employees on human rights is supported at the highest level in the Company, by the Chairman through dedicated e-learning modules on the Essilor University and Chief Executive Officer. Essilor’s sustainable approach to platform; doing business therefore now includes gradually incorporating the 10 principles of the Global Compact concerning human f monitor suppliers’ commitment to the Essilor Supplier Charter, rights, working conditions, the environment and the ﬁght against one of the four pillars of which is the respect of human rights corruption. and labor standards. See Section 4.6.3. 4.6.3 Sustainable purchasing in supplier relations As essential partners for its business activity and growth, the The Purchasing Department bases its supplier relationships Group maintains mutually beneﬁcial relations with its suppliers on its Supplier Sustainability Program (SSP), which has two and subcontractors and supports their performance by assisting components. them in their international development. Essilor therefore seeks to establish constructive dialogue with them and develop a durable, balanced relationship with respect for ethics and social and environmental issues. Registration Document 2016 | Essilor 231 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.6 Wor kin g wit h Socie t y The ﬁrst is sustainable purchasing, the goal of which is to assess The second component is responsible purchasing, the goal of suppliers’ CSR performance by ensuring that: which is to relay Essilor’s Mission and encourage its suppliers to embark on initiatives, alone or with others, that will have a f all suppliers and subcontractors comply with the principles positive impact on people and the environment. The following are set out in the Supplier Charter (see Essilor.com), and from some examples: a contractual standpoint, that they comply with general purchasing conditions in terms of respect for human rights f disabled purchasing program (contractual commitment to give (forced labor, child labor, etc.). These conditions include, in at least 25% of Group business to the protected worker sector). particular, clauses on the requirement to comply with the ILO’s f local sourcing (local economic development in disadvantaged Fundamental Conventions and with local legislation, especially regions). as regards minimum salary, working time, health and safety and the environment; f eco-design (development of cardboard-only packaging instead of a mix of cardboard and plastic, such as the “Cupless®” f the CSR performance of suppliers and subcontractors concept). (representing 80% of overall expenditure ) conforms to the Group’s requirements. In this regard, the Purchasing f use of biosourced materials in the manufacture of frames. Department assesses their performance by means of a shared The Group aims to perform external CSR audits with all strategic evaluation platform run by EcoVadis. Launched in 2016, the suppliers, and to ensure that all preferred suppliers comply with platform aims to cover 80% of targeted suppliers by 2020; the principles of the Essilor Supplier Charter by 2020. f risk management is addressed by regular, systematic assessments of all strategic suppliers. In the event of suspicion, the Purchasing Department will trigger on-site audits and may require suppliers to take remedial action if the risk is proven. 4.6.4 Sustainable product marketing Essilor has to market products with stated levels of quality and conjunction with the Group’s innovation platform. It has three key performance that meet customers’ needs most effectively. aims: f to satisfy customers, in terms of products and services, taking Quality & Customer satisfaction into account the diversity and variation of expectations, in accordance with customer segments; The ongoing improvement in the satisfaction of the Group’s customers is driven in particular by product and service quality f to improve the effectiveness and consistency of internal control. This is a major factor when it comes to guaranteeing processes, aligning them with the overall strategic objectives stable costs, limiting legal risks and strengthening the Group’s and measuring their efficiency; reputation. f to represent the Essilor group on standardization bodies and The Quality and Customer Satisfaction Department reports promote the interests of consumers on these bodies (e.g., ISO). directly to the Senior Vice President, Global Engineering and in 2016 2015 2014 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services 0 0 0 Responsible marketing containing marketing packages and models approved at Group level and that can be used by all entities, guaranteeing overall Essilor’s responsibility is to communicate clearly and honestly consistency; the visual care beneﬁts of its products, in compliance with the regulations. This transparency is at the heart of the relationship f secondly, the Company is active in ensuring that the sales of trust that Essilor has built with its customers and helps to build networks provide honest, accurate information to customers an intangible asset for the Company. To this end, the action taken on the benefits of Essilor products. Regular training by the Group comprises three working areas: (classroom or online) is provided for the sales force and eye care professionals to remind them of the current standards f responsible marketing initiatives aim to ensure that productand the rules of integrity in customer relations. Each of the related communication is accurate and complies with the Group’s distribution subsidiaries monitors its own compliance regulations on advertising. This responsibility extends to local with local applicable laws, standards and voluntary codes. authorities and consumer associations who put questions to The beneﬁts of Group products are based on extensive wearer Essilor’s customers on potential disparities with the stated tests and use tests either in real life or under experimental benefits of the products; Essilor has developed a platform conditions; 232 Essilor | Registration Document 2016 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.6 Wo r ki n g w i th S o c i e ty 4 f lastly, honest communication also calls for transparency in of business. It also belongs to professional associations for the public positions that the Company adopts in its dealings its industry whose mission is to improve awareness of the with the authorities and professional associations and for the importance of good vision. The Group is a member of ASNAV, consistency of these positions with the targets for sustainable Association Interprofessionnelle pour l’Amélioration de la Vue development. In accordance with French law, the Company (interprofessional association for improving vision), of GIFO, a has no political involvement. It works with its local public French optical industry group, of the EUROM 1 European optical sector stakeholders and participates in the development of industry group and of the Vision Council in the United States. international standards and in other work relating to its areas 4.6.5 Direct and indirect socioeconomic contribution Essilor stimulates local economies with its industrial activities, Over and above its economic contribution, Essilor’s mission helps purchasing, and business partnerships, creates direct and indirect to improve the quality of life and the productivity of millions of employment, develops local skills and expertise, and generates individuals by correcting their sight. A key contributor to this taxes and duties. shared value creation, the Group’s 2.5 NVG Division deploys inclusive business models to provide local vision correction at The ﬁrst lever for action was to prioritize local employment. The an affordable price for low-income populations in 30 countries in Group encourages the local recruitment of management teams in Asia, Latin America and Africa. (See Section 4.3) its subsidiaries and, more generally, enforces the principle of local decision-making. Essilor has appointed a third-party expert to measure the social impact of its Eye Mitra™ program, which aims to provide primary The Group also generates signiﬁcant business ﬂows with its local eye care to populations in rural and semi-urban areas of India suppliers by preferring short supply chains for products and through the development of local micro-enterprises by individuals services outside the scope of central referencing. who are underemployed. The challenge is considerable: in 2013, Local distributors of products and services referenced by Group it was estimated that 550 million people in India needed visual contracts also benefit from the local economic impact of the correction and the associated overall productivity loss was Group’s purchasing. The result is a balanced situation, the Group estimated at US$37 billion a year. estimating that 50% of its procurement is sourced centrally and Conducted in six provinces of the Uttar Pradesh region in north50% locally. The Group’s economic value breaks down into many components (revenue, operating expenses, employee expenses, donations, east India, the study identiﬁes three main impacts: f a boost to the local economy, with an average of US$770 in 4 income generated for suppliers and SMEs for each participant taxes and duties, dividends, etc.) that are itemized in this 2016 in the Eye Mitra™ program; Registration Document. Essilor’s socio-economic footprint for fiscal year 2016 can f an increase in income of 64% for Eye Mitra™ partners, who also feel more respected in their community; be summarized by the following items in descending order of importance: f growth in productivity for 59% of new eyeglass wearers*, who gain an average of one-and-a-half hours a day in their day-tof revenue: €7,115 million; day tasks (* Note: 75% of people who buy their glasses from an f trade payables: €2,300 million; Eye Mitra™ are doing so for the ﬁrst time). f employees / compensation: €2,142 million; Lastly, besides the actions targeting its core business and led by f taxes and duties: €285 million, representing an effective tax the Mission teams (2.5 NVG and Essilor Vision Foundation), several rate of 24.5%; Group entities conduct other charitable initiatives that generally involve issues of public health, education and integration. f shareholders: €277 million; and f ﬁnancial expenses: €54 million. Registration Document 2016 | Essilor 233 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.7 Methodology n ote & corre spon den ce ta b l e s 4.7 Methodology note & correspondence tables 4.7.1 Methodology note Scope of reporting Scope 1 – This corresponds to direct emissions resulting from the on-site combustion of fossil fuels such as gas or fuel oil. The GHG According to the Group reporting protocol, new entities acquired conversion factors were in accordance with the ADEME database for less than one year are granted with one year to be integrated (http://bilans-ges.ademe.fr): into the Group reporting system. Based on this criterion, Essilor group has the ambition to reach 100% reporting coverage rate f Gas: 244 gCO2e / kWh LCV; by 2020. In 2016, reporting coverage was 91.9%, based on FTEs, f Liquid fuel: 324 gCO2e / kWh LCV. signiﬁcantly increased from the coverage of previous years and Scope 2 – This relates to indirect emissions associated with in line with our ambition for 2020. Reporting coverage of each the electricity consumption required for manufacturing and indicator has been speciﬁed in the footnote of each indicator. machining lenses. The Scope 2 emission was calculated according to the location-based method of the GHG Protocol. The conversion Calculated Indicators factors for electricity were updated in 2015 based on figures provided by the ADEME database. As deﬁned in the Group’s reporting protocol: The conversion factors for the main countries where Essilor is a f the frequency rate is calculated as “Number of work-related consumer of electricity are: injuries with lost days x 1,000,000 / Total number of worked hours during the reporting period”; total number of worked f China: 766 gCO2e / kWh; hours is theoretical worked hours based on calculation of f United States: 522 gCO2e / kWh; scheduled working days and average number of hours worked f France: 82 gCO2e / kWh; per day; f Thailand: 513 gCO2e / kWh; f the severity rate is calculated as “Total number of lost work days (calendar day) x 1,000 / Total number of worked hours f Philippines: 481 gCO2e / kWh. during the reporting period”; total number of worked hours is Scope 3 – This corresponds to other indirect emissions related to theoretical worked hours based on calculation of scheduled the transportation of lenses. For lens logistics, Essilor redeﬁned working days and average number of hours worked per day; the various types of transportation and freight in 2015 to include f the voluntary turnover rate is calculated as “total number journeys between Essilor sites and airports, ports or railway of voluntary departures (resignation) / average number of stations. employees during the reporting period”; Transportation is classiﬁed as follows: f the absenteeism rate is calculated as “total number of lost f primary transportation (flows to a distribution center or days (working day) / total scheduled working days of all the offshore prescription laboratory, regardless of the point of employees during the reporting period”. origin); f secondary transportation (ﬂows to a subsidiary, regardless of Method for calculating GHG emissions the point of origin); In accordance with the GHG Protocol, the accounting and reporting f tertiary transportation (ﬂows to the customer, regardless of the standard for greenhouse gas emissions (http://www.ghgprotocol. point of origin). org), information on GHG emissions is communicated on the basis The scope of reporting covers all the three types of transportation, of three scopes: Scope 1, 2 and 3. and Essilor managed to integrate the transportation of new In 2016, the Group continued to follow the GHG Protocol standard products (instrument and consumable) in the reporting of 2016. and used the databases of the Agence française de l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l’Énergie (www.ademe.fr/) and the International Energy Agency (www.iea.org/) for conversion factors. 234 Essilor | Registration Document 2016 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.7 Me th o d o l o g y n o te & co r re s p o n d e n ce ta b l e s 4 4.7.2 Correspondence table for the criteria of the Grenelle 2 law Reference SOCIAL Employment Total headcount and distribution by gender, by age and by geographic zone 4.4 Recruitments and redundancies 4.4 Remuneration and their evolution 4.4 and 4.6.5 Organization of labor Working time organization 4.4.1 Absenteeism 4.4.1 Labor / management relations Organization of social dialogue including information procedures, consultation and negotiation with the employees 4.4.4 Summary of collective agreements 4.4.4 Health and safety Occupational health and safety conditions 4.4.1 Summary of collective agreements signed with trade unions or worker representatives on work place health and safety 4.4.4 Occupational accidents, including accident frequency and severity, and occupational diseases 4.4.1 Training Policies implemented regarding training 4.4.2 Total number of training hours 4.4.2 Equal opportunities Measures implemented to promote gender equality Measures implemented to promote employment and integration of disabled people 4.4.3 4.4.3 4 Policy against discriminations 4.4.3 Promotion and upholding of the Fundamental Conventions of the International Labor Organization on The freedom of association and recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4.4.4 and 4.6.2 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 4.4.3 and 4.6.2 The elimination of all forms of forced labor 4.6.2 and 4.6.3 The abolition of child labor 4.6.2 and 4.6.3 ENVIRONMENT General environmental policy The organization of the Company to integrate environmental issues and, if appropriate, the assessments and certiﬁcation process regarding environmental issues 4.5.1 Information and training measures for employees regarding the protection of the environment 4.5.1 Resources allocated to prevention of environmental risks and pollution 4.5.1 Amount of provisions and guarantees for environmental risks, unless such information is likely to cause serious prejudice to the Company in an ongoing litigation 4.5.1 Pollution Measures of prevention, reduction or repair of discharges into the air, water and ground, 4.5.1, 4.5.2, 4.5.4 impacting severely the environment and 4.5.5 Consideration of noise and of any other activity speciﬁc pollution 4.5.1 Circular economy i) Waste prevention and management Measures of prevention, recycling, reuse, other forms of recovery and disposal of waste 4.5.5 Actions against food waste 4.5.5 Registration Document 2016 | Essilor 235 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.7 Methodology n ote & corre spon den ce ta b l e s Reference ii) Sustainable use of resources Water consumption and water supply adapted to local constraints 4.5.2 Consumption of raw materials and measures implemented to improve efficiency in their use 4.5.5 Energy consumption and measures implemented to improve energy efficiency and renewable energy use 4.5.3 Land use 4.5.1 Climate change Signiﬁcant greenhouse gas emissions items generated as a result of the Group’s activity, particularly by the use of goods and services they provide 4.5.4 Adaptation to consequences of climate change 4.5.4 Biodiversity protection Measures implemented to protect and conserve the biodiversity 4.5.1 SOCIETAL Regional, economic and social impact of the Company’s activities Impact on employment and regional development 4.6.5, 4.3.3 and 4.3.4 Impact on local populations 4.6.5, 4.3.3 and 4.3.4 Relations with stakeholders, including associations of integration, educational institutes, associations for the protection of the Environment, consumers organization and local populations Conditions of the dialogue with stakeholders 4.1.1 Actions of partnership and sponsorship 4.3.1, 4.3.3, 4.3.4 Subcontractors and suppliers Integration of social and environmental issues into the Company procurement policy 4.6.3 Importance of subcontracting and consideration, in the relationship with subcontractors and suppliers of their social and environmental responsibility 4.6.3 Fair practices Action implemented against corruption 4.6.1 Measures implemented to promote consumers health and safety 4.3.1, 4.3.2 and 4.6.4 Other initiatives undertaken to promote human rights Other actions implemented to promote Human Rights 4.6.2 and 4.6.3 236 Essilor | Registration Document 2016 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.7 Me th o d o l o g y n o te & co r re s p o n d e n ce ta b l e s 4 4.7.3 Correspondence table for the Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative Standards Following the recommendations of the Global Reporting Initiative Standards, United Nation Global Compact (UNGC) Principles and United Nation Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), all the indicators and information disclosed in this chapter have been reviewed and audited by KPMG. GRI UNGC Standards Principles SDGs Topic Reference GENERAL DISCLOSURES (THE LIST OF GENERAL DISCLOSURES HAS BEEN PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE “CORE” OPTION) Organizational proﬁle 102-1 Name of the organization. 5.1.1 102-2 A description of the organization’s activities and primary trademarks, 1.3 products, and services. 102-3 Location of the organization’s headquarters. 5.1.1 102-4 Number of countries where the organization operates, and the names 1.3.1.3 of countries where it has signiﬁcant operations and/or that are relevant to the topics covered in the report. 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form. 5.1.3 and 5.2.1.1 102-6 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors 1.2, 1.3 and 1.5.1 served and types of customers and beneﬁciaries). 102-7 Scale of the organization, including total number of employees, Key ﬁgures in the number of operations, net sales, total capitalization, quantity of introduction to products or services provided. the Registration Document and 3.3 102-8 Principle 6 Detailed information on employees and other workers. 4.4 102-9 A description of the organization’s supply chain, including its main elements as they relate to the organization’s activities, primary 1.3.1.3 and 4.1.1 4 brands, products, and services. 102-10 Signiﬁcant changes to the organization’s size, structure, ownership, 1.5.1, 1.5.2 , or supply chain. 1.5.3 and 1.5.4 102-11 Whether and how the organization applies the Precautionary 2.2.3.3 and 4.6.4 Principle or approach. 102-12 A list of externally-developed economic, environmental and social Methodology note charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization in Chapter 4 and subscribes, or which it endorses. Section 4.6.1 102-13 A list of the main memberships of industry or other associations, 4.3.1 and 4.3.4 and national or international advocacy organizations. Strategy 102-14 A statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization Introduction (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance Chapter 4 of sustainability to the organization and its strategy for addressing sustainability. Ethics and integrity 102-16 Principle A description of the organization’s values, principles, standards, 4.6.1 10 and norms of behavior. Governance 102-18 Report the governance structure of the organization, including 2.1 and 4.2.1 committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. Registration Document 2016 | Essilor 237 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.7 Methodology n ote & corre spon den ce ta b l e s GRI UNGC Standards Principles SDGs Topic Reference Stakeholder engagement 102-40 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 4.1.1 102-41 Principle 3 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective 4.4.4 bargaining agreements. 102-42 Report the basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders 4.1.1 with whom to engage. 102-43 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement. 4.1.1 102-44 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through 4.1.1 stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns. Reporting practice 102-45 a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated ﬁnancial Note 2.2 of statements or equivalent documents. Chapter 3 b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements or equivalent documents is not considered by the report. 102-46 a. An explanation of the process for deﬁning the report content 4.2.3 and 4.7.1 and the topic Boundaries. b. An explanation of how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for deﬁning report content. 102-47 A list of the material topics identiﬁed in the process for deﬁning 4.1.2 report content. 102-48 The effect of any restatements of information given in previous 4.4 and 4.5 reports, and the reasons for such restatements. 102-49 Signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting periods in the list 4.2.3 of material topics and topic Boundaries. 102-50 Reporting period for the information provided. 4.2.3 102-51 Date of the most recent previous report (if any). 2015 Registration Document covering ﬁscal year 2015 102-52 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). 4.2.3 102-53 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report invest@essilor.com or its contents. 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards. 4.7.3 102-55 The GRI content index, which speciﬁes each of the GRI Standards 4.7.3 used and lists all disclosures included in the report. 102-56 Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard 4.8 to seeking external assurance for the report. MATERIAL TOPICS (THE LIST OF MATERIAL TOPICS INCLUDED IN THE REPORT) 103-1 a. An explanation of why the topic is material. 4.1 of the 2014 b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes a description Registration of where the impacts occur and the organization’s involvement Document and 4.1.2 with the impacts. c. Any speciﬁc limitation regarding the topic Boundary. 103-2 Principle 1 For each material topic, the reporting organization shall report. Description of Principle 8 a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. the managerial b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach. approach for each c. A description of the following, if the management approach issue includes that component (Policies, Commitments, Goals and targets, Responsibilities, Resources, Grievance mechanisms, Speciﬁc actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives). 103-3 For each material topic, the reporting organization shall report Description of an explanation of how the organization evaluates the management the managerial approach. approach for each issue 238 Essilor | Registration Document 2016 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.7 Me th o d o l o g y n o te & co r re s p o n d e n ce ta b l e s 4 GRI UNGC Standards Principles SDGs Topic Reference SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 4.6.5 201-2 Principle 7 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities 4.5.4 for the organization’s activities due to climate change. Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported. 4.3, 4.3.1, 4.3.2, 4.3.3, 4.3.4 and 2015 “See Change Report” 203-2 Signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts. 4.3, 4.3.1, 4.3.3, 4.3.4, 4.6.5 and 2015 “See Change Report” Anti-corruption 205-2 Principle Communication and training on anti-corruption policies 4.6.1 10 and procedures. Anti-competitive Behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly Note 26 of practices. Section 3.4, 4.6.1 Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume. 4.5.5 Energy 4 302-1 Principle 7 Energy consumption within the organization. 4.5.3 Principle 8 302-2 Principle 8 Energy consumption outside of the organization. 4.5.3 302-5 Principle 8 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services. 4.3.2 Principle 9 Water 303-1 Principle 7 Water withdrawal by source, both a total ﬁgure for ‘volume of water 4.5.2 Principle 8 withdrawn’ and a breakdown of this ﬁgure by each of the sources listed. 303-2 Principle 8 Water sources signiﬁcantly affected by withdrawal of water. 4.5.2 Biodiversity 304-1 Principle 8 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, 4.5.1 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Emissions 305-1 Principle 7 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1). 4.5.4 Principle 8 305-2 Principle 7 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2). Report 4.5.4 Principle 8 gross location-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent, and gross market-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions if applicable. Report standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. 305-3 Principle 7 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3). 4.5.4 Principle 8 Registration Document 2016 | Essilor 239 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.7 Methodology n ote & corre spon den ce ta b l e s GRI UNGC Standards Principles SDGs Topic Reference Effluents and waste 306-1 Principle 8 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 4.5.2 306-2 Principle 8 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method, with 4.5.5 the breakdown of hazardous waste and non-hazardous waste; the breakdown of these ﬁgures by disposal methods (e.g., reuse, recycling, composting) is to be reported where applicable. 306-3 Principle 8 Total number and volume of signiﬁcant spills. 4.5.5 Environmental Compliance 307-1 Principle 8 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. 4.5.1 Employment 401-1 Principle 6 New employee hires and employee turnover. 4.4 Occupational health and safety 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 4.4.1 and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities. Training and education 404-1 Principle 6 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, 4.4.2 and by employee category. 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance 4.4.2 programs. Diversity and equal opportunities 405-1 Principle 6 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees 2.2.1.1 and 4.4 per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Non-discrimination 406-1 Principle 6 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. 4.4.3 Child Labor 408-1 Principle 5 Operations and suppliers at signiﬁcant risk for incidents of child 4.6.2 and 4.6.3 labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of child labor. Forced or Compulsory Labor 409-1 Principle 4 Operations and suppliers at signiﬁcant risk for incidents of forced 4.6.2 and 4.6.3 or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Local Communities 413-2 Principle 1 Operations with signiﬁcant actual and potential negative impacts 4.5.2 and 4.5.4 on local communities. Supplier social assessment 414-2 Principle 2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken. 4.6.2 and 4.6.3 240 Essilor | Registration Document 2016 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.7 Me th o d o l o g y n o te & co r re s p o n d e n ce ta b l e s 4 GRI UNGC Standards Principles SDGs Topic Reference Customer Health and Safety 416-1 Percentage of signiﬁcant product and service categories for which 4.3.2 and 4.6.4 health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement. 416-2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with the regulations 4.6.4 and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Marketing and Labelling 417-3 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with the regulations 4.6.4 and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship, by type of outcomes. Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and/or regulations in the social 4.6.4 and economic area. 4 Registration Document 2016 | Essilor 241 4 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.8 Report by the Statutory Auditor, appointed as independent third party, on the consolidate d human resources, environmental and social information included in the management report 4.8 Report by the Statutory Auditor, appointed as independent third party, on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information included in the management report This is a free English translation of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. For the year ended December 31st, 2016 To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditor of Essilor International information for the year ended December 31st, 2016, included in Company, appointed as independent third party and certiﬁed by the management report (hereinafter named “CSR Information”), COFRAC under number 3-1049 (1), we hereby report to you on pursuant to article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code the consolidated human resources, environmental and social (Code de commerce). Company’s responsibility The Board of Directors is responsible for preparing a company’s accordance with the guidelines used by the Company (hereinafter management report including the CSR Information required the “Guidelines”), summarised in the management report and by article R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code in available on request at the company’s head office. Independence and quality control Our independence is defined by regulatory texts, the French control including documented policies and procedures regarding Code of ethics (Code de déontologie) of our profession and the compliance with the ethical requirements, French professional requirements of article L.822-11 of the French Commercial standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Code. In addition, we have implemented a system of quality Statutory Auditor’s responsibility On the basis of our work, our responsibility is to: the fairness of CSR Information, in accordance with ISAE 3000 (2) and with the professional doctrine of the CNCC (Compagnie f attest that the required CSR Information is included in the Nationale des Commissaires aux Comptes). management report or, in the event of non-disclosure of a part or all of the CSR Information, that an explanation is provided in accordance with the third paragraph of article R.225-105 1. Attestation regarding the completeness of the French Commercial Code (Attestation regarding the of CSR Information completeness of CSR Information); f express a limited assurance conclusion that the CSR Information taken as a whole is, in all material respects, fairly Nature and scope of our work presented in accordance with the Guidelines (Conclusion on the On the basis of interviews with the individuals in charge of the fairness of CSR Information). relevant departments, we obtained an understanding of the Our work involved five persons and was conducted between Company’s sustainability strategy regarding human resources and August 2016 and February 2017 during a nine week period. We environmental impacts of its activities and its social commitments were assisted in our work by our CSR experts. and, where applicable, any actions or programmes arising from them. We performed our work in accordance with the order dated 13 May We compared the CSR Information presented in the management 2013 deﬁning the conditions under which the independent third report with the list provided in article R.225-105-1 of the French party performs its engagement and concerning our conclusion on Commercial Code. (1) “Whose scope is available at www.cofrac.fr”. (2) ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical ﬁnancial information. 242 Essilor | Registration Document 2016 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.8 Report by the Statutory Auditor, appointed as independent third party, on the consolidate d 4 human resources, environmental and social information included in the management report For any consolidated information that is not disclosed, we veriﬁed f at the consolidation level, we referred to documentary sources that explanations were provided in accordance with article and conducted interviews to corroborate the qualitative R.225-105, paragraph 3 of the French Commercial Code. information (organisation, policies, actions), performed analytical procedures on the quantitative information and We verified that the CSR Information covers the scope of veriﬁed, using sampling techniques, the calculations and the consolidation, i.e., the Company, its subsidiaries as defined by consolidation of the data. We also veriﬁed that the information article L.233-1 and the controlled entities as deﬁned by article was consistent and in agreement with the other information in L.233-3 of the French Commercial Code within the limitations set the management report; out in the methodological note, presented in the paragraph 4.7 of the management report. f at the level of a representative sample of entities selected by us (2) on the basis of their activity, their contribution to the consolidated indicators, their location and a risk analysis, we Conclusion conducted interviews to verify that procedures are properly Based on the work performed and given the limitations mentioned applied and to identify potential undisclosed data, and we above, we attest that the required CSR Information has been performed tests of details, using sampling techniques, in disclosed in the management report. order to verify the calculations and reconcile the data with the supporting documents. 2. Conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information The selected sample represents 32% of headcount considered as material data of social issues and between 22% and 39% of environmental data considered as material data of environmental Nature and scope of our work issues (Cf. the list of environmental indicators listed in footnotes of page 3). We conducted around fifteen interviews with the persons responsible for preparing the CSR Information in the departments For the remaining consolidated CSR Information, we assessed its in charge of collecting the information and, where appropriate, consistency based on our understanding of the company. responsible for internal control and risk management procedures, We also assessed the relevance of explanations provided for any in order to: information that was not disclosed, either in whole or in part. f assess the suitability of the Guidelines in terms of their We believe that the sampling methods and sample sizes we relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and have used, based on our professional judgement, are sufficient understandability, and taking into account industry best to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion; a higher practices where appropriate; 4 level of assurance would have required us to carry out more f verify the implementation of data-collection, compilation, extensive procedures. Due to the use of sampling techniques processing and control process to reach completeness and other limitations inherent to information and internal control and consistency of the CSR Information and obtain an systems, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement in the understanding of the internal control and risk management CSR information cannot be totally eliminated. procedures used to prepare the CSR Information. We determined the nature and scope of our tests and procedures Conclusion based on the nature and importance of the CSR Information Based on the work performed, no material misstatement with respect to the characteristics of the Company, the human has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the resources and environmental challenges of its activities, its CSR Information, taken as a whole, is not presented fairly in sustainability strategy and industry best practices. accordance with the Guidelines. Regarding the CSR Information that we considered to be the most important (1): Paris – La Défense, February 13, 2017 French original signed by: KPMG S.A. Philippe Arnaud Alphonse Delaroque Partner Partner Sustainability Services (1) Labour indicators: total headcount and breakdown of workforce by gender and by age, number of recruitments, number of redundancies, frequency rate of workplace accidents with lost days, number of training hours. Environmental indicators: energy consumption, GHG emissions related to energy consumption (scope 1 and 2), GHG emissions from transportation (scope 3), volume of water withdrawals, volume of water discharged, use of raw materials consumption: standards substrates, other substrates, waste production. Qualitative information: Occupational health and safety conditions, Policies implemented regarding training, Measures implemented to promote gender equality, The organization of the company to integrate environmental issues and, if appropriate, the assessments and certiﬁcation process regarding environmental issues, Territorial, economic and social impact of the company activity regarding regional employment and development and on the local populations, Measures implemented to promote consumers health and safety, Integration of social and environmental issues into the company procurement policy, Importance of subcontracting and consideration, in the relationship with subcontractors and suppliers of their social and environmental responsibility. (2) EOA Dallas (United States), SOFI (Mexico), ECOI (Mexico), ECOII (Mexico), Essilor India Pvt Ltd (India), Essilor Manufacturing India Pvt Ltd (India), GKB RX Lens Private Ltd (India), EOLT (Thailand), Transitions Optical Thailand (Thailand), EMTC (Thailand), Essilor International BBGR (labour indicators, France). Registration Document 2016 | Essilor 243 The information presented in this Registration Document has been prepared primarily by the Corporate Finance Department, the Corporate Legal Department and Essilor International Department of Investor Relations. Department of Investor Relations Essilor International – 147 rue de Paris – 94227 Charenton Cedex – France Tel: +33 (0)1 49 77 42 16 – Fax: +33 (0)1 49 77 43 24 E-mail: invest@essilor.com – Website: www.essilor.com © Essilor International – March 2017 Photo credits: iStock, PeopleImages, Getty, Capa, Essilor Cover design: Design and production: Essilor International (Compagnie Générale d’Optique) 147, rue de Paris 94220 Charenton-le-Pont France Tél. : +33 (0)1 49 77 42 24 A French Limited Company (Société Anonyme) with capital of €39,331,386.18 Créteil trade and Company registry n°712 049 618 www.essilor.com
