Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2016 DSM at a glance Nutrition means of DSM’s proprietary processes. The Dyneema® brand enjoys very high recognition in the value chains served. The Nutrition cluster comprises DSM Nutritional Products and DSM Food Specialties. These businesses serve the global DSM Resins & Functional Materials is a global player in industries for animal feed, food and beverages, pharmaceutical, developing, manufacturing and marketing high-quality resins infant nutrition, dietary supplements and personal care. solutions for paints, industrial coatings and fiber-optic coatings. Its continuous innovation means that customers can meet DSM Nutritional Products is one of the world’s leading regulatory needs and respond better to consumer demands for producers of essential nutrients such as vitamins, carotenoids, more sustainable materials. nutritional lipids and other ingredients for the feed, food, pharmaceutical and personal care industries. Among its Innovation Center customers are the world’s largest food and beverage companies. DSM is uniquely positioned, offering a combination DSM Innovation Center serves as an enabler and accelerator of global products and local solutions, with a strong focus on of innovation within DSM, providing support to the clusters. With innovation. DSM Nutritional Products consists of the following its Emerging Business Areas, the Business Incubator and DSM business units: Venturing & Licensing, it also has a general business development role, focusing on areas outside the current scope Animal Nutrition & Health addresses the nutritional additives of the business groups. segment of the global feed ingredients market. DSM's products and premixes include vitamins, feed enzymes, carotenoids, DSM’s Emerging Business Areas provide strong long-term minerals and eubiotics. growth platforms based on the company’s core competences in life sciences and materials sciences. The company has three Human Nutrition & Health primarily addresses the nutritional Emerging Business Areas: ingredients markets, but is also active in coloration and preservation in the global food ingredients market. DSM Biomedical supplies innovative biomedical materials that enable medical device manufacturers to make less invasive Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients focuses on active and devices. These can speed up recovery, shorten hospital stays performance ingredients such as vitamins, UV filters and bioand minimize reoperations, lowering health costs and helping actives for the skin care, sun care and hair care market people to lead longer, healthier and more active lives. segments. DSM Bio-based Products & Services is at the forefront of DSM Food Specialties is a leading global supplier of food building a more sustainable, bio-based economy with solutions enzymes, cultures, yeast extracts, savory flavors, hydrocolloids for clean fuel from agricultural residue and for renewable and other specialty ingredients to the food and beverage chemical building blocks such as bio-based succinic acid. industries. DSM Food Specialties’ advanced ingredients make a considerable contribution to the success of the world’s favorite DSM Advanced Solar develops and provides solutions to brands for the dairy, baking, beverages and savory segments. increase the yield of solar panels – Same sun. More power™. Materials Partnerships The Materials cluster consists of DSM Engineering Plastics, DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals (DSP), a 50-50 joint venture DSM Dyneema and DSM Resins & Functional Materials. These formed in 2011, is the global market leader in beta-lactam active business groups are active in specialty materials for pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) such as semi-synthetic technologically sophisticated applications and offer specialized penicillins and semi-synthetic cephalosporins. It is also a leader value propositions. in other active ingredients such as nystatin and next-generation statins. DSM Engineering Plastics is a global player in developing, manufacturing and marketing high-performance plastics, Patheon is a global leader in contract development and addressing key markets in automotive and electronics, and manufacturing services established in 2014 and approximately providing solutions to specialized industries including water 34%-owned by DSM, with customers across the management, breathable textiles and flexible food packaging. pharmaceutical industry. DSM Dyneema is the inventor, manufacturer and marketer of ChemicaInvest is a joint venture established in 2015 in which Dyneema®, the world’s strongest fiber™. This product, based DSM has a 35% shareholding, and comprises the former DSM on ultra high molecular weight polyethylene, is produced by Fibre Intermediates (caprolactam and acrylonitrile) and DSM Composite Resins businesses. DSM – Bright Science. Brighter Living.™ Our purpose is to create brighter lives for people today and generations to come. We use our unique competences in health, nutrition and materials to create solutions that nourish, protect and improve performance. DSM uses its Bright Science to create Brighter Living for people today and generations to come. Based on a deep understanding of key global trends that are driving societies, markets and customers, we create solutions to some of the world’s biggest challenges, thus adding to both our own and our customers’ success. We believe that DSM's continued success will be driven by our ability to create shared value for all stakeholders, now and in the future. Our customers derive value from being able to offer end-users improved products and services; society and the planet derive value from the impact of more sustainable, longer-lasting, safer, healthier and more nutritious alternatives; and, as a result, DSM and its shareholders derive value from stronger growth and profitability. Finally, our employees feel engaged and motivated both through the contribution they make to a better world and the success this creates for the company in which they work. More information on 'How DSM creates value for its stakeholders' can be found on page 20. DSM – Bright Science. Brighter Living.™ Royal DSM is a global science-based company active in health, nutrition and materials. By connecting its unique competences in life sciences and materials sciences, DSM is driving economic prosperity, environmental progress and social advances to create sustainable value for all stakeholders simultaneously. DSM delivers innovative solutions that nourish, protect and improve performance in global markets such as food and dietary supplements, personal care, feed, medical devices, automotive, paints, electrical and electronics, life protection, alternative energy and bio-based materials. DSM and its associated companies deliver annual net sales of about € 10 billion with approximately 25,000 employees. The company is listed on Euronext Amsterdam. More information can be found at www.dsm.com. © 2017 Royal DSM. All rights reserved. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 www.dsm.com Table of contents 6 Key data 108 Report by the Supervisory Board 108 Supervisory Board report 8 Letter from the CEO 114 Remuneration policy for the Managing Board 12 DSM and the Sustainable Development Goals 120 Supervisory Board and Managing Board Royal DSM 14 Report by the Managing Board 14 Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth 122 What still went wrong in 2016 20 How DSM creates value for its stakeholders 22 Brighter Living Solutions 124 Information about the DSM share 24 Stakeholder engagement 39 People in 2016 127 Sustainability statements 49 Planet in 2016 56 Profit in 2016 129 Consolidated financial statements 129 Summary of significant accounting policies 62 Review of business in 2016 135 Consolidated statements 64 Nutrition 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal 74 Materials DSM 82 Innovation Center 87 Corporate Activities 192 Parent company financial statements 88 Partnerships 194 Notes to the parent company financial statements 90 Financial and reporting policy 206 Other information 90 Financial policy 206 Independent auditor's report 91 Reporting policy 211 Independent auditor's assurance report 213 Special statutory rights 93 Corporate governance and risk management 213 Important dates 93 Introduction 94 Dutch corporate governance code 214 DSM figures: five-year summary 95 Governance framework 98 DSM Code of Business Conduct 217 Explanation of some concepts and ratios 102 Risk management 107 Statements of the Managing Board 220 List of abbreviations Forward-looking statements This document may contain forward-looking statements with respect to DSM's future (financial) performance and position. Such statements are based on current expectations, estimates and projections of DSM and information currently available to the company. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements made or implied about the company’s strategy, estimates of sales growth, financial results, cost savings and future developments in its existing businesses as well as the impact of future acquisitions, and the company’s financial position. These statements can be management estimates based on information provided by specialized agencies or advisors. DSM cautions readers that such statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and therefore it should be understood that many factors can cause the company's actual performance and position to differ materially from these statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, macro-economic, market and business trends and conditions, (low-cost) competition, legal claims, the company's ability to protect intellectual property, changes in legislation, changes in exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates, pension costs, raw material and energy prices, employee costs, the implementation of the company’s strategy, the company’s ability to identify and complete acquisitions and to successfully integrate acquired companies, the company’s ability to realize planned divestments, savings, restructuring or benefits, the company’s ability to identify, develop and successfully commercialize new products, markets or technologies, economic and/or political changes and other developments in countries and markets in which DSM operates. Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the 'Risk Management' chapter. As a result, DSM’s actual future performance, position and/or financial results may differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations set forth in such forwardlooking statements. DSM has no obligation to update the statements contained in this document, unless required by law. The English language version of this document is leading. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 5 www.dsm.com Key data Key data1 20162 20152 People Workforce at 31 December (headcount) 20,786 20,796 Female/male ratio 27/73 28/72 Total employee benefits costs (in € million) 1,752 1,778 Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries (per 100 DSM employees and contractor employees) 0.33 0.41 Employee engagement favorable score (in %) 71 69 Planet Energy use (in petajoules) 22.6 20.9 Energy Efficiency Improvement (in %, year-on-year) 2 Greenhouse-gas emissions in CO2 equivalents (x million tons) 1.5 1.1 Greenhouse-gas efficiency improvement (in %, baseline 2008) 23 20 Water use (x million m3) 104 101 Brighter Living Solutions (as % of net sales) 63 Profit (in € million) Net sales, continuing operations 7,920 7,722 Adjusted EBITDA, continuing operations3 1,262 1,075 EBITDA, continuing operations 1,174 956 Adjusted operating profit, continuing operations (EBIT)3 791 573 Operating profit, continuing operations (EBIT) 685 362 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 621 88 Cash provided by operating activities 1,018 696 Capital expenditure, cash based 475 536 Dividend for DSM shareholders 310 297 Net debt 2,070 2,321 Shareholders' equity 6,072 5,541 Total assets 12,958 11,743 Capital employed, continuing operations 7,889 7,553 Market capitalization at 31 December4 10,334 8,396 Per ordinary share in € Net earnings 3.52 0.45 Dividend 1.755 1.65 Financial ratios (%) Sales to high growth economies / net sales 44 44 Innovation sales / net sales 22 24 Adjusted EBITDA margin (continuing operations) 15.9 13.9 Average working capital / annualized net sales (continuing operations) 18.6 20.7 ROCE (continuing operations) 10.4 7.6 Gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt) 25.1 29.2 Equity / total assets 47.5 48.0 Cash provided by operating activities / Adjusted EBITDA 80.7 59.5 1 For definitions see ‘Explanation of some concepts and ratios’ on page 217. 2 Key data presented relate to total DSM (= continuing operations + discontinued operations), unless explicitly stated otherwise. 3 In presenting and discussing DSM’s financial position, operating results and cash flows, DSM (similar to many other publicly listed companies) uses certain Alternative performance measures (APMs) not defined by IFRS. These APMs are used because they are an important measure of DSM’s business development and DSM’s management performance. A full reconciliation of IFRS performance measures to the APMs is given in the ‘Alternative performance measures (APMs)’ on page 142. 4 Source: Bloomberg. 5 Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 6 www.dsm.com People Planet Workforce Greenhouse-gas (at year-end 2016) emissions, total DSM (in million tons CO2eq) 20,786 1.5 Employee engagement favorable score Brighter Living Energy use, total DSM (in %) Solutions (in petajoules) as % of net sales 71 22.6 Number of Water consumption, nationalities total DSM (at year-end 2016) (in million m3) 98 63 22 Frequency Index of Innovation sales Recordable Injuries as % of total sales (per 100 DSM employees and contractor employees) 0.33 22 Profit1 2 Net sales Adjusted EBITDA Net profit, total DSM Capital expenditure (in million) (in million) (in million) (cash-based) € 1,262 (in million) Adjusted EBITDA growth € 7,920 17% € 621 € 475 Cash provided by Net earnings per Dividend per ordinary ROCE (in %) 10.4 operating activities, ordinary share, share3 total DSM total DSM (in million) ROCE growth (in bps) € 1,018 € 3.52 € 1.75 280 1 Continuing operations unless explicitly stated otherwise 2 See page 142 for reconciliation 3 Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 7 www.dsm.com Letter from the CEO Dear reader, the year was the continued rapid pace of growth for our i-Health Toward the end of 2015 we presented Royal DSM's strategic consumer range of dietary supplements. Having proved its plan for the period up to and including 2018. We designed popularity in the US, it is now also available in a number of other Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth to capture the full countries. Our Food Specialties and Hydrocolloids texturing potential of the portfolio of business activities we have carefully businesses also showed good results. created over the years, by increasing organic growth, reducing costs, and improving our performance by strict capital allocation Our Materials businesses enjoyed a particularly successful 2016. and a stronger organizational agility. For the time being we are We recorded strong growth in volumes, above all in specialty not focused on major acquisitions. In the coming years we intend materials – a clear indication that our product portfolio upgrade to monetize our three large joint ventures. toward specialties and our application expertise resonate well with our customers in higher-growth and higher-value market We set two mid-term headline financial targets for the strategic segments. Furthermore, we worked hard to manage margins in period, namely a high single-digit percentage annual Adjusted a low-input cost environment. We again recorded a step-up in EBITDA growth and a high double-digit basis point improvement returns in Materials in 2016, clearly well above the level of in return on capital employed (ROCE). This reflects our previous years. commitment to delivering a step-up in financial performance. At the same time as vigorously driving business growth, we are We also set out stretching aspirations in the area of sustainability transforming our organization. We are implementing a number relating to our own operations, our customer solutions, and our of major programs, which are not just aimed at lowering our cost impact on the world. At the same time, we aim to further develop base, but also intend to make our company more agile, resilient our talent pool to ensure that we can sustainably address the and marketand performance-focused, enabling DSM to fulfill challenges and demands placed upon us. its growth ambitions. The improvement programs target € 250-300 million in cost “ We are intent on ‘future-proofing’ DSM, delivering x savings versus the 2014 baseline by the end of 2018. All these higher value to all our stakeholders. ” initiatives are fully on track and the effects are already visible in DSM’s financial and operational progress. We are committed to DSM is making very good progress toward these targets. maintaining our focus and fully executing these programs. The Starting already in 2015, we have taken demonstrable steps adverse consequence of this is a reduction of around 1,000 FTEs each quarter and posted 2016 results well ahead of our mid-term between 2015 and 2017 – a decision that was not taken lightly. targets, improving both profit (Adjusted EBITDA up 17% from I continue to be humbled by the constructive and professional € 1,075 million to € 1,262 million) and returns (ROCE up 280 bps attitude shown by those who have been affected by these from 7.6% to 10.4%). We also succeeded in making our own changes. operations more sustainable while at the same time increasing the proportion of Brighter Living Solutions our customers buy Science and innovation drives our growth from us. As a science-based company, one of the pillars supporting DSM’s success in the marketplace is our ability to develop new, Our performance in 2016 more sustainable solutions. Every day, our scientists strive to Our strong operational and financial progress in 2016 has been provide answers to global challenges, going to great lengths in driven by both Nutrition and Materials, supported by our growth doing so. In fact, scientists across the world are the unsung initiatives, ambitious improvement and cost-saving actions, and heroes of our time, often working in relative anonymity. Yet they strict capital allocation. This has enabled us to translate our topinspire us by making a positive difference and a real societal line growth into a significant step-up in (financial) returns in 2016. impact. Our ‘Science Can Change The World’ campaign Capital expenditure in support of DSM’s future growth amounted celebrates this crucial contribution and entered a new phase in to just below € 0.5 billion. We furthermore undertook numerous 2016 with the Bright Minds Challenge, looking to fast-forward actions to manage working capital; total working capital to sales renewable energy solutions. stood at 18.4% at the end of the year, which is better than the 20% we aspire to stay below. We introduced a number of innovations in 2016, including specialty materials that help the automotive industry in its quest The Nutrition cluster posted strong organic growth figures for to make vehicles lighter and safer, and a new technology 2016, with both the animal and human nutrition businesses enabling the production of highly concentrated omega-3 fish oil. contributing. Animal Nutrition & Health maintained momentum We also continued work on programs for the future, many of from 2015 and had a strong year. We are also pleased with our which are directly linked to environmental or public health performance in Human Nutrition & Health, where we clearly saw challenges. These include our fermentative stevia sweetener the benefits of our improvement actions. One of the highlights of platform in Nutrition to help reduce the sugar in our diets, Clean Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 8 www.dsm.com Cow, aimed at cutting methane emissions from cattle, and our We have identified three sustainable growth platforms – areas Green Ocean partnership to make fish farming more sustainable. where our core competences intersect with urgent societal challenges. These are: nutrition; climate & energy; and circular & The concept of the circular economy is becoming reality, and the bio-based economy. We will grow these platforms through DSM-Niaga joint venture took an important step, announcing partnering, advocacy and engagement, and through our that its technology is ready for commercial-scale production. proprietary solutions, increasing our positive impact and doing This 100%-recyclable carpet is proof that products can be regood business at the same time. Africa Improved Foods, the designed along circular economy principles of use and multiple outcome of a multi-stakeholder approach to support the re-use. government of Rwanda in tackling stunting and stimulating economic development, is just one example. Looking to our Emerging Business Areas, we have experienced a delay in the start-up of the advanced biofuels facility in the US Our corporate strategy and our growth platforms are well aligned together with our partner POET. Efforts to address this took with the United Nations' Global Goals for Sustainable effect toward the end of the year. DSM Biomedical made steady Development. These goals – often referred to as the ‘SDGs’ – progress, with higher volumes, especially in high-growth are increasingly moving into implementation mode, segments of the medical device market including cardiology, underscoring the need for effective solutions at scale to which ophthalmics and orthopedics. We continued to see good growth businesses like DSM can make an influential contribution. We in solar energy materials with DSM Advanced Solar. The are particularly proud of our strategic partnership with the UN Innovation Center reached Adjusted EBITDA break-even in World Food Programme, which contributes directly to Goal 2 2016, as planned. (Zero Hunger). Among others, DSM’s activities also strongly address Goal 13 (Climate Action). Achieving the SDGs will help Monetizing our partnerships build societal and economic resilience worldwide. You can read Over recent years, we have carved out non-core areas of the more about how our company supports the SDGs throughout portfolio in pharma and bulk chemicals and transferred these into this Report. partnerships. We will exit these over time, monetizing our holdings. In 2016, we took a first step through our participation in the very successful IPO of Patheon, resulting in a significant first financial gain and creating the opportunity to monetize further in the coming years. DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals progressed well, and we will continue to review the best options for divesting this business. Finally, for the third main partnership, ChemicaInvest with controlling partner CVC, 2016 was the first full year of operation and the focus was on improving results. In all these cases we will choose an appropriate moment to exit. Proceeds will initially be used for de-leveraging our balance sheet and to support organic growth, while unlocking the potential for acquisitions over time. The global economy presented a mixed picture in 2016, with Sustainability, our core value growth remaining patchy. This was reflected in our businesses, For DSM, sustainability is our core value and a key responsibility, where conditions in some territories such as in Latin America as well as an important business driver. We focus on delivering were difficult, while in others we grew well – for example, in India, science-based, sustainable and scalable solutions that address China, the US and Europe. Social inequalities and economic the challenges of today’s world in our main areas of competence. imbalances also led to political turbulence in some parts of the Not only do these products and solutions offer higher growth world, which influenced the wider global economy. In the face of rates and better margins; our continuous endeavor for these continuing uncertainties, the SDGs remind us of the sustainability also makes us focus on reducing operating costs importance of taking a long-term view. by decreasing our environmental footprint. Our social and environmental performance In 2016, over 60% of DSM’s sales were products offering In 2016, we further improved the social and environmental measurably better environmental performance and/or societal performance of our operations. The safety and health of our benefits than mainstream alternatives in areas such as working workforce is our most immediate concern and I am happy to conditions and health. With these Brighter Living Solutions, we report that there was a reduction in the number of recordable help our customers make their own businesses more injuries during the year. We remain committed to reducing this sustainable. number still further. For more information on safety and health Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 9 www.dsm.com and on these and other incidents, see ‘People in 2016’ on page instrumental on DSM’s Managing Board in creating our unique, 39 and ‘What still went wrong in 2016’ on page 122. broad and global Nutrition business, and has moved on to become CEO of the AptarGroup, Inc. We wish him well after nine Our Employee Engagement Survey showed a clear years of work for DSM. Also many thanks to Ewald Kist, whose improvement versus last year, demonstrating that we are on the final term as a Member of DSM’s Supervisory Board came to an right track. We also continued to strive for a representative end in 2016 after 12 years of service. We highly value his balance across our organization in terms of gender and balanced, long-term thinking. nationality, addressing our Inclusion & Diversity beliefs and goals. We are pleased with the improvement in the number of women I would like to finish by once again thanking all who contributed in executive and senior leadership positions in recent years, yet to this successful year 2016 and the achievements of the DSM we realize we must increase this momentum still further. Our we have built together: we do this all to create brighter lives for ability to hire, develop, evaluate and manage our talented people people today and generations to come. is a fundamental enabler for DSM’s continued success. Last year, we rolled out a revamped global talent management Feike Sijbesma approach across the company and further embedded the DSM CEO/Chairman Managing Board Royal DSM leadership model. We made pleasing progress in 2016 toward our multi-year targets for reducing our own environmental footprint, including further improving our greenhouse-gas efficiency and energy efficiency, as well as taking important steps toward our renewable electricity targets. DSM is among a growing number of companies to have implemented an internal carbon price (in our case of € 50/ton CO2 equivalents) to help guide investment decisions toward low fossil-carbon choices. We support carbon pricing as an instrument to address climate change, and I am honored to co-chair, together with Minister Ségolène Royal of France, the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition, an initiative launched by the World Bank, the UN and the International Monetary Fund. All of us at DSM take pride when our efforts receive external recognition. Among numerous other things, we were very pleased to be named the global industry leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index in 2016. We were also delighted to be mentioned in Fortune Magazine’s ‘Change the World List’ of companies that are “doing well by doing good.” This resonates well with how we view our purpose as a company. We continually aim to improve our integrated reporting, and this Report follows the GRI Standards from the Global Reporting Initiative as well as the <IR> framework of the International Integrated Reporting Council. We remain committed to aligning our strategy and operations with the principles of the UN Global Compact, as well as contributing to the realization of the UN Global Goals. Our thanks to all who contribute In conclusion, 2016 was a good year for DSM. We are pleased with our progress and have many reasons to be confident. On behalf of my colleagues, I would like to extend our thanks to everyone who has contributed to this success: our employees, customers, suppliers and other business partners. We are grateful for the trust of our shareholders and will continue to serve the interests of all our stakeholders as well as we can. We also express our gratitude to Stephan Tanda, who has been Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 10 www.dsm.com Nourishing the Base of the Pyramid The Base of the Pyramid (BoP) comprises some four billion people who subsist on USD 2 per day or less. Around 800 million of these suffer from hunger, and many more are malnourished. The food basket for these people often lacks key nutrients due to its reliance on grains and rice, which provide mainly carbohydrates and thus essential calories but not the full range of nutrients required for good health. At DSM, we use our products, expertise and partnerships to help support this group through programs designed to address malnutrition by means of food fortification, among other things. The fortification of staples such as wheat flour, maize flour, oil, margarine and salt has a long history. Rice fortification is much more technically complex. DSM’s work in this field began almost two decades ago through a collaboration with Bühler for the development of coating and hot extrusion technologies. Africa Improved Foods, In 2010, we began working together with WFP on rice Rwanda fortification, conducting trials for including fortified rice in school meals in Egypt. We have since scaled up our involvement with In 2015, DSM was invited by the Government of many other countries and partners. Rwanda to participate alongside other partners in Africa Improved Foods (AIF) with the challenge to address micronutrient deficiencies (‘hidden hunger’), support Scaling up rice local economic development, and create a commercially fortification in Bangladesh sustainable business operation in Rwanda. AIF now employs 260 people who produce fortified cereals and A joint project by WFP and the Government of porridges for pregnant and lactating women, toddlers, Bangladesh, supported and funded by the DSM-WFP and older children. The maize and soy used are sourced partnership and the Dutch Embassy in Dhaka, has locally from over 9,000 local farmers, providing a been established with the goal of contributing to the market and a sustainable source of income for these reduction of micronutrient deficiencies in high-risk smallholdings. groups. Focusing strongly on women and children in Bangladesh, the project encouraged the consumption of nutrient-rich fortified rice. Rice fortification workshop in Dominican Republic 45Rice, Singapore Over 100 stakeholders were brought together at the workshop ‘Scaling Up Rice Fortification in Latin America In a study by the National University of Singapore, just and the Caribbean’ in August 2016. This workshop was over 80% of interviewed migrant workers reported that the organized by WFP with funding and support from the quality of food provided to them was “poor” and lacking DSM-WFP partnership. It was designed to share global in the necessary micronutrients (vitamins and minerals). and regional evidence and operational experience; A collaboration with the NGO BoP Hub to address this support countries in the process of developing a resulted in the founding of the social enterprise 45Rice in country-specific plan for rice fortification; facilitate the January 2016. 45Rice will supply hospitals, foundations, process of consultation and the exchange of experience low-income communities, and the commercial market between countries in the region; and create a network (FairPrice) in Singapore with rice premix and fortified rice for continued learning and knowledge-sharing. kernels. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 11 www.dsm.com DSM and the Sustainable Development Goals The DSM Inclusion & Diversity Strategy Our HR policies on (minimum) wages and fair and aspirations promote the reduction of pay. We support smallholdings through Africa inequalities. Our Brighter Living Solutions Improved Foods (AIF), help improve agricultural program considers equal opportunities through learning through our partnership with the UN People LCAs. Through AIF and economic WFP and participate in economic development development programs in developing countries programs in developing countries. •• we foster inclusive employment in local communities. •• We improve nutrition via initiatives such as the Nutrition Improvement Program and AIF, We support cross-sector partnerships and as well as through partnerships such as with local philanthropic initiatives, such as our the WFP and SUN. We continue to support work with Global Health Corps. • Sight and Life, the nutrition think-tank. ••• DSM-Niaga enables the manufacture of Our biomedical, health and nutrition product 100% recyclable carpets. Food waste can portfolio is geared to maintaining, protecting be reduced through solutions such as Packor regenerating health. The DSM Life Saving Age®. Advanced biofuels and bio-succinic Rules and the DSM Vitality Program support acid replace fossil-fuel based alternatives. safety in the workplace and good health for Our Brighter Living Solutions program our employees. ••• considers the impact of our products throughout the value chain. ••• We focus on reducing our own carbon We support our employees’ personal and footprint, enabling the low-carbon economy professional development through our through renewable energy solutions and learning and development programs. We bio-based chemicals, and advocating climate help improve agricultural learning through action through partnerships such as CPLC our partnership with the WFP. • and WEF and other initiatives. See also SDG7 (Affordable and Clean Energy). ••• The DSM Inclusion & Diversity Strategy and Trevo nets support sustainable aquaculture. aspirations, and our sponsorship of WIN The Green Ocean partnership has the to foster female leadership. Our CEO is potential to transform aquaculture feed signatory to the CEO Statement of Support solutions into more sustainable systems and for the Women’s Empowerment Principles DSM is a partner of The Ocean Cleanup. •• and is a board member of Catalyst. •• We identify and take action on areas of Our Brighter Living Solutions program water scarcity with waste water efficiency values the reduction of land use as part of and treatment programs such as at DSM in the LCA assessments. • Pune (India). • We enable energy solutions such as advanced biofuels and materials for solar panels, and Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy support the quest for clean energy externally and training programs, Human Rights Policy via our Bright Minds Challenge. We are as well as our grievance mechanism significantly increasing the use of renewable ‘DSM Alert’, support ethical business sources of energy and are members of RE100. conduct and good corporate governance See also SDG13 (Climate Action). ••• within DSM. • We make a positive contribution to economic growth in the countries and We partner with UN agencies, governments, markets in which we operate and strive academia, NGOs and industry peers such to decouple growth from resource as WEF, WBCSD and SUN as well as many consumption. We support smallholdings other global and local partners to accelerate through AIF and participate in economic our contributions to the other 16 SDGs. ••• development programs in developing countries. •• Bright Science is the key driver behind our sustainable, science-based solutions. Our innovation strategy supports the sustainable development agenda, with clear focus on DSM’s engagement: several SDGs. •• • = Minor •• = Moderate ••• = Major Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 12 www.dsm.com The 17 Global Goals for SDG 2: End hunger, achieve food security and Sustainable Development improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture were agreed by more than 190 DSM works to improve nutrition via initiatives such world leaders in September as the Nutrition Improvement Program and Africa Improved Foods, providing fortified food solutions and 2015. At DSM, we believe that micronutrient products, as well as through partnerships companies have a crucial role such as with WFP. We support the Base of the Pyramid with fortified food solutions and programs and provide to play in creating the impact micronutrients through products such as MixMe needed at scale to achieve sachets. We continue to support the now independent nutrition think-tank, Sight and Life. them. Besides being our core value and a key responsibility, for many years we have made SDG 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote sustainability a real business driver for DSM, well-being for all at all ages developing solutions, building partnerships DSM’s health, nutrition, biomedical and high-performance and increasing our impact in key areas. materials portfolios are geared to maintaining, protecting Our Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable or regenerating health in all age groups (for example, by reducing salt and sugar levels in processed foods, Growth emphasizes the focus we place on or by reducing emissions associated with chemical sustainability as our core value. Addressing manufacturing processes). Our First 1,000 Days Program the challenges of nutrition & health, climate supports mother and child health. We employ the DSM Life Saving Rules to protect our employees from harm & energy and resource scarcity drive our and the DSM Vitality Program to promote awareness business and innovation strategies. We of good health and healthy living options among our believe that our expertise in health, nutrition employees. and materials position DSM well to actively contribute to the SDGs. While all the Goals are important, our capacity to support their SDG 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, individual achievement varies. The overview sustainable and modern energy for all to the left provides an initial indication of SDG 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change where we see intersections between the and its impacts SDGs and our company and business strategy. There are five SDGs on which we In partnership with RE100, we are increasing the use of renewables in our energy mix, reducing our carbon believe our company and its businesses can footprint. DSM enables solar and bio-based energy be most influential, and we expand on these solutions and supports the move toward a low-carbon on the right. economy through solutions such as POET-DSM advanced biofuels and high-performance materials for solar panels. Our Bright Minds Challenge is identifying In order to achieve impact at scale and innovative solutions and new materials that will fastaccelerate progress, DSM collaborates track the movement toward 100% renewable energy. We advocate responsible action on climate change in with multiple partners and stakeholders, combination with our stakeholders. in line with SDG 17 (Partnering for the Goals), including United Nations agencies, governments, academia, NGOs and peers. This enables us to address issues, develop alliances, create new metrics and foster SDG 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns new markets for sustainable solutions. Our DSM contributes to a bio-based, circular and lowpartnerships range from the UN Global carbon economy with products such as Akulon® oil Compact, World Economic Forum (WEF), UN pans and Arnite® car lighting. DSM-Niaga enables the World Food Programme (WFP), UNICEF, the manufacture of carpets that can be recycled, again and again. Food waste is reduced through DSM food Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC), solutions such as Pack-Age®. Bio-based chemicals World Vision and Accounting4Sustainability such as bio-succinic acid replace fossil-fuel based (A4S) to the Dutch consulate in China, alternatives in applications from packaging to footwear. Through our Brighter Living Solutions program we World Business Council for Sustainable consider the impact of our products throughout the Development (WBCSD), Scaling Up Nutrition value chain. (SUN) and our collaborations on Together for Sustainability (TfS) and Windpark Krammer. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 13 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth Global shifts and digital transformation The accelerating growth of the global population, accompanied Over recent years, DSM has been transformed into a truly global by ever more rapid technological advances and the increasing company that provides innovative, sustainable solutions in wealth of the emerging economies, is creating a world that is health, nutrition and materials. DSM’s Strategy 2018: Driving city-oriented, technology-literate, and globally connected. It is Profitable Growth focuses on capturing the potential of the also imposing unprecedented demands on the earth’s business portfolio that has been created and translating this into resources and triggering significant societal and cultural changes improved financial results. In the period 2016-2018, we aim to worldwide. Diets are changing and global spending on housing, step up our financial performance while pursuing our ambitions transport, lifestyle and energy is on the increase. New in the area of sustainability and expanding our positive impact technology, hyper-connectivity and big data are impacting on the world around us. individuals, communities, businesses and economies in unprecedented ways, bringing both opportunities and People, economies and markets worldwide are being affected challenges. by a number of fundamental societal trends. These megatrends – predominantly driven by demographic changes as populations Climate and energy grow (including a shift to the faster-growing countries in Asia and Scientific consensus on the link between human activity and Africa) and people become older, more urbanized, wealthier and climate change is clear, and the full and speedy implementation more connected – are exerting increased pressure on resources of the Paris Treaty (COP21) agreements is paramount. In the and the food chain. In addition they are engendering new words of the Marrakech Action Proclamation for Our Climate and patterns of consumption and impacting the environment. Sustainable Development, made at the COP22 UN Climate Moreover, there is increased attention to health and well-being. Change Conference in November 2016, “Our climate is warming These trends present clear challenges, but also offer at an alarming speed and we have an urgent duty to respond... opportunities for DSM to profitably grow its businesses by Our task now is to rapidly build on that momentum, together, supporting customers in developing science-based, sustainable moving forward purposefully to reduce greenhouse-gas solutions to meet current and future needs. emissions and to foster adaptation efforts, thereby benefiting and supporting the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development DSM's strategy and solutions offering addresses three crucial and its SDGs.” This understanding is speeding up the imperative megatrends. transition to the (bio-)renewable age and the low fossil-carbon economy. The DSM Managing Board (from left to right): Stephan Tanda, Dimitri de Vreeze, Feike Sijbesma (CEO/Chairman) and Geraldine Matchett (CFO) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 14 www.dsm.com Health and wellness and the cycle of deprivation continues from generation to Advances in medicine, improvements in healthcare, and growing generation. awareness of the importance of good nutrition have created favorable conditions for billions of people to achieve their full We provide our customers with the innovations and sustainable, potential during the course of long and active lives. Yet these science-based solutions they need to meet the demands arising advances are accompanied by massive societal challenges: the from these megatrends. Orientating DSM’s strategy and growth of diet-related non-communicable diseases in both the businesses around these three megatrends not only provides us developing and the developed world; the aging of the with the global scope to pursue attractive commercial populations of Japan, Europe and North America, for example; opportunities across the full range of our abilities. It also ensures and the increasing demand for – sustainable – animal protein in that our efforts target some of the biggest challenges confronting the emerging economies. At the same time, two billion people society today. on the planet suffer from micronutrient and protein deficiencies, Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth Two headline High single-digit percentage High double-digit basis point financial targets annual Adjusted EBITDA annual ROCE growth growth Clear actions identified to Businesses aim to outpace € 250-300m cost reduction and Consistent improvements in achieve targets market growth in all segments efficiency improvement capital efficiency programs Additional items Stepping up sustainability Global organizational and Extract value from Pharma & underpinning strategy aspirations operational adjustments Bulk Chemicals joint ventures Taking into account these megatrends, and combined with Our ability to hire, develop, evaluate and manage our talented disciplined focus on performance, we have established a threepeople is a fundamental strategic enabler for DSM’s continued year strategic plan with two headline financial targets: high success, and we direct this through our People Strategy 2018. single-digit percentage annual Adjusted EBITDA growth and high double-digit basis point annual ROCE growth. We have defined clear actions for DSM to achieve these targets, including “ Our Strategy 2018 aims to unlock the tremendous x outpacing market growth in our businesses, the rigorous potential that DSM’s business portfolio offers, outexecution of cost reduction and efficiency improvement programs which will deliver € 250-300 million in savings versus pacing growth in our markets through innovative the 2014 baseline, and improvements in our capital efficiency. In solutions addressing important global issues, support of our growth targets, we are adjusting DSM’s global capturing the benefits of organizational optimization organizational and operating model to create a more agile, commercially focused and cost-efficient company. and helping our employees fully develop their skills and talents. ” We do not expect to engage in large acquisitions in the near Philip Eykerman, DSM Executive Committee future and intend to further monetize DSM’s main joint venture partnerships in the coming years. Besides improving the financial outcomes, we are also stepping up our sustainability aspirations with Strategy 2018, both in our own operations and in the positive impact we want to have on the world around us. DSM’s competences and business plans have a strong link with the Sustainable Development Goals. While our activities align with many of the SDGs, our businesses can particularly contribute to SDGs 2, 3, 7, 12 and 13. We have identified key sustainability focus areas in which we foster the development of sustainable markets where our products, value chains, networks and partnerships can have a beneficial impact at scale. More information is given in ‘DSM and the Sustainable Development Goals’ on page 12 and throughout this Report. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 15 www.dsm.com While driving profitable growth throughout the company via the the Materials portfolio. Volumes grew 4% in the year. Prices were execution of our Strategy 2018, we continually monitor, assess generally down across the Materials sector, including for DSM, and strive to respond appropriately to societal, macro-economic as a result of the prevalent low input cost environment created and segment-specific developments as they occur. Our by low oil prices. Adjusted EBITDA was up 13%, driven by strong approach to managing both opportunities and risks in DSM’s volume growth in higher margin specialties, the benefits of the businesses is embedded in our operating and governance efficiencyand cost-saving programs that have been carried out model and risk management approach. For more information in the cluster, and the support from low input costs. Margins in see 'Corporate governance' on page 93 and ‘Risk Materials came in at 17.3% for the year versus 15.2% in 2015. management’ on page 102. Even when normalized for the approximately one percentagepoint of support resulting from the low input-cost environment, A full description of Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth can this is a significant step-up in profitability, and clearly well above be found on the company website: www.dsm.com. the levels of just a couple of years ago and ahead of the midterm aspiration of 15%. Progress in 2016 Having designed DSM’s strategy update in 2015, the year 2016 Financial targets 2016-2018 Realization 2016 has been about implementing Strategy 2018 in our organization and in our markets. High single-digit percentage annual Adjusted EBITDA growth 17% Financial results High double-digit bps annual ROCE DSM delivered very strong financial results in 2016, with net sales growth 280 bps of € 7,920 million, up 3% on 2015 (€ 7,722 million). Group organic sales growth came to 4% on the back of strong volumes Sustainability aspirations 2020 Realization 2016 in both Nutrition and Materials. Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations grew by 17% to € 1,262 million, clearly ahead of the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index high single-digit growth we are currently targeting. Top ranking (RobecoSAM Gold Class) Industry leader Brighter Living Solutions DSM’s overall Adjusted EBITDA margin (Adjusted operating 65% ECO+/People+ (running business) 63% profit before depreciation and amortization as a percentage of GHG Efficiency Improvement net sales) was 15.9% (2015: 13.9%). In 2016, Return On Capital 40-45% (2008-2025) 23% Employed (ROCE) was up 280 basis points to 10.4% from 7.6% Employee Engagement Index in 2015, also well ahead of our targeted improvement. Toward 75% favorable 71% Safety The Nutrition cluster had a strong year with 5% organic growth 0.25 Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries 0.33 and Adjusted EBITDA up 13% versus 2015. All businesses Diversity contributed well to this growth. Adjusted EBITDA also benefited 25% Female executives 15% from the efficiency and cost saving programs. The Adjusted 60% Executives from under-represented EBITDA margin was 18.0% (2015: 16.6%), already achieving the nationalities 53% aspired range of 18-20% for 2018. Animal Nutrition & Health had a very good year, with 8% organic From a regional perspective, in North America, economic growth growth, driven by strong volume growth in all regions with the remained steady, with record low unemployment. North America exception of Latin America, due to the weak economic is the only region where all DSM’s business groups and conditions in that region. Prices were up in a number of vitamins Emerging Business Areas (EBAs) have operations and sales and premixes. Human Nutrition & Health delivered a significant grew by 10%. The pace of growth in the EMEA region remains step-up in organic growth versus recent years at 4% in 2016. patchy, with some countries and markets developing more This underlines the successful implementation of the strategy to strongly than others, influenced also by political events. Regional drive above-market growth through new market initiatives and sales grew by 3%, with good performance in food & beverage innovation. One of the highlights of the year was the continued and automotive alongside more robust conditions in building and rapid pace of growth for the i-Health range of dietary construction. supplements. The range has proved its popularity in the US and is now also available in a number of other countries. Sales in emerging economies amounted to 44% of total sales in 2016, in line with 2015. This gives DSM a well-balanced global Our Materials businesses delivered a strong financial footprint, putting us in a position to capture opportunities arising performance in 2016, reflecting the success of our differentiated from the megatrends in economies such as China, India, Brazil approach of focusing on higher-growth specialty businesses in and Russia as well as in the more mature economies of the West. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 16 www.dsm.com In China, the economy is rebalancing toward the ‘New Normal’, Innovation Center reached Adjusted EBITDA break-even overall whereby domestic consumption has become the most powerful in 2016 as planned. driver of economic growth. Of relevance to DSM, 2016 saw high growth in automotive, and the food industry continued to For detailed information on DSM’s financial results in 2016, see develop well, while construction-related industries remained ‘Profit in 2016’ on page 56. For more information on innovation volatile. Environmental regulations have sharpened significantly and R&D, see ‘Innovation Center’ on page 82. in recent years, leading many segments to seek more sustainable substitutes for traditional materials. Sales in China Cost reduction and improvement programs grew by 6%. In India, GDP growth continued apace and DSM's DSM has instigated extensive cost-reduction and improvement sales showed a 16% development, supported by an increased programs which will deliver € 250-300 million savings versus the awareness of the importance of healthy, balanced diets, and 2014 baseline. In 2016, all these well-identified programs new standards that came into force for the fortification of staple progressed as planned and the programs are on track to deliver foods. Sales in Latin America declined by 6%. Economic the targeted benefits. instability, especially in Venezuela and Brazil, and to a lesser extent in Argentina, continued to affect DSM’s businesses in the Timing of cumulative costs savings* region. At the same time, there is a growing willingness to (x € million) address obesity and malnutrition by some governments in this Realized region. The economy in Russia showed initial signs of Forecast improvement in 2016. A strong localization drive benefited agriculture in particular, which has been positive for DSM’s 400 animal nutrition business. Overall, sales in Eastern Europe were up 6%. 300 200 DSM’s innovation strategy aims at developing the best, most sustainable and commercially viable solutions to continue to ~110 100 meet current and future market needs and to support DSM’s ~25 further profitable growth. Innovative and improved products and 0 solutions typically have above-average margins, contributing 2015 2016 2017 2018 directly to Adjusted EBITDA growth as well as top-line growth. Innovation sales, defined as sales from products and solutions * Versus 2014 baseline introduced in the last five years, made up 22% of total sales in 2016 (2015: 24%), in line with our aspiration to maintain a level of around 20% going forward for DSM as a whole. We see this Sustainability results as a healthy proportion in view of the overall balance of our Sustainability is our core value. As such, we have expended product portfolio and product life cycles. R&D is crucial to the much time and effort over the years in embedding sustainability realization of DSM’s innovation strategy, and most of the across our business activities, both in recognition of our expenditure in this area is directed toward business-focused responsibility to reduce DSM’s environmental footprint and in programs. The overall spend on R&D came to € 426 million in developing sustainability into a strategic and successful business 2016, or 5.4% of sales. growth driver. We harness our strong science competences to create and deliver higher-margin, profitable products and Our three EBAs – DSM Biomedical, DSM Bio-based Products & solutions that have a positive impact on our value chains and Services and DSM Advanced Solar – continued to progress help address global challenges. In 2016, our Brighter Living during the year. We saw solid volume growth in our Biomedical Solutions comprised 63% of total sales. For more information on activities: worldwide, a medical device containing DSM’s what makes our solutions different, see 'Brighter Living specialty biomedical materials is now being implanted into Solutions' on page 22. someone’s body on average once every nine seconds. In Biobased Products & Services, we have made strides together with We are proud that DSM was named the global leader in our our partner POET to bring the cellulosic bio-ethanol plant in the industry group in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index in US toward full capacity. Furthermore, we are leveraging the 2016. This top ranking means that in 2017 DSM will continue to expertise and the products we have built up to create new have RobecoSAM Gold Class status. business in making the production of all generations of biofuels more efficient and sustainable. Our Advanced Solar business for We have set targets to drive sustainable operations at DSM solar energy materials again performed well in 2016, outpacing relating to greenhouse-gas and energy efficiency, employee market growth. We also added an innovative new backsheet engagement, safety and diversity. These headline targets with a technology to our portfolio in this segment. Taken together, the longer-term horizon are supported by a wide range of measures. EBAs delivered € 16 million in Adjusted EBITDA. DSM’s In 2016, we made good progress in reducing our operational Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 17 www.dsm.com environmental performance, improving both our greenhouse2016, our CEO Feike Sijbesma was named Co-Chair of the gas and energy efficiency in the year toward the targets we have Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition, which was launched by set. This included taking a significant step in the amount of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund in 2015. electricity we purchased from renewable sources. To read about DSM also agreed to participate in a unique partnership for our aims and performance in detail, see ‘People in 2016’ on page renewable energy from Windpark Krammer in the 39 and ‘Planet in 2016’ on page 49. Netherlands. See ‘Planet in 2016’ on page 49. We are committed to securing the future availability of natural We have defined three key focus areas in sustainability for DSM resources, and to unlocking more value from the limited based on global societal trends that are affecting people, resources that are available. At the end of 2016, the DSMeconomies and markets. These are nutrition, climate & energy, Niaga joint venture announced its readiness for commercialand circular & bio-based economy. scale production of 100%-recyclable carpets. For more information, see 'Review of business – Materials' from page In nutrition, DSM has unique expertise in developing products 74 onwards. to positively impact global nutrition, health and development in support of SDG 2 (Zero Hunger), which aims to end all forms We look to foster the development of sustainable markets in of malnutrition by 2030. We work together with cross-sector these areas where our products, value chains, networks and partners to help make good nutrition aspirational, affordable partnerships can have a beneficial impact at scale. and available to all. Our strategic partnership with the UN World Food Programme reached over 28 million beneficiaries Organization & culture in 2016. For more information, see 'Nourishing the Base of the The DSM Employee Engagement Index expresses how our Pyramid' on page 11 and 'Cross-sector nutrition partnerships' employees rate DSM in terms of commitment, pride, advocacy and 'Review of business – Nutrition' from page 36 and page and satisfaction. The survey held in 2016 resulted in an 64 onwards respectively. engagement index of 71% (2015: 69%), just ahead of the global Effectively tackling climate change is a responsibility and also standard of 70%. This is a good result, especially in light of our a business opportunity. We focus on reducing DSM’s own ongoing transformation to a new organizational and operating carbon footprint, enabling the low fossil-carbon economy with model. Our aim is for this outcome to move toward 75% products and solutions and advocating climate action. In April favorable by 2020. The members of the Executive Committee are the Managing Board members Feike Sijbesma (CEO/Chairman), Geraldine Matchett (CFO), Stephan Tanda (Nutrition) and Dimitri de Vreeze (Materials), as well as Chris Goppelsroeder (Nutritional Products), Philip Eykerman (Strategy and M&A), Peter Vrijsen (People & Organization) and Rob van Leen (R&D and Innovation) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 18 www.dsm.com We are well on track with the adjustments to our global Extracting value from our partnerships organizational and operating model to support DSM’s growth DSM has established joint venture partnerships for its former and create a more agile, commercially-focused and costpharma activities (DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals and efficient business. We strengthened DSM’s management Patheon) and for the remaining bulk chemical businesses structure in 2015 by establishing an Executive Committee, which (ChemicaInvest). These partnerships have been created with a has enabled faster alignment and operational execution by view to ultimately exiting and monetizing these businesses, and increasing focus on the development of the business, innovation we expect to extract significant value from them in the coming and people. The Executive Committee’s efforts are primarily years. aimed at defining the overall strategy and direction; reviewing business results and functional and regional strategies; budgetWe took a first step in 2016 with the sale of 4.8 million ordinary setting; and people and organization. shares in Patheon N.V. in connection with the IPO of Patheon N.V. in July, resulting in a gain of € 232 million. Following this Programs in our new target operating model to globally leverage transaction, DSM now holds approximately 48.7 million ordinary cross-company support functions in areas such as HR, Indirect shares, or approximately 34% of Patheon N.V. For more Sourcing, Communications, Finance, Legal and ICT are well information, see ‘Partnerships’ on page 88. underway. In support of this transformation, we continued to anchor and embed our new way of working and ONE DSM Building for earnings growth beyond 2018 culture, driving changes in mindset and behaviors. The changes DSM has set itself strategic targets for the period to 2018. This implemented are aimed at establishing DSM as a results-driven, shorter three-year period is intended to channel the high-performance organization. organization’s focus and forcefully drive achievement of the step-up in financial performance at which the company aims, We further embedded the DSM Leadership Model in our key creating more value from the promising portfolio we have built processes of hiring, developing, evaluating and managing talent over recent years. At the same time, we are also preparing for across the organization and for building high-performing teams. further longer-term growth; DSM's business cycles are typically We also rolled out a new talent management approach across longer than the three-year period to 2018. The company has a the company in 2016. We will continue to invest in our talent range of key business and innovation projects across the pipeline to ensure that we can sustainably address the future clusters that will drive earnings growth beyond 2018 and we will challenges and demands placed on us. continue to develop more initiatives in light of market dynamics. For more information about our organization and employees, see ‘People in 2016’ on page 39. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 19 www.dsm.com How DSMcreates How DSM creates valuevalue for its for its stakeholders stakeholders Capital inputs DSM’s business Value outcomes People Mission People • Employees • Safety & health ps Su • Training & development grou pp • Brighter Living Solutions • Stakeholder engagement & s or • Engaged workforce es Public-Private Partnerships Bu s • Skills & employability • Philanthropy & sponsoring sin tion • Employee benefits nc t fu • Improved nutrition Organizational and Planet Operating model Planet • Raw materials • Reduced environmental footprint (including renewables) Fun • Brighter Living Solutions ns cto • Energy (including renewables) gio n • Enabling transition to (bio-) • Water Re e renewable & circular economy lenc cel • Safer ingredients & materials Ex al Profit Strategy Profit • Shareholder equity • Financial performance • Borrowings (Adjusted EBITDA & ROCE growth) • Partnerships & open innovation • Dividend • Purchased goods & services • Contribution to business success • Manufacturing asset base for customers & suppliers • Contribution to civil society via tax • Patents & royalties Societal & Human capital relationship capital Natural capital Financial capital DSM employs skilled and DSM engages with DSM recognizes that the Providers of capital – talented people from various stakeholders to world is an interconnected shareholders and diverse backgrounds. ensure close alignment system of resources. bondholders, banks and DSM strives to provide between the company’s For DSM this represents the financial markets – employees with a safe aims and societal needs. a responsibility and a supply funds that DSM and inspiring workplace DSM generates value for business opportunity. uses in its business to as well as with the tools stakeholders outside its DSM aims to reduce the create value, driving and training they need to direct value chains of environmental impact of growth and delivering be effective and to employees, suppliers, its supply chain, sustainable returns. develop their abilities. customers and end-users; operations and products DSM rewards employees these include employees’ and services, while with competitive benefit families, governments, developing innovative packages. local communities and solutions that deliver civil society. sustainability benefits to customers and beyond. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 20 www.dsm.com DSM’s strategy is aimed at driving profitable growth through science-based, sustainable solutions based on the defining Impact SDGs megatrends of our time. By using its unique competences in health, nutrition and materials, DSM is fostering economic prosperity, environmental progress and social advances to • Better fed & healthier individuals and create value for all stakeholders simultaneously. communities The diagram on the left is based on the International Integrated • More prosperous and resilient employees for the company and in its Reporting Council’s Integrated Reporting <IR> framework and value chain gives a schematic overview of the value DSM creates over time based on six capitals. These are: human capital; societal & relationship capital; natural capital; financial capital; intellectual capital; and manufactured capital. Descriptions of how these • More sustainable use of resources, for the company and in its value chain capitals apply to DSM are given below left. • Products that contribute to safer, DSM employs these capital inputs in its business in the execution healthier working & living environments of its strategy and in the fulfilment of its mission to create brighter lives for people today and for generations to come. The company’s organizational and operating model is made up of market-facing business groups focused on the primary business • Driving Profitable Growth through functions (Innovation and R&D, Direct Sourcing, Manufacturing science-based sustainable solutions & Operations and Marketing & Sales), global support and • Sustainable returns to investors functional excellence departments, and regional organizations. It uses these to minimize and mitigate risks and to take • Positive contribution to economic growth in the countries & markets in advantage of the opportunities the megatrends provide, thereby which DSM operates transforming the capital inputs into value outcomes aimed at having the most beneficial impact possible. There is a strong link between DSM’s competences and business plans and the Sustainable Development Goals. While our activities align with many of the Goals, we can particularly contribute to SDGs 2, 3, 7, 12 and 13. For more information, see 'DSM and the Sustainable Development Goals' on page 12. Intellectual capital Manufactured capital Since 2002, DSM has established a track record in Triple P reporting, disclosing its performance in terms of People, Planet DSM manufactures and DSM has unique distributes high-quality competences in life and Profit. For the purposes of comparability, the six capitals as products and services sciences and materials defined in the <IR> framework continue to be clustered under safely, efficiently and sciences and connects People (comprising the human and societal & relationship responsibly and strives to these to deliver innovative develop valuable, solutions that nourish, capitals), Planet (natural capital) and Profit (financial, intellectual collaborative and protect and improve and manufactured capitals). long-term relationships performance. with customers and Specific performance indicators relating to the capitals are suppliers. DSM pursues open innovation, connectprovided throughout this Report. ing and collaborating with partners and investing in start-ups. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 21 www.dsm.com Brighter Living Solutions In 2016, DSM launched the ‘Brighter Living Solutions’ program in order to steer products and innovations that are better for people and the planet. The program combines DSM’s ECO+ and People+ programs to drive focused growth and develop sustainability into a strategic and successful growth driver. Brighter Living Solutions create shared value for DSM’s stakeholders and differentiate DSM through their positive impact on society and the environment. The impact of Brighter Living Solutions can be created at any stage of the product life cycle, from raw materials through the manufacturing process to potential re-use and end-of-life disposal. DSM uses comparative Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) and/ or expert opinions to determine whether a product can be identified as a Brighter Living Solution. Within the program, DSM also conducts a yearly ‘Product Category Sustainability Review’ for all our products. This review identifies environmental and social impact differentiators for each of our product categories and confirms minimum compliance levels. ECO+ People+ With ECO+ DSM strives to drive innovations and products People+ provides guidance to develop solutions that with a better impact on the planet. Products qualify as ECO+ measurably improve the lives of consumers, employees when their environmental impact is lower than* the main and/or communities across value chains compared to the competing solutions in the market as shown with comparative main competing solutions, as demonstrated by means of and standardized Environmental LCAs and/or expert opinions. comparative DSM People LCAs and/or expert opinions. ECO+ solutions provide impact along at least one of five value Examples of People+ drivers that improve people’s lives are drivers of environmental sustainability: resource and land use, health condition, comfort & well-being, working conditions and water and energy consumption and emissions. community development. Figure 13 / Environment LCA Figure 10 / People LCA emplo tran yee spo s rta tio n Raw material extraction End of life Raw material extraction empl yees End of life Material processing oye plo es em transportation portation trans Environmental People Life Cycle Assessment Life Cycle Assessment Product use Manufacturing yees em Product use on Manufacturing s tr s tran atio n em ee iti e s ort pl oy p pl un or o ta sp m m ti an co Assembly Assembly * For a small percentage of total Brighter Living Solutions (<3% out of 63%), the environmental impact is considered ‘best in class’ together with other solutions. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 22 www.dsm.com Maxarome® Uralac® Ultra Maxarome® is a food ingredient used in soups and Uralac® Ultra technology provides coating solutions for sauces. It is a salt replacement ingredient that maintains furniture that gets heavy-duty use. Think about kitchen great flavor in food. Reducing salt intake is one of the and bathroom cabinets, office and children’s furniture easiest ways to reduce high blood pressure and risks for exposed to moisture and daily wear. Uralac® technology stroke and cardiovascular diseases. uses less water and energy throughout the life cycle than comparable alternatives, which makes it the preferred solution from an environmental viewpoint. Dyneema® heavy marine ropes Pack-Age® One of the applications of high-performance Dyneema® Pack-Age® is a moisture-permeable membrane that fibers are ropes for mooring and towing tankers and other allows cheese to ripen naturally. It replaces conventional ships. This includes cruise ships and very large cargo cheese ripening methods such as coatings without any vessels. The strength and durability of the Dyneema® need for additional preservatives. It also prevents cheese fiber enables ropes that are up to 30% lighter compared losses during the ripening time and processing of cheese. to polyester, resulting in reduced emissions and making More cheese can be ripened and further processed than them easier to handle than traditional alternatives made of with alternative solutions. steel wire. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 23 www.dsm.com Stakeholder engagement While material topics do not change substantially year-on-year, we consider it important to understand the views of both our Engaging in strategic and proactive dialogue with our key internal and external stakeholders so as to verify whether we stakeholders helps deepen our insights into the drivers of our need to change our position on various issues. We announced business and the needs of society worldwide, and thus to be our strategy update at the end of 2015, which was based on ahead of the competition in adapting to changing demands. engagement with internal and external stakeholders. Our priority in 2016 was therefore to ensure that our materiality matrix was We value engaging with our stakeholders – customers, aligned with DSM’s Strategy 2018. The material topics from suppliers, investors, employees, companies, governments, 2015 were challenged using a media and peer analysis process academia and civil society – and reach out to them in order to to capture emerging trends and headlines and to assess their maintain open discussions on topics relevant to our business alignment with DSM’s strategy and our Issues Management list. activities and our role in society, and to align our strategy with This procedure was supplemented by interviews with the their views. These groups have been identified based on their Executive Committee aimed at identifying emerging trends, new influence on DSM’s operations, as well as our effect on them. topics, and changes in the relevance or priority of existing topics. The outcomes from the various stakeholder dialogues inform The materiality matrix and the Corporate Risk Assessment were many aspects of our strategy, such as risk management, the compared to confirm that all relevant subjects were covered from identification and pursuit of business opportunities, and the a materiality and/or risk perspective. The results of this exercise overall guidance of DSM’s strategic objectives and ambitions. were validated by the Sustainability Leadership Team – a group Continuous dialogue with our stakeholders is pursued through of senior managers responsible for championing sustainability at a variety of channels. A non-exhaustive overview of our DSM − and ultimately signed off by the Managing Board. engagements with stakeholder groups is provided under ‘Stakeholders’ on page 29 below. Changes in 2016 Two new topics for scrutiny were identified by this process in Materiality 2016: Digital transformation, and Geopolitical tensions & inequalities. The thematic areas Sustainable & Circular value For DSM, materiality is about identifying the People, Planet and chains, Bio-based economy and Sharing economy have been Profit topics that are most relevant to our stakeholders, and combined into a new category, Resource scarcity/Circular & bioplotting these against the impact they have on our business. based economy. Business impact includes social, environmental, financial and reputational impact. Materiality matrix High interest Society Business enablers 1 2 Health & wellness Open innovation 5 1 10 4 15 7 2 Malnutrition & 11 Careers & employment 16 nutrition security 6 17 3 3 Emerging economies 12 Advocacy & reputation 14 8 Societal interest 10 4 Geopolitical tensions 13 18 Trade barriers 11 & inequalities 9 12 14 Digital transformation 19 13 Environment Governance Interest 5 Climate change & 15 Responsible business renewable energy practices Resource scarcity/ 6 16 Transparency & Priority Business impact Top Priority Circular & bio-based reporting economy 17 Product & food safety 7 Water security Sustainable food 18 Taxation 8 systems 19 Bioethics 9 Biodiversity Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 24 www.dsm.com Transparency has been renamed Transparency & reporting, Tax replacement for sugar). This topic aligns with SDG 2 (Zero has been renamed Taxation, and Sustainable animal proteins Hunger). has been renamed Sustainable food systems so as to include the climate impact of agriculture and sustainable alternative Management approach. Cross-sector partnerships with UN protein sources. Malnutrition & nutrition security now also agencies, governments and NGOs co-create food solutions in encompasses overweight/obesity resulting from unhealthy diets. the developing world. The strategy and products of DSM Nutritional Products and DSM Food Specialties provide nutrition Three of the four categories have been adjusted, with Societal and food solutions in emerging markets as well as the developed shifts renamed Society, Eco Limits renamed Environment, and world. See 'Cross-sector nutrition partnerships' on page 36, Trust & Accountability renamed Governance. Business enablers 'Nourishing the Base of the Pyramid' on page 11 and 'Review of remains unchanged. Product & food safety has been moved to business – Nutrition' from page 64 onwards. Governance. All topics are reported on, and our management approach explained, on the following pages. Emerging economies The emerging economies, which continue to grow in influence, Society represent 80% of the global population and are seeing profound economic transformations that are leading to an unprecedented Health & wellness rise in urbanization. We see opportunities to improve lives in The world’s population is simultaneously growing and aging. We emerging markets through our Brighter Living Solutions as well contribute to individual health & well-being, the prevention as through our operations and supply chains. We aim to have a and/or reduction of diseases, and the enhancement of the positive social impact on local communities through our respect quality of life through the offerings of our Nutrition, Materials and for human rights, our insistence on fair working conditions and Biomedical businesses. We respond to discussions about our inclusive approach to business. healthy diets (including associated health risks and claims) and to the shift in consumer preferences (such as organic) through Management approach. DSM manages its regional approach the management of our nutrition, food and personal care and performance through its Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable ingredients portfolio. We also see that a growing consumer Growth. Our operational and organizational model addresses preference for less processed products could pose a risk to our regional dynamics. Through our Human Rights Policy and business. This topic aligns with SDG 3 (Good Health). Supplier Sustainability Program, we strive to ensure that our value chain is sustainable. See 'Supplier Sustainability Program' Management approach. Our Nutrition strategy targets trends in in this chapter and 'Human Rights' on page 47. health & well-being and shifts in consumer diets, including reduced salt and sugar, and ‘free from’. Within our Biomedical Geopolitical tensions & inequalities Emerging Business Area (EBA), we partner with the medical Unchecked tensions and inequalities could jeopardize industry to address health, disease and quality of life. In economies, societies and communities, undermining efforts to Materials, we focus on the elimination of hazardous substances achieve the SDGs. We monitor these macro risks, including in our value chains, contributing to improved human health. trade and regulatory uncertainty, terrorism, political violence, and Within our own operations, we recognize our employees’ need the threat of global recession, as they are relevant to our efforts for a safe and healthy working environment. See 'Strategy 2018' at both shortand long-term value creation. This topic warrants on page 14, ‘People in 2016’ on page 39 and ‘Review of inclusion due to its potential impact should tensions and business in 2016’ on page 62. inequalities heighten. The year 2016 was characterized by political uncertainty; any impact on global markets from Malnutrition & nutrition security developments such as Brexit will only become apparent in time. The cost of malnutrition – in both human and economic terms – is vast. For DSM, malnutrition includes undernutrition resulting Management approach. We address the potential impact of this from the insufficient intake of micronutrients (vitamins and topic through stakeholder engagement activities (such as the minerals) and overweight/obesity resulting from unhealthy diets. World Economic Forum (WEF), the UN Global Compact (UNGC) Nutrition security means access to food that is both calorifically and the Dutch Sustainable Growth Coalition). Corporate Risk and nutritionally sufficient to foster health & well-being. We have Management also monitors developments in this area. See ‘Risk been developing and piloting affordable, nutritious food solutions management’ on page 102. together with the UN World Food Programme (WFP) and other partners for over ten years. We are now in the position to scale Environment up some of these approaches through new business ventures. We are also growing our portfolio of ‘substitute’ food ingredients Climate change & renewable energy to address unhealthy diets (for example, yeast extracts as a Recent international agreements highlight the global urgency of replacement for salt and developing fermentative stevia as a this topic. The ‘COP21 agreement’ to limit the impact of climate Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 25 www.dsm.com change to less than 2°C on average is legally binding and has nature. Our focus on sites in regions of water scarcity and sites been agreed by over 190 nations. that have a relatively high groundwater consumption or waste water discharge will ensure that appropriate measures are taken Observable changes such as the loss of sea ice, the accelerating at site level. rise in sea levels, and longer and more intense heat waves are already making themselves felt. We see tackling climate change Management approach. We are committed to the responsible as both a responsibility and a business opportunity. We are use of water resources. The DSM Responsible Care Plan guides focusing on reducing our own carbon footprint through initiatives our approach to water. DSM is a signatory to the UN CEO Water including increasing our use of renewable energy; enabling the mandate, and we voluntarily disclose our policy and low-carbon economy by driving innovations in upstream and performance on water as part of the Carbon Disclosure downstream low-carbon solutions; and advocating action on Partnership. Brighter Living Solutions and our Supplier climate in an appropriate manner by engaging in discussions on Sustainability Program address this topic in the value chain. See topics such as carbon pricing. This topic aligns with SDG 7 also ‘Planet in 2016’ on page 49. (Affordable and Clean Energy) and SDG 13 (Climate Action). Management approach. We monitor metrics that impact on DSM supports the UN CEO Water Mandate Climate change & renewable energy in the DSM Responsible Care Plan. Through the activities of our Materials and Advanced “Water security for the world’s growing population is a Solar businesses, we contribute solutions that are lighter, more global concern. Many areas in the world are facing water durable, better-performing and have lower carbon footprints. scarcity and pollution, as well as damage from natural Our engagement with stakeholder groups and climate disasters. Individual and collective actions are necessary to advocates such as UNGC, the Carbon Pricing Leadership mitigate the adverse effects on water quality and availability. Coalition (CPLC) and RE100 influences public discourse on this For DSM, the sustainable management of water within our topic. See 'Sustainable food systems' below, ‘Planet in 2016’ on own operations and along our value chain is a material page 49 and 'Review of business Nutrition' and 'Review of topic. Thus we truly value initiatives such as the UN Global business Materials' from page 64 and page 74 onwards Compact CEO Water Mandate and its principles, and respectively. commit to reporting annually on our progress through this Report.” Resource scarcity / Circular & bio-based economy We support the move toward a circular, bio-based and sharing Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman Managing Board economy in response to growing resource scarcity. We see opportunities to innovate in both product and system design, and to investigate lower-impact business models, including Sustainable food systems sharing models that emphasize reusability, renewability and As the global population continues to grow and a large recyclability. This approach is most relevant to our Materials proportion of mankind remains poorly nourished, the pressure businesses; however, we also see opportunities to strengthen on food systems to deliver more food and better nutrition is our work on nutrition security with circular concepts. This aligns immense, causing in turn enormous environmental pressure. As with SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production). a leading player in nutrition, we see it as our responsibility to help the world move toward more nutritious and sustainable food and Management approach. We have identified the circular and biofeed solutions. This topic aligns with SDG 2 (Zero Hunger). based economy as a sustainable growth area and will focus attention on opportunities in this area. The strategy and portfolio Management approach. Our Animal Nutrition & Health portfolio of our EBA DSM Bio-based Products & Services and new for the feed sector and new opportunities in sustainable plant business ventures (such as DSM-Niaga) directly address this proteins address this topic through products such as Clean Cow topic, which is a key driver in our Materials strategy and portfolio. and the Green Ocean partnership. We also address the issue of See ‘Planet in 2016’ on page 49 and 'Review of business food waste through our innovative packaging solutions and our Materials' and 'Review of business Innovation Center' from food ingredient portfolio, which can increase the shelf-life and page 74 and page 82 onwards respectively. processing efficiency of certain foods. We pro-actively engage with relevant stakeholders on initiatives concerning this topic. Water security See 'Brighter Living Solutions' on page 22 and ‘Review of The issue of water security is playing an ever-more important role business Nutrition’ from page 64. in the global development agenda. Due to the nature of our business, water availability and water quality represent a Biodiversity fundamental operational and reputational business risk for DSM. Diverse and healthy ecosystems are among the preconditions We established a context-based water target in 2015 to for a sustainable world. The variety of life on earth and the acknowledge that water issues are usually local or regional in patterns of the natural world can influence the supply of Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 26 www.dsm.com ecosystem services such as food, water, and clean air. We and the growing use of technology. We apply the International believe that maintaining healthy ecosystems is important from Labour Standards of the International Labour Organisation. both an operational and a reputation management perspective. Lastly, we address the issue of fair pay in our supply chain The Natural Capital Protocol was launched in 2016. The protocol through our Supplier Sustainability Program. See 'Suppliers' in defines how companies can identify, measure, and value natural this chapter and ‘People in 2016’ on page 39. capital in a standardized way into business decisions and risk management. Advocacy & reputation Companies are increasingly asked to define how they are Management approach. The DSM Responsible Care Plan contributing to a better world, and business leaders are outlines how we monitor and assess the impact of our operations increasingly becoming advocates on critical issues. For DSM, on protected areas within our vicinity. We are exploring natural advocacy means interacting with government, policymakers, capital concepts via the Natural Capital Protocol development industry associations and societal interest groups on topics of pilot to prepare for incorporating these into our future decisionmutual interest to create a receptive environment for the making. We comply with the Convention on Biological Diversity solutions we offer. We encourage legislators to promote protocols, which stresses the interconnection between competitiveness, sustainability and innovation. biodiversity and climate change. Our position paper on biodiversity can be found on the company website. See also Management approach. Our reputation underpins our license to ‘Planet in 2016’ on page 49. operate with stakeholders both within and beyond our direct value chains. We are a vocal advocate on policy issues including Business Enablers action on climate change, malnutrition & nutrition security, and the circular economy, as these topics are of particular relevance Open innovation to our strategy and our sustainable growth areas. We actively Open innovation helps companies to counter increasing manage our sustainability profile, and ensure that we take care competitive pressures and ever-shorter product life cycles. of our own operations (for example, regarding emissions and Companies that embrace it typically grow more quickly and pollution), in order to support our reputation as a sustainable generate more sales than their competitors. We see many company. See also 'Stakeholders' in this chapter. opportunities to be gained from combining our own capabilities with the vast pool of ideas, know-how and expertise that are Trade barriers available outside DSM. Open innovation supports our This topic is closely linked with ‘Geopolitical tensions & sustainable growth areas and sustainability commitments and inequalities’. DSM actively follows international geopolitical allows us to work together with suppliers, customers and other developments and the consequences for the trade barriers partners to create new solutions in a collaborative way. We see affecting its operations, which include import and export trade the role that open innovation and new technologies can play to controls, legislation on strategic goods, sanctions and help the world to deliver on the SDG commitments. For example, embargoes, sanctioned parties, restricted chemicals, and we are currently drawing on the knowledge of scientists around technology controls. During 2016, the options linked to the entry the world to scale up renewable energy solutions through our into force of the Joint Comprehensive Plan Of Action were Bright Minds Challenge. elaborated. Other lifted sanctions opened new market possibilities, while additional sanctions imposed on conflict areas Management approach. DSM approaches innovation as a have not affected DSM yet. growth driver in Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth. The DSM Innovation Center uses partnerships, funding and crowd Management approach. The DSM Code of Business Conduct sourcing to foster open innovation. See 'Review of business defines the core of our approach to this topic. Through our Innovation Center' from page 82. Supplier Code of Conduct and contracting practices, we manage this topic in the Supply Chain. Trade Control Careers & employment Compliance is managed through our standard business We aim to provide rewarding career opportunities, high levels of processes. employee engagement, a healthy work-life balance, and a diverse workforce in which individual differences are respected. Digital transformation We follow trends in careers & employment to adapt our Digital transformation is a megatrend that will profoundly change organization to changing needs, so as to unlock the full potential the way companies operate in years to come. For DSM, this that the right employees can make to our company, and to change is seen in three main areas: manufacturing, marketing & ensure that our employee base continues to match DSM’s sales, and careers & employment. Digital transformation is also capability requirements as these evolve over time. expected to disrupt many of our end-markets, such as health and automotive. Within health, the opportunities for patient Management approach. Our HR strategies and policies prepare engagement through precision medicine and medical printing for changes such as the increasing age of the world’s population will change the way the health profession operates. In Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 27 www.dsm.com automotive, assisted driving or self-driven vehicles represent the opportunities to differentiate our product offering. The risks future. The rise of 'big data' brings with it business opportunities include the potential negative impact of product recalls, product and risks (such as privacy and cyber security). contamination, health risks related to nanotechnology during handling, for instance, and regulatory restrictions. Management Approach. The digital transformation is identified in DSM's Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth as one of the Management approach. This topic requires us to have practices megatrends to which we are responding. Big data is being in place to ensure ingredient and substance quality, and covers developed as a competence in the R&D and IT disciplines that the production, handling, preparation, storage and use of DSM support our business and functional needs. Our Privacy Policy solutions in ways that prevent risks to health & wellness. We see and Information Security Office work to protect our information opportunities for differentiation with our management of Product assets. & food safety through our Brighter Living Solutions program and Product Stewardship strategy. See 'Brighter Living Solutions' on Governance page 22 and 'Product Stewardship' on page 54. Responsible business practices Taxation Doing business in a responsible way, and complying with the In 2016, corporate tax avoidance figured once more in the news many relevant laws and regulations, provides us with the license headlines, and civil society continues to press for corporate tax to operate in our dynamic, international environment. transparency and reform. We believe that a responsible Responsible business practices cover a wide category of approach to tax is integral to business sustainability. We view the subjects including corporate governance, human rights, labor fulfilment of our tax obligations as part of the process of creating policies, Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) practices, long-term value for all our stakeholders. competition law compliance, trade controls, anti-bribery & corruption measures, and privacy. Management approach. Our tax position is consistent with the normal course of our business operations and reflects our Management approach. Our approach to this topic is covered corporate strategy as well as the geographic spread of our in our Code of Business Conduct and, for the supply chain, our activities. DSM strives to be compliant with the letter and spirit Supplier Code of Conduct and Supplier Sustainability Program. of national and international rules, regulations and best-practice Our Human Rights Policy, due diligence practices and HR guidelines (such as the OECD Guidelines for Multinational policies cover the People-related aspects of this topic. See Enterprises) and operates in line with the arm’s length principle. 'Suppliers' in this chapter and 'People' and 'Code of Business Conduct' on page 39 and page 98 respectively. DSM supports the idea of a global solution for fair tax policies and systems. We therefore closely monitor and provide input on Transparency & reporting the OECD initiative on Base Erosion & Profit Shifting. DSM is We transparently report to meet the needs of diverse transparent toward tax authorities in all the countries in which it stakeholders, such as employees, customers, investors, operates, and works closely together with them to determine the governments, civil society and local communities on topics amount of tax due. including tax payments, disclosures on the environmental and social impacts of our solutions, and remuneration of the DSM’s contribution to society includes the provision of Managing Board. The year 2016 saw increasing investor employment to more than 20,000 people around the world. In requests concerning climate disclosure and customer requests addition to corporate income taxes, the company pays many for additional supplier information, especially concerning human other taxes, including payroll taxes and social security rights, as well as expectations on a global scale for reporting on contributions on the wages of its employees, value added taxes, our contribution to the SDGs. customs duties, property taxes, etc. All these taxes are a significant source of funding of public services by governmental Management approach. We address this topic through the institutions at several levels worldwide. DSM sees it as its publication of an Integrated Annual Report (published since responsibility to contribute to this. 2010) and the annual Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report in China (published since 2007). The application of Our Managing Board is responsible for establishing the financial and non-financial reporting guidelines and disclosures company's approach to taxation under the supervision of the such as IFRS, GRI and CDP and ranking in investor Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. Proper organization, questionnaires and indices such as the Dow Jones Sustainability procedures and processes are in place at DSM between Group World Index (DJSI) foster external confidence in our approach. Taxation, the business, and other support functions and functional excellence departments. The aim is to create a strong Product & food safety interconnection in order to keep everyone aware of relevant tax Product & food safety is highly relevant to DSM as an operational legislation and to ensure compliance. Compliance with both and reputational business risk and provides excellent direct and indirect tax matters is monitored through a Tax Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 28 www.dsm.com Control Framework in order to achieve an effective, efficient and transparent tax function. The Tax Control Framework is a tax risk management and control system which ensures that Group Taxation is aware of the worldwide tax risks for the company. Group Taxation possesses sufficient insights to adequately manage these risks. The key stakeholders in the Tax Control Framework are well established and include the Supervisory Board, Managing Board, Executive Committee, Group Taxation, business, external auditors, as well as the tax authorities in countries where DSM is operating. For further detailed information, see ‘Taxation at DSM' on the company website. Bioethics New or unfamiliar technologies can trigger ethical discussions about their implications for public health or the environment. Consumer acceptance of new technologies cannot be taken for granted, so addressing safety and other potential concerns is a top priority for us. We firmly believe that biotechnology can offer unique solutions to global challenges related to the world’s growing and aging population and the depletion of fossil resources. Our latest consultations with stakeholders show that the debate now focuses on the role Genetically Modified MicroPartners in the value chain organisms (GMMs) might be able to play in nourishing the world's population by 2050. Customers Customers drive our business. They are our most important Management approach. We manage this topic through active partners for realizing both our strategic growth ambitions and our consultation with the scientific community, industry, NGOs, vision to improve the lives of people today and for generations governments and the general public. Our safety assessments to come. Customers buy our solutions to create consumerare science-based and transparent, enabling authorities to fairly facing products, or to distribute our own consumer products assess and approve our innovative technology and resulting through their various channels. GMMs. DSM uses GMMs as tools for the manufacture of a range of products. DSM does not sell GMMs or products containing We do our utmost to strengthen DSM's commercial and GMMs. All GMMs are contained within our production strategic relationships with customers. We work together to processes. See also our position paper on biotechnology on the provide the solutions they are seeking while offering them an company website. exceptional customer experience. Our customer-centric approach is manifested in various ways: Stakeholders To meet individual customer demands, we apply customer DSM’s various stakeholders – both those within our value chain segmentation to ensure that value propositions and service such as suppliers and customers, and those that influence our levels are in line with our customers’ strategic ambitions. business operations, such as investors, governments and civil Developing consumer insights together with our customers is society – have thoughts and views that must be balanced against crucial for driving new business developments that meet our own strategic objectives and focus areas. consumer needs. For example, DSM Personal Care has developed a new methodology that enables the personal care We appreciate the open dialogue we have with our stakeholders industry to visualize the effectiveness of facial skin through a variety of channels. It equips us to respond to the moisturization and helps it to demonstrate and test the needs of society and to create shared value for all our effectiveness of its skin products. The new method came stakeholders. about through our epidermal science platform CORNEOCARE™, in cooperation with partners from industry In the following pages, we present how DSM engages with and academia. external stakeholders, including the partners in our value chain. Information on how DSM engages with its own employees can be found in ‘People in 2016’ on page 39. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 29 www.dsm.com Stakeholders External stakeholder group How DSM engages Examples of engagement 2016 Investors DSM aims to Annual General Meeting, In September, DSM organized an Investor day in Charleston provide an attractive financial Capital Markets Day, (South Carolina, USA) to give US-based investors deeper return for our shareholders conference calls, roadshows, insights into the underlying growth and earnings profile of the investor indices (e.g. DJSI, company’s Nutrition and Materials businesses. Sustainalytics), surveys DSM engaged in dialogues with investors and their representatives on topics such as climate strategy, social supply chain management, natural capital and responsible taxation, which helped foster mutual understanding around respective sustainability focal points. Scientific research institutions Financial support, knowledge DSM broadened its biotech engagement, becoming a DSM openly collaborates & research, sharing facilities, member of both the Engineering Biology Research with renowned universities lectures Consortium and the MITBroad Foundry in 2016. In and science institutes Materials, engagement in the year included the Materials Research Laboratory/Complex Fluids Design consortium of the University of Santa Barbara (California, USA), and the iPrime consortium of the University of Minnesota (Michigan, USA). DSM was the innovation partner of the 2016 Sasol Solar Challenge-winning Nuon solar car, and we supported the Dutch-based team with our light-trapping technology. NGOs and civil society DSM Meetings, discussion panels, In India, in partnership with the Indian Academy of Pediatrics, works together with other philanthropic events HealthPhone and Vodafone, DSM launched the Poshan organizations to jointly find cards program. The program supports the Indian solutions to societal Government’s mission to combat malnutrition and challenges micronutrient deficiencies among mothers and children by providing information to pregnant and lactating women. This unique public-private partnership uses technology as an enabler and is expected to positively impact the lives of more than 1.5 million women. Communities a good Open days, news bulletins, In North America, DSM committed to help mitigate the relationship with parties that social media, education, current refugee crisis by setting up employee volunteer are geographically close to support through local English language programs and cultural training, hiring DSM's operations is important initiatives employees and working with groups such as Upwardly to maintain the company's Global on refugee and immigration issues. license to operate Governments DSM engages Meetings with officials, DSM engaged with the European Commission, Members of with governments individually, position papers on the the European Parliament and Member States on reviewing as part of coalitions or through company website, case the Circular Economy Package and the Bio-economy its memberships of relevant studies, letters, reviewing Strategy in 2016. trade associations proposed legislation, DSM advocated the importance of Mission Innovation to the engagements in trade government of the Netherlands, a global initiative to double associations public investments in energy innovation by 2020, resulting in the Netherlands signing up to the initiative. DSM’s new business ventures and innovations (such as Niaga®, Decovery® and advanced biofuels) were presented at events such as the European Business Summit, the European Retail Round Table, and the European Forum for Industrial Biotechnology and the Bioeconomy, leading to more exposure within Europe. DSM participated in Startup Fest Europe, held under the patronage of its Chairman, Prince Constantijn van Oranje. DSM was one of the companies hosting a section of the event dedicated to energy solutions. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 30 www.dsm.com We have implemented a key account approach to build The decrease versus prior year was primarily attributable to relationships with customers and ensure that we reach the portfolio changes that took place in 2015. mutually agreed goals. The customer executive sponsorship program, launched in 2014, has resulted in co-developments DSM Brand Value* in all our industries. We co-develop solutions with customers (x € million) to jointly implement customerand consumer-driven 1,000 innovations. For example, in 2016 we partnered with Nexeo Solutions, a global chemicals and plastics distributor, to bring 800 new, high-value performance filaments to customers who 729 650 perform 3D printing using fused filament fabrication (FFF) 607 600 technology. 400 275 320 “The 3D printing sector, and particularly its FFF segment, 200 represents an exciting, high-growth market with new found potential. Partnering with DSM means we can be sure that 0 our customers will have access to an innovative new range 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 of products specifically developed for 3D printing.” Jérôme * As measured by the Brand Finance valuation methodology Abrahmi, VP EMEA at Nexeo With our strong science base as a differentiating factor, we Suppliers share our knowledge at conferences and trade shows and DSM needs to be smart in how it engages with its 40,000 ensure that our valuable insights are accessible to our suppliers. We do this through a Supplier Sustainability Program customers and partners through relevant platforms, (SSP), which is implemented through annual supplier communities and our sales force. sustainability plans and sustainability roadmaps. Progress A skilled sales force is crucial for ensuring the best customer against targets is shared on a quarterly basis within DSM experience and personalized interactions. All our sales people Sourcing and also with the Managing Board. The Supplier are selected on the basis of their industry experience and Sustainability Plan 2016 addressed a number of relevant topics knowledge, and we invest in their continuous development. for the materiality matrix: Resource scarcity/circular & bio-based For example, we have partnered with a leading business economy, Responsible business practices, and Climate change school to launch a learning portal and training program for our & renewable energy. Marketing & Sales professionals. Digital transformation is allowing us to further optimize DSM Supplier Sustainability Program customer and consumer interactions by strengthening our global online presence (both through websites and through social media) to improve our outreach. For example, DSM Dyneema integrated the customer relationship into its web Supplier Relationship Management Solutions presence through its ‘Where to Buy’ connections. This not Better only shows our strong relationship with our customers but also Business generates leads for them. Brighter Living Solutions The success of our customer-centric approach is measured through the use of Net Promotor Score® (NPS). In 2016, DSM Supplier Code Requirements to do business with DSM of Conduct increased its overall NPS score to 38 (in 2015: 35), which ensures that it remains one of the leading companies in its Compliance High Risk – Mandatory Corrective sector. In the B2B space, an NPS score in the 30s is Action Plan / Opportunity considered high. A three-point increase on this is a significant TfS Medium Risk – Recommended Assessments Corrective Action Plan / Opportunity achievement and testifies to our drive to continuously improve & Audits in response to customer feedback. Low Risk – Opportunity for value creation DSM considers its brand an important business asset and aspires to be a company with a strong brand and reputation for providing innovative and sustainable solutions that fulfill the needs of its market segments and society. DSM's brand value as assessed by Brand Finance has grown considerably over the last five years and for 2016 was valued at € 650 million. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 31 www.dsm.com Supplier Sustainability Program strategy BICEPS: Leveraging shared DSM’s SSP consists of two main elements: compliance and solutions. By means of the compliance program we have been capabilities for a better world able to very clearly define how we choose to do business with our suppliers. We have invited suppliers to contribute to our competitiveness in areas of sustainability, innovation, business At DSM, we believe our sustainability responsibilities go growth, security of supply, new business models and strategic beyond our own borders. alliances. This occurs via our 'better business' projects and other initiatives. Ninety percent of global trade goes by sea, and every day 100,000 vessels ply the oceans. Thirty percent of DSM’s In 2016, DSM assessed the maturity level of its SSP along four transport is seaborne, so some 40,000 box containers a year dimensions: Strategy/Plan; Supply Risk & Opportunity; People, journey either between our own plants or to our customers. Infrastructure & Measurements; and Processes. The maturity We have reduced the carbon footprint of our own distribution assessment was used to indicate areas of improvement to meet activities through supplier collaborations and modality the ambition level for 2020. The SSP was also benchmarked switches, but with 20 million containers in circulation, our against the practices of other leading sustainable companies. ability to effect direct change is limited. The results of the benchmark and the maturity assessment were incorporated in the Sustainable Purchasing Roadmap DSM partnered with AB InBev, AkzoNobel, Friesland 2016-2020, which aims to anchor sustainability even more firmly Campina and Huntsman to form the BICEPS Network in DSM’s daily sourcing activities. (BICEPS: Boosting Initiatives for Collaborative Emission reduction with the Power of Shippers) with the aim of Internal skills and capabilities developing a common approach to sustainability in the global Internal capability-building continued in 2016. Further training in procurement of ocean freight and the selection of shipping sustainability was provided to the sourcing community. The lines. trainings offer practical tools on integrating sustainability into the daily work of sourcing professionals. The Strategic Sourcing The network uses the BICEPS Rating System, which analyses Award and Key Supplier Management Award highlight the sustainability performance of shipping lines in five sustainability as a key topic in selecting the winners. categories: communication and reporting on sustainability, emissions and target-setting, improvement projects, crossCollaboration modality collaboration, and long-term ambitions. The rating is DSM works with external partners to enhance collaboration in used as a criterion in the selection of shippers, but also as an the supply chain. These include the Roundtable for Sustainable encouragement to sustainable development. It furthermore Palm Oil (RSPO), Together for Sustainability (TfS) and the Dutch enables small-scale innovators in the industry to connect consulate in China. directly with the shipping lines. Together with the network, we can achieve greater emissions reductions than if we operated While palm oil is only used on a very limited scale by DSM, alone. RSPO membership is important due to the potential risks to the environment, human rights issues and labor practices in the palm oil supply chain. DSM has 'Friends of the Sea' certification for over 98% of its fish oil purchases and ensures that the fisheries involved in providing fish oil for the production of its omega-3 product range are sustainable. We are collaborating with the Dutch consulate in China in a project that focuses on sustainable supply chains in China. The Consulate General of the Netherlands in Shanghai partnered with two professional CSR advisors, China National Textile & Apparel Council and Solidaridad China, for this threeyear CSR project. Within the framework of the project, a Sustainable Supply Chain Management Platform for Dutch Walter Vermeer, Manager Category Procurement Logistics Businesses in China was established, providing a training FrieslandCampina: “FrieslandCampina is consciously working program focusing on topics such as EHS (Environment, Health on impact reduction in every step in our grass-to-glass supply and Safety), CSR management system, and labor issues. In chain to enable realization of climate-neutral growth. 2016, 16 Dutch brands and 54 local factories (suppliers of the Participating in the BICEPS network helps us and our partners Dutch brands as well as member companies of Jiangsu add greener ocean shipping into our scope. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 32 www.dsm.com Federation of Industry and Commerce) participated. DSM has improve sustainability practices within the chemical industry's nominated four suppliers to join this initiative. supply chain. TfS works with EcoVadis, a recognized provider of CSR ratings, to implement the program. The EcoVadis Compliance methodology is aligned with international standards and DSM's approach to compliance is via the Supplier Code of supervised by a scientific committee. This collaboration gives Conduct (SCoC), comprising assessments and audits to check DSM access to assessments and audits which are executed by that suppliers act in compliance with the norms and values of other TfS members and shared on the TfS platform. This DSM. Where a risk or breach occurs, DSM works with suppliers collaboration enabled DSM to screen approximately 4,200 to define and execute an improvement plan. If non-compliance suppliers in 2016, resulting in 1.4% being identified as 'suppliers still persists, DSM may choose to terminate the relationship with at risk'. In line with internal follow-up guidelines, these will be the supplier. In 2016, 96% of DSM’s spend was covered by the further investigated by means of an on-site audit of their facilities SCoC. Since 2015, sustainability compliance has also been so as to ensure that improvement plans will be made. DSM was integrated into our standard supply risk management approach able to screen 7% of new suppliers with regard to their and new supplier onboarding process. environmental performance, impact on society, human rights and labor practices. The average EcoVadis sustainability We focus on approximately 1,000 critical suppliers, defined as performance score of DSM’s supply base improved by 2% in those that provide critical components, are located in potentially 2016. The average of the supplier performance level indicates high-risk countries, supply a high volume of products or services, that our suppliers are engaged with sustainability. are non-substitutable, or have the potential to create shared value in areas of innovation and sustainability. The collective (potential) supply base of the TfS members has been rated by 6,383 EcoVadis assessments and 724 TfS audits. Since 2015, we have been actively collaborating with TfS. In 2016, a total of 1,773 sustainability assessments were shared Founded in 2011, TfS now has 19 members (and rising) and aims among TfS members and 241 new TfS audit reports were to develop and implement a global audit program to assess and received by the initiative. Supplier Sustainability Program results 2016 2015 Target Achieved Leverage TfS1 Target Achieved Leverage TfS1 pool pool Spend coverage SCoC 91% 96% 91% 95% Sustainability assessments 200 200 996 200 252 690 Sustainability audits2 20 20 105 20 10 27 Quality audits 241 251 Solutions 36 50 30 46 1 Total number of DSM suppliers assessed by TfS members 2 The lower target set for Sustainability audits in 2015 resulted from DSM’s membership of TfS Moving beyond compliance Better business Our collaboration with TfS and partner EcoVadis gives us insight While compliance remains the cornerstone for achieving a into the compliance of our supply base with our sustainability sustainable supply base, procurement activities will increasingly criteria. Beyond this, we will look to increase transparency focus on so-called ‘better business’. regarding the incidents involving our suppliers using a 360degree monitoring process that includes insights from online As part of our drive to foster better business through our supplier news sources on positive or negative CSR developments on the solution projects, DSM's Sourcing organization engages in part of the suppliers we assess. As a first step, the suppliers proactive dialogue with suppliers in order to move the business screened in 2016 were assessed on legal and financial sanctions agenda forward on topics such as climate change, food & of any scale whatsoever. The area of labor and human rights nutrition security, health, and the circular economy. In this currently trends as being of highest concern among those context, Sourcing pursues initiatives to create joint value, assessed. awareness and engagement in areas related to Brighter Living Solutions. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 33 www.dsm.com We continued to engage in joint initiatives with suppliers that led Africa and Latin America, to bring visibility to important DSM to environmental benefits in the value chain, such as projects in partnerships and initiatives concerning nutrition and climate packaging, logistics, and reduction in raw materials and carbon change. emissions. Via the CO2 Emission Reduction Initiative, the In June, our CEO Feike Sijbesma co-chaired the Annual physical distribution team investigates suppliers’ footprints in Meeting of the New Champions in Tianjin (China) and led road transportation, marine and packaging to explore roundtable sessions about pioneering the circular economy, opportunities for improvement. This is a continuation of the implementing the climate deal, and the impact of the fourth Green Tender Initiative that began in 2012 with the aim of industrial revolution. achieving a 20% reduction in emissions associated with logistics We continued our engagement in WEF CEO Climate Leaders, and packaging. Since 2012, over 30% of our global spend on specifically around carbon pricing. Together with the WEF, the physical distribution has been covered by the Green Tender CPLC and Yale University, we initiated a learning track on Initiative. The cumulative CO2 emission reduction compared to internal carbon pricing, with the launch of a webinar series. 2010 reached 15% at the end of 2015, the latest reporting Our CEO Feike Sijbesma and CFO Geraldine Matchett period. featured in the first webinar, which was about ‘Practical experiences from the private sector’. We use carbon pricing of € 50 per ton CO2 equivalents (CO2eq) internally to evaluate our industrial gas purchases. By World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) embedding the internal carbon price in the template RFQ for We co-chaired the WBCSD Reaching Full Potential group, industrial gases, we make our sites more aware of the financial with − among others − Solvay, BASF, AkzoNobel, Evonik, impact of industrial gas supply. The carbon price for two cases Eastman, Henkel, and SABIC. A guidance on Social Life Cycle in Switzerland and the Netherlands had an impact of 2-4% and Metrics for the Chemical Sector was published in November. 17% on the total cost of ownership, respectively. In Switzerland, Together with leading businesses and top accounting firms, this confirmed that our chosen supplier was the correct business we participated in the WBCSD Social and Natural Capital decision. In the Netherlands, the difference between the best project. The project aims to foster simple and practicable solutions was not significant enough to influence the decision methods for monetization. Our contribution has led to the making although it showed a significant improvement over the publication of methods for monetizing safety, skills and existing situation. Business managers agreed that the inclusion employment. of the carbon price had an added value for the RFQ process. As part of the WBCSD Product Sustainability Assessment group, we have been aligning with our peers on portfolio DSM Nutritional Products’ Purchasing team has been working steering methods, with a focus on hazardous substances and on replacing an 18% hydrogen chloride (HCl) solution used at its toxicology, and building on Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) and Dalry site (UK) with a more concentrated solution, which will be product social metrics methodologies. diluted on site. This obviously has more than mere economic Within the Low Carbon Technology Partnerships initiative benefits, as transportation can be significantly reduced by (LCTPi) − a multi-stakeholder platform led by the WBCSD that diluting the HCl on site, rather than transporting the water presents the opportunities of large-scale development and component of the solution across the north of the UK. The annual deployment of low-carbon technologies − we helped set up environmental impact will be a saving of some 560 tons of the new global campaign ‘below50’. This campaign unites CO2eq emissions, equivalent to planting 15,000 trees. companies that produce, use and/or invest in fuels that are at least 50% less carbon-intensive than fossil fuels. The aim is to Collaborative platforms and networks promote the best sustainable fuels that can achieve significant carbon reductions, and to scale up their development and use. We collaborate with like-minded peers within cross-sector A DSM executive has been seconded to the WBCSD to set platforms and business networks to develop social and up the Food Systems Transformation program to address the environmental measurement and performance standards, to find key challenges of food systems. Our material topic Malnutrition new opportunities within our sustainable growth areas, and to & nutrition security is being addressed, including sub-topics act as advocates on material topics such as climate change & such as obesity, calorie & nutrient balance in food, and renewable energy, nutrition, the circular economy, and natural sustainable protein supply. and social capital. Below, we describe our engagement with some of the most significant global, partnership-based strategic Accounting for Sustainability (A4S) initiatives. Our CFO Geraldine Matchett continued her active role in the A4S CFO Leadership Network, with a focus on topics such as World Economic Forum (WEF) the importance of having a comprehensive conversation with As a strategic partner, we attended WEF meetings throughout investors on long-term value creation, as well as the 2016, including the Annual Meeting in Davos. We importance of actively engaging the finance function internally strengthened our presence at regional meetings, including in on the value of sustainability as an essential component of good enterprise management. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 34 www.dsm.com We continued to contribute to A4S projects through the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC) participation of our experts in both its finance and sustainability In April, our CEO Feike Sijbesma was appointed Co-Chair of teams. The main focus was the completion of the project the High Level Assembly of the CPLC. The CPLC’s long-term ‘Integrated management reporting’, to help business embed objective is for carbon pricing to be applied throughout the environmental and social considerations into (internal) global economy. In addition to facilitating leadership management reporting in order to enhance decision making. dialogues, the CPLC will also mobilize business support to put We shared our own best practices, such as linking an internal price on carbon. As Co-Chair, Mr. Sijbesma shared performance management and remuneration with DSM’s experience with applying an internal carbon price of sustainability targets, and also gathered new insights from € 50 per ton CO2eq when reviewing large investments, and other A4S members into the topics they discuss in their wider called on businesses to do the same. interactions with the financial community. Ellen MacArthur Foundation As part of our RE100 commitment, we joined forces with We continued our engagement with the Foundation, AkzoNobel, Google and Philips in a long-term commitment to participating in Project Mainstream, a global multi-industry jointly source power from renewable energy projects in the initiative to accelerate business-driven innovation to help scale Netherlands. The first agreement − to buy power from up the circular economy. We contributed to ‘The New Plastics Windpark Krammer in the province of Zeeland − will cover Economy: Rethinking the future of plastics’, a publication approximately half of DSM’s bought-in electricity requirements which provides a vision of a global economy in which plastics in the Netherlands. See 'Planet' on page 53. never become waste, and which outlines concrete steps to achieve this systemic shift. Dutch Sustainable Growth Coalition (DSGC) We offered employees an internal training program on the We continued our engagement with the DSGC, with a focus circular economy delivered by CE100 and Bradford University on the SDGs. As co-initiator of the Dutch SDG Charter, we (UK). used the coalition to raise the profile of the Charter and encourage more Dutch companies to commit to joint action RE100 on SDGs of national priority. We continued our engagement with RE100 during 2016 and In December, we facilitated a masterclass as part of a participated in the learning opportunities that are available conference on the SDGs, in which students shared their ideas through this peer-learning, advocacy and action platform, on how to engage with the financial sector to drive and finance which is led by the Climate Group. improvements and innovations in renewable energy technologies, rather than scaling up existing renewable energy technologies alone. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 35 www.dsm.com Cross-sector nutrition partnerships DSM’s partners range from UN agencies, governments, As a leading micronutrient provider, DSM develops innovative academia and NGOs to industry peers. We commit support solutions for improved nutrition. In order for these solutions to through financial and non-financial means including time, have the broadest reach, we work with partner organizations that technical expertise, products and volunteers. DSM’s main have direct access to beneficiaries. DSM’s nutrition partnerships partners are described below. For a more extensive list and focus on the following objectives: wider base of scientific description of DSM’s other nutrition platforms and partnerships, evidence and endorsement; increased market for nutrition see the company website. products; and improved employee engagement. Cross-sector nutrition partnerships Partner Partnership benefits Impact Product development The DSM-WFP partnership ‘Improving Nutrition, Improving Lives’ aims to Value chains for enhanced nutrition improve the nutritional value of the food that WFP distributes through Advocacy product innovations such as fortified rice and a product aimed at people Employee engagement and development living with HIV/AIDS. The partnership reaches over 28 million beneficiaries Corporate reputation per year with improved nutrition. Further to this, DSM continues to support WFP in the development of learning and development initiatives. Value chains for enhanced nutrition DSM and UNICEF collaborate to support micronutrient programs in Market-based solutions for improved Nigeria, with the initial pilots executed in the course of 2016. Additional nutrition focus will be placed on micronutrient supplementation programs Advocacy specifically targeting women and adolescents girls. The partnership Corporate reputation continues its capacity support of the African Nutrition Leadership program. Value chains for enhanced nutrition DSM and World Vision International’s flagship project in Tanzania, Miller’s Market-based solutions for improved Pride, was fully ramped up in 2016. A number of successful fortification nutrition trials have led to approval from the Tanzania Food & Drug Authority for Advocacy maize fortification. Millers have improved food safety, hygiene and Corporate reputation manufacturing processes. We are also ramping up another program, ‘Joining forces for last mile nutrition’. Market-based solutions for improved Partners in Food Solutions is a multi-sector partnership between the nutrition companies DSM, General Mills, Cargill, The Hershey Company, Bühler Employee engagement and development and Ardent Mills, working in partnership with USAID, TechnoServe and Corporate reputation Root Capital to serve more than 600 small and growing food companies throughout Africa. Partners in Food Solutions realized additional growth in West Africa. DSM volunteers from Latin America, Europe and India continued to share their willingness to dedicate their technical and business expertise to improving the performance of food processors and millers in Africa. Market-based solutions for improved The SUN Business Network (SBN) represents the private sector in the nutrition Scaling Up Nutrition (SUN) Movement. The Network recruits and supports Advocacy companies who pledge to contribute to the improvement of global Employee engagement and development nutrition. CEO/Chairman of the Managing Board Feike Sijbesma is a Corporate reputation member of the Lead Group of the SUN Movement and Co-Chair of the Advisory Group of the Network. Via the network, DSM supported a number of SBN projects in Zambia. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 36 www.dsm.com Philanthropy and sponsorships India DSM committed more than € 76,000 to sponsoring and DSM continues to be recognized by the business world, supporting civil society and non-governmental organizations in government, civil society and the academic community as a India in 2016. Most of these initiatives focus on the state of respected thought leader in clean energy, climate change, Maharashtra, which has over 112 million inhabitants. Most DSM nutrition and the circular economy. Besides striving for activities targeted the Pune, Thane and Palghar districts. We are excellence in sustainability-oriented innovation, we also engage raising awareness of nutrition in partnership with the Indian in classic philanthropic and sponsorship activities in support of Academy of Pediatrics. The central topics of the collaboration non-governmental and civil society organizations. In 2016, DSM are eradicating malnutrition and promoting preventive healthcare donated more than € 2.5 million to a range of initiatives. DSM in these districts. Together with the ISKCON Food Relief makes no political donations, as outlined in its Code of Business Foundation, we support the mid-day meal program of school Conduct, the text of which is available on the company children in Maharashtra in order to help eradicate hunger. website. North America The Ocean Cleanup The DSM North America Employee Relief Fund is a group funded DSM is a partner and sponsor of The Ocean Cleanup, a nonand run by DSM employees to help their fellow employees who profit foundation launched in 2013 with the aim of developing suffer severe losses as a consequence of natural disasters. In sustainable and scalable technologies to help solve societal 2016, the group helped fellow employees recover from problems, including the issue of waste plastics in the world’s Hurricane Matthew. seas. Founded by the young Dutch entrepreneur Boyan Slat, The Ocean Cleanup has developed a prototype floating barrier DSM provided USD 44,000 to the leadership development system – described by TIME magazine as “one of the world’s organization Global Health Corps and the non-profit organization best inventions in 2015” – that uses the ocean’s natural currents 1,000 Days to underwrite the cost of two Global Health Corps to round up and concentrate plastic waste. Consistent with our Fellows working at 1,000 Days to create an educational company focus on sustainability and environmental innovation, campaign about the importance of nutrition. The two Fellows are we were pleased to lend our materials expertise to The Ocean helping raise awareness of malnutrition and delivering costCleanup. We are supplying Dyneema® material to maritime rope effective interventions to address micronutrient deficiencies supplier Lankhorst Ropes, and together providing the key among underprivileged families in New Jersey, USA. technology for the barrier’s mooring system. Sight and Life The Sight and Life foundation champions a world free from malnutrition and aims to improve nutrition of the world’s most vulnerable populations. Through continued support of the Sight and Life foundation, DSM furthers the advancement of research, implementation science, and leadership capacity development in nutrition. The Sight and Life foundation engaged in an exciting publicprivate partnership in Ghana, known as Affordable Nutritious Foods for Women (ANF4W), working to establish a marketChina based solution to improve the nutritional status of women of DSM hosted the Bright Experience Event to support the goal of reproductive age with fortified food products. In addition, Sight ending hunger and malnutrition in 15 cities across China during and Life joined forces with PATH, a non-profit organization 2016. These events aimed to raise awareness of, and funds for, charged with global health innovation, and local partners to the issue of child hunger and malnutrition. They attracted 2,500 develop a program promoting good hygiene habits and DSM employees and their families, as well as partners at 16 sites delivering a nutrient rich meal of fortified rice to 2,600 schools in located across 15 cities, including Shanghai and Beijing. The India. To encourage innovation in the nutrition landscape, the money collected at the events will be donated to the WFP’s Sight and Life foundation developed the Elevator Pitch Contest, School Feeding Programmes worldwide and the China a unique forum for young innovators in nutrition to make their Foundation for Poverty Alleviation. Through the project, we case on why their ideas deserve funding. provided more than 50,000 nutritious meals containing milk and eggs to children in poor areas of western Chinese provinces. With the right mix of funding, knowledge, technology, and enabling policy, Sight and Life advocates with its partners the global fight against malnutrition and micronutrient deficiencies. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 37 www.dsm.com External recognition recognition that we received from non-governmental and trade organizations, customers, suppliers and academia in 2016. We are proud whenever our sustainability, quality and innovation Other awards and external recognition for our business groups efforts, either as a company in general or specific to our individual can be found in ‘Review of business’ starting on page 62. products and solutions, are recognized by the outside world. A full list of our recognitions can be found on the company Below is a selection of some of the awards and other forms of website. Organization Recognition Corporate Knights In January, the Corporate Knights Global 100 Index 2016 of the most sustainable corporations in the world listed DSM as the highest-ranked chemical company and 23rd overall. Featured companies are considered leaders in transparency and resource productivity, as well as on a range of other social and governance indicators. Young Global Leaders Circular During the World Economic Forum’s annual meeting in January, our CEO Economy Taskforce Feike Sijbesma was jointly awarded the Fortune Award for Circular Economy Leadership in recognition of his role in spearheading DSM’s circular economy strategy and our groundbreaking research into fossil-fuel substitutes. New York Festivals In April, at the New York Festivals Best TV & Films 2016 ceremony, our 'Unsung Heroes of Science' movie garnered Gold, Silver and Bronze World Medals in the Corporate Social Responsibility, Public Relations and Internal Film categories respectively. European Association of In July, our Communications and Branding Team won the ‘Company Communication Directors (EACD) Communications Team of the Year Award 2016’ in recognition of the success of its 'Unsung Heroes of Science' campaign. The award is an initiative of the EACD – the leading network of European communication professionals – to recognize communication excellence. Fortune Change the World List In August 2016, Fortune Magazine revealed that DSM was included in its second annual ‘Change the World List’ which highlights the 50 leading companies that are innovating to solve the world’s biggest challenges through core profit-making strategy and operations. RobecoSAM In September, DSM was named the worldwide leader in the Materials industry group in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. We have consistently been recognized for integrating sustainability into our business, having been named among the global leaders in each of the past 13 years and having held the number one position in the sector 7 times. Ethical Corporation In September, our ‘Science Can Change the World’ campaign took first place in the Best Communication category at the Ethical Corporation Responsible Business Awards 2016. DSM was also highly commended in the Best Sustainable Company category. The Awards recognize genuine, truly innovative and meaningful approaches to making responsible business a reality. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) In October, we were included on the Climate A List by CDP, which identifies DSM as a global leader for our actions and strategies in response to climate change. CDP is a non-profit organization that helps companies worldwide to measure, manage, disclose and ultimately reduce their greenhouse-gas emissions. FTSE4Good DSM was again featured in the FTSE4Good Index. This international sustainability index is designed to measure the performance of companies demonstrating strong Environmental, Social and Governance practices. DSM had a maximum score of 100. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 38 www.dsm.com People in 2016 DSM aims to foster a high-performance culture to support How DSM creates value delivery of our targets and aspirations. We seek to attract and retain original thinkers and doers who can further our company’s capabilities while actively developing their own credentials and People People careers. We achieve this by providing a healthy, diverse and above all safe working environment for employees and by supporting and encouraging them in their personal development. DSM’s international profile means that its employees represent 98 nationalities, working at more than 200 sites and offices in 46 countries worldwide. This allows us to be close to our key markets and customers as we pursue profitable business growth Ratio female/male Inclusion index around the globe. Our strategy is aimed at stimulating inclusion, employees diversity and inspirational leadership. It is governed by means of a regional system with clear accountability for performance at 27/73 73% Managing Board level. Our People Strategy 2018 in support of DSM’s Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth focuses on three pillars for attaining a more performance-oriented workforce: 1) agile employees, 2) skilled employees and 3) accountable employees. This Employee Average training strategy is aligned with our material topics and supports DSM’s Engagement Index hours per employee favorable annually commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The key material topics relevant to People are: score Health & wellness (covered by 'Safety and Health'); Malnutrition (covered in 'Stakeholder engagement' on page 71% 25 25 and 'Review of business – Nutrition' on page 64); Careers & employment ('Leadership & people management Frequency Index of DSM-WFP programs', 'Developing and managing our talent', and Recordable Injuries beneficiaries 'Learning and development'); and (per 100 DSM employees annually Responsible business practices ('Human rights'). and contractors) Our People strategy also focuses DSM’s engagement on the two most relevant SDGs for the People dimension: SDG 2 (Zero 0.33 28 million Hunger) and SDG 3 (Good Health and Well-being). This chapter outlines DSM's approach toward its employees, which is embodied in the company's safety and health policies and people strategy including our Life Saving Rules. Our approach toward people affected by DSM’s operations is governed by our policies on human rights, the Brighter Living Solutions program, and our Supplier Sustainability Program. The performance elements of our People strategy are detailed in the ‘Sustainability statements − People’ on page 127. See also ‘How DSM creates value for its stakeholders’ on page 20 and ‘Stakeholder engagement’ on page 24. DSM focuses on SDG 2 (Zero Hunger) and SDG 3 (Good Health and Well-being) in our People dimension Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 39 www.dsm.com DSM's People & Organization objectives Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries 12-month moving average People indicators REC-rate, DSM all Rate for Lost Workday Cases (LWC), DSM-own Aspirations Realization 2020 2016 1.0 Frequency Index of Recordable 0.8 Injuries 0.25 0.33 Employee Engagement Index Toward 75% 71% 0.6 Diversity Female executives 25% 15% Diversity Executives from under0.4 0.33 represented nationalities 60% 53% DSM Target FI REC all 2020: 0.25 0.2 0.14 Safety and health 0 Personal safety and process safety 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 Rigorous application of DSM’s Life Saving Rules has been a significant factor behind DSM remaining fatality-free for the last five years, among both our own workforce and contractor personnel. Nevertheless, with the ambition to become a Process safety incidents are those which affect plant or storage completely incidentand injury-free company, the incidents that facilities directly. They are rare but can have a major impact, with still occur, along with the severity of their consequences, are effects on people and/or the environment both within and always a cause for concern and a spur to action. We beyond site borders. As of 2016, process safety is measured by consequently set targets and monitor performance regarding recording incidents that comply with the definition given by the both personal and process safety at DSM. These are defined in International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). The the DSM Responsible Care Plan 2016-2020. change in definition led to a new target for 2020 of 0.15, which is aligned with our earlier aspirations. The PSI rate moved from Personal safety incidents are those which affect people only. 0.41 under the CEFIC definition to 0.30 under the ICCA definition Personal safety is measured through a Frequency Index of per the end of 2015 mainly because releases of non-hazardous Recordable Injuries in which Fatalities, Lost Workday Cases, substances are not considered in the newly applied ICCA Restricted Workday Cases and Medical Treatment Cases of definition. The PSI rate slightly improved throughout the year all persons present on site are shown – employees as well as 2016 to 0.28. (supervised and other) contractors and visitors. In 2016, the index improved from 0.41 to 0.33. This improvement is mainly Frequency Index of Process Safety Incidents due to portfolio changes and to performance improvements in the units belonging to DSM in both years. The Frequency Index of Lost Workday Cases for DSM employees was 0.14 (2015: 0.6 CEFIC ICCA 0.13). definition definition 0.5 The Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries among contractors 0.4 improved from 0.70 to 0.56 in 2016. This was mainly due to the portfolio changes mentioned above. The year 2016 was also the 0.3 0.28 first full reporting year following the implementation of the new Target permit to work standard in 2015. Efforts were also made to PSI rate 0.2 increase awareness for the importance of a good last-minute risk 2020: assessment. Contractor safety continues to have our attention 0.15 0.1 as we strive for the safest possible working environment for all. 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Of the incidents in 2016, most related to an unintentional release of certain substances (in varying quantities) from a DSM plant or storage facility that could be remediated without further Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 40 www.dsm.com consequences. There were a small number of incidents of a different type, which are listed in the chapter ‘What still went wrong in 2016’ on page 122. Ocean Nutrition Canada rises For a full description of the personal safety and process safety to DSM’s SHE standards frequency indexes, see ‘Explanation of some concepts and ratios’ on page 217. In the past four years, DSM has acquired some 30 new sites, all of which have had to adopt DSM’s strict SHE standards. DSM’s safety planning focuses on risks, to ensure that the Ocean Nutrition Canada (ONC), a producer of fish oil-based company’s efforts are primarily directed at the potential incidents omega-3 with manufacturing sites in Peru, the US and and situations that would pose the highest risk, and that steps Canada, is an example. can be taken to avoid their occurrence. Adherence to DSM’s Life Saving Rules is also an important element in the internal auditing DSM acquired ONC in 2012 and immediately communicated system, which is applied at all levels of the organization – the importance of full adoption of its SHE standards. A corporate, business group and site. dedicated SHE integration manager with DSM experience was appointed to help the new organization manage this Based on the incidents that have occurred in recent years, it is process. DSM’s SHE requirements were more demanding clear that improving risk awareness and alertness among the than those they replaced, so fulfilling these while managing all workforce is a crucial success factor. DSM will consequently the other integration activities and strategic projects, plus prioritize improvements to its behavioral systems in support of keeping ONC’s business running at the same time, was a this, with a key role for management in leading by example. tough challenge for the ONC team. Further improvement will also be driven by continuing to DSM has a clear SHE integration process. We start by training rigorously instill and enhance SHE competences at all levels. The management in DSM’s expectations and standards, and changes in DSM’s business portfolio in recent years have conducting zero assessments of all the plants. The findings of inevitably led to differences in SHE maturity across the company. these assessments form the basis for a three-year SHE Furthermore, our current operating network consists of more integration plan that focuses on controlling process safety smaller sites around the world than in the past, and these need risks, implementing DSM’s Life Saving Rules, and introducing to be self-supporting in terms of SHE. We will deploy dedicated DSM’s SHE management system. The new DSM employees classroom-based and on-the-job training to close these approached the required changes with a positive attitude, competency gaps. quickly achieving good results. DSM’s attention to employee well-being and emphasis on training were highly appreciated, Employee health management and cooperation with existing DSM sites in the Americas DSM recognizes that healthy working conditions make a speeded the adoption of the new standards. significant contribution to employee health and well-being. They also have an important positive impact on employee The positive impact of the SHE integration process was engagement and productivity. Employees and company alike confirmed by audits of the three ONC manufacturing sites benefit from healthy working conditions in today's increasingly conducted by DSM’s Corporate Operational Audit fast-paced and competitive world. In response, we have department. The process provides a template for the SHE implemented policies and initiatives to safeguard employee integration of any future acquisitions. health by mitigating workplace risks, and to promote and support employee health and well-being. Dave Elder, Senior Director of Manufacturing at ONC, With a view to prevention, a training program on industrial comments: “It’s been a very hygiene was launched in 2015 and continued in 2016. This aims interesting transition. We’ve to ensure that DSM has adequate competences regarding moved from wanting to avoid industrial hygiene at all sites, with an emphasis on ensuring that accidents on site to actively appropriate control measures are in place. managing our SHE performance so as to DSM fosters a culture of health among its employees through prevent potential incidents.” the Vitality@DSM program. This global health management program provides employees with insights into their own lifestyles and explains the consequences of unhealthy lifestyles. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 41 www.dsm.com It also encourages them to take responsibility for changing any Strong progress was made on the design and implementation unhealthy habits. To maximize engagement, cultural and of new operating models for various support functions (Finance, regional differences are taken into account. The Vitality@DSM HR, ICT, Indirect Sourcing and Communication), enabling them program has been running at DSM for almost 10 years, and in to deliver better service at lower cost. The creation of a common 2016 more than 1,500 employees participated in it. Shared Service Organization for a number of these support functions underpins this initiative. DSM also looked deeper into Employees participating in Vitality@DSM receive a general health the shared R&D units, aiming to increase their effectiveness and check-up and fill in a self-assessment questionnaire to evaluate obtain more yield from the same investment. their profile across the dimensions of nutrition, recovery, exercise and mental health. A personal risk score and action plan is Additional efforts were made in internal communication provided to make employees aware of their own specific healthconcerning organizational change and company culture. These related risks. According to the group report, compared to 2015, are aimed at creating a better understanding of the new the cost saving from productivity gains attributable to this operating model among employees. Encouraging the mindset program reached approximately € 200,000. Results from the and behavior necessary to make the new organizational set-up self-assessments employees have completed since the start of a success will help DSM to achieve its long-term goals. the program show that 52% have moderate to very high stress risk; 37% have moderate to very high risk of poor eating habits; The organizational changes will result in a headcount reduction 26% seldom or never exercise; and 28% are overweight or of 900-1,100 FTEs. Close to 50% of these will be in the obese. Netherlands, and the remaining approximately 50% will be in the other regions in which DSM operates. In 2016, DSM participated in the Global Corporate Challenge, a 100-day worldwide program to improve personal health and DSM provides fair severance compensation and supports well-being. In small teams, employees went on a virtual journey redundant employees in their search for new employment. We around the world, keeping track of their daily walking, cycling apply a clear, objective and transparent process in determining and swimming activities. Across DSM, a total of 83 teams took which positions and employees are, regrettably, impacted. We part in the program. On this journey, 78% of participants met the align with employee representation bodies where applicable recommended daily levels for physical effort (10,000 steps per concerning this process, and we actively interact with works day). The program not only raises awareness of the need to be councils. active but also provides participants with information on good nutrition and how to obtain better sleep. In addition, advice is provided on mental health issues. The intention is to further “ I am very proud of DSM’s employees. We remain x implement this program throughout DSM in the coming years. focused on delivering business results while the new A total of six occupational health cases were reported in 2016 operating models come into effect. With their (2015: 5). This number represents reported cases, and the real dedication and hard work, our employees have figure may be higher. Cases may develop over a prolonged shown that it’s possible to carry out a significant period of time, and causes may be present in both working and private life, with the work-related portion going reorganization and still deliver on our business unacknowledged. Privacy concerns or cultural factors also growth and performance goals. ” influence employees’ willingness to report and discuss personal Peter Vrijsen, DSM Executive Committee health issues. DSM continued to increase employee awareness of occupational health issues and to increase transparency in the reporting of all occupational health cases the company encounters; for this, the Occupational Health network was revitalized in 2016. New organizational and operating model In 2016, DSM continued to implement its new organizational and operating model as part of its Strategy 2018. This focuses on creating a more agile and cost-effective organization. It allows DSM’s businesses to focus on growth and leverages the support functions on a global level, and aims to achieve structural cost savings of € 125-150 million against the baseline of 2014. The program aspires to deliver these savings in full by the end of 2017. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 42 www.dsm.com ONE DSM Culture Agenda steps, but since they can be repeated many times, small changes can add up to have a big impact. The ONE DSM Culture Agenda aims to support the company’s strategic objectives and to equip employees to respond to the In Shunde (China), a productivity improvement initiative was needs of an ever-changing world. The Culture Agenda focuses started that links employee benefits with both business on four themes, and is aimed at supporting employees in: demand (high quality & low cost) and individual competency aligning with the realities of their operating environment; setting development. This resulted in more flexibility and productivity ambitious targets and delivering on these; encouraging active from the operators, increased production, and positively (co-)creation; and fostering an inclusive culture that embraces impacted their income, leading to a higher engagement with differences. These themes create a common language across strong reduction in the turnover rate among operators. the organization, and enhance a ONE DSM culture for all our A group of production operators and engineers at our businesses and regions. Kingstree site (South Carolina, USA) uncovered a hidden design flaw that allowed oil and end-product to enter the clean hexane stream (the final wash in the system). This has resulted in an annual saving of approximately USD 1,000,000 for an investment of less than USD 1,000. Inclusion & Diversity DSM has a focused Inclusion & Diversity strategy, which is aimed at better reflecting and leveraging our global profile in our External Accountability Orientation for Performance workforce. (and Learning) For Diversity, our immediate priority is to increase the number of women and under-represented nationalities in executive positions. Our aim for 2020 is for 25% of executives to be female and for at least 60% of executives to be from under-represented nationalities. Over recent years, the number of female executives had Collaboration with Inclusion & Diversity increased steadily to reach 15% in 2015. In 2016, this number Speed and Trust remained stable at 15%. Given the relatively small number of Managing Board members, In 2016, particular emphasis was placed on the way the four the composition of the Managing Board in 2016, with one female themes and their related behaviors support the implementation and three male members, came very close to the 30% of the new DSM organizational and operating model. The ONE prescribed by Dutch legislation in terms of gender balance. The DSM Culture Agenda underpinned the roll-out and current composition of the Supervisory Board is well balanced, communication of new operating models for DSM’s support in terms of both gender and nationalities, and is in line with Dutch functions (e.g. Finance and IT in 2016) as well as driving adoption legislation in this regard. More than one third of the members are of the supportive mindset and behaviors needed to help achieve women (of the seven Supervisory Board members, three are DSM’s ambitious organic growth and cost-saving targets. female and four are male). Furthermore, in the Supervisory Board of DSM Nederland B.V., a subsidiary of Royal DSM, one of the Continuous improvement three members is female. One of the ways in which we drive organizational performance is by fostering a culture of continuous improvement across our Gender balance will continue to require attention, and DSM’s sites and operational environments. Our employees are involved Executive Committee has devoted considerable energy to this in managing processes on a day-to-day basis; they experience topic in order to further move the needle. DSM’s CEO and bottlenecks and inefficiencies as they occur in practice, often Chairman, Feike Sijbesma, has signed the CEO Statement of before these are noticed through the application of formal Support for the United Nations Women's Empowerment improvement methodologies. The DSM Integral Continuous Principles, signaling the company's support for gender equality Improvement (DICI) journey is currently running across and for the guidance provided by these principles. DSM is taking approximately 40% of DSM’s manufacturing operations. With concrete steps to implement these principles through its DICI, we are empowering employees to be able to make Inclusion & Diversity strategy. In addition to recruiting female continuous process improvements themselves. Sometimes executives, DSM also focuses on developing female executives these improvements can be local or relate to specific process Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 43 www.dsm.com from its internal talent pool, and engages in various activities that This is slightly ahead of the overall global norm of 70%. For the foster new ways of working and changes in behavior. highest-performing companies around the world, the benchmark number is 81%. This is the league to which DSM In terms of a representative balance of nationalities, DSM still has aspires, and we have set an intermediate target for 2020 of a considerable number of Dutch nationals among its executives. toward 75%. We aim to further diversify our executive population and aspire to have 60% of executives from under-represented nationalities The engagement survey also provides essential information in 2020. In 2016, this improved to 53% (2015: 49%). See also about our employees’ views on topics such as DSM’s new ‘Sustainability statements − People’ on page 127. strategy, working conditions, open communication, career development, sustainability, inclusion, and diversity. These Going forward, DSM continues to address the geographical insights have led to real and measurable improvements. For distribution of executives and other key functions, keeping a example, the score for “I believe DSM has a promising future” keen eye on gender and nationality balance, as these remain the moved from 65% in 2015 to 78% in 2016. This increase clearly essential diversity aspects to foster at this stage. We have set indicates the belief that our employees have in the overall DSM new short-term targets to speed our progress in this regard, and strategy going forward. This conviction is also an important aspire to achieve annual incremental growth of 2% for both engagement driver at DSM. The overall score on improving gender and under-represented nationalities for the executive career development is a point for attention; although the population in 2017 and 2018. As of 2017, similar targets will also percentage increased (from 58% to 61%), we aim higher. Our apply to positions immediately below executive level, to ensure people managers play a pivotal role in this effort, investing time a diverse talent pipeline. with employees to regularly review their career aspirations and identify opportunities for learning and development. DSM's inclusion efforts are reflected in an improving Inclusion Index, which has continued to increase year on year, reaching Leadership & people management programs 73% in 2016 (2015: 72%). The consistent improvement of this index suggests that sustained progress is being made in creating DSM Leadership Model and maintaining inclusive environments across the company. The DSM Leadership Model specifies the behavior DSM expects from its leaders and people managers. The model provides a The DSM Inclusion & Diversity Council, chaired since 2015 by common vision and language for leadership at DSM. Managing Board member Stephan Tanda, plays a leading role in driving the achievement of the Inclusion & Diversity targets, DSM Leadership Model: capabilities and expectations and in supporting all DSM businesses in creating an inclusive environment in which diversity is embraced. Deliver Workforce engagement Shape An engaged workforce is essential for DSM to achieve its Develop ambitions. The DSM Employee Engagement Survey, which has been run annually since 2007, is a tool for understanding the level of engagement employees feel for DSM and their work, and the improvements required for DSM to become a high-performing Insight company. The goal is to ensure that DSM is a place where Connect employees feel proud to work, and where they feel they can © 2012 Royal DSM excel. In 2016, a total of 15,333 employees (including 264 contractors) In 2016, we continued to embed the Leadership Model in our completed the questionnaire, which was distributed to all DSM key processes for hiring, developing, evaluating and managing employees (online in 22 languages and on paper in 7). This talent across the organization and for building high-performing represents a very high response rate of 79%. This high teams. The further roll-out of the model to all senior managers participation level gives us a more complete picture of what is continued throughout 2016 with an upgrade of program content, working well, and where we need to improve further. and with 95% of this population being trained by the end of 2016. The prime focus of the survey is the measurement of DSM’s To encourage self-learning beyond the training program, DSM Employee Engagement Index, which is the percentage of created multiple e-learning modules on each component of the employees scoring favorably on a combination of four attributes: Leadership Model in a digital learning platform called Bright commitment, pride, advocacy and satisfaction. The Employee Learning, and simplified the process and tooling for providing Engagement Index measured in 2016 was 71% (2015: 69%). 360-degree feedback on the model. In addition, the range of Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 44 www.dsm.com employees evaluated in respect of the Leadership Model in their both effectiveness and relevance. Based on this successful pilot, Annual Performance Review has been expanded beyond Lead & Grow will be rolled out to all DSM executives by executives to cover all employees in senior management mid-2017. positions in 2016. Developing and managing our talent People Manager 2018 DSM recognizes that its people managers (i.e. line managers) DSM talent management approach play a critical role in achieving Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable In 2016, DSM rolled out a new global talent management Growth. To support them, DSM launched a development approach across the company. An analysis of the company’s program called DSM People Manager 2018. The program offers talent pipeline and its fit with the new strategic growth plans was a monthly virtual development campaign that contains learning carried out. It found that DSM requires a good balance between resources on a selected topic relevant for people managers at the profound expertise which delivers value for our customers, that time of the year. For example, the topic for January was and the broad agility which is needed to operate in an ‘Goal Setting’, and the May campaign helped them prepare for increasingly complex and volatile environment. career development conversations with their employees. People managers can make use of the digital learning resources (e.g. During the year, almost 8,000 of our employees were assessed videos, articles and e-learnings) whenever they want. A survey in terms of their long-term performance and their learning agility. among people managers showed that 66% of respondents This helped identify individual employees’ current strengths, as visited the campaign sites multiple times. Of the respondents, well as to craft targeted development plans. Multiple reviews 54% felt the campaigns were very relevant for their role as a were carried out throughout the year within business groups, people manager, with 41% neutral and only 5% who did not feel regions and global functions, to ensure maximum objectivity and the campaigns were very relevant. The program will run until consistency of assessment (the same individual would be 2018. assessed more than once from different viewpoints). New talent designations were introduced to identify employees at different DSM Lead & Grow program organizational levels whose development could be accelerated so as to prepare them for some of the company’s future challenges. During a three-day DSM Talent Review, the Executive Committee reviewed a global analysis of DSM’s talent pipeline, as well as a full assessment of succession strength for DSM’s key global positions. A best-in-class talent management application, Talent Suite, was introduced to support an efficient and consistent process globally. The new talent management approach has received very good feedback from DSM’s management. In a year with changing operating models, the investments made in talent management were perceived as both necessary and effective. The global talent pipeline analysis allowed the Executive Committee to identify some clear actions for the future, including new programs that will be rolled out in 2017 and 2018, to further strengthen DSM’s long-term talent pipeline in order to meet the With the many challenges that the global economy poses, future challenges of the customers and markets we serve. DSM's Strategy 2018 requires our leadership to think and act differently – to fully understand macro-economic trends, use Accountability for performance creative and dilemma-solving techniques, and engage and Accountability for performance plays an important role in develop the best talent to help the company on its chosen path. achieving DSM’s Strategy 2018. To prepare for this, in 2015 DSM adjusted the goal setting and performance evaluations for To facilitate strategy execution company-wide, DSM has its employees, and globally launched an online performance and collaborated with a leading corporate education company to goal evaluation tool. This tool is globally managed and is available create the DSM Lead & Grow program. Key elements include: to 13,000 employees. All other employees participate in external orientation, creative thinking and organization & people. performance evaluations on paper, or using other local systems. At the beginning of 2016, employees were invited to set 'Fewer, Lead & Grow was run as a pilot with a group of DSM senior Bigger, Better Goals', to create focus on measurable, relevant leaders in May 2016, and received excellent feedback regarding and challenging targets. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 45 www.dsm.com To make employees’ performance reviews more powerful, DSM also introduced a self-evaluation component to the global tool so that employees can review their own achievements as well as New Bright Learning platform reflect on important experiences and key learnings over the past year. In 2016, DSM introduced a comprehensive online learning platform comprising more than 2,150 learning modules. This Talent acquisition platform has unlimited use for the target audience and offers During 2016, much progress was made on DSM’s approach to the opportunity to acquire new knowledge and develop skills talent acquisition. All operational recruitment at the managerial anytime, anywhere. level and below has been outsourced through a partnership with an external provider in order to enhance process efficiency and Key user Vijendra Desai, Global flexibility. A total of 1,256 employees were hired via our newly Service Line Manager at the implemented recruitment process in 2016. The global talent Global Delivery Center in acquisition team also focused on building and delivering Hyderabad (India), describes his functional expertise, designing new recruitment processes, experience with the platform. policies and guidelines, and developing a supporting system that is integrated with talent management. In an effort to increase the “The Bright Learning platform has diversity of the candidates we attract and hire, various initiatives really helped my learning and were piloted, including targeted online recruitment campaigns development at DSM. I try to do and the design of an in-depth interview training course on biasa course whenever my schedule free assessment. allows. The best thing about the platform is that I can explore topics closely related to the department that I work in, as well Learning and development as other subjects that have a bearing on my job. The platform has helped expand my own professional knowledge. I use it Learning and development contributes to the implementation of to prepare for workshops and training sessions, and as a DSM’s strategy by building the core capabilities for driving manager, I make sure to share some of my own experiences profitable growth. with my team. I also encourage staff to use the platform themselves.” DSM is creating a learning culture in which employees see learning as an opportunity to grow. We work in close cooperation Alexander Schellekens, Vice with leading international business schools and global training President Finance, DSM Food providers such as the International Institute for Management Specialties, likewise finds the Development in Lausanne (Switzerland) and the Rotterdam platform very useful for his job. School of Management (Netherlands) to design high-quality training courses. “I use the Bright Learning platform to select training topics based on my personal leadership Fast facts development plan or the current situation of my business or In 2016, DSM offered over 150 training programs, department. I use the app to watch short videos about topics attracting 3,000 enrolments. that seem of interest. Also when I need to generate some DSM employees (as registered in DSM's global HR and energy, a short learning session is great, offering new insights training systems) received an average of 25 hours training and ideas. Bright Learning also provides me with very practical each in 2016. tools and tips for dealing with our rapidly changing 166 employees participated in the Bright Talent Program. environment. It keeps me up to date with the latest insights. Ninety-five percent of DSM’s leadership population has It also forces me to engage more actively in my personal so far been trained in the DSM Leadership Model. development as a leader: you’re never too old or too In 2016, a comprehensive online learning platform was experienced to learn.” launched. Called Bright Learning, it consists of more than 2,150 learning modules. A new global mentoring approach is being developed, comprising an online platform to self-initiate mentoring relationships plus a supporting toolkit. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 46 www.dsm.com DSM aims to make learning more accessible so that employees DSM has mapped the potential human rights impacts of the can benefit from development opportunities anytime, anywhere. company’s business activities through a global risk assessment. In addition to formal learning (such as classroom training) we are The assessment has shown that the categories of human rights putting more emphasis on the role of learning through others most relevant and applicable to DSM relates to employees' (such as peer group learning) and learning through experiences working conditions and our supply chain. This is why we review (such as guided on-the-job experiences). and update the company’s HR policies and procedures on an ongoing basis. DSM has developed and implemented a global The DSM Training Portfolio is available to all employees. It offers rewards/compensation strategy with the intention of ensuring a wide selection of programs to build leadership along with consistency and fairness (fair pay) in our reward programs across functional and professional skills. We are in the process of business groups, employee segments and geographies. Regular evaluating the business impact of our learning and development reviews of policies and guidelines are carried out to make sure programs. they are up to date and meet the standards of our global rewards/compensation strategy. International Labour Organisation (ILO) Beyond our own operations, potential labor and human rights DSM applies the International Labour Standards of the ILO. DSM impacts are taken care of through our Supplier Sustainability respects the role of works councils and collective bargaining, Program (SSP). The compliance part of our SSP means that we and in countries or business where they represent employees screen suppliers on potential human rights impacts via we work constructively with these groups. As is the case in the sustainability assessments and audits. Read more about our implementation of our new organizational and operating model, SSP and how we manage potential human rights impacts within DSM develops and implements a social or severance program our supply chain on page 31. in the event of significant reorganizations. DSM promotes employee empowerment and human rights protection and maintains dialogues with its employees and representative DSM statement on modern slavery bodies to enable this. See ‘New organizational and operating model’ in this chapter. DSM values international business standards and we are committed to ensuring that there is no slavery, forced labor Human rights or human trafficking in our supply chains or in any part of our business. Our Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) Respecting human rights is essential in all DSM’s activities. The reflects our commitment to acting ethically and with integrity basic rights and freedoms to which all people are entitled should in our business relationships and the commitment we be understood, respected and promoted by companies as a expect from our suppliers to do the same. As part of our cornerstone of being a socially responsible business. initiative to identify and mitigate risks of slavery, forced labor and human trafficking occurring in our supply chains, each DSM has a longstanding commitment to international of our suppliers is required to sign up to our SCoC in order declarations and instruments that safeguard human rights, to work with us and in 2016, our SCoC coverage was 96%. including: Our suppliers are contractually obliged to comply with its terms and DSM’s business and ethical standards. Our the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights; SCoC expressly prohibits involvement in human trafficking the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (the and the use of slavery, forced labor or child labor. Ruggie Framework); the ILO International Labour Standards; and Besides monitoring compliance with the above, we are the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. working to identify where the greatest risks of slavery, forced labor and human trafficking arise within our business We have been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since and supply chains, and are reviewing our procedures and 2007. policies for combatting slavery and human trafficking, including assessing the need to revise our internal Respecting and recognizing human rights is an integral part of processes and enhance the due diligence we conduct on existing DSM policies and programs. In addition, DSM has our suppliers. published a human rights position paper to further underscore our commitment. A Human Rights Policy forms the basis to further embed the responsibility to respect human rights in all business functions and regions. DSM’s global whistleblower policy (DSM Alert) is in place for both employees and external stakeholders to report any perceived violations of human rights as well as violations of laws and regulations. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 47 www.dsm.com You can’t solve the problem at the end, you need to start solving it from the beginning of the cycle. This is how we can make a circular economy truly work. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 48 www.dsm.com Planet in 2016 DSM’s operating network spans more than 100 commercial How DSM creates value production facilities in over 40 countries. We report on the environmental impact of these business operations, and commit People People to delivering improvements, solutions and innovations that contribute to protecting the planet. We aim to improve both our own and our supply chain’s environmental footprint, and to Planet Planet deliver environmental benefits to customers and end-users through our Brighter Living Solutions. In our value chain, our key Planet inputs are raw materials (including renewables), energy Pr (including renewables) and water. This chapter describes our approach toward environmental topics relating to natural capitals that appear in DSM’s materiality Greenhouse-gas Greenhouse-gas matrix – Climate change & renewable energy, Resource emissions emissions, efficiency (in million tons CO2eq) improvement scarcity / Circular & bio-based economy, Water security, Biodiversity – as well as other relevant topics such as waste, emissions to air, and product stewardship. Our Planet approach directly influences some of the Sustainable Development Goals, 1.5 4% such as SDG 7 (Affordable and Clean Energy), SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production) and SDG 13 (Climate Action). The topic Sustainable food systems is Energy use Energy efficiency addressed in 'Review of business Nutrition’ from page 64 (in petajoules) improvement onwards. The Planet performance elements are detailed in ‘Sustainability statements − Planet’ on page 128. See also ‘How 22.6 2% DSM creates value for its stakeholders’ on page 20 and ‘Stakeholder engagement’ on page 24. DSM Responsible Care Plan 2016-2020 DSM’s Responsible Care Plan 2016-2020 is an integral part of Purchased electricity Purchased the company’s Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth. This from renewables renewable plan comprises ambitions, targets and actions in the field of raw safety, health, environment, sustainable value chains (Product materials 8% 16.5% Stewardship and sustainable products) and security. DSM’s main environmental target is a further reduction of greenhouse-gas (GHG) emissions per unit of product, in other words, improving our GHG efficiency. Building on the 20% Water consumption Recycled waste efficiency improvement achieved from 2008-2015, we raised the (in million m3) bar again last year when we set our current target, which aims for at least a further 25% GHG efficiency improvement for the period 2016-2025. This will bring the anticipated total GHG 22 83% efficiency gains in the period 2008-2025 to 40-45%. DSM’s GHG reductions are being driven by improving our energy efficiency by 10% by 2025 compared to 2015, purchasing at least 50% of our electricity from renewable sources by 2025, and exploiting opportunities for heat and fuel from renewable sources. DSM operates in some regions where concerns exist about water security and air pollution levels. Consequently, we have Our Planet approach engages with SDG 7 (Affordable and also defined targets relating to water and emissions to air. As Clean Energy), SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production) and SDG 13 (Climate Action) part of our sustainability ambitions and the transition to a circular economy, a waste recycling target has been defined. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 49 www.dsm.com The year 2016 is the first year in which the acquisitions of the The contribution of DSM Jiangshan is material to DSM's Planet Dyneema site in Mesa (Arizona, USA) and the DSM Nutritional reporting. The data of these new units are included in the Products site in Jiangshan (China), as well as the activities of the reported totals but cannot be included in the efficiency new DSM Engineering Plastics NHU joint venture in Zhejiang improvement indicators yet, since there is no prior reference year (China) have been included in the environmental reporting. available. Planet Indicators Targets Realization 2016 GHG efficiency improvement 40-45% (2008-2025) 23% Energy efficiency improvement >1% annually (>10% in 2025, reference 2% 2015) Electricity purchased from renewable sources 50% in 2025 8% Reduction of emissions to air per unit of 40% in 2020 (reference 2015) 25% product (VOC, NOx, SO2) Waste 80-90% recycled by 2020 83% Water Water risk assessments completed on 67% 90% of selected sites by 2020 Climate change & renewable energy By implementing the GHG Protocol scope 2 guidance, the scope 2 emissions from our purchased electricity are now also It is widely accepted that certain gases (e.g. carbon dioxide, calculated using the so-called ‘market-based’ method, reflecting methane, nitrous oxide) contribute significantly to climate GHG emissions from electricity that DSM has purposefully change. These gases, which are also emitted due to a wide chosen to contract, in addition to the ‘location-based’ method range of human activities, intensify the planet’s natural that reflects the average GHG emissions intensity of grids on greenhouse effect, causing global warming. DSM is deeply which electricity consumption occurs. committed to combat climate change by reducing the impact of our own operations and in our supply chains, by enabling our customers through providing low-carbon products and “ Everyone needs to act if we are going to successfully x solutions, and through advocating climate action. tackle climate change and transition to a low fossilTo encourage investments in low-carbon or carbon-free carbon economy. We made good progress in 2016 technologies, DSM includes the financial impact of GHG in improving DSM’s environmental efficiency on a emissions (scope 1 and 2) through internal carbon pricing in the number of key measures, as well as taking a big valuations of large investment projects from 2016 onwards. For each large investment proposal at DSM, two business cases step in renewable energy. Our innovative, have to be presented one with and one without an internal sustainable solutions also enable customers to carbon price of € 50/t CO2eq. See ‘Stakeholder engagement’ on page 24 to read more about DSM’s activities in climate advocacy reduce their emissions in turn. ” with governments, collaborative platforms and business Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman Managing Board networks on topics including renewable energy and carbon pricing. Greenhouse-gas (GHG) emissions DSM has applied the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, developed by the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), to report GHG emissions (scope 1, 2 and 3) since 2008. In 2016, DSM further improved its GHG reporting by implementing the latest GHG Protocol scope 2 guidance (2015), updating all of its used emission factors and including all GHG emissions related to electricity and steam generated on-site that is exported to third parties. These improvements in the GHG reporting methodology contributed to an overall increase in our reported emissions. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 50 www.dsm.com GHG emissions scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions scope 3 In 2016, DSM emitted a total of 1.5 million tons of CO2eq The Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Corporate Value Chain (location-based), which is an increase of 0.4 million tons Standard defines scope 3 emissions as all indirect emissions compared to 2015. The increase is mainly caused by the occurring in the value chain that are not included in scope 2, inclusion of recent acquisitions in DSM's environmental reporting including both upstream and downstream emissions. As such, (0.2 million tons CO2eq), the inclusion of emissions related to the reported scope 3 emissions cover many different aspects of electricity and steam generated on-site that is exported to third the value chain and are therefore largely based on global parties (0.1 million tons CO2eq) and the improvements made to averages, estimates, extrapolations and assumptions. DSM the reporting mentioned above. Our market-based scope 1 & 2 applies the WBCSD 'Guidance for Accounting & Reporting GHG emissions were 1.4 million tons. Corporate GHG emissions in the Chemical Sector Value Chain' to determine the scope 3 emissions per category. GHG emissions related to on-site-generated electricity and steam exported to third parties made up 8% of total GHG In 2016, DSM determined its scope 3 emissions bottom-up and emissions. The GHG emissions related to exported energy are not by extrapolation as in 2015. DSM's scope 3 emissions in excluded from the determination of DSM's own GHG efficiency 2016 were slightly above 2015 levels. The increases in improvement. Purchased goods and services and End-of-life-treatment of sold products are mainly the result of higher production volumes. The In 2016, DSM’s GHG efficiency improved by 4% versus 2015 Investments category went down due to fewer participations in (both years location-based). A new high efficiency separation 2016. Other changes are assumed to be relatively minor and technology at DSM Nutritional Products in Dalry (UK) combined within the limits of scope 3 reporting accuracy. It should be noted with higher production volumes, especially of products with a that DSM's scope 3 emissions for 2015 have been restated to lower specific energy usage, contributed significantly to this correct for an omission following the deconsolidation of DSM improvement. Additional significant contributions came from our Fibre Intermediates and Composite Resins last year. site in Grenzach (Germany), which had a higher utilization rate of its combined on-site heat and power plant. DSM strives to achieve a sustained reduction of its carbon footprint across the value chain, for example through the DSM Supplier Sustainability Program (SSP). See also 'Stakeholder Greenhouse-gas emissions in DSM’s value chain in million tons, CO2eq engagement − ‘Suppliers’ on page 31 to read more about our SSP strategy. Purchased goods and services Purchased electricity and steam DSM’s greenhouse-gas emissions (scope 3) DSM End-of-life-treatment of sold products and Investments Purchased goods and services End-of-life-treatment of sold products ~10 million Investments CO2eq ~9 million 12,000 9,900 10,000 9,090 CO2eq, kilotons 8,000 7,300 6,400 6,000 1.0 million 0.5 million 4,000 2,450 2,000 1,700 scope scope scope scope 0 3 2 1 3 2016 2015 © 2016 Royal DSM indirect indirect direct indirect Upstream activities DSM Downstream activities Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 51 www.dsm.com Avoided emissions In 2016, DSM implemented various energy efficiency Avoided emissions are defined as the difference between the life improvement projects and initiated new studies and projects that cycle GHG emissions from the products and solutions of the will deliver energy reductions in the years to come. These reporting company, and comparable solutions (i.e. a investments in 2016 amounted to € 8.7 million and when fully conventional product or market average). We apply the WBCSD implemented are expected to deliver around 1.5% in structural and International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) energy efficiency improvements, as well as an annual cost saving guidelines for accounting and reporting GHG emissions avoided of approximately € 2.3 million. The projects include both smaller along the value chain for the chemicals sector. operational and maintenance improvements, as well as the replacement of less efficient process equipment. The main DSM is actively involved in the latest review and update of these energy efficiency improvements were achieved at two DSM guidelines. Their principles are applied as part of DSM’s Brighter Nutritional Products sites where older cooling equipment was Living Solutions program, whereby one of the drivers is to have replaced by state-of-the-art equipment, as well as by a process measurably lower GHG emissions along the life cycle. Applicable improvement project to replace a single-stage unit with a twoDSM products and solutions for which avoided GHG emissions stage distillation unit at our hydrocolloids site in China. may be evaluated include proprietary enzymes and cultures for use within the food and beverage industry, animal feed additives, Renewable energy and lightweight cargo nets made from Dyneema® fiber. DSM is committed to the responsible, efficient use of electricity. We are a signatory to the Climate Group’s RE100, which brings A further example where DSM helps its customers avoid together the world’s leading companies committed to sourcing ® emissions is the application of Uralac Ultra powder coatings for 100% of their electricity from renewable sources at the earliest heat-sensitive substrates such as wood, which can result in a possible opportunity. reduction of up to 80% in the carbon footprint of the applied coating when compared to conventional technologies. With Our intermediate target for 2025 is for 50% of DSM’s purchased DSM’s strategic focus on Brighter Living Solutions, we aim to electricity to be obtained from renewable resources. We do this continue increasing the number of innovations and sales in by engaging in purchase power agreements, securing products and solutions that contribute to avoided GHG Renewable Electricity Certificates and increasing the amount of emissions. renewable electricity generated on-site. However, DSM is dependent on the availability of renewable electricity from the grid or through local electricity production. Regulations and “The longer we take to move to a low fossil-carbon policies on renewable energy vary from country to country, economy, the higher the costs for future generations and affecting our ability to scale up our procurement of electricity for those already at risk today. Effective and inclusive from renewable sources. Consequently we actively collaborate carbon pricing can facilitate and speed up this transition. At with authorities and other companies to jointly scale up the DSM, we apply an internal price of € 50 per ton CO2eq. supply of electricity from renewable sources on the grid (also I am pleased to see that a rapidly growing movement of referred to as ‘additionality’). In 2016, 8% of purchased electricity organizations, including thousands of companies, also sees came from renewable sources. We took a big step in the year climate action as both an inevitable opportunity and a moral with DSM's participation in Windpark Krammer, see the case responsibility.” study on the next page. Feike Sijbesma, Co-Chair Carbon Pricing Leadership Water security Coalition Water and waste water Water is essential for life. Global water demand has risen sharply during recent decades, while the availability of water resources DSM’s energy transition is changing due to multiple factors. As a result, more and more DSM’s total annual energy consumption increased from 20.9 to regions face water stress, including regions in which DSM 22.6 petajoules in 2016. The increase is related to the inclusion operates. Our water program focuses on identifying and of recent acquisitions in DSM's reported figures in 2016. mitigating water risks in these regions. DSM sites that are either located in areas with shortor long-term water scarcity risks or Improving energy efficiency is the most cost-effective way to have waste water discharge levels above Best Available reduce GHG emissions in our operations. DSM’s energy Techniques have to perform a water risk assessment and roadmap prioritizes investments in energy-efficient technologies implement appropriate measures to mitigate adverse effects on and practices that reduce emissions and costs. In 2016, DSM’s water quality and availability. At the end of 2016, 67% of DSM's energy efficiency improved by 2% compared to 2015. A multiapplicable sites had a valid water risk assessment in place as year energy efficiency improvement program is in place to obtain well as plans to execute the measures defined. an annual improvement of at least 1%. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 52 www.dsm.com From 2016 onwards, DSM reports water consumption in addition to water use. Our water use includes water used for ‘once-through cooling’ that is returned to the original water Companies have scale to help source after use. Water consumption is the portion of water used that is not returned to the original water source after being transition to renewables withdrawn and as such is a better indicator with which to manage DSM's impact on water availability. Compared to 2015, In the Netherlands, DSM has joined forces with AkzoNobel, water use was up 3% to 104 million m3, the increase being Google and Philips in undertaking a long-term agreement to almost entirely driven by a higher city water consumption due to source power from local renewable energy projects. The first the inclusion of new acquisitions in the reporting. DSM's water project the consortium has engaged in is a unique ‘bottomconsumption was 22 million m3 in 2016. up’ initiative – Windpark Krammer – in which local citizens have come together in cooperatives to drive the development DSM’s water pollution reduction programs aim to reduce total of a wind farm in partnership with the four companies. This is water pollution, mainly through reductions in Chemical Oxygen the first time in the Netherlands that a group of multinational Demand. Performance on this measure improved by 4% companies has teamed up with local citizens to create what compared to 2015, largely as a result of improvements at our is effectively a consumer-to-business energy partnership; the sites in Sisseln (Switzerland), Delft (Netherlands) and Wilmington consortium’s participation is crucial to the project’s funding. (Massachusetts, USA). Waste As part of our ambitions to move toward a circular economy, we aim to reduce the amount of waste produced at DSM. The waste that is produced is preferably recycled; our recycling target helps us drive this. Landfilling waste is the least preferred alternative. Our definition for waste recycled is the percentage of total waste related to normal operations that is recycled, or, if that is not possible, incinerated off site with heat recovery. In 2016, this applied to 83% of DSM's waste, providing a good basis to reach the upper end of the targeted range by 2020. Other emissions to air This bottom-up approach is an interesting, win-win model, Other emissions to air include VOC, NOx and SO2. While because highly engaged individuals, industrial-scale users, absolute emissions increased due to the inclusion of recent windfarm developers and the achievement of the national acquisitions in the scope for Planet reporting as stated above, Dutch renewable energy target all benefit. DSM further reduced its other emissions to air per unit of product in 2016, thereby improving our efficiency in this regard. This When Windpark Krammer comes online in 2018, around 5% came to a 25% reduction by the end of 2016, which is firmly on of its output will be used to provide local homes and small track toward our target of a 40% reduction by 2020. The main businesses with renewable power, while the remaining 95% contribution to this improvement came from a DSM Dyneema will be used by the consortium’s four industrial partners. Once site in China: 2016 was the first full year in which a new emission at full capacity, Windpark Krammer will supply DSM with abatement system was operational. An overview of the absolute 90GWh of renewable electricity annually – nearly 10% of the emissions can be found in the ‘Sustainability statements − total amount of electricity DSM purchased in 2016. Planet’ on page 128. Windpark Krammer is the largest citizen’s initiative in the Netherlands. The more than 4,000 members of the Biodiversity cooperatives and Zeeuwind and Deltawind have taken the DSM identifies and monitors protected areas in the vicinity of its initiative to develop the wind farm on and around the sites and our impact on them. Sixty percent of our sites have Krammersluizen in the Dutch province of Zeeland. The been identified as being located in or adjacent to areas of high consortium partners have agreed to source a total of 350GWh biodiversity value. In all cases, production sites are operating a year of green electricity from the windpark, equivalent to the within applicable limits, as defined by local authorities. See also total annual consumption of 100,000 households. ‘Stakeholder engagement’ on page 24 and DSM’s position paper on Biodiversity on the company website. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 53 www.dsm.com Resource scarcity / Circular & bio-based economy Products & Services, and new ventures such as DSM-Niaga. The world’s growing population and expanding middle class are See also ‘Stakeholder engagement’ on page 24, 'Review of increasing the demand for food, materials, and energy. DSM is business Materials' and 'Review of business Innovation dedicated to securing the future availability of natural resources, Center' from page 74 and page 82 onwards respectively. and to unlocking more value from the limited resources that are available. In this regard, we support the inevitable transition the Renewable raw materials world must make toward a circular and bio-based economy, DSM views the use of renewable resources as an essential step which requires a different way of thinking compared to linear in securing future resource availability. In addition to energy from value chains. renewable sources, DSM is looking toward opportunities in renewable raw materials. Our memberships of the Ellen The Ellen MacArthur Foundation defines the circular economy as MacArthur Foundation CE100 and the Low Carbon Technology one which is restorative and regenerative by design, and aims Partnership, led by the WBCSD, provide insight into new ways to keep products, components, and materials at their highest in which DSM can incorporate renewable raw materials into its utility and value at all times. It is a continuous positive processes. These collaborations also help position the role of development cycle that preserves and enhances natural capital, waste streams and low carbon-intensive fuels as viable optimizes resource yields, and minimizes system risks by alternatives. Our Niaga collaboration and POET-DSM managing finite stocks and renewable flows. partnership continue to demonstrate this. DSM adopts a multi-faceted approach to the circular and bioDSM selects renewable raw material suppliers where feasible. based economy. We are focused on exploring ways to: Renewable raw materials used by DSM include waste from the agricultural industry, yeasts and enzymes, carbohydrates, and Reduce the use of critical resources natural oils and acids. In 2016, DSM’s spend on raw materials Enable recycling and redesign with smart materials relating to renewable raw materials rose to 16.5% (2015: 16%) Advocate the circular and bio-based economy due to increased demand for our nutrition and health products. See also DSM’s position paper on sustainable biomass on the We also consider the sharing economy as part of the circular company website. economy. In this regard, we are looking into new business models and opportunities for our Materials businesses. The Product Stewardship concept of increased joint ownership of products such as cars DSM’s sustainability strategy is supported by Product may lead to a reduced demand for such products in the future; Stewardship, whereby we provide transparency and clarity on this could present an opportunity for DSM’s high-quality, longersubstances and their safe production, processing, use and lasting solutions, as well as forming a risk for parts of our current disposal. DSM recognizes both the impact and the benefit of a product portfolio. Product Stewardship strategy as part of our own responsibility in the full value chain, in line with the principles of Responsible Care. Circular economy Last year, DSM raised its ambitions in Product Stewardship to Renewable energy address societal and external opportunities, requirements and expectations, in line with our sustainability programs. Our vision for Product Stewardship is for it to be part of ‘our way of ct s ts uc working’. In 2016, the following progress was made in this area: d semble disas o Technosphere Biosphere pr pro (recycle & re-use) (decomposition A global competence plan based on a SWOT analysis was e& & enrichment) prepared in order to give direction and provide context on the a s s e m ble du role of Product Stewardship. We initiated a continuous improvement program to control & Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC) in DSM products lect uc od Co Pr and within the supply chain. l A ‘Product Stewardship Network’ was established at central level, coordinating the efforts of the Product Stewardship groups within our business groups. Our efforts were recognized by Chemical Watch in their special report 'Business Guide to Safer Chemicals'. In 2016, DSM continued to pursue new circular and bio-based opportunities within its businesses in the framework of its Regarding the control of SVHCs, DSM assesses all substances Brighter Living Solutions program, as well as in DSM Bio-based of which more than 1 ton per year is used in its processes so as Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 54 www.dsm.com to identify and monitor long-term human and environmental hazards. This assessment will be completed by the end of 2020. Identified SVHCs need to be reported in a DSM Priority Substance List and their use challenged in an internal justification process involving a multidisciplinary team. The final goal is the phase-out of toxic substances, not only from DSM’s own portfolio but from the full life cycle of its products, in line with the company's commitment to bring more sustainable alternatives to the market. Where substitution is not currently possible, a risk assessment is performed following standard industry procedures. If safe use cannot be shown, the SVHC is prohibited from further use or production within DSM. DSM is working to meet the 2018 deadline of the EU regulation on REACH, by registering all substances of which between 1 and 100 metric tons per year is produced. At the same time, we continuously update existing dossiers and support EU member states in evaluating an increasing number of substances. We also engage with our raw materials suppliers to guarantee sustainable business through REACH compliance along the value chain. DSM supports the UN initiative to implement a Globally Harmonized System of classification and labeling of chemicals, for which an internal e-learning has been developed. We closely follow developments on health exposure scenarios for mixtures that need to be implemented in the industry’s product safety systems. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 55 www.dsm.com Profit highlights Profit in 2016 “ We posted good results for DSM in x 2016, well ahead of our initial ambitions for this first year of our strategic period. While we still have much to do in the coming years, we have established a strong foundation from which to continue to grow. ” Geraldine Matchett, CFO Our Strategy 2018 is underpinned by two mid-term headline One of our key focus areas has been on improving our working financial targets: growth in Adjusted EBITDA and ROCE. These capital as a percentage of sales. At the end of 2016, this was are based on our ability to outgrow our markets and at the same 18.4%, which is better than our aspiration level of below 20%. time deliver significant structural cost savings and improvement Capital efficiency is a key driver of cash generation; in 2016 we actions, underscored by disciplined capital allocation across the undertook a number of improvement projects in this area company. throughout DSM. One of these has been to take a more integrated approach to business planning, in particular in our I am pleased to say that in 2016, the first year of this period, we Nutrition cluster. Holistically addressing processes instead of have posted financial results that are considerably ahead of our approaching them as a series of individual steps has resulted in mid-term targets, with an Adjusted EBITDA growth of 17% and clear improvements in inventory management, production and ROCE stepping up from 7.6% to 10.4%. Net sales came in at distribution efficiencies. € 7,920 million, representing a top-line organic growth for the company of 4%, with both our Nutrition and Materials Again in line with Strategy 2018, we took a first step toward businesses making a strong contribution. We also made good monetizing our key joint venture partnerships with our progress in terms of profitability, with robust margin participation in the very successful IPO of Patheon N.V. in July development in Nutrition and especially so in Materials. The clear 2016. This resulted in a first gain and cash in-flow for DSM in step-up in ROCE – the return we deliver on each euro we employ 2016 in excess of € 200 million and has opened the way for – was driven by a higher EBIT. On the basis of these results, we further steps in future with regards to our remaining 34% stake. are pleased to propose an increased dividend of € 1.75 for the year, subject to shareholder approval. During the year, we also successfully issued a € 750 million tenyear bond with a coupon of 0.75%. Favorable market conditions The cost-saving and improvement programs we initiated in 2015 allowed us to lock-in low interest rates taking into account the have been a major area of focus this year. A lot has been upcoming maturing of a € 750 million bond in 2017. achieved and we remain firmly on track. The organizational and operational changes being implemented go beyond costIn achieving these results, one of the things that has impressed savings alone; the way we are organized, the things we do and me most has been the dedication and unwavering commitment the processes we follow are being reshaped for agility and of the thousands of DSM employees around the world. My growth. colleagues and I on the Executive Committee are well aware that our company is undergoing a period of vital organizational We have continued to invest in our businesses and in growth transformation. This internal process could have proved a through 2016, committing around 6% of our sales to carefully distraction for many in our company. Instead, what we have seen selected capital projects. As a science-based company, R&D has been a continued clear commitment to focus on our markets and innovation remains fundamental to our ability to deliver and on customer relationships and customer needs. This deepsolutions that make a real difference to our customers’ seated dedication has paid off in 2016, and underlies the businesses, and to their customers in turn. We continued to valuable relations we have with our partners in the value chain. spend in this area to stay ahead of the game, albeit with a clear focus on the optimum impact of our investments. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 56 www.dsm.com Profit in 2016 Financial results Within the Profit dimension of DSM’s Triple P approach, DSM How DSM creates value delivers a sustainable financial return. This ensures business People continuity and allows the company to grow, while at the same time providing a good financial return to its shareholders. This chapter reports DSM’s financial performance and provides an overview of the key Planet financial metrics of the company. A modelPlanet of How DSM creates value for its stakeholders through the financial, intellectual and manufactured capitals is given on page Profit Profit 20. Income statement Organic sales Higher-margin x € million 2016 2015 growth innovation sales Net sales1 7,920 7,722 Adjusted EBITDA1 EBITDA1 1,262 1,174 1,075 956 4% 22% Adjusted operating profit1 791 573 Operating profit1 685 362 Capital expenditure Cash€ from operating (cash-based), activities Adjusted net profit1 512 383 total DSM (in million) Net profit1 649 184 (in million) Adjusted net profit from discontinued operations 33 € 475 € € 1,018 Total APM adjustments 109 (328) Adjusted EBITDA ROCE growth Total net profit attributable to growth (in bps) equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 621 88 ROCE (in %)1 Adjusted EBITDA margin, (in %)1 10.4 15.9 7.6 13.9 17% 280 € 1 From continuing operations Dividend per ordinary In presenting and discussing DSM’s financial position, operating share € results and cash flows, DSM uses certain Alternative performance measures (APMs) not defined by IFRS. These APMs are used because they are an important measure of DSM’s business development and DSM’s management € 1.75 performance. A full reconciliation of IFRS performance measures to the APMs is given in the ‘Alternative performance measures’ on page 144. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 57 www.dsm.com Net sales and Adjusted EBITDA At € 7,920 million, net sales from continuing operations in 2016 were 3% higher than in 2015 (€ 7,722 million), while organic growth was 4%. Volume development accounted for a 4% improvement, driven by both Nutrition and Materials, while price/mix was on average flat compared to 2015. Exchange rate fluctuations had a negative impact of 1%, while other effects balanced each other out. Net sales Adjusted EBITDA x € million 2016 2015 % change 2016 2015 % change DSM, continuing operations 7,920 7,722 3% 1,262 1,075 17% Nutrition 5,169 4,963 4% 931 822 13% Materials 2,513 2,528 (1%) 435 384 13% Innovation Center 167 155 8% 1 (9) Corporate Activities 71 76 (105) (122) Net sales bridge 2016 Adjusted EBITDA margin in % x € million ■ 2015 ■ 2016 0% -1% 7,920 0% 20 4% 18.0 17.3 16.6 15.9 15.2 15 13.9 7,722 10 5 0 Nutrition Materials Total continuing 2015 Volume Price/mix FX Other 2016 operations Adjusted EBITDA (Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations before depreciation and amortization) increased by a significant 17% or € 187 million, from € 1,075 million in 2015 to € 1,262 million in 2016. Adjusted EBITDA in Nutrition was up 13% versus 2015, with all businesses contributing well to this growth. Profitability also benefited from the efficiency and cost-saving programs. In Materials, Adjusted EBITDA was also up 13%, driven by strong volume growth in higher margin specialties, the benefits of the efficiency and cost-saving programs and the support from low input costs. DSM's overall Adjusted EBITDA margin was also up at 15.9% in 2016 (2015: 13.9%). Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations rose from € 573 million in 2015 to € 791 million in 2016, up 38%. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 58 www.dsm.com Net sales by origin, continuing operations Net sales by business segment, continuing operations in % in % ■ Netherlands ■ China ■ Nutrition ■ Innovation Center ■ Rest of Western Europe ■ India ■ Materials ■ Corporate Activities ■ Eastern Europe ■ Japan ■ North America ■ Rest of Asia ■ Latin America ■ Rest of the world 2016 11 3 1 2015 11 4 1 2016 21 2015 21 11 25 11 25 7 32 33 9 18 65 64 19 31 27 2 2 Net sales by destination, continuing operations Net sales by end-use market, continuing operations in % in % ■ Netherlands ■ China ■ Health and nutrition ■ Electrical & electronics ■ Rest of Western Europe ■ India ■ Metal/building & construction ■ Packaging ■ Eastern Europe ■ Japan ■ Automotive/transport ■ Other ■ North America ■ Rest of Asia ■ Textiles ■ Latin America ■ Rest of the world 2016 3 4 2015 3 4 2016 8 2015 8 10 9 3 6 7 3 2 25 2 24 5 5 1 1 12 12 7 7 6 6 6 6 66 67 12 14 23 23 Net profit Net profit attributable to equity holders of DSM increased by € 533 million to € 621 million. This increase was mainly a result of higher Adjusted EBITDA (up € 187 million) and differences in APM adjustments, see below. Expressed per ordinary share, net earnings amounted to € 3.52 in 2016 (2015: € 0.45). Financial income and expense decreased by € 41 million compared to the previous year to € 133 million. This was mainly the consequence of more favorable hedge results and lower interest expenses. The effective tax rate on the adjusted result from continuing operations for 2016 was 18% (2015: 23%). This substantial decrease was due among other factors to a better geographical mix and the fact that 2015 included a one-off tax settlement related to the internal transfer of a business. Adjustments made in arriving at DSM's Alternative performance measures (APM adjustments) Total APM adjustments for the full year amounted to a profit of € 109 million, consisting of a profit regarding associates and joint ventures of € 212 million (mainly due to the gain of € 232 million on the IPO of Patheon N.V.), offset by € 101 million in restructuring costs related to the ongoing cost-reduction programs, € 18 million impairments and € 15 million acquisition/divestment-related and other costs, with a tax benefit of € 31 million. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 59 www.dsm.com Cash flow statement x € million 2016 2015 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 665 669 Cash flow provided by operating activities 1,018 696 of which provided by continuing operations 1,018 800 Cash used in investing activities (1,194) (275) Cash from / used in financing activities 113 (440) Effect of exchange differences 2 15 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 604 665 Cash flow provided by operating activities consists of the EBITDA for the year (€ 1,146 million) less various cash-out items including income tax of € 77 million and changes in working capital of € 89 million. Our focus on cash flow resulted in a strong full-year operating cash flow from continuing operations of € 1,018 million. See also ‘Consolidated financial statements’ on page 129. The cash used in investing activities included capital expenditures (€ 476 million) and the increase of fixed-term deposits (€ 936 million, see Note 14 'Current investments'), partly offset by the proceeds from disposals (€ 80 million) and the dividend received from associated companies (€ 152 million), mainly relating to the IPO of Patheon N.V. The cash from financing activities consisted mainly of the increase in long-term loans (€ 745 million), partly offset by dividend paid (€ 190 million), interest paid (€ 151 million) and repurchase of shares (€ 273 million). For the full cash flow statement, see page 139. Capital employed per business segment Equity at 31 December at 31 December 2016, continuing operations x € billion as a % of balance sheet total ■ Nutrition ■ Innovation Center ■ Materials ■ Corporate Activities 5.5 60 5 50 51 49 48 48 4 40 3 2 1.7 20 1 0.6 0.0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 60 www.dsm.com Balance sheet The balance sheet total (total assets) reached € 13.0 billion at year-end (2015: € 11.7 billion). Equity increased by € 549 million compared to the position at the end of 2015. This increase was due to the fact that the net profit for the year, the net exchange differences and the proceeds from reissued shares were higher than the dividend and the repurchase of shares. Equity as a percentage of total assets remained 48%. Compared to year-end 2015, net debt decreased by € 251 million to € 2,070 million. The gearing at year-end was 25%, a decrease of 4% compared to 2015. Capital expenditure on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment amounted to € 485 million in 2016 (€ 475 million on a cash basis), which was around the same level as amortization and depreciation. Total working capital amounted to € 1,481 million compared to € 1,343 million at year-end 2015, which represents 18.4% as a percentage of annualized fourth quarter 2016 sales. Total working capital at year-end 2016 included cash-related liabilities of joint ventures and associates of € 62 million, which is € 75 million lower than 2015. Excluding these liabilities, this ratio amounted to 19.1%. The operating working capital (continuing operations before reclassification to 'held for sale') was € 117 million higher than in the previous year and came to 24% of annualized net sales (2015: 24%). Cash and cash equivalents came to € 604 million at the end of the year; including current investments, this came to € 1,568 million (2015: € 674 million). The increase was mainly attributable to the € 750 million bond issued in September 2016, which took advantage of favorable market conditions to allow DSM to lock in low interest rates taking into account the maturing of a € 750 million bond in 2017. Balance sheet profile 2016 2015 x € million in % x € million in % Intangible assets 3,188 24 3,228 27 Property, plant and equipment 3,325 26 3,171 27 Other non-current assets 1,404 11 1,429 12 Cash and cash equivalents 604 5 665 6 Other current assets 4,437 34 3,250 28 Total assets 12,958 100 11,743 100 Equity 6,180 48 5,631 48 Provisions 182 1 139 1 Other non-current liabilities 3,478 27 3,600 31 Other current liabilities 3,118 24 2,373 20 Total liabilities 12,958 100 11,743 100 Outlook 2017 DSM aims to deliver high single-digit percentage Adjusted EBITDA growth and high double-digit bps ROCE growth in line with the targets set out in its Strategy 2018. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 61 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2016 In 2016, DSM's activities were grouped into three clusters: Nutrition, Materials and Innovation Center. In addition, DSM reports separately on Corporate Activities. Results presented in this section (and elsewhere in the management report) relate to consolidated activities only (therefore non-consolidated partnerships are excluded). Net sales Adjusted operating profit (EBIT) x € million 2016 2015 x € million 2016 2015 Nutrition 5,169 4,963 Nutrition 645 535 Materials 2,513 2,528 Materials 311 250 Innovation Center 167 155 Innovation Center (24) (43) Corporate Activities 71 76 Corporate Activities (141) (169) Total continuing operations 7,920 7,722 Total continuing operations 791 573 Discontinued operations 1,213 Discontinued operations 77 Total DSM 7,920 8,935 Total DSM 791 650 Adjusted EBITDA Capital employed at 31 December x € million 2016 2015 x € million 2016 2015 Nutrition 931 822 Nutrition 5,537 5,309 Materials 435 384 Materials 1,807 1,723 Innovation Center 1 (9) Innovation Center 576 560 Corporate Activities (105) (122) Corporate Activities (31) (39) Total continuing operations 1,262 1,075 Total continuing operations 7,889 7,553 Discontinued operations 95 Discontinued operations Total DSM 1,262 1,170 Total DSM 7,889 7,553 Adjusted EBITDA margin ROCE in % 2016 2015 in % 2016 2015 Nutrition 18.0 16.6 Nutrition 12.0 10.3 Materials 17.3 15.2 Materials 17.6 14.4 Total continuing operations 15.9 13.9 Total continuing operations 10.4 7.6 Discontinued operations 7.8 Discontinued operations 19.0 Total DSM 15.9 13.1 Total DSM 10.4 8.2 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 62 www.dsm.com Capital expenditure x € million 2016 2015 Nutrition 331 322 Materials 106 98 Innovation Center 32 34 Corporate Activities 16 24 Total continuing operations 485 478 Discontinued operations 92 Total, accounting based 485 570 Non-cash items (9) (27) Customer funding (1) (7) Total, cash based 475 536 R&D expenditure (including associated IP expenditure) x € million as % of net sales 2016 2015 2016 2015 Nutrition 205 223 4.0 4.5 Materials 124 143 4.9 5.7 Innovation Center 75 82 44.9 52.9 Corporate Activities 22 16 31.0 21.1 Total continuing operations 426 464 5.4 6.0 Workforce at 31 December headcount 2016 20151 Nutrition 13,260 12,978 Materials 4,460 4,472 Innovation Center 619 630 Corporate Activities 2,447 2,716 Total continuing operations 20,786 20,796 Discontinued operations Total DSM 20,786 20,796 1 Corrected for comparability Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 63 www.dsm.com Nutrition Nutritionhighlights “ Nutrition performed well in 2016, with x good growth in our Animal Nutrition & Health business, improved growth in Human Nutrition & Health, and strong demand for DSM Food Specialties’ innovative enzymes portfolio. ” Stephan Tanda, DSM Managing Board The leaders of DSM’s Nutrition businesses, from left to right: David Blakemore, Stephan Tanda, Ilona Haaijer, Jeremy Xu, Chris Goppelsroeder Our commitment to deliver safe, reliable, quality ingredients and In human nutrition we returned to good growth, building on the solutions that support health and well-being was underlined by work we had done in 2015. A highlight was the further a number of positive developments in 2016. We improved our development of our i-Health range of dietary supplements. A manufacturing footprint further, including the opening of a new further major achievement was the launch of MEG-3® Ultra from vitamin B6 plant in China, and strengthened our business our new facility with 3C Technology in Canada, which has the leadership bench with the appointment of Jeremy Xu and David potential to reshape the omega-3 category. Blakemore to head up our Human Nutrition & Health and Animal Nutrition & Health businesses, respectively. We welcome the growing influence of the first 1,000 Days initiative; everybody’s future is essentially determined in the In animal nutrition the positive sales trend of 2015 continued. Our critical period from conception to two years of age. We remain customers are looking for solutions that boost performance while as committed as ever to help deliver high-quality, cost-effective reducing environmental impact and protecting their margins. In nutrition to the four billion people living at the Base of the Pyramid 2016, we saw a strong uptake for feed enzymes and eubiotics and are honored to be able to participate in Africa Improved as producers increasingly sought alternatives to antibiotic Foods at the invitation of the Government of Rwanda. growth promoters. Meanwhile our quest for transformational new approaches continued with our major innovation projects Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients had a strong 2016, with Clean Cow and, together with partner Evonik, Green Ocean – organic growth across all segments, supported by product both designed to help meet the demand for macronutrients while innovation and deep customer and consumer insights. substantially reducing the environmental impact of farming. With our business-to-farmer (B2F) initiative, we targeted a new Our Food Specialties business also had a good year. The drive customer segment with a new brand in China, which has been to reduce the levels of salt, fat, sugar, and simple carbohydrates well received. in processed foods is creating new opportunities for DSM Food Specialties’ cultures and enzymes portfolio. The rise in demand for our innovative hydrocolloids portfolio is especially positive. Growing interest in lactose-free dairy products is also fueling growth. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 64 www.dsm.com Nutrition Nutrition cluster performance x € million 2016 2015 Nutrition net sales bridge 2016 Net sales: x € million DSM Nutritional Products:1 Animal Nutrition & Health 2,399 2,269 5,169 -1% 0% Human Nutrition & Health 1,823 1,741 2% Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients 337 316 3% Other 74 113 4,963 4,633 4,439 DSM Food Specialties 536 524 Total 5,169 4,963 2015 Volume Price/mix FX Other 2016 Organic sales growth (in %) 5 6 Adjusted EBITDA 931 822 Adjusted operating profit 645 535 DSM's Nutrition cluster had a strong year in 2016. Total sales Capital expenditure 331 322 amounted to € 5,169 million in 2016, up 4% from € 4,963 million Capital employed at 31 December 5,537 5,309 in the previous year. Organic sales growth was 5%, driven by ROCE (in %) 12.0 10.3 higher volumes and price/mix. Animal Nutrition & Health had a Adjusted EBITDA margin (in %) 18.0 16.6 strong year with 8% organic sales growth, driven by strong R&D expenditure 205 223 volume growth in all regions with the exception of Latin America, due to the weak economic conditions in that region. Human Workforce at 31 December Nutrition & Health delivered a significant step-up in organic (headcount) 13,260 12,978 growth (4%) in 2016 versus recent years. This highlights the successful implementation of the strategy to drive above-market 1 As of 2016, the results of DSM Nutritional Products are presented in four reporting growth through new market initiatives and innovation. units: Animal Nutrition & Health, Human Nutrition & Health, Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients and Other. Other covers pharma and custom manufacturing & services activities previously reported mainly in Animal Nutrition & Health. Adjusted EBITDA was up 13% versus 2015 to € 931 million (2015: € 822 million), with all businesses contributing well to this growth. Adjusted EBITDA also benefited from the efficiency and Business cost-saving programs. The Nutrition cluster comprises DSM Nutritional Products and Trends DSM Food Specialties. These businesses serve the global industries for animal feed, food and beverages, pharmaceuticals, The key global trends in nutrition and health continued to fuel the infant nutrition, dietary supplements and personal care. DSM is growth of our Nutrition business in 2016. Continued rapid uniquely positioned in all steps of the feed and food value chains: population growth accompanied by accelerating urbanization is the production of pure active ingredients, their incorporation into driving demand for convenience and processed foods that are sophisticated forms, and the provision of tailored premixes and safe, healthy, nutritious, affordable, and sustainable. This forward solutions. With a global and highly diversified portfolio of presents attractive growth opportunities for DSM, with our ability products, services and end-markets, DSM provides innovative to deliver innovative nutrition solutions tailored to precise solutions to the benefit of customers and other stakeholders customer needs the world over. worldwide. For more information on DSM's Nutrition cluster and its portfolio of businesses and products as well as their value Rising standards of living and changing dietary patterns, chains, please refer to DSM’s Factbook on the company especially in emerging economies, are stimulating demand for website. fish, meat, poultry and dairy products. This calls for more efficient but also more sustainable production of animal protein, respecting animal welfare, producers' livelihoods and the environment. Life expectancy continues to increase worldwide. Growing understanding of the role of nutrition in supporting health and Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 65 www.dsm.com well-being throughout the lifespan is encouraging healthier food throughout the course of life as a prerequisite for achieving full choices. Well-informed consumers are looking for products with physical, mental and economic potential as well as maintaining reduced levels of sugar, salt and trans fats as they begin to health and well-being. We also welcome the new scientific focus explore the possibilities of personalized nutrition. At the same on the changing nutrient requirements that individuals time, new scientific evidence arguing for differentiated nutrient experience at different stages of their lives. We regard eliminating intake patterns across the lifespan is creating new possibilities the scourge of malnutrition as a key societal priority and a shared for DSM, which can offer innovative approaches to food global responsibility in which we gladly play our part. We help fortification and dietary supplementation tailored to the needs of deliver better nutrition to society’s most vulnerable groups, and highly specific demographic groups. Increasingly consumers, we wholeheartedly endorse the 1,000 Days movement. Our especially in the developed world, are searching for foods that business serving the four billion who live at the Base of the are perceived as not only nutritious but also authentic, natural, Pyramid continues to grow, helping to make safe, nutritious and minimally processed and 'free from'. This poses new challenges affordable foods available to those with the slimmest economic to our customers. DSM can be a key partner here in formulating means. solutions that meet the needs of this consumer group. DSM is proud of its strategic partnership with the UN World Food The global need to address malnutrition is undeniable – in Programme. Dedicated to ‘Improving Nutrition, Improving Lives’, developed as well as developing countries. The importance of this partnership provides food aid and development assistance good nutrition during the first 1,000 days of life – from conception to the world’s hungry and also stimulates the establishment and to a child’s second birthday – is achieving increasing recognition nurturing of sustainable and self-supporting commercial nutrition worldwide, for unparalleled growth occurs during this period, business models in the developing world. Today, DSM reaches and inadequate nutrition at this time leads to adverse, lifelong more than 28 million people per year with improved nutrition consequences. Women of child-bearing age, as well as through the partnership. See 'Nourishing the Base of the pregnant and lactating mothers, need special support. Fortified Pyramid' on page 11 and ‘Cross-sector nutrition partnerships’ foods and supplements can play a valuable role here in contexts on page 36. where available diets are inadequate. Strategy Public concerns regarding food safety, quality, animal welfare and sustainability continue to foster a stricter regulatory climate. The Nutrition cluster’s unique business model aims to capture This provides new openings for DSM, with our science-driven opportunities arising from global megatrends by combining approach, our unrelenting focus on sustainability, and our production capabilities worldwide with customized local rigorous adherence to the highest production standards. Health formulations. DSM delivers a broad portfolio of high-quality, authorities and customers alike value our quality and safety competitive active ingredients for the nutrition industry with protocols and our continuous drive to exceed our own high global reach at scale. At the same time, we offer maximum requirements, as well as those stipulated by third parties. differentiation through industry and segment-specific formulations. As a local solutions provider with strong market Our customers are seeking not just product safety, quality and intimacy, we base our growth on delivering customer-driven reliability but also the transformational product innovations that solutions. offer them a competitive edge. We expect the search for customized solutions based on deeper scientific and marketing DSM has developed into one of the strongest players in the insights to continue unabated. industry by addressing growth opportunities through expanding and extending its offering across the value chain. We are active Sustainability in Nutrition in over 60 countries, with unparalleled customer access, a complete product portfolio, and advanced skills and Even as customers look for ever higher product differentiation capabilities. We have continued to expand our premix footprint, and consumers for ever stronger product safety assurances, the especially in emerging economies. In 2016, we opened a new world’s focus on sustainability continues to grow. Sustainability facility in Indonesia and expanded a number of existing facilities. is one of the key business drivers in DSM's Nutrition markets. The nutritional requirements of an expanding population place Over recent years, we have further expanded our product vast demands on the planet’s ecosystems. Our Nutrition cluster portfolio in Nutrition, adding capabilities in cultures, textures, delivers solutions that seek to meet the changing needs of the trace minerals and marine and microbial polyunsaturated fatty world’s population while reducing the environmental impact of acids to complement our unrivalled position in vitamins, our operations and those of our customers. carotenoids, eubiotics, enzymes and yeasts. Pectin-derived hydrocolloids and fermented gellan gum, which offer texturing Nutrition is a vital precondition for achieving 8 of the 17 solutions for reduced-sugar product recipes, are a highly Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), most directly attractive growth market. Rapidly increasing demand for lactosesupporting SDG 2 (Zero Hunger). We see good nutrition free and reduced-sugar dairy products, meanwhile, is driving strong sales of our Maxilact® enzyme. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 66 www.dsm.com The combination of our strong global position and integrated expertise and a clear understanding of customer and consumer business model has enabled DSM to become a leader in quality needs, as well as regular investment in quality management. and innovation, with deep regulatory, technical and sustainability Nutrition strategy 2018: global products and local solutions Growth acceleration and Aspirations 2018 sustainable innovations underpinning Group targets 1 Expand the core • Above-market sales growth (at stable prices) 2 Add new products & solutions 2 3 Expand in new segments/regions High single-digit percentage annual Adjusted EBITDA growth 4 New business models • Adjusted EBITDA margins: • Reducing costs and increasing 1 18-20% over the period productivity 3 4 Annual ROCE growth: • Driving cash generation high double-digit bps increase • Increasing capital efficiency Excellence in execution Going forward, we aim to drive profitable growth in Nutrition by This improvement program targets cost savings versus 2015 of leveraging the portfolio that has been created following a number € 130-150 million by 2018. The Nutrition cluster is also benefiting of acquisitions in recent years. We are driving topand bottomfrom the DSM-wide adjustment of its organizational and line growth by: operating model, allowing it to focus more on serving its customers and markets. Together with increased capital expanding our core capabilities and bringing them to more of efficiency, the cluster aims to deliver improved financial returns. the markets and territories we serve. In 2016, we opened a new, highly efficient and low eco-footprint production facility DSM takes a balanced view of its Nutrition business. Our for vitamin B6 in China. Also in China, we announced the strategy strives to maximize the opportunities arising from our expansion of our gellan gum and pectin facilities; portfolio and the key market and societal trends in nutrition, while broadening and deepening our portfolio with new products recognizing, anticipating and mitigating the risks that these and solutions, making full use of our expertise in sustainable global developments can also pose to our product-market innovation. One area is, for example, in eubiotics for antibioticcombinations or business progress. For Nutrition, these free poultry − a trend which is gaining traction, as consumers potentially include: longer-term changes in food preferences and are increasingly avoiding animal protein products produced food systems; changes in preference for dietary supplements; with growth-promoting antibiotics. Another is the trend toward commoditization of nutritional ingredients; the global or regional sugar reduction, and we continued to make good progress in spread of infectious diseases in animals; our ability to develop, the development of fermentative stevia; bring to market and exploit promising innovations; and the opening new segments and regions for our business − a good effects of geopolitical and macro-economic developments. For example being our investment in a new omega-3 more information on how DSM manages risks, see ‘Risk concentration facility in Mulgrave (Canada); and management’ on page 102. developing new business models to increase market share, such as the implementation of an approach to sell directly to mid-sized swine and poultry farmers in China with a dedicated brand and distribution. Our business strategy to accelerate organic sales growth is supported by cost savings and operational excellence measures to boost efficiency and productivity and drive cash generation. The cluster continued the implementation of a performance improvement program, which is based on the DSM manufacturing culture of continuous improvement and focuses on savings in purchasing, reduction of fixed costs, and gains in throughput and efficiency. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 67 www.dsm.com DSM Nutritional Products DSM Nutritional Products has three market-facing entities: RONOZYME® RumiStar™ Animal Nutrition & Health, Human Nutrition & Health and Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients. DSM Nutritional Products boosts dairy farmers’ margins achieved total sales of € 4,633 million in 2016; in 2015 this was € 4,439 million. while reducing environmental impact “ DSM is uniquely positioned in the worldwide x markets for nutritional ingredients and is investing An innovative product of the DSM/Novozymes feed enzymes alliance, RONOZYME® RumiStar™ increases the utilization heavily in innovation. This provides us with a of starch in ruminant diets, leading to improved milk fantastic foundation for further growth and to make production in dairy cows. a real difference to our customers and their The alpha-amylase RONOZYME® RumiStar™ was launched businesses. Through them, we bring better nutrition in the EU in 2016 following its successful market introduction to more people, more sustainably than ever in Brazil the year before. RONOZYME® RumiStar™ offers enzyme technology to the European ruminant sector for the before. ” first time, and is the only feed enzyme registered in the EU for Chris Goppelsroeder, DSM Executive Committee use in dairy herd diets. Feed is the greatest cost factor in dairy farming, so any increase in the efficiency of converting feed into milk will improve returns for dairy farmers. The use of feed enzymes to increase the uptake of nutrients in the feed has traditionally focused on poultry and swine – monogastric animals with a single stomach chamber. Ruminants have a four-chambered stomach, or rumen, and so a different enzymatic solution is required in their case. RONOZYME® RumiStar™ increases the rate of corn starch degradation in the cow’s stomach. As a result, a greater proportion of the nutrients in the feed is turned into energy and bacterial protein. RONOZYME® RumiStar™ also supports starch digestion in the small intestine. Less starch reaches the Animal Nutrition & Health hindgut to be excreted, reducing the environmental impact of milk production. Years of research went into identifying an enzyme that could Highlights 2016 consistently deliver significant improvements in feed digestibility in ruminants. Dairy cows fed on diets containing Strong organic growth RONOZYME® RumiStar™ produce 1.5 kg more milk per day Strong demand for specialty solutions such as feed with the same feed intake. A Life Cycle Analysis showed that enzymes, Hy-D and carotenoids the impact of milk production on climate change is reduced Pre-marketing work started on Green Ocean and Clean by about 5% when RONOZYME® RumiStar™ is added to a Cow initiatives corn-based dairy diet due to the higher milk yield per kilogram of feed, compared to the same diet without enzymes. The Animal Nutrition & Health business achieved sales of € 2,399 million in 2016 versus € 2,269 million in 2015. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 68 www.dsm.com This business addresses the global feed ingredients markets for RumiStar™ is the only enzyme registered in the EU for use in poultry, swine, aquaculture, ruminants and pets. For all these dairy farming. segments, DSM is a full value chain player, providing active ingredients, delivery systems, and nutritional and premix DSM’s innovation pipeline in animal nutrition is being increasingly solutions both globally and at a local level. We focus on the strengthened via our strategic alliances in enzymes with nutritional ingredients and additives segments of these markets. Novozymes and in lipids with Evonik and our proximity to progressive major players and key opinion leaders. The global animal nutrition and health market is driven by the need to improve production efficiency in response to the growing Pre-marketing work with leading aquaculture feed producers global demand for animal protein while at the same time reducing commenced for Green Ocean – a disruptive new algae-based the environmental impact of farming. The efficiency drive technology for the production of the two key omega-3 continued unabated for all species and across regions during polyunsaturated fatty acids (EPA and DHA) for use in fish feed. 2016. This led to a further rise in demand for our specialty animal EPA and DHA are essential nutrients for the health and nutritional solutions, with strong uptake in the enzyme category. development of fish such as salmon, which in itself is a key source of these nutrients in the human diet. Green Ocean The need to reduce the use of antibiotics and replace antibiotic responds to the growing global need for sustainable growth promotors continues to stimulate the search for aquaculture, while offering a competitive approach to delivering innovative new alternatives to foster animal health and welfare these essential fatty acids for fish and human diets. as well as to increase feed conversion. With our extensive portfolio and profound application knowledge, we are well Methane is the second most important human-induced placed to capture the new business opportunities this generates greenhouse gas after carbon dioxide, and the need to urgently with our enzymes and eubiotics solutions, benefiting from this tackle methane emission levels has been high on the global development in all major markets during 2016. At the same time, sustainability agenda since COP21. DSM’s innovative solution we continue to invest in the quest for innovative and sustainable for reducing methane emissions in cows (Clean Cow) is on track, approaches that improve animal gut health. and pre-marketing work had begun by the end of 2016. Reducing emissions from cattle will bring significant The positive sales trend of 2015 continued, with strong volume environmental benefits worldwide. growth in all regions, with the exception of Latin America, due to the weak economic conditions in that region. Growth was driven Human Nutrition & Health by new nutritional solutions, supported by the quality of our portfolio, our nutritional expertise, our formulation and application know-how, and our global premix footprint. This Highlights 2016 trend was assisted by highly focused customer management across regions and species, accompanied by intensified Significant step-up in organic growth marketing of our specialty portfolio and a sharper focus on local Continued strong growth of key brands of DSM i-Health solutions (e.g. the Victus™ poultry enzyme life cycle solutions in dietary supplements the US). In keeping with our strategy, we took steps to further Launch of MEG-3® Ultra to reshape the omega-3 grow our business in under-penetrated segments such as category ruminants and aqua while continuing to expand our core activities across geographies. With our business-to-farmer (B2F) initiative for swine and poultry, Human Nutrition & Health reported 2016 sales of € 1,823 million we targeted a new customer segment with a new brand in China, compared to € 1,741 million in 2015. which is likewise on track. This is well supported by our worldleading research facility in the country. Further investments in our This business provides nutritional solutions for the food and premix business, particularly in Asia, have enabled powerful beverage, dietary supplements and early-life and clinical nutrition regional growth and the ability to deliver even greater value to markets, with a parallel focus on solutions for the pharmaceutical our customers in those countries. industry for the use of vitamins, nutritional lipids (ARA/EPA/DHA) and carotenoids as Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs). Its New products such as RONOZYME® RumiStar™ – an amylase fundamental driver is the link between nutrition and health, that increases the utilization of the starch in dairy rations, leading supported by a number of global megatrends. to improved milk production in dairy cows – was successfully launched in the EU in 2016, following its market introduction in Our Human Nutrition & Health business strives to make a positive Brazil the previous year. Offering enzyme technology to the impact on some of the most important health issues, such as European ruminant sector for the first time, RONOZYME® cardiovascular, eye, cognitive and gut health, through helping to create awareness by engaging with multiple stakeholders. It also Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 69 www.dsm.com aims to help eliminate micronutrient deficiencies at the Base of the Pyramid. For more information on our initiatives in this area, see 'Nourishing the Base of the Pyramid' on page 11 and Targeting the global number ‘Stakeholder engagement’ on page 24. one position in dietary This business posted good growth in EMEA and Asia during 2016. North America, although soft overall, showed supplement probiotics improvements. Business results in Latin America reflected the weak economic conditions in the region. The global dietary supplements probiotics market is predicted by Technavio to grow at around 7% per year from 2015 to Our i-Health dietary supplements consumer business again 2019, with new product innovation helping to fuel this growth. performed strongly, recording double-digit growth during the The market is highly segmented and extremely competitive, year on the back of powerful marketing & sales campaigns and so product differentiation supported by authenticated health continued international expansion, with a particularly strong claims is vital for success. performance in China. Culturelle® continued to grow at a doubledigit rate, expanding its leadership position in the probiotic DSM’s digestive health probiotic Culturelle® has a track category. Estroven® and Azo™ also grew strongly in 2016, record of driving organic growth and outperforming the strengthening their respective number one shares in the probiotics marketplace and is expected to continue to women’s health and urinary health categories. DSM also outperform the market in 2017. Currently the number onesuccessfully launched Azo Urinary Tract Defense™ in US food, selling consumer dietary supplement probiotic brand in the drug, and mass channels in 2016. US, Culturelle® is poised to become the second-ranked probiotic brand globally, according to Euromonitor. We continue to observe a positive trend in leveraging the higher dosage of ingredients – such as vitamins, omega-3 and This top-line growth has been achieved by creating consumer carotenoids – as APIs in pharmaceutical applications. DSM is the demand for Culturelle®. There were three steps to this only company that holds CEPs (Certificate of suitability of process. First, DSM sought to understand and validate Monographs of the European Pharmacopoeia) and the US Drug consumers’ health and wellness needs via attitude and usage Master Files (DMF) for all 13 essential vitamins, putting us in a studies such as the 2011 Women’s Health and more recent unique position to help pharmaceutical customers get their Path-to-Purchase Studies, following this up with concept products to market faster. tests. Second, we delivered on those needs across three growth platforms (Digestive Health, Everyday Wellness, and To address the decline in the US market for non-concentrated Kids) through a pipeline of consumer-inspired, scientificallyfish oils and the growth in the concentrates dietary supplement backed innovations based around Lactobacillus GG − the category in that country, and also to accelerate the development leading clinically-studied probiotic strain. Finally, we of our omega-3 business in other regions, we introduced the positioned Culturelle® as the proven probiotic brand in the new MEG-3® Ultra in North America and EMEA in the fourth broader health and wellness space. This was achieved by quarter of 2016. Featuring DSM’s unique 3C technology, this driving brand awareness among consumers and deploying radically new product helps eliminate key barriers to the initiatives with retailers and distributors, while engaging in consumption of omega-3 supplements, such as capsule size medical marketing initiatives to reach healthcare professionals and aftertaste. MEG-3® Ultra allows brand owners to create with the benefits of Culturelle®. Culturelle® is the number one health-focused products with specific DHA and EPA ratios that Pediatrician and leading Pharmacist Recommended Brand in meet consumer needs across the lifespan. The capacity for the US. customizing DHA and EPA ratios will also help mitigate supplyrelated risks. The new Culturelle® Pro-Well 3-in-1 probiotic plus omega-3 supplement also performed very well in 2016. With increased The launch of MEG-3® Ultra was supported by a communication consumer, retailer and international demand, Culturelle® is on campaign on the theme 'Know Your Ω™'. Reinforcing omega-3 track to realize its vision of becoming the number one intake recommendations to help protect patients from consumer dietary supplements probiotics brand worldwide. cardiovascular disease and other health risks, 'Know Your Ω™' recognizes the key role healthcare practitioners can play in addressing the currently inadequate levels of omega-3 intake among the US population. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 70 www.dsm.com Our sales to the food & beverage sector improved in 2016, driven by good sales volumes in Asia and Europe. Meanwhile our infant nutrition business continued to perform well, with solid volume Regulatory and formulation growth. expertise puts PARSOL® TX The new vitamin B6 facility in Xinghuo (China), which was mechanically completed at the end of 2015, opened in 2016, ahead expanding DSM's global manufacturing footprint and supporting growth in the region. Titanium dioxide finds extensive applications in the personal care sector, being used as a pigment, sunscreen and Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients thickener. Its high refractive index, strong UV light-absorbing Sales in Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients came to properties and resistance to discoloration under UV light make € 337 million in 2016, up from € 316 million in 2015. this the fastest-growing technology segment in the UV filters market, with strong worldwide demand from applications for Personal Care provides ingredients and innovative solutions for facial care, color cosmetics and men’s grooming. DSM offers some of the world’s best-selling beauty products. Our extensive a unique grade of titanium dioxide: PARSOL® TX, an portfolio of key ingredients includes peptides, natural bioinorganic UV filter with excellent formulation compatibility, actives, UV filters, hair polymers and vitamins; this is which makes it suitable for a wide range of product complemented by a range of additional services. The business applications. is driven by global megatrends, local consumer beauty regime insights, and growth opportunities presented by emerging DSM applies the highest safety standards to its products. We economies. also work closely with our customers to ensure that the product safety claims that they base on our products are fully The global megatrend of health and wellness, operating in substantiated. In July 2016, the European Commission (EC) tandem with the overall aging of the world’s population, is amended the Regulation on Cosmetic Products (1223/2009), fostering increased consumer awareness of the need for daily which sets safety and marketing rules for cosmetics in the UV protection, and is stimulating high demand for innovative skin European Union, adding nano titanium dioxide to the list of care products. Emerging economies, in particular, are seeing authorized UV filters. In this revision, the EC issued a detailed rising demand for products tailored to local consumer list of product characteristics essential for compliance with its preferences, with the Chinese market developing fastest in terms safety standards. Using our scientific and regulatory expertise, of growth and sales. we worked closely with some of our largest global key accounts in sun and skin care, providing our customers with The year 2016 was strong for DSM Personal Care & Aroma the necessary expertise in product quality, regulatory affairs Ingredients as a whole, driven by organic growth across all and product formulation to help them fully comply with the segments, with powerful growth in the business unit’s carefully new regulation. managed global key accounts. We accelerated our innovation drive and continued to deepen our understanding of customer PARSOL® TX became the first titanium dioxide UV filter to and consumer needs during the year. comply with the amended EC Regulation on Cosmetic Products. It is also fully compliant with all other relevant global The business increased its innovation footprint with the launch regulations. Speedy compliance with the amended EC of several new skin care and sensory modification products, regulation offered us a significant competitive advantage, including the innovative eye care solution SYN-EYE™; the establishing PARSOL® TX as the global number one product award-winning active against skin dryness SYN-UP™; the antigrade in titanium dioxide technology. As a direct result of our aging innovation SYN-STAR™; and a new sensory modifier, regulatory expertise and dedicated customer support, sales VALVANCE® Touch 250. The launch of the new TILAMAR® hair of PARSOL® TX increased by 55% in 2016. care polymers, meanwhile, expanded our position in this growing global market. The year also saw the opening of the DSM Personal Care Asia Pacific Technical & Application Center in Shanghai (China). This center will develop product applications, provide technology services, and create tailor-made solutions for cosmetic industry customers throughout the growing markets of China and Asia Pacific. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 71 www.dsm.com The DSM Vouvry site in Switzerland, which produces the organic ALPAFLOR® portfolio, was proud to be awarded the 'Fair Trade' seal of approval. Reducing added sugar: a Aroma Ingredients growing business DSM supplies aroma ingredients to the flavor and fragrance industries which are used in many of the world’s best-known Sugar is increasingly seen as a key culprit for the worldwide consumer brands. During the year, DSM significantly increased growth of obesity, fueling the spread of type 2 diabetes and its specialty ingredients portfolio, while also reducing costs and cardiovascular disease and generating ever-higher healthcare improving efficiencies. The business showed a good costs. performance in 2016. Many food & beverage producers have responded with DSM Food Specialties commitments to reduce the sugar levels in their recipes. In several countries, cross-sector agreements are in place for a voluntary, stepwise reduction, while certain others are Highlights 2016 introducing a so-called ‘sugar tax’. Good organic growth, especially in hydrocolloids and The sweetener market is valued at more than € 70 billion per enzymes annum, with sugar representing 85% and high-fructose corn Completed new state-of-the-art biotechnology center in syrup another 10%. Non-artificial sweeteners like stevia make Delft (Netherlands) up less than 1% of this amount, but the market for sugar Launched new cheese cultures and ModuMax® taste reduction solutions is growing at double-digit rates. modulator Replacing sugar in food & beverage products is complex, since sugar also influences mouthfeel, texture and shelf life. DSM research reveals that consumers expect sugar-reduced In 2016, sales for DSM Food Specialties amounted to products to taste less appealing than regular versions. € 536 million, compared to € 524 million in 2015. Helping customers create better-tasting products, DSM Food DSM Food Specialties is a leading global supplier of food Specialties has created a sugar-reduction development enzymes, cultures, bio-preservation, hydrocolloids, taste and platform based on its market-leading lactase enzyme health ingredients. With over a century of experience in Maxilact®, the combination of cultures and enzymes, and the fermentation for the food industry, the business group helps development of fermentative stevia glycosides. make existing diets healthier and more sustainable, giving increasing numbers of people around the world access to In the reduced-sugar dairy products category, new affordable, quality food. Customer proximity and the ability to introductions are showing rapid growth. One of our solutions deliver products highly tailored to local requirements are the is the combination of the Maxilact® LGi enzyme and basis for our continually expanding portfolio of innovative Delvo®Yog FVV-122 cultures, with which producers can fermentation-based product solutions. This was underlined by reduce added sugar by up to 20% in yogurt products. the 2016 launch of the business group’s new vision: Enabling Maxilact® LGi converts the lactose in milk into glucose and Better Food for Everyone. galactose. This provides a higher relative sweetness than sugar, permitting the desired reduction in sugar content. Market trends driving demand for our products center on five Using the mild-tasting Delvo®Yog FVV-122 culture in addition main topics: sugar reduction, salt reduction, bio-preservation, allows producers to achieve optimal texture and mouthfeel gut health and more efficient processing. DSM Food Specialties plus excellent stability over the shelf-life of the product. is fully committed to delivering innovative solutions that enable The innovativeness of our response to global concerns about food producers to capture the opportunities presented by these sugar consumption has helped create new value for our trends. The business group continued to deliver valuable customers in the food industry and given added impetus to consumer insights to the industry in 2016, and to build thought our business growth. leadership in the area of healthy and sustainable food ingredient solutions, primarily based on fermentation. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 72 www.dsm.com The performance of our enzymes business in 2016 was driven polysaccharides are derived from nature via extraction or by a rise in demand for lactose-free and reduced-sugar dairy fermentation. products which can be created with our Maxilact® enzyme. Some capacity constraints prevented the enzymes business Demand for hydrocolloids is driven by three underlying from fully benefitting from this strong demand in 2016; these are consumer trends: the quest for affordable nutrition in the form of being addressed. Growth in enzymes was further supported by dairy and protein products; the trend toward clear labeling; and our Brewers Clarex® enzyme − appealing for its ability to create recognition of the benefits of probiotics and prebiotics. Our a more sustainable, lean production process and to introduce hydrocolloids are primarily delivered in the form of pectin and gluten-free beer products to the market. Sales of BakeZyme®, gellan gum. Derived from apple pomace and citrus peels, pectin which increases the elasticity of dough, were also up in 2016. is used as a gelling and stabilizing agent in a variety of foods and beverages. Gellan gum is produced by a sustainable Consumer demand for healthy, high-quality dairy products is on fermentation process, using glucose or soy as a feedstock. It is the rise. In particular, thick, high-protein yogurts are increasing likewise used as a gelling and stabilizing agent in a variety of in popularity, supporting sales for DSM’s advanced cultures. We foods and beverages. Our hydrocolloids are enjoying strong introduced new specialty products for the dairy industry in line sales growth. with the better-for-you, clear label and sustainable trends, in particular for creating better-tasting white cheese, low-fat and In 2016, work was completed on a new state-of-the-art more sustainable continental cheese, and smoother, milderbiotechnology center at DSM's site in Delft (Netherlands). The tasting quark. new center, which will be officially opened in the first half of 2017, provides lab space and collaborative workspaces to around 400 Sales in the area of bio-preservation products performed scientists from around the world who conduct breakthrough robustly in 2016, especially in Europe and North America. science in fermentation technology, integrated bio-processing, Delvo®Cid in particular appeals to customers for its ability to fight genetics, analytics and applied biochemistry for application in mold and yeast in a variety of foods. Besides recent FDA food & nutrition, biofuels and bio-based materials. approvals for the use of Delvo®Cid in non-alcoholic beverages and yogurt in the US, approval was also received for its use in yogurt in Mexico. Sales were further supported by Delvotest® T, a broad-spectrum antibiotic test which identifies the presence of a variety of antibiotics in raw milk at EU Maximum Residue Limits. In savory ingredients, we are adding to our portfolio ingredients that enhance flavor and mouthfeel so as to enable reductions in sugar, salt and fat while maintaining good taste. ModuMax®, launched in November 2016, is a natural taste modulator made from yeast which increases mouthfeel and masks negative offnotes in reduced-fat and reduced-salt soups, as well as in reduced-sugar beverages. In addition, DSM Food Specialties made good progress in 2016 with the development of a cost-effective technology for producing the sweetener stevia by fermentation, which will permit the sustainable, scalable production of several relevant sweetener molecules, such as rebaudioside A and M. Further developments in 2016 included a rebalancing of our manufacturing footprint involving the disposal of the surface and ripening business for soft cheese and fermented meat products, and the implementation of upgrades to our manufacturing capabilities in China, facilitating expanded enzyme production. Another growth platform in specialty food ingredients is hydrocolloids – thickeners and stabilizers that dissolve, disperse or swell in water to provide a broad range of critical functionalities and physical attributes, including gelling, texture, mouthfeel, viscosity, suspension and animation. These versatile Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 73 www.dsm.com Materials highlights Materials “ In 2016, we continued the 'silent' x transformation of the Materials portfolio toward higher-value specialty products. This transformation capitalizes on the growing opportunities presented by the global drive for more sustainable alternatives. ” Dimitri de Vreeze, DSM Managing Board The leaders of DSM’s Materials businesses, from left to right: Patrick Niels, Dimitri de Vreeze, Golnar Motaharipour, Roeland Polet The search to replace existing materials with alternatives offering Our ability to innovate is crucial to our success in Materials: our better performance in combination with reduced environmental fundamental scientific expertise underpins the market-focused footprint continues to drive our Materials businesses. This global R&D that goes into the development of new applications. To trend provides attractive prospects for above-market growth. increase our innovation capabilities, we established the Materials We took full advantage of these during 2016. Science Center this year as a cross-company platform for stateof-the-art know-how in materials science. OEMs and system integrators are looking for innovative, lightweight, high-performance solutions that deliver competitive Each business in our Materials cluster has a tailored growth edge while meeting ever stricter regulations. The average strategy. We organized our resources, innovation activities and automobile, for example, is expected to become 200kg lighter capital allocation during 2016 in strict accordance with our over the next 10 years. In electronics, businesses and growth aspirations. Our businesses fall in the three strategic consumers alike are seeking more advanced device mobility and segments Accelerated growth, Growth, and Maximize returns. connectivity. This is fueling demand for smaller, thinner, smarter Our 2016 performance gives us both encouragement and products in a huge range of different applications, from confirmation that this approach to the ‘winning segments’ we datacenters to wearable digital devices. Our extensive and have identified is paying off. growing range of high-performance engineering plastics allowed us to deliver new kinds of value to automotive and electronics customers in 2016. Meanwhile, industry changes driven by market and (environmental) legislation led to a further shift to sustainable paints and (waterborne) coatings as well as functional materials, which provided significant headroom for our Resins & Functional Materials businesses. New products such as powder technologies for wood and new customer-driven specialty solutions further fueled strong growth during the year. Dyneema® made further strides in the performance apparel segment, paving the way for innovative new fabrics and clothing applications, as well as opening a completely new segment with Dyneema® carbon composite reinforcement for applications such as airplane fuselages and racing car body shells. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 74 www.dsm.com Materials Materials net sales bridge 2016 x € million 2016 2015 x € million Net sales: DSM Engineering Plastics 1,312 1,378 4% DSM Dyneema 297 284 -5% DSM Resins & Functional 2,528 2,513 Materials 904 866 -1% 1% Total 2,513 2,528 Organic sales growth (in %) (1) (4) 2015 Volume Price/mix FX Other 2016 Adjusted EBITDA 435 384 Adjusted operating profit 311 250 Capital expenditure 106 98 Trends Capital employed at 31 December 1,807 1,723 ROCE (in %) 17.6 14.4 The key trend in the materials industry is substitution. Customers Adjusted EBITDA margin (in %) 17.3 15.2 are looking to replace existing parts and materials with newer, R&D expenditure 124 143 more sustainable alternatives. Across a wide range of sectors and applications, manufacturers are seeking products and Workforce at 31 December solutions that will help reduce energy consumption and harmful (headcount) 4,460 4,472 emissions, both within their own operations and across their value chains, and that have properties enabling further innovative applications. This trend is reinforced by legislation on the one Business hand and end-user expectations on the other, and so circular economy principles in product and process design are also DSM's Materials cluster comprises DSM Engineering Plastics, beginning to gain traction. As legislators, customers and endDSM Dyneema and DSM Resins & Functional Materials. DSM users alike demand new approaches to the use or re-use of Engineering Plastics is a global player in specialty plastics. These materials, DSM creates innovative products that either meet or materials are used in components for the electrical and outperform existing product functionalities while being lighter, electronics, automotive, flexible food packaging and consumer more versatile and more sustainable than the materials they goods industries. DSM Dyneema is the inventor, manufacturer replace. Our portfolio includes high-performance plastics; and marketer of Dyneema®, the world’s strongest fiber™. DSM waterborne resins; functional materials; ground-breaking Resins & Functional Materials is a global player in innovative, materials and fabrics based on Dyneema®, the world’s strongest sustainable resins solutions for paints and industrial and optical fiber™; and bio-based and renewable plastics and resins. fiber coatings. For more information on DSM’s Materials cluster and its portfolio of businesses and products as well as their value Not only product functionality but also product and process chains, please refer to DSM’s Factbook on the company safety are high on the agenda of regulators and consumers alike. website. DSM Engineering Plastics and DSM Resins & Functional Materials offer products and solutions that eliminate or reduce The Materials cluster delivered strong financial performance in the use of hazardous substances, including halogens and 2016, which reflected the success of the differentiated approach volatile organic compounds (VOC). Dyneema® is being used to of focusing on higher-growth specialty businesses in the create alternatives to heavy, dangerous and high-maintenance Materials portfolio. While volumes were up 4% in the year, prices steel cables in offshore, marine and lifting and loading were considerably lower, fully reflecting low input costs, meaning applications. that total sales for the Materials cluster were down by 1% from € 2,528 million in 2015 to € 2,513 million in 2016. We see important growth opportunities for our Materials business as we help more and more customers to switch to Total Adjusted EBITDA for the full year 2016 increased by 13% sustainable manufacturing practices based on the substitution to € 435 million from € 384 million in 2015. This was driven by of existing materials by our portfolio of better-performing strong volume growth in higher-margin specialties, the benefits specialty alternatives. For example, in China the introduction of of the efficiency and cost savings programs and the support from legislation to limit emissions is driving the uptake of lightweight low input costs. engineering plastics in automotive. As markets and segments Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 75 www.dsm.com continue to develop across the world, the substitution effect will serve these individual markets. We focus resources primarily on become increasingly important. well-defined, higher-growth specialty segments, while leveraging existing assets to Maximize returns in PA6 Polymers Sustainability & Innovation and Powder Coating Resins. There is a Growth strategy for specialty resins, engineering plastic compounds, and solutions Sustainable innovation is the key enabler for the substitution of for life protection. We have defined an Accelerated growth existing materials by better-performing specialty alternatives. strategy for our high-performance plastics, functional materials Through its innovative products and services, DSM strives to and high-performance fiber solutions. The Emerging Business make a positive difference to people’s lives while reducing the Areas of DSM Biomedical and DSM Advanced Solar in the environmental footprint of their activities. Innovation Center are also related to Materials and represent promising growth platforms for the longer term. This The search for sustainable solutions that meet the rapidly differentiated approach is driving the transformation of our changing needs of society and the planet therefore drives the solutions portfolio and allowing us to capture higher-value growth efforts of our Materials cluster. We continue to enhance business for DSM. the value of our materials portfolio by introducing highperformance products that offer improved functionality in One example of a new, sustainable solution contributing to combination with reduced environmental impact. These accelerated growth is the application of our high-performance solutions contribute to Sustainable Development Goal 12 engineering plastics Stanyl®, ForTii® and ForTii® Eco in new, (Responsible Consumption and Production). Examples are ultra-thin USB type-C connectors, the new industry standard. provided in this chapter and elsewhere in this Report. We are further driving accelerated growth by entering promising new segments, for example in Dyneema® fiber Strategy solutions, which continue to grow in ultra-strong and lightweight high-performance apparel. Over recent years, DSM has built an attractive portfolio with highIn Resins & Functional Materials, we are making good quality earnings within its Materials cluster. Our Materials progress with our sustainable, waterborne coatings business businesses are well positioned to capitalize on the dynamics for marine containers, a segment which is growing fast in within their respective end-use markets. We apply a China. differentiated strategy, with tailored business approaches to Materials strategy 2018 Aspirations 2018 High Accelerated growth underpinning Group targets 4 Functional Materials • Annual Adjusted EBITDA growth: High-Performance Plastics high single-digit percentage increase • Annual ROCE growth: Growth 1 9 Advanced Surfaces high double-digit percentage 7 increase bps 2 PA6 Compounds 10 Biomedical Market growth • Adjusted EBITDA margins: 7 Dyneema® Fiber Solutions > 15% over the period Maximize returns 5 Specialty Coating Resins • Above-market sales growth (at stable prices) 3 PA6 Polymers DSM Engineering Plastics 6 Powder Coating Resins DSM Resins & Functional Materials 8 Dyneema® Life Protection DSM Dyneema Emerging Business Areas* Low Low DSM’s capabilities to extract value High * Reported in Innovation Center DSM’s Materials cluster aims to complement its top-line growth DSM takes a balanced view of its Materials business. Our with margin management and cost & capital discipline to ensure strategy strives to maximize the opportunities arising from our that this growth is also translated into its bottom-line results. portfolio and the key market and societal trends in materials, Besides benefiting from the DSM-wide savings program in while recognizing, anticipating and mitigating the risks that these support functions and services, Materials is building upon the global developments can also pose to our product-market successful profit improvement programs it has carried out. combinations or business progress. For Materials, these Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 76 www.dsm.com potentially include: input price volatility, in particular for oil and its derivatives; commoditization of materials or market segments; new mobility and transport options; developments in 3D printing; Samsung chooses Arnitel® for disruption due to the circular and sharing economy; our ability to develop, bring to market and exploit promising innovations; and Galaxy Gear straps the effects of geopolitical and macro-economic developments. For more information on how DSM manages risks, see ‘Risk The wearable electronics market is poised to triple in size management’ on page 102. between 2015 and 2020, with applications ranging from fitness & wellness through medical & healthcare to DSM Engineering Plastics infotainment & industrial. The quest for improved connectivity, greater functionality and enhanced design is driving this growth, along with the need to reduce the environmental Highlights 2016 impact of manufacturing and to cut levels of e-waste. Strong volume growth in specialty portfolio Physical comfort and the possibilities of color play a crucial Launched next-generation ForTii® high-temperature role in the design of today’s wearables. DSM’s Arnitel® offers polyamides smart watch manufacturers real design freedom while Inaugurated DSM NHU joint venture for manufacture of ensuring the extreme ease of wear demanded by consumers. high-performance Xytron™ PPS compounds Samsung Electronics chose to use DSM’s Arnitel® TPE copolyester elastomer for making its Galaxy Gear strap because of this material’s excellent physical and chemical DSM Engineering Plastics booked full-year sales of performance. Arnitel® gives the strap the required soft touch € 1,312 million in 2016 compared to € 1,378 million in 2015. and feel, and is very comfortable to wear in direct contact with the skin, causing no allergic reactions. Arnitel® is resistant to DSM Engineering Plastics is a global supplier of highperspiration and to the various oils and other liquids to which performance engineering thermoplastic solutions. It has a watch straps are exposed when in direct contact with the skin. focused portfolio, with global leadership positions in many of its products in the areas of high-performance plastics, such as Arnitel® TPE is easy to process via injection molding, and can Stanyl®, Arnite® and Akulon®. DSM Engineering Plastics be used in 2K-hybrid overmolded structures in combination addresses key markets in automotive and electronics, and with other thermoplastics such as polycarbonate, ABS, PET provides solutions to specialized industries including water and PBT, providing excellent adhesion. Being intrinsically management, breathable textiles and flexible food packaging. bright, as well as offering high UV resistance, the Arnitel® polymer permits the production of compounds in a broad Our world becomes more mobile and connected every day – on range of colors, including ultra-white. the road and in the home, in the office and on the street. The markets for engineering plastics increasingly require innovative The biocompatibility of Arnitel® is certified according to USP solutions that make people’s lives safer, more convenient and Class VI and ISO10993 standards. As a collaborative healthier, while addressing the challenge of climate change. innovator working with leading wearable device manufacturers worldwide, DSM was quick to recognize the New standards in design, comfort and ease of use are combining critical importance of ensuring that the Arnitel® product range with the quest to cut energy use: together with the introduction was evaluated for prolonged skin contact. Arnitel® has full of circular design thinking, these trends are driving strong market regulatory compliance, which validates our customers’ growth for engineering plastics. With our broad, high-quality confidence in their selection of these materials for skin contact materials portfolio and in-depth technology know-how, we work applications, and enables them to leverage the many other in close collaboration with customers to develop new high-value performance properties that these materials offer. applications in response to the search for lighter, stronger and more durable materials, developing solutions to keep them ahead of the curve and enabling them to lead the market through the use of cutting-edge technology. Our aim is to continually shift the DSM Engineering Plastics portfolio toward higher-value, specialty materials, introducing more advanced grades with improved properties. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 77 www.dsm.com Our business serving the automotive sector performed solidly in investments in 2016. In the US, the expansion of DSM 2016. The trend toward lighter vehicles, encouraged by Engineering Plastics’ research & technology center in Troy environmental legislation worldwide, is stimulating innovation (Michigan, USA) strengthened our product development and among OEMs and creating a strong pull for DSM’s specialty application capabilities in North America. In India, a new research engineering plastics. DSM continues to innovate in this space; & technology center in Ranjangaon, Pune was opened to 2016 saw the launch of next-generation high-temperature support new product and application development and deliver polyamides ForTii® PA46, including the bio-based grade rapid, specific test data for its products. The new facilities bring ForTii® Eco and the metal substitute ForTii® Ace. us yet closer to our customers in the respective regions and enable us to cut time-to-market still further for innovative new The need to reduce fuel consumption and cut vehicle emissions, thermoplastic solutions and applications. combined with the search for safer cars, as well as the move to electrification, creates many new opportunities for our products. DSM Dyneema So does the increase in the actual numbers of cars being manufactured globally. DSM’s specialty thermoplastics portfolio was further expanded in 2016 by the launch of the highHighlights 2016 performance thermoplastic copolyester Arnitel® HT, which allows system suppliers to produce heat-resistant ducts in a Strong growth in life protection (next-generation armor single material, with just one process step. Arnitel® is increasingly technology) being selected as a lighter, smarter, more sustainable alternative New apparel solutions positively received by key brands to conventional rubbers – reducing environmental impact and, in the sports and lifestyle segment ultimately, system costs. Launch of Dyneema® Carbon hybrid composite The increased connectivity in the conception and design of automotive vehicles finds many counterparts in the electrical and electronics field. The convergence to universal connectivity DSM Dyneema reported total sales of € 297 million in 2016 through USB-C, accompanied by the massive increase in cloud compared to € 284 million in 2015. computing requiring connectivity for server farms, is fueling demand for Stanyl® and ForTii®, both of which offer the high DSM’s Dyneema® business is driven by our customers’ and temperature resistance and flowability essential for these end-users' needs for lightweight, sustainable solutions that offer applications. In consumer electronics, the quest for extreme durability coupled with improved safety and 'thinnovation' is likewise driving demand for these products, ergonomics. Dyneema® products typically replace traditional which find applications in the production of mobile phone materials such as steel and aramid. antennas, splitters and frames. Also in the consumer sector, the growing popularity of wearable mobile devices is creating Dyneema® is the world’s strongest fiber™. It is 15 times stronger significant demand for products such as Arnitel®, which enables than steel on a weight-for-weight basis, 40% stronger than the creation of very light designs with a silky look and feel. Among aramid, and floats on water. This combination of extreme other things, 2016 saw the inauguration of DSM NHU, a joint strength and lightness makes it suitable for a wide and venture with specialty chemicals producer Zhejiang NHU Special expanding range of applications. Materials Co., Ltd., (NHU) to produce Xytron™ polyphenylene sulfide (PPS) high-performance compounds. DSM Dyneema has a well-established fiber solutions business serving the high-protective textiles and commercial marine & In 2016, we extended our portfolio of high-performance sports segments. We are also entering and forward-integrating materials for water-cooling applications in automobile engines into new segments and applications such as performance with the introduction of a hydrolysis-resistant grade of our highapparel, synthetic chains and radomes. performance bio-based polyamide, EcoPaXX®. EcoPaXX® Q-HG6/7 is very well suited to applications such as expansion We are well positioned to capitalize on these opportunities. We tanks that need to resist coolants at high temperatures. The use have global product leadership based on unique, IP-protected of EcoPaXX® Q-HG6/7 enables component weight to be cut by technology platforms applied in an increasing range of end-use as much as 30% compared with Polyamide 66. A recentlyapplications, often developed in close collaboration with industry developed thin-walled ‘T’ connector for a coolant hose in this partners. grade was approved for use by a major German car manufacturer in 2016, going into commercial production a few Applications with Dyneema® push the boundaries of lightweight months later. strength, offer comfort and safety, and are inherently more sustainable than the materials they replace. Products with Our commitment to the continued development of our innovative Dyneema® weigh less, use less material, need less energy to specialty engineering plastics portfolio was underlined by two Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 78 www.dsm.com process and deploy in their final application, and have longer lifetimes than products made with alternative materials. Dyneema® strengthens Cone DSM Dyneema experienced some headwind in certain markets in 2016 − for example, offshore mooring and protective gloves, Denim’s cutting-edge offering on account of the low oil price and lagging industrial markets in certain regions. This was offset by two factors: on the one hand, Allen Little is Director of Product Development at Cone Denim strong growth in the life protection market, and on the other, our – a company renowned for being at the cutting edge of denim. growth into the performance apparel market with Dyneema® Allen discusses what Dyneema® adds to Cone’s offering. fabrics. “Denim isn’t just for workwear or fashion anymore,” Allen In the life protection market, Dyneema® Force Multiplier observes. “Consumers want their jeans to do more. With Technology and Dyneema® Anti Stab Technology enjoyed Dyneema®, we’re able to offer the authentic aesthetic that strong uptake in 2016. Meeting high ballistic and anti-stab Cone is known for, combined with a modern design performance standards, Dyneema® offers significantly lighter, incorporating performance features such as strength and more comfortable, and more ergonomic solutions than are durability. Consumers can now wear performance jeans to go possible with aramids, ceramics, or other materials. Dyneema® rock-climbing, skateboarding and motorcycling, before is increasingly finding favor with law enforcement agencies such directly proceeding to a nice dinner and a night on the town.” as the New York City Police Department due to its exceptional performance and wearability. Working closely with Cone’s spinning and development partner Patrick Yarns, Allen and his colleagues learned how DSM Dyneema launched a new technology platform in 2016 with to perfect the spinning process specific to the Dyneema® Dyneema® Carbon hybrid composite. Carbon fiber is light and fiber. They then used their own manufacturing plants to refine strong, but tends to shatter when hit by small, sharp objects. their processes for weaving the fabrics. “It was a challenge,” Mixing carbon fiber with Dyneema® fiber solves this problem, recalls Allen. “We wanted to make the best fabric out there – creating a solution that offers significantly better impact and I think we succeeded.” resistance and vibration damping. Cone uses higher percentages of Dyneema® than common In 2016, the market responded positively to Black Dyneema® with other manufacturers, so the company’s denim has an Diamond Technology, a fiber innovation aimed at heavy-duty exceptionally high level of strength, durability and abrasion gloves, among other things, which offers the highest level of cut resistance. These attributes are combined with Cone’s protection and uncompromised comfort in industrial applications authentic designs, creating the best of both worlds. “The such as for metalworkers. Black Dyneema® Diamond performance features are hidden to the eye,” explains Allen, Technology, which was launched toward the end of 2016, uses “but they’re there when you need them. We’ve also DSM Dyneema’s unique patented process to permanently incorporated all the different deniers and fiber types that embed color directly into the fiber. Dyneema® has offered us – depending on the end-use and targeted customer.” We also made positive inroads into the sports & lifestyle markets in 2016. Dyneema® is the first genuinely new material to have “Our partnership with DSM been introduced to these markets for a long time, and is pushing Dyneema is special,” Allen the boundaries of strong, ultra-lightweight, comfortable, durable concludes. “We always and protective solutions. During 2016, we significantly expanded search for the right partners our range of brand licensing partnerships in both existing and in technology, and DSM is new markets. Collaborations with leading brands in these one of those. Cone is proud markets are in progress, and we see considerable untapped to be one of DSM Dyneema’s potential in this area. At the ISPO TEXTRENDS 2016 forum, Premium Manufacturing seven different Dyneema® fabrics received ISPO Awards for Partners, and we’ve worked ‘Best Products Spring/Summer 2016’. very closely with them to finetune the products we’re currently offering. When you look at the performance numbers on this fabric, they speak for themselves.” Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 79 www.dsm.com Dyneema® has the lowest carbon footprint per unit of strength compared with alternative materials. Three factors combine to make it ‘the greenest strength™’: continuous improvements in Driving the switch to manufacturing, ongoing R&D to further improve the fiber’s unique properties, and collaborations with clients and industry waterborne coatings in China partners to invest in initiatives that foster a circular economy. Seismic survey vessels using ropes made with Dyneema®, for Since the beginning of 2014, the Chinese government has example, show 15% fuel savings and a 50% reduction in the been paying increasing attention to environmental protection. amount of material used. Denim wear made with Dyneema® This includes introducing more stringent regulations on VOC offers a 30% carbon-footprint reduction across its life cycle. And emissions from solvent-based coatings. heavy-duty chains made with Dyneema® use 85% less material compared to the steel they replace, making them lighter, easier Ninety-five percent of the world’s sea freight containers are to handle and less noisy. made in China, and almost all are painted with solvent-borne coatings. There are some 20 million containers currently DSM Dyneema is also using its materials expertise to sponsor travelling the world. In 2015, 2.5 million twenty foot equivalent The Ocean Cleanup foundation, which aims to tackle the issue containers were built, generating some 130,000 tons of VOC of waste plastics in the world’s seas. DSM is supplying emissions and constituting one of the major VOC emission Dyneema® material to maritime ropes supplier Lankhorst Ropes, sources in China. Today, only a small number of these – some and together providing the key technology for the mooring 20,000 in 2015 – are coated with waterborne coatings. A new system for the foundation’s floating barrier. container requires 60-70kg of paint. If all new containers were painted with waterborne coatings, this would require 165,000 Lankhorst made Lanko®Force ropes out of Dyneema® and these tons of waterborne coatings a year – a very significant growth helped to secure the various elements of the barrier system. opportunity. Lankhorst used Dyneema® SK78 grade fiber for the ropes in the prototype system; Dyneema® Max Technology will be used in To mobilize industry support for the switch to waterborne the final system. coatings in China, DSM founded the Waterborne China Platform in 2010. This represents leading coatings, resins and DSM Resins & Functional Materials additive manufacturers who are in a position to influence key bodies – such as the Guangdong Coating Association, the Container Owner Association and the China Container Highlights 2016 Industry Association, as well as the Chinese central and regional Environment Protection Bureau – in the drafting of Strong volume growth driven by sustainable specialties VOC and coating standards for the container industry. High growth in unique fiber-optic coatings DSM-Niaga joint venture technology ready to produce As a result, the Chinese container industry decided in 2016 to 100% recyclable carpet on commercial scale sign a convention to introduce waterborne coatings in two steps. Guangdong Province made the switch in July 2016 and the rest of the country will follow by April 2017. Working with paint and coatings customers such as Valspar (now Sherwin DSM Resins & Functional Materials reported sales of Williams), DSM Resins & Functional Materials is already seeing € 904 million in 2016 compared to € 866 million in 2015. considerable growth in its business as a result. The shift away from solvent-based coatings that contain Other industries and governing bodies are following suit. The hazardous materials to more sustainable coating technologies Chinese furniture industry is switching to waterborne coatings continues to shape the global coatings market. End-user ahead of the introduction of the relevant legislation, and preferences and legislation to reduce substances such as VOCs Shenzhen Municipality has also forbidden the use of solventcontinue to drive this substitution process, offering attractive borne coatings for external wall applications. new opportunities to the providers of innovative specialty coating solutions. DSM is a global leader in the development and production of these innovative solutions by offering waterborne, UV and powder coating resins with clear sustainability advantages over solvent-borne coatings. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 80 www.dsm.com In functional materials, DSM is the global leader in fiber-optic Niaga® technology has been made ready for commercial-scale coatings. In additive manufacturing – 3D printing – DSM offers production of recyclable carpets. All carpets made with this highly efficient and effective prototyping technologies and technology can be fully recycled and made into new carpets of supports the industry in accelerating the pace at which new the same volume and quality, again and again. In scaling up the products are designed and brought to market. technology, DSM partnered with LACOM GmbH to develop a commercial-scale laminating machine based on the Niaga® DSM Resins & Functional Materials delivered strong volume technology, with DSM’s engineered adhesive. The machine uses growth in 2016. This was based on increased market share up to 95% less energy than mainstream lamination processes supported by growth in more sustainable specialty products and and reduces water use to zero. Unlike a regular carpet, a carpet new solutions in collaboration with customers. Meanwhile we made with Niaga® technology does not contain any latex, PVC introduced innovative new products such as powder coatings or bitumen. ® ® for wood (Uralac Ultra); the bio-based Decovery product line; and new SOMOS® additive manufacturing lines such as Element (for complex casting structures) and PerFORM (for high graphic resolution). During 2016, we strengthened our position in core markets such as industrial coatings, fiber-optic materials, architectural coatings and printing inks. Strong key account management in North America and high acceptance of powder coatings and waterborne coatings in Europe are driving current growth, while growing environmental awareness in China is fueling demand for more sustainable resin solutions instead of solvent-borne coatings. A highlight of 2016 was the launch of the breakthrough waterborne interior furniture coating line IRIDEA Bio by ICA Group, an Italian specialist producer of wood coatings. IRIDEA Bio is fully co-branded with DSM’s bio-based Decovery® line. Meanwhile, our haptic resins portfolio is attracting increasing attention. These soft-feel resins give a product a matt appearance and a velvet-like feeling in addition to heightened color intensity, and are ideal for the luxury packaging industry. We also further extended the Uralac® EasyCure product range of sustainable powder coating resins, which offer faster curing at lower temperatures for metal substrates. DSM’s UV-curable materials for optical fiber are recognized as the global standard in fiber protection. They help ensure greater signal reliability and field performance within fiber-optic networks as global bandwidth demand continues to surge. We offer telecommunications network owners a broad portfolio of DeSolite® Supercoatings. This portfolio was expanded in 2016 by the addition of High Efficiency DeSolite® Coatings, which provide enhanced processing robustness with excellent on-fiber performance and durability. In 2016, we extended our partnership with Japan Fine Coatings Ltd., acquiring a controlling interest in the company, to strengthen our market position in Asia. DSM Resins & Functional Materials has gained a robust position in the fast-growing Chinese market and is capitalizing further on the ‘fiber-to-thehome’ trend in Europe and North America. Toward the end of the year, DSM-Niaga, a joint venture between DSM and start-up company Niaga, announced that its Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 81 www.dsm.com Innovation InnovationCenter Centerhighlights “ Innovation is about creating business x from knowledge. The DSM Innovation Center ensures that the company always has a robust innovation pipeline. 2016 was a positive year for us, not just in terms of scientific achievements and financial performance but also regarding the holistic way we think about innovation at DSM. ” Rob van Leen, DSM Executive Committee The Innovation Center reached Adjusted EBITDA break-even in We help create new business, and we also help accelerate the 2016 as planned, and sales of innovative products introduced development of products already in the pipeline, cutting time-towithin the past five years were in line with our aspiration, at 22% market so as to offer our customers the competitive advantages of DSM’s total for the year. These are some of the more ‘hard’ that come with transformational differentiation. This calls for a statistics that testify to the value of the innovation approach mentality that understands what is required to make science within DSM. As we inevitably withdraw established products happen successfully. We foster this with our Excellence in from our portfolio over the course of time, these need to be Innovation program, a multiple roadmap of the innovation efforts replaced by innovative new products – solutions that address of each of the business groups. We also support open innovation key global trends and create a better future for people, today and through partnerships, alliances and such initiatives as the tomorrow. That’s what we mean by turning DSM’s ‘Bright SunRISE TechBridge Challenge. Science’ into ‘Brighter Living’. In 2016, we took our collaborative efforts to drive societal change We have made measurable advances since embarking on our through science a stage further with our Bright Minds Challenge, company-wide innovation drive in 2006. The DSM Innovation aimed at accelerating a step-change in the role of solar in the Center has helped DSM become a top innovator, and we have energy mix. Last but not least, we encourage people who have successfully commercialized this achievement. Our margins on the ‘soft’ skills to make science-driven partnerships work. For innovation sales are typically higher than on our regular products; the work really starts when a deal is signed. A project will only and our speed of innovation has doubled since 2010, succeed if the project team understands how to work creatively significantly reducing time-to-product and time-to-market. Our together – and that’s the mindset we promote at DSM. focus on the market potential of new concepts has helped improve the predictability of our innovation efforts, greatly increasing the chances of success for our new product pipeline. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 82 www.dsm.com Innovation Center R&D expenditure (including associated IP expenditure), x € million 2016 2015 continuing operations Net sales 167 155 x € million 2016 2015 Organic sales growth (in %) 6 (11) Nutrition 205 223 Adjusted EBITDA 1 (9) Materials 124 143 Adjusted operating profit (24) (43) Innovation Center 75 82 Capital expenditure 32 34 Corporate Activities 22 16 Capital employed at 31 December 576 560 R&D expenditure 75 82 Total 426 464 Total as % of net sales 5.4 6.0 Workforce at 31 December Staff employed in R&D activities (headcount) 619 630 (total DSM) 2,055 2,036 DSM Innovation Center DSM has seven essential scientific competence areas which are key to the company’s continued success. These competence The DSM Innovation Center has two main functions. In the first areas are in analytical, biological, chemical, engineering, place, it serves as a center of excellence to accelerate the macromolecular, materials and nutritional sciences. One of the innovation power and speed of our core businesses. In this role Science & Technology Department’s objectives is to ensure that it also focuses on adjacent technologies for growth through its DSM has the right combination of skills, capabilities and partners Corporate Research Program, which is steered by the Chief to maintain and deliver on these competence areas. The DSM Technology Officer through the DSM Science & Technology science network is made up of more than 2,000 internal Department, as well as through the DSM Venturing & Licensing scientists, including 25 professors and academic associates, activities. In its second function, the Innovation Center has a working around the globe. They co-operate extensively with business development role, focusing on areas outside the external R&D institutions, both in specific, bi-lateral, academic current scope of DSM’s business groups. It identifies and invests collaboration efforts as well as in broader public-private in new and innovative growth options, initially through the DSM partnerships, such as the Bio-based Industries Consortium. For Business Incubator. Moreover, the Innovation Center is more information on R&D and innovation partnerships in 2016, responsible for developing and extracting value from the see ‘Open innovation’ on page 27. company’s Emerging Business Areas (EBAs). DSM filed over 220 patents in 2016. This is somewhat below our The Innovation Center made good progress in its results in 2016 long-term average. It reflects our changed business portfolio and with 6% organic growth, driven by higher volumes in both DSM further focus in innovation projects, in particular aimed at Biomedical and DSM Advanced Solar. Profitability clearly delivering business impact in specific innovation growth areas. improved due to a combination of organic growth, more focused innovation and reduction of costs. Adjusted EBITDA in 2016 We initiated a program to establish a new shared Materials achieved break-even, in line with the ambition of Strategy 2018. Sciences Center to better service the Materials businesses’ current and future science needs. Joining forces across the Enabling DSM's Bright Science Materials R&D organization will boost the ability of R&D to play a crucial role in the future growth and competitive position of the As a science-based company, the ability to deliver innovative Materials businesses. products and solutions is essential to DSM’s business success and positive societal impact. As a center of excellence, our DSM Venturing & Licensing Innovation Center plays a central role in guiding, enabling and DSM Venturing invests in early-to-late stage innovative accelerating innovation and R&D across the company. companies in areas strategically relevant to DSM’s current and future businesses. Our portfolio consists of 25 active investment R&D is instrumental to the realization of DSM’s innovation companies, and each year DSM Venturing reviews well over 500 strategy. Most of our expenditure in this area is directed toward new candidates. In 2016, DSM Venturing identified and added business-focused programs, underpinning our science-based, promising new investments in several start-ups, and also sustainable solutions. appointed two highly experienced venture investment managers. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 83 www.dsm.com DSM Licensing consists of a group of Certified Licensing value and/or bundled pricing in combination with quality Professionals and offers professional licensing expertise across products. Traditional medical device companies are developing all DSM businesses for intellectual property-intensive deals, such into overall solution providers to hospitals and are focusing less as joint development agreements, technology acquisitions and on internal R&D, preferring to buy in novel innovations from third sales, as well as in-, outand cross-licensing deals. parties. These dynamics present medical device suppliers with new prospects and opportunities to capture the emerging R&D Developing new business for DSM gap. Emerging Business Areas DSM Biomedical aims to outpace market growth with focused developments in high-growth segments of the medical device DSM’s EBAs provide strong long-term growth platforms in market including cardiology, neurology, ophthalmics, diabetic promising end-markets that are based on the company’s core care, and orthopedics. Primary growth drivers are PE fibers in competences in health, nutrition and materials. DSM has the cardiology market, Svelte DISCREET® (the first commercially three EBAs: available amino acid-based polyesteramide bioresorbable drugcoated stent), and the continued growth of synthetic bone graft DSM Biomedical; substitute products. The year 2016 saw new product launches DSM Bio-based Products & Services; and in coatings and PE supplements, plus solid growth in established DSM Advanced Solar. products (bone graft substitute, PE and polymers). Taken together, the EBAs delivered € 16 million in Adjusted The Actamax joint venture together with DuPont reported very EBITDA in 2016. promising results from a 12-month, long-term follow-up study on the clinical use of its novel sprayable adhesion barrier device. DSM Biomedical Actamax has been making good progress to initiate clinical testing in the US market. DSM Biomedical partners with the medical industry worldwide to shape the future of biomaterials and regenerative medical Other developments in the year included reinforcing our marketdevices that improve patients’ lives. With global reach backed leading position in biomedical UHMWPE (DyneemaPurity®), by a leading research and distribution network with facilities in establishing a partnership with Vention to provide customers the US and the Netherlands, DSM Biomedical’s portfolio, with single-source access to coated medical devices, and technologies and expertise enable medical device companies to developing an advanced breakthrough DSM proprietary drug advance care across medical specialties. These products delivery technology for the treatment of glaucoma. address key trends in medicine, from treating an aging population to supporting more active lifestyles − meeting the DSM Bio-based Products & Services1 need for safer, less invasive procedures that are also more costeffective. As the world increasingly seeks alternatives to fossil resources and progresses toward a more sustainable, bio-renewable Through our investment in research and our state-of-the-art economy, significant commercial opportunities are presenting capabilities, we are able to create, develop and produce themselves in advanced biofuels and in renewable chemical innovative materials for our customers, as well as components, building blocks such as bio-based succinic acid. DSM Biosub-assemblies and full medical devices. Our portfolio of highbased Products & Services pioneers advances in biomass quality biomedical materials includes biomedical polyurethanes conversion and seeks to demonstrate the commercial viability of and polyethylenes (PE), resorbable polymers, ceramics, sustainable, renewable technologies in collaboration with collagens, extracellular matrices, silicone hydrogels, device strategic partners in the value chain. The development and coatings, and drug delivery platforms. These are used in supply of high-value knowledge, ingredients and expertise in the applications in some of the world’s most attractive high-growth field of bio-conversion technology are critical success factors. markets, including orthopedics, sports medicine, cardiology, Our strategy is to license our technology and expertise to bioophthalmology, diabetes management, and general and based entrepreneurs, enabling them to convert biomass in a reconstructive surgery. commercially viable and sustainable way. While the global market for medical devices keeps growing, the Cellulosic bio-ethanol healthcare sector overall is still undergoing significant change. The POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels joint venture has a Increasing cost pressure on healthcare providers is continuing commercial-scale production facility for cellulosic bio-ethanol in to drive consolidation and cost focus throughout the continuum Emmetsburg (Iowa, USA). It processes corn-crop residues of care. A shift is underway toward value-based care; with this through a bioconversion process using enzymatic hydrolysis comes a drive to demonstrate proven clinical results, offer solutions that speed patient recovery, and provide additional 1 DSM's interest in the net result is reported as part of 'Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures' Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 84 www.dsm.com followed by fermentation. Work in 2016 focused on bringing the plant to continuous production and toward full capacity, and progress was made during the year on addressing the New materials to power pretreatment issues. This facility is the first and, to date, the only commercial-scale producer of so-called ‘2G’ (second growth in solar generation) cellulosic ethanol in the US. See also Note 10 ‘Associates and joint ventures’ on page 161. Solar panels (known as photovoltaic or PV modules) have become a mainstream source for power generation. In 2015, We are furthermore leveraging the expertise and products DSM solar PV accounted for 25% of the new power capacity added has built up in 2G to create new business in making the globally, and continued strong market growth is expected as production of all generations of bio-fuels more efficient and solar power becomes even more cost-competitive per sustainable. We work continuously on advances in yeasts that kilowatt hour. further increase ethanol yield. In June 2016, DSM announced a joint development project with ICM, Inc. ICM has developed a DSM is using its materials expertise to commercialize a way to integrate a process for converting corn fiber to cellulosic portfolio of innovations that further lower the cost of solar ethanol with existing ‘1G’ (first-generation) ethanol plants, for energy by increasing the efficiency, durability and reliability of which DSM is supplying its advanced yeasts. Superior solar PV modules. Our solutions help harness more of the performance has been demonstrated through multiple sun’s power, speeding the transition to clean, renewable continuous runs at the ICM pilot plant. sources of energy – and powering business growth at the same time. Bio-succinic acid The Reverdia joint venture between DSM and Roquette operates DSM has built a strong position as a solution provider for highits Biosuccinium® plant in Cassano (Italy), where it produces performance solar PV materials, primarily driven by our high-quality bio-succinic acid. Reverdia is recognized as the market-leading anti-reflective (AR) coating, and we are technology leader in this field, and was awarded the number one expanding to offer additional materials and technologies. In spot in the 2016 ‘40 Hottest Emerging Companies in the 2016, we partnered with Suzhou Sunshine to be able to offer Advanced Bioeconomy’ list. This ranking is an important industry an innovative new type of backsheet. Polymeric backsheets endorsement of DSM’s innovation and achievement in biosurround the semi-conductor cells in PV modules and are key based chemicals and materials. The recognition builds upon a to enabling manufacturers to increase output (kWh) as well as successful year for Reverdia. In April, paints and coatings extend durability and performance in the field. They protect producer Mäder announced that it would use Biosuccinium® in PV modules against weather conditions and mechanical loads its new range of bio-based alkyd paints. In October, Reverdia and provide safety through electrical insulation. announced a collaboration with Dezhou Xinhuarun Technology (China) to jointly develop and promote Biosuccinium®-based Suzhou Sunshine has succeeded in producing highmicrocellular polyurethane foams. These will be used in soles for performance backsheets without using fluorine, an element footwear and in further applications. Besides this, a joint that is known for being toxic to the environment and to people. development program on bio-based polybutylene succinate Moreover, the backsheets are completely VOC-free – and can compounds for injection molding was launched by Reverdia and be recycled. They are co-extruded in a patented production Wageningen Food & Biobased Research. After meeting a process, greatly simplifying manufacturing and reducing costs technical milestone related to its low-pH yeast technology, by combining steps and avoiding the use of solvents, unlike Reverdia is now investing substantially in market and application conventional lamination. development, and saw its number of customers double in 2016. The resulting backsheet has been evaluated on a wide range DSM Advanced Solar of performance parameters and tested and certified by CPVT, the leading Chinese testing Institute for solar PV modules and DSM Advanced Solar aims to accelerate the uptake and materials. DSM took its first orders for these products during effectiveness of solar energy by focusing on the development the year. and commercialization of technologies and materials that increase the efficiency of solar modules, reducing the cost of energy delivered. This business was renamed DSM Advanced Solar at the end of 2016 to better reflect its broadening portfolio of solar technologies and materials. It performed well in 2016, with topline growth exceeding the average growth rate for the solar PV (photovoltaic) panel market. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 85 www.dsm.com Downstream sales efforts and intensified partnerships with this innovative textured surface also improved the vehicle’s leading PV glass manufacturers resulted in a significant growth aerodynamics. in our share of the anti-reflective coatings market. Debottlenecking of the manufacturing line in Sittard-Geleen The SunRISE TechBridge Challenge proved a highly effective (Netherlands) and transfer of the anti-reflective coating to a high way of identifying promising start-ups and boosting open solid grade ensured that production capacity met market innovation in 2016. The initiative is a collaboration between DSM, demand, while reducing cost and carbon footprint, both for Fraunhofer TechBridge, and Greentown Labs. Of 56 ourselves and for our customers. Our portfolio was expanded by applications, five early-stage companies were announced as the addition of an innovative backsheet sourced via an exclusive winners of the 2016 SunRISE TechBridge Challenge, designed distribution agreement with Suzhou Sunshine New Materials to identify innovations in solar materials and technologies to Technology Co., Ltd. (China). Meanwhile, five solar material reduce the cost of energy for photovoltaic systems. innovations were identified and earmarked for further development during the SunRISE TechBridge Challenge In 2016, DSM and Novozymes joined the newly created DIVA (reported on below under Innovation partnerships). Ventures as co-founders, together with members of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and pro bono Our light-trapping textured surface technology showed counsel Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP. DIVA Ventures considerable power output gain in outdoor tests during 2016 exists to co-develop and co-invest in early-stage impact and generated significant customer interest. We will continue to ventures in partnership with the world's leading corporations. further optimize technical performance before commercializing. Bright Minds Challenge DSM Business Incubator 'Science can change the world', DSM's campaign to highlight The DSM Business Incubator explores business opportunities in science’s key role in tackling the challenges faced by societies adjacent areas and future markets for DSM with a strong link to around the globe, entered a new phase in 2016. We moved from DSM’s technologies and competence base. Platforms are profiling unsung heroes of science, and the often overlooked created within the scope of securing food, health and energy societal impact that their ideas can have, to helping new heroes requirements of society, in close collaboration with industry put their solutions into practice with our inaugural Bright Minds partners and existing and potential customers. DSM’s Business Challenge. Incubator has been instrumental in feeding the pipeline with opportunities that address customer needs. The 2016 Challenge was initiated by DSM, together with Accenture, Greentown Labs, Skoll Center for Social In 2016, the DSM Business Incubator worked on a range of Entrepreneurship, the University of Oxford, Solarcentury, projects. In our energy storage project, we developed three SolarAid, Sungevity, CPVT and NREL. It is designed to fastproduct lines, which will be further refined in 2017. Our R&D forward the transition toward 100% renewable energy by partnership with Syngenta to develop microbial-based crop stimulating the development of innovative, scalable solutions for protection solutions has made an excellent start, with promising solar and energy storage. The consortium will provide the most initial leads. Our Proteins for the Future project is generating promising emerging solutions with commercial, technical and interest among customers. We are building a pilot plant at our mentoring support to facilitate scale-up as quickly as possible. biotech site in Delft (Netherlands) so as to be able to provide Anyone who has a renewable energy solution that can prototype products at scale in 2017. significantly advance the potential for solar or energy storage can submit an entry. Innovation partnerships The winners will be announced in June 2017. DSM’s innovation partnerships provide direct and indirect business opportunities as well as helping the company build its corporate brand along with its individual product brands. Our ongoing partnership with the Nuon Solar Team achieved a further success in 2016. The team, composed of engineering students from Delft Technical University, won the Sasol Solar Challenge on 1 October by driving 4,716.7 km across the South African desert in eight days in a vehicle powered only by the sun. A major contributory factor was the adaption of DSM’s groundbreaking light-trapping technology to create a new solar module fixed to the top of the winning Nuna8S car; the use of Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 86 www.dsm.com Corporate Activities Any consolidated activities that are outside the three reporting clusters are reported as Corporate Activities. These comprise operating and service activities, as well as a number of costs that cannot be allocated to the clusters. While this segment reports net sales from its service units to third parties, it normally has a negative operating result. Corporate Activities includes various holding companies, regional holdings and corporate overheads. The most significant cost elements are corporate departments and the share-based compensation for the company. Corporate Activities x € million 2016 2015 Net sales 71 76 Adjusted EBITDA (105) (122) Adjusted operating profit (141) (169) Capital expenditure 16 24 R&D operating expenditure 22 16 Workforce at 31 December (headcount) 2,447 2,716 DSM Insurances The company retains a limited part of its material damage and business interruption and product liability risks via DSM’s captive insurance company. In 2016, the total retained damages were € 2.2 million. Corporate Research The Corporate Research Program (CRP) is aimed at developing key Science & Technology competences. The CRP, which falls under the responsibility of the Chief Technology Officer, typically funds competence development programs with a longer time horizon than those run by the business groups, and focus on competences that have a broader relevance for DSM. The CRP also supports Science & Technology programs that are carried out with external parties and programs covering relevant new trends. Share-based payments Under the DSM Stock Incentive Plan, performance-based and non-performance-based stock options are granted to senior management, and non-performance-based stock options are granted to certain employees in the Netherlands. The costs of these share-based payments amount to € 24 million (2015: € 23 million) and are reported under Corporate Activities. For detailed information, see Note 27 of the 'Consolidated financial statements' on page 188. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 87 www.dsm.com Partnerships As part of DSM’s strategic transformation and move away from Sustainable antibiotics more commoditized and cyclical areas, we have established joint ventures for the pharma activities (DSM Sinochem All DSP’s high-quality PureActives® APIs are manufactured Pharmaceuticals for anti-infectives in 2011 and Patheon for using enzymes, which allow the production of APIs with a much contract development and manufacturing services in 2014) and lower CO2 footprint versus comparable chemically for the bulk chemical businesses in Polymer Intermediates and manufactured products. DSP also takes a lead role in promoting Composite Resins (ChemicaInvest in 2015). sustainable antibiotics and the fight against antimicrobial resistance (AMR). DSP works with partners in the entire value The results of these joint ventures are reported under Share of chain to buy, use and sell responsibly made antibiotics. the profit of associates and joint ventures and Other results related to associates and joint ventures in the 'Consolidated DSP has implemented the basic requirements for clean and income statement' on page 135. See also ‘Associates and joint sustainable antibiotics production globally: it operates dedicated ventures’ on page 161. waste water treatment plants at all manufacturing sites in combination with antimicrobial activity testing. In 2016, DSP These joint ventures have been created with the intention of became a signatory company to the UN Industry Roadmap on ultimately exiting these businesses. We expect to extract combating AMR and also joined the Pharmaceutical Supply significant value from monetizing these partnerships in the Chain Initiative, which brings together the pharmaceutical coming years. industry to formalize, implement and champion responsible supply chain practices. DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals DSP’s leadership role in AMR was recognized by CEFIC, the European Chemical Industry Council, with the 2016 Responsible x € million (100%) 2016 2015 Care Award for Product Stewardship. Net sales 431 418 Patheon Adjusted EBITDA 62 57 Adjusted operating profit 34 28 x € million (100%) 20161 20151 Capital employed at 31 December 223 313 Net sales 1,786 1,621 DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals (DSP) was formed in 2011 as Adjusted EBITDA 364 366 a 50/50 joint venture between DSM and Sinochem Group, a Adjusted operating profit 247 191 Fortune 500 company. DSP is the global leader in sustainable Capital employed at 31 December 2,636 2,391 antibiotics, next-generation statins and anti-fungals. DSP develops, produces and sells intermediates, active 1 Book year 1 November until 31 October pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) and drug products. It is at the forefront of technological and process developments for antiinfectives and cholesterol-lowering molecules, using Patheon was formed in 2014 as part of a USD 2.6 billion environmentally-friendly technologies such as fermentation and transaction between JLL Partners and DSM, which combined enzymatic conversions to replace harmful chemical processes. the businesses of DSM Pharmaceutical Products and Patheon, Inc. The company is a leading global provider of outsourced Headquartered in Singapore, the group has manufacturing sites pharmaceutical development and manufacturing services and sales offices in China, India, Egypt, the Netherlands, Spain, ranging from formulation development to clinical and the US and Mexico. commercial-scale manufacturing, packaging, and life cycle management. The company is positioned to add scale, new DSP is a market leader in enzymatic beta-lactam and statin APIs, value chain capabilities and technologies, as well as to expand with nearly 350 patented innovations in this field. Full backward its end-to-end service offerings as a comprehensive solution to integration gives a high level of control over its supply chain and support above-market growth and enhanced profitability. the advantage of using its own high-quality APIs for its finished dosage formulations. On 26 July 2016, the company completed an initial public offering (IPO) of 34,226,191 ordinary shares at the price of USD 21.00 per share. As part of the IPO, DSM sold approximately 4.8 million shares. These led to a gain of Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 88 www.dsm.com € 232 million in the third quarter of 2016. DSM currently has a shareholding of approximately 34% in Patheon. Patheon has continued to transform itself, having completed and successfully integrated five accretive acquisitions in the past five years. To further its growth, the company announced on 28 November 2016 that it will acquire a state-of-the-art API manufacturing facility in Florence (South Carolina, USA) from Roche Holdings. With the addition of this site, Patheon expands its capacity for manufacturing highly potent compounds, and adds capabilities to support solid-state chemistry, micronization, and eventually, commercial spray-drying. ChemicaInvest x € million (100%) 2016 20151 Net sales 1,802 756 Adjusted EBITDA 107 (3) Adjusted operating profit (36) (32) Capital employed at 31 December 556 566 1 Started 31 July 2015 ChemicaInvest is a global leader in the production and supply of caprolactam and a leading European supplier of acrylonitrile and composite resins. DSM has a 35% shareholding in the company. Caprolactam Caprolactam is the raw material for polyamide 6 (PA6), also known as nylon 6. PA6 is used in diverse applications, ranging from carpets and textiles to car parts, electrical devices and packaging film. The caprolactam business operates under the Fibrant name. On 30 June 2016, Fibrant LLC announced the wind-down of its caprolactam production facility in Augusta (Georgia, USA), with caprolactam production at the site ceasing early November. The drawing rights contract in North America has been continued through another sourcing set-up via Fibrant. Acrylonitrile ChemicaInvest is also a leading supplier in the European merchant acrylonitrile market. Acrylonitrile is a raw material for acrylic fibers, plastics, rubber, water treatment chemicals and a wide range of specialty products. This business operates under the name AnQore. Composite Resins Composite Resins is a leading supplier in the European market and also has a production site in China. It provides resins solutions for lightweight composites used in trucks and trains, bridges, building facades, wind-turbine blades and trenchless pipe renovation. The Composite Resins business is branded Aliancys. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 89 www.dsm.com Financial and reporting policy Financial policy DSM's policy in the various sub-disciplines of the finance function is strongly oriented toward solidity, reliability and As a basis for and contribution to effective risk management and protection of cash flows. The finance function plays an important to ensure that the company is able to pursue its strategies, even role in business steering. during periods of economic downturn, DSM aims to retain a strong balance sheet and limit its financial risks. For detailed information on DSM’s tax policy, see ‘Taxation at DSM’ on the company website. DSM's Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth has ambitious strategic and financial targets that are outlined on page 14. Within the context of this strategy, DSM aims to maintain a strong investment grade long-term credit rating. Most of DSM's external funding needs are financed through long-term debt. Debt covenants are not included in the terms and conditions of outstanding bonds and financing arrangements. DSM aims to spread the maturity profile of outstanding bonds in order to have adequate financial flexibility. An important element of the company's financial policy is the allocation of cash flow. DSM primarily allocates cash flow to investments aimed at strengthening its business positions and securing the dividend payments to its shareholders. Remaining cash flow is further used for acquisitions and partnerships that strengthen DSM's competences and market positions in health, nutrition and materials. DSM aims to provide a stable, and preferably rising, dividend. Dividends are paid out in cash or in the form of ordinary shares at the option of the shareholders, with a maximum of 40% of the total dividend amount available for stock dividend. In order to cover its commitments under the dividend policy and under management and employee option plans, DSM buys back shares insofar as this is necessary and feasible. In the year, 5,200,000 shares were repurchased to meet these obligations (2015: 2,300,000 shares). It is company policy to hedge 100% of the currency risks resulting from sales and purchases at the moment of recognition of trade receivables and payables. Additionally, operating companies may – under strict conditions – opt to hedge currency risks from firm commitments and forecasted transactions. The currencies giving rise to these risks are primarily USD, CHF, JPY and GBP. The risks arising from currency exposures are regularly reviewed when appropriate. A business or partner that is targeted for acquisition should add value to DSM in terms of technological or market competences. Acquired companies are in principle required to contribute to DSM's cash earnings per share from the very beginning and to earnings per share from the second year. In addition, they are required to meet the company's profitability, sustainability and growth requirements. However, such requirements may not be appropriate in the case of small, innovative growth acquisitions, although the sustainability requirement will be upheld at all times. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 90 www.dsm.com Reporting policy UN Global Compact DSM has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2007 Reporting policy and justification of choices made and commits to annually report on progress in implementing the In this Report, DSM reports for the calendar year 2016. The UN Global Compact’s 10 Principles in the areas of human rights, company reports on its People, Planet and Profit information in labor, the environment and anti-corruption. This Report is DSM’s such a Report on an annual basis. The previous DSM Integrated Communication on Progress 2016, submitted to the UN Global Annual Report was published on 1 March 2016. Compact Office. DSM’s Code of Business Conduct, its Sustainability, Human Resources, and Safety, Health and In the Report by the Managing Board, DSM explains its vision Environment (SHE) policies, and its Supplier Sustainability and policy with respect to sustainability practices and reports on Program are the foundations on which DSM applies the its activities in this field during 2016. In addition to disclosing data standards of the Global Compact. and developments in the categories of People, Planet and Profit, DSM also reports on the global societal megatrends that drive DSM has also aligned its sustainability strategy with the its strategy, its sustainability strategy, its sustainability Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). DSM is familiar with the governance framework, stakeholder engagement activities, and opportunities and responsibilities that the SDGs represent for management approach on material topics. DSM proactively DSM’s business, and while our mapping shows that we seeks out the views of its key stakeholders on issues of material contribute to all of them, we have chosen to focus on the goals importance to the company. which most closely align with our strategic ambitions. In this report, we have started to build the SDGs into our reporting process, for example by mapping SDG reporting priorities in our value creation model, and our material topics. Principles of the UN Global Compact1 DSM Code of Business Conduct and relevant page(s) in the Integrated Annual Report 2016 Principle 1 Support of human rights page 28, page 32, page 47, page 98 Principle 2 Exclusion of human rights violation page 28, page 32, page 47, page 98 Principle 3 Observance of the right to freedom of association page 47, page 98 Principle 4 Abolition of all forms of forced labor page 47, page 98 Principle 5 Abolition of child labor page 47, page 98 Principle 6 Elimination of discrimination page 12, page 43, page 44, page 98, page 100 Principle 7 Precautionary environmental protection page 12, page 49 to page 55 Principle 8 Specific commitment to environmental protection page 25 to page 26, page 49 to page 55 Principle 9 Diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies page 12, page 22, page 29, page 49 to page 55, page 65 to page 86 Principle 10 Measures to fight corruption page 28, page 98 to page 100, page 103 to page 106 1 In 2016, DSM once again renewed its commitment to the UN Global Compact's CEO Water Mandate; see 'Stakeholder engagement' on page 26 Global Reporting Initiative Integrated Reporting Framework DSM bases its sustainability reporting on international nonDSM aligns with the recommendations of the International financial reporting guidelines. For this Report, the company used Integrated Reporting Council <IR> Framework where possible. the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. DSM is The intention of the <IR> Framework is to provide additional constantly (re-)assessing to what extent sustainability aspects guiding principles and content elements for an integrated report. become material to DSM and its stakeholders. In case specific Aligning with the framework allows DSM to better identify and indicators become relevant to the company’s sustainability communicate how it creates value for DSM’s stakeholders in performance, appropriate actions are taken that allow the People, Planet and Profit, as well as the interconnection between necessary data to be collected so as to be able to disclose these three dimensions. progress in the future. A detailed overview of how DSM reports according to the GRI Standards comprehensive indicators, Selection of topics including a reference to relevant sections in this Report, is The topics covered in this Report were selected on the basis of provided on the company's Integrated Annual Report website. input from internal and external stakeholders and the related materiality analysis, which assessed the relevance and impact of selected topics for DSM and its various stakeholders. On the Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 91 www.dsm.com basis of the principle of materiality (using the GRI Standards), People methodology DSM distinguishes between topics whose importance warrants People and HR data are collected per business group and publication in this Report (relevant to both DSM and its consolidated at corporate level. stakeholders), and topics whose importance warrants publication on the company website only (topics important to Brighter Living Solutions either DSM or its stakeholders). DSM reports on a selection of In 2016, DSM changed the reporting of its sustainability as a its external recognition in the chapters ‘Stakeholder growth driver KPI from ECO+ to Brighter Living Solutions to engagement’ on page 24 and ‘Review of business in 2016’ on include People+, reflecting the company’s steering on the page 62. Other examples of external recognition can be found impact of both Planet and People. For a definition of Brighter on the company website. Living Solutions, see 'Brighter Living Solutions' on page 22. DSM reports twice yearly the percentage of Brighter Living Solutions Scope within its running business portfolio. The People, Planet and Brighter Living Solutions data in this Report cover all entities that belong to the scope of the The sustainability assessments to support the qualification for Consolidated financial statements, provided that DSM also has Brighter Living Solutions (ECO+ and People+ consolidated) are operational control. As such, three small units have been made by internal Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) experts and excluded from the scope. Planet reporting covers manufacturing reviewed using the four-eyes principles with at least one internal, units where commercial production by DSM occurs. independent senior LCA consultant. The financial data are validated with the Corporate Sustainability department and Acquisitions and divestments consolidated as DSM Brighter Living Solutions KPI performance The HR data (People) for newly acquired companies are reported and reviewed by Group Control & Accounting. from the first full month after the acquisition date. The Safety, Health (People), Environment (Planet) and Brighter Living Solutions data for newly acquired companies are reported at the latest in the year following the first full year after acquisition, because these companies’ reporting procedures first have to be aligned with those of DSM. In the case of divestments, safety data are consolidated until the moment of divestment and planet data are reported to the last full year at DSM. Planet methodology The progress on the key environmental performance indicators is evaluated and established on a yearly basis. Data on these indicators are collected bi-annually for DSM’s large and mediumsized sites. Small sites report annually. The data for the DSM sites are based on these sites’ own measurements and calculations, which are based on definitions, methods and procedures established at corporate level. The site managers of reporting units are responsible for the quality of the data. Data are collected based on measurements and calculations in the production processes, information from external parties (e.g. on waste and external energy) and estimates based on expert knowledge. Reporting units have direct insight into their performance compared to previous years and are required to provide justifications for deviations above the threshold. For most parameters, the threshold is set at 10%. The year-on-year comparability of the data can be affected by changes in the portfolio as well as by improvements made in the measurement and recording systems at the various sites. Whenever impact is relevant, it is stated in the Report. Details for the individual sites as well as the methodology and calculations are published on the company website, together with an explanation of the definitions used. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 92 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management Introduction financial performance and its performance in the area of sustainability. Koninklijke DSM N.V. (Royal DSM) is a company limited by shares listed on Euronext Amsterdam, managed by a Managing The Managing Board consists of three or more members, to be Board together with an Executive Committee and with an determined by the Supervisory Board. The current composition independent Supervisory Board. Members of the Managing of the Managing Board can be found in the chapter ‘Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Board are appointed (and, if Board and Managing Board Royal DSM’ on page 120. Since necessary, dismissed) by the General Meeting of Shareholders. 2005, members of the Managing Board have been appointed for a period of four years. The company is governed by Dutch law and by its Articles of Association, which can be consulted on the company website. The members of the Managing Board are collectively responsible The General Meeting of Shareholders decides on an amendment for the management of the company. Notwithstanding their to the Articles of Association by an absolute majority of the votes collective responsibility within the Managing Board, certain tasks cast. A decision to amend the Articles of Association may only and responsibilities for business clusters and functional areas as be taken at the proposal of the Managing Board, subject to well as regional responsibilities have been assigned to individual approval of the Supervisory Board. members. This distribution of tasks is published on the company website. DSM fully informs its stakeholders about its corporate objectives, the way the company is managed and the company's The remuneration of the members of the Managing Board is performance. Its aim in doing so is to pursue an open dialogue determined by the Supervisory Board based on the with its shareholders and other stakeholders. remuneration policy approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders. The remuneration policy for the Managing Board DSM has a decentralized organizational structure built around can be found in the 'Report by the Supervisory Board' under business groups that are empowered to carry out all short-term ‘Remuneration policy for the Managing Board’ on page 114. and long-term business functions. In 2015, DSM announced a number of adjustments to its organizational structure related in The functioning of and decision making within the Managing particular to its support and corporate functions as well as its Board and Executive Committee are governed by the regional organizations. The new organizational and operating Regulations of the Managing Board, which are in accordance model has created more clarity between businesses, regions with the Dutch corporate governance code and can be found on and support and corporate functions. At the operational level, the company website. the business groups remain the cornerstones of the organization. In 2016, the Managing Board had 18 formal meetings and 35 Executive Committee meetings, some of them by Managing Board & Executive Committee teleconference. No Managing Board members had to be Since 2015, DSM’s management structure has been excused from meetings during the year. In 10 Executive strengthened by the establishment of an Executive Committee. Committee meetings, a member was excused due to other The Executive Committee enables faster strategic alignment and commitments. In all cases, members who were unable to attend operational execution by increasing focus on the development provided any input they had to the meeting in advance in writing of the business, innovation and people. The members of the or via other members. Executive Committee are the Managing Board members as well as four senior managers appointed by the Chairman of the Supervisory Board Managing Board after consultation with the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board consists of at least five members. The The Executive Committee focuses on topics such as the overall current composition of the Supervisory Board can be found in strategy and direction, review of business results, functional and the chapter ‘Supervisory Board and Managing Board Royal regional strategies, budget setting, and people and organization. DSM’ on page 120. Members of the Supervisory Board are appointed for a period of four years with a current maximum of The statutory responsibilities of the Managing Board have three four-year terms. remained unchanged. The Managing Board is ultimately responsible for the company's strategy, its portfolio All current members of the Supervisory Board are independent management, the deployment of human and capital resources, in accordance with the Dutch corporate governance code. The the company’s risk management system, the company's remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board is determined by the General Meeting of Shareholders. The Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 93 www.dsm.com functioning of and decision making within the Supervisory Board issuance of shares or rights to shares, restriction or exclusion are governed by the Regulations of the Supervisory Board, which of pre-emptive rights of shareholders and repurchase or are in accordance with the Dutch corporate governance code cancellation of shares; and can be found on the company website. amendments to the Articles of Association; and decisions of the Managing Board that would entail a significant The Supervisory Board supervises the policy pursued by the change in the identity or character of DSM or its business. Managing Board, the Managing Board's performance of its managerial duties and the company's general course of affairs, The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders is held within six taking the interests of all the company's stakeholders into months of the end of the financial year in order to discuss and, account. The annual financial statements are approved by the if applicable, approve the annual report, the annual accounts, Supervisory Board and then submitted for adoption to the any appointments of members of the Managing Board and the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, accompanied by an Supervisory Board, and any of the other topics mentioned explanation by the Supervisory Board of how it carried out its above. supervisory duties during the year concerned. The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and, if necessary, In line with the Dutch corporate governance code, the other General Meetings of Shareholders are called by the Supervisory Board has established from among its members an Managing Board or the Supervisory Board. The agenda and Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee, and a explanatory notes are published on the company website. Remuneration Committee, besides which there is also a Sustainability Committee. According to the Articles of Association, shareholders who, individually or jointly, represent at least 1% of the issued capital The task of these committees is to prepare the decision making have the right to request to the Managing Board or the of the Supervisory Board. These committees are governed by Supervisory Board that items be placed on the agenda. Such charters that have been drawn up in line with the Dutch requests need to be received in writing by the Chairman of the corporate governance code and can be found on the company Managing Board or the Supervisory Board at least 60 days website. before the date of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. Diversity The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders was held on 29 DSM strongly values diversity and endeavors to reflect this in its April 2016. The agenda was to a large extent similar to that of Board memberships. Given the relatively small number of previous years. Additional topics were the appointment of Managing Board members, the composition of the Managing Pradeep Pant and the reappointments of Eileen Kennedy and Board in 2016, with one female and three male members, came Victoria Haynes as members of the Supervisory Board. One very close to the 30% prescribed by Dutch legislation, requiring agenda item relating to an amendment of the Articles of a large company to strive to achieve a balanced composition of Association was withdrawn prior to the meeting. Further details its Boards in terms of gender, to the effect that at least 30% of can be found on the company website. the positions are held by women and at least 30% by men. The current composition of the Supervisory Board is well balanced, Dutch corporate governance code in terms of both gender and nationalities, and is in line with Dutch legislation in this regard. More than one third of the members are DSM supports the Dutch corporate governance code adopted women (of the seven Supervisory Board members, three are in 2003 and amended in 2008, which can be found on female and four are male). Furthermore, in the Supervisory Board www.commissiecorporategovernance.nl. DSM confirms that it of DSM Nederland B.V., a subsidiary of Royal DSM, one of the applies all of the 113 Best Practices contained therein. three members is female. In 2016, the Monitoring Committee worked on an update to the General Meeting of Shareholders Dutch corporate governance code, which was published on 8 The main powers of the General Meeting of Shareholders relate December 2016 and will be applicable as of financial year 2017. to: DSM will ensure its continued compliance with the Dutch corporate governance code. the appointment, suspension and dismissal of members of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board; With respect to the appointment of members of the Managing approval of the remuneration policy of the Managing Board; Board for a period of at most four years (Best Practice II.1.1) it approval of the remuneration of the Supervisory Board; should be noted that DSM has adhered to this Best Practice the adoption of the annual financial statements and since the introduction of the corporate governance code in 2004. declaration of dividends; release from liability of the members of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board; Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 94 www.dsm.com Since DSM respects agreements made before the introduction functional policies sufficiently reflect regional requirements, the of said code, the current Chairman of the Managing Board will support functions work closely with the regional organizations remain appointed for an indefinite period. and integrate their advice. Each support function reports to a Managing Board member. There are support functions in the Any substantial change in the corporate governance structure of areas of Finance, People & Organization, Legal, Indirect the company and in the company's compliance with the code Sourcing, Communications and IT. In the new operating model, shall be submitted to the General Meeting of Shareholders for corporate functions (small, high-level groups) supporting the discussion under a separate agenda item. Managing Board and Executive Committee are also seen as support functions. Corporate departments are Corporate All documents related to the implementation of the Dutch Strategy & Acquisitions, Corporate Operational Audit, Corporate corporate governance code at DSM can be found in the Risk Management, Corporate Sustainability, Corporate Investor 'Corporate Governance' section of the company website. Relations and Corporate Affairs. Governance framework Functional excellence departments are mandated by the Managing Board to help the businesses to achieve excellence. Organizational & operating model They cover the areas of Operations & Responsible Care, Business groups are the main building blocks of DSM’s Marketing & Sales and Science & Technology. Functional organization; they have integral long-term and short-term excellence departments support businesses in improving their business responsibility and have at their disposal all functions performance and provide guidance in setting aspiration levels that are crucial to their business success. As the primary and targets. organizational and entrepreneurial building blocks, they focus on four primary business functions: Innovation and R&D, Direct Governance framework Sourcing, Manufacturing & Operations and Marketing & Sales. The following figure depicts DSM's overall governance Intra-company product supplies are contracted by the business framework and the most important governance elements and groups on an arm's length basis. regulations at each level. The business groups are grouped into clusters, thus ensuring coherence of operations and the leveraging of resources within the cluster. The clusters are the main organizational entities for Shareholders Articles of Association external strategic and financial reporting. This structure ensures a flexible, efficient and fast response to market changes. In order to ensure sufficient independence with regard to financial • Regulations of the Supervisory Board management, the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) has no business • Charter of the Audit Committee Supervisory groups reporting to her. Board • Charter of the Nomination Committee • Charter of the Remuneration Committee • Charter of the Sustainability Committee DSM’s business groups receive services from global support functions and functional excellence departments and are supported by the regional organizations. This set-up enables • Regulations of the Managing Board DSM to create a global high-performing organization focused on Managing • Management Framework for the Board / meeting its targets and ambitions. The support functions and Corporate corporate level functional excellence departments are paid for the services they • DSM Code of Business Conduct supply by the users, which are for the largest part the business groups and to a lesser extent other DSM units. Corporate Management Framework for departments are paid from a corporate budget. Operational units operational units Support functions provide those services that can be delivered more efficiently (in terms of total cost of ownership for DSM) by leveraging them across the company, thus capturing scaleFor the sake of clarity, a short summary of the main aspects of benefits and delivering higher quality at lower cost, rather than the framework at Managing Board/corporate level and having them arranged in each business group separately. Within operational level is given here: support functions, centers of expertise provide specialist support, while shared service centers provide standard The Managing Board and Executive Committee adhere to the transactional support. Business partnering is the concept that Regulations of the Managing Board. acts as the interface between the business groups and the The Managing Board and Executive Committee work support functions. Business partners consequently have a according to the Management Framework for the corporate second reporting line in the business. In order to ensure that the Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 95 www.dsm.com level. This implies among other things that they adhere to the ensure structural follow-up of fraud cases with the aim of DSM Code of Business Conduct and applicable corporate reducing fraud risks. policies and requirements. The Management Framework for the corporate level further provides a description of the most Sustainability Governance Framework important (decision making) processes, responsibilities and Managing Board 'rules of the game' at the Managing Board and Executive Sustainability falls under the responsibility of the Managing Committee, functional and regional levels and includes the Board. While CEO/Chairman of the Managing Board Feike governance relations with the next-higher levels (Supervisory Sijbesma is the primary point of contact, other members also Board and shareholders) and the operational units. chair sustainability topics and initiatives. In 2016: The company’s strategic direction and objectives are set in a Feike Sijbesma oversaw sustainability as a key responsibility Corporate Strategy Dialogue. The outcome of the most recent and company value as well as a business growth driver. He Corporate Strategy Dialogue was presented in November 2015 also oversaw DSM’s engagement with organizations including and is described in detail in DSM’s Integrated Annual Report the United Nations and the World Bank, and the strategic 2015 and on the company website. partnership with the World Economic Forum; Stephan Tanda was responsible for Safety, Health and The operational units conduct their business within the Environment (SHE), and chaired the Inclusion & Diversity parameters of the Management Framework for operational units. Council. He was the primary contact for DSM’s partnership This implies among other things that they: with the UN World Food Programme and other nutritionrelated initiatives; comply with the DSM Code of Business Conduct, Corporate Geraldine Matchett took care of integrating sustainability into Requirements and Directives; financial decision making and represented DSM in the establish the strategy, objectives and operational targets of Accounting for Sustainability (A4S) CFO Leadership Network; their business according to the Business Strategy Dialogue, and aligned with the Corporate Strategy Dialogue, and in which Dimitri de Vreeze oversaw DSM's Supplier Sustainability various scenarios and related risk profiles are investigated, and Program and the sourcing of electricity from renewable report on the achievement thereof; sources in his responsibility for the Sourcing function. implement risk management actions according to an Annual Risk Management Plan and in line with corporate policies; Supervisory Board execute DSM-wide standards for support functions (systems, DSM’s Supervisory Board has appointed its own Sustainability processes, vendors, etc.); and Committee to oversee progress against targets and report on execute the annual functional improvement plans, and monitor the embedding of sustainability across the organization. For the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control more details see ‘Supervisory Board report’ on page 108. system and regularly discuss the findings with the Managing Board and Executive Committee. External Sustainability Advisory Board Comprising a diverse international group of thought leaders, The frequency of auditing the operational units is based on the DSM’s Sustainability Advisory Board acts as a sparring partner risk profile of the respective unit; on average this happens once for the Managing Board and senior executives, to help sharpen every three to four years and is conducted by the Corporate their focus on strategic issues, deepen their understanding of Operational Audit (COA) department. The director of COA external stakeholder needs, conduct advocacy and handle reports to the CFO and has access to the Chairman of the dilemmas. This board met twice in 2016 together with the Managing Board, the external auditor and the Chairman of the Managing Board and a number of senior executives. Subjects Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. Furthermore, the discussed included DSM's corporate sustainability strategy, director of COA acts as the compliance officer with regard to new business opportunities, sustainability and finance, inside information and is the secretary of the Disclosure sustainable animal proteins, and social innovation in Africa. The Committee, as well as being chairman of the DSM Alert outcomes from such discussions led to recommendations and Committee, which is responsible for the DSM whistleblower potential changes to DSM’s approach to its strategy and policy, systems and processes. Chaired by the CFO, the management of topics. This board also took the opportunity to Disclosure Committee ensures the timely and accurate host, together with members of the Managing Board, a round disclosure of share price sensitive information related to the table with a number of DSM’s young professionals to discuss Company and is responsible among other things for the the topic: “The world with a climate deal: what has changed and implementation of the DSM rules on the holding and execution what not?” They also joined DSM staff to celebrate being once of transactions in DSM financial instruments. In the Fraud again named worldwide sustainability leader in the Materials Committee, relevant corporate functions participate under the industry group in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. chairmanship of the CFO. The objective of the committee is to During the year, DSM welcomed new members Ndidi Nwuneli and Jessica Fanzo to this board; a further member, Robin Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 96 www.dsm.com Chase, joined in January 2017. Sadly, Sustainability Advisory entrepreneurship and social innovation, and will be dearly Board member Pamela Hartigan passed away in August. missed. Pamela brought clear and insightful perspectives on social Sustainability Advisory Board Member Background Robin Chase (f)1 Co-founder and former CEO of Zipcar, co-founder and board member of Veniam, board member of the World Resources Institute, and Tucows, and serves as an advisor to the French National Digital Agency and the USDOT’s Advisory Committee on Automated Transportation. Nationality: American. Jessica Fanzo (f) Bloomberg Distinguished Associate Professor of Ethics and Global Food & Agriculture at the Johns Hopkins Berman Institute of Bioethics, the School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS), and the Bloomberg School of Public Health, Department of International Health, and Director of the Global Food Ethics and Policy Program (all based in the US). She has previously held positions in nutrition advisory, advocacy and research organizations in the US, Italy and Kenya. Nationality: American. Paul Gilding (m) Independent writer and corporate advisor on sustainability. Fellow at University of Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership (UK). In 2011 he published his book “The Great Disruption”. In the 1990s, he was executive director of Greenpeace International. Nationality: Australian. David King (m) Special representative for climate change of the UK government since 2013. From 2008 to 2012, he served as the founding director of the Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment at the University of Oxford (UK). Chief Scientific Advisor to the UK government 2000-2007. Nationality: British. Ndidi Nwuneli (f) Social entrepreneur and Founder of LEAP Africa and co-founder of AACE Food Processing & Distribution Ltd. (AACE Foods), an indigenous agro-processing company in Lagos (Nigeria). She is also a partner at Sahel Capital, an advisory and private equity firm focused on the agribusiness and manufacturing sectors in West Africa. Nationality: Nigerian. Ye Qi (m) Cheung Kong professor of Environmental Policy and director of Brooking-Tsinghua Center for Public Policy at Tsinghua University in Beijing (China). Before he joined Tsinghua, he taught at Beijing Normal University, and the University of California at Berkeley (California, USA). Nationality: American. 1 Joined January 2017 Global network The DSM Operations & Responsible Care department is At a corporate level, sustainability is steered by the Sustainability responsible for all corporate issues related to SHE. The Senior Leadership Team, a group of senior executives representing the Vice President DSM Operations & Responsible Care reports business groups and contributing corporate functions, which is directly to the Managing Board. SHE managers provide support chaired by the Vice President Sustainability. He leads the at business group level. The DSM SHE Council, which includes Corporate Sustainability department and reports directly to CEO all business group SHE managers, is instrumental in sharing Feike Sijbesma. The aim of the Corporate Sustainability staff is experiences and developing practices and communications on to be a business-oriented center of excellence and partner on SHE issues. sustainability, internally and externally. The Sustainability Leadership Team meets quarterly to monitor the progress of sustainability across the company, with particular emphasis on steering the company’s business and innovation portfolio on key drivers. Regional operational sustainability networks are in place in China, India, Latin America, and North America. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 97 www.dsm.com DSM Code of Business Conduct Business principles The DSM Code of Business Conduct ('the Code'), as introduced compliance. The Code is now available to employees in 19 and rolled out from 2010, contains the company’s business languages and the full text of the Code can be found on the principles across the three dimensions of People (11 principles), company website. An update to the Code and the Planet (5 principles) and Profit (15 principles). These principles corresponding training is foreseen in the course of 2017. This translate DSM’s mission and core value − sustainability − into update will make the Code more concise and strengthen the daily practice across its business operations. All DSM employees business principles of the Planet dimension. are expected to act in accordance with the Code, and the Managing Board holds DSM’s unit management accountable for DSM Code of Business Conduct Mission Core Value: Sustainability (3P) Code of Business Conduct: 31 principles along 3P-dimensions Certification via e-learning for: All employees Code of Business Life Saving Key Security Basic Course Conduct Rules Behaviors Responsible Care Specific target Competition Global Trade Anti-Bribery Unlawful Harassment Privacy audiences Law Controls & Corruption Prevention To come ‘alive’ via Dilemma Workshops dilemma discussions (e.g. using UN Global Compact Dilemma Game) Umbrella function The Unlawful Harassment Prevention e-learning emphasizes the importance of the cultural, diversity and non-discrimination The Code serves as an umbrella for several other DSM aspects of the Code and focuses on effective employee regulations and together they form the basis for the company's relations, communications, and non-discriminatory practices in ethical business behavior. These regulations are often supported the workplace. by e-learning programs to train employees. Depending on the subject, this concerns either all employees or selected The DSM Privacy Code for Employee Data and the DSM Privacy employees with a specific role in the organization. Integration Code for Customer, Supplier and Business Partner Data and compliance plans, comprising among other things risk prescribes a mandatory training for Privacy Officers, human management and training on values, are rolled out whenever resources employees, legal counsels and employees who work DSM acquires a business. DSM regulations cover the three with personal data on a regular basis. The related Privacy dimensions of People, Planet and Profit, of which the most e-learning initiated in 2015 was further rolled out in 2016. important are listed below: Planet: The Basic Course Responsible Care addresses the People: To support DSM’s ambition to create an incident-free elements of the Responsible Care Program: Safety, Health and and injury-free workplace, the Life Saving Rules specify the 12 Environment; Product Stewardship; Security and Sustainability. most important rules that must be followed by all employees to Because of the importance of the Responsible Care principles prevent serious or fatal incidents. An overarching Human Rights for all functions and roles within the company, this course is position paper bringing together existing human rights-related mandatory for all DSM employees, as well as for selected policies and procedures has been published on the company contractor employees. website. For more information, see ‘Human rights’ on page 47. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 98 www.dsm.com Profit: DSM has e-learnings for Global Competition Law to progress well. At year-end, over 95% of all DSM employees Principles and Practices and Global Trade Controls. Compliance had completed (or refreshed) their training, excluding employees with these subjects is structurally embedded in DSM’s systems of some businesses acquired recently. Parts of the training and processes. As part of the global trade controls compliance program are offered by the business units to selected contractor process, DSM master data is screened to check customers and employees as well as to employees in DSM's joint ventures. suppliers against embargoes and lists of sanctioned parties. A Code Review Team, chaired by the Vice President Corporate The DSM Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) Policy and Risk Management, monitors implementation of the values Compliance Manual has been communicated to targeted training program as well as internal and external developments employees in commercial and business roles since 2014. concerning corporate ethics to promote and safeguard the Supporting classroom training and a refresher of the ABC company’s values and reputation. Global monitoring and e-learning was further rolled out in 2016. Special attention has reporting is in place for all of the values trainings in DSM’s been given to DSM’s employees and businesses in China, learning management system. including the provision of a Chinese translation of the DSM ABC Policy and Compliance Manual, an easy-to-use ABC checklist People: At the end of 2016, well over 95% of all DSM employees for business people, and ABC classroom trainings in addition to had completed the Life Saving Rules training, underlining the the Competition Law classroom program. During the year a new importance of safety within DSM. The Unlawful Harassment ABC due diligence program was introduced with regard to Prevention training also has a very good implementation level agents and distributors. Relevant information on all these parties among relevant employees (98%). The target audience for the will be collected by questionnaire; independent audits of these Data Privacy Knowledge course was broadened and further parties may be conducted depending on the possible risks rolled out in 2016 and 90% of the targeted employees have involved. already completed this training. The Security e-learning covers all key security topics relevant to Planet: The Basic Course Responsible Care has now been DSM’s business, including DSM’s seven Key Security Behaviors. successfully followed by over 95% of the employee population. To complete the e-learning, participants are required to read and sign off on the DSM Code of Conduct for Information Security. Profit: The first refresher to the ABC e-learning has been rolled A classroom version of the training is available for locations out in 2016; taken over the year, this has been followed by more without access to e-learning facilities. than 90% of all employees within the ABC target group. The training for Global Trade Controls and Security has been in place DSM also has rules in place on the holding of and execution of for longer and implementation levels remain good at 92% and transactions in DSM financial instruments and certain other 97% respectively. Additional training on Trade Controls financial instruments related to trading in DSM shares, and if Compliance has been given to zoom in on various businessapplicable, shares and related financial instruments in other specific aspects of this topic. companies. These apply to all relevant DSM employees, including the members of the Managing Board and the Those employees for whom competition laws are most relevant Supervisory Board. must complete an annual statement to confirm their compliance with the rules set forth in the DSM Competition Law Compliance Value chain Manual. In this statement they confirm that they are not aware of any violation of competition laws by DSM. Sign-off levels are The business principles most relevant for the supply chain are excellent. Alleged breaches are reported to and discussed with brought together in the Supplier Code of Conduct and structured Group Legal Affairs. In 2016, no breaches were reported and along the three sustainability dimensions of People, Planet and DSM was not subject to any investigation by competition Profit. The Supplier Code of Conduct (available on the company authorities related to potential anti-competitive behavior. website in eight languages) is signed off by suppliers in framework contracts, whereby they confirm their commitment to Dilemmas sustainability among other things. For distributors' and agents' contracts, the ABC Policy is being translated into terms and Living the Code can sometimes result in dilemmas that do not conditions to ensure ethical business conduct when these third have a quick or clear answer. Dilemma workshops can be parties are acting on behalf of DSM or dealing with DSM’s requested by the company's units to prepare for these cases products further down the value chain. using the UN Global Compact Dilemma Game as a tool. The workshops build on DSM’s company culture, which is based on Training and awareness openness, fairness and trust. The aim is to create an openminded atmosphere in which dilemmas can be discussed. These DSM employees must refresh their training on the Code every discussions are used to calibrate 'what is right' and 'what is two years. The implementation of this training program continues Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 99 www.dsm.com wrong' in order to continuously improve business integrity in daily party. While this is an increase compared to 2015 (16, of which operations. 1 external report), it is broadly in line with the average of 22 alerts over the last 5 years. There were no bribery or corruption cases. Letter of Representation The table on the following page gives an overview of all reported At the end of each year, the management of all 32 operational Code violations, with a breakdown per Triple P dimension and units directly reporting to the Managing Board (business groups, per region. Proven serious violations of the Code can result in regions, others) sign off on a Letter of Representation. With this dismissal or other forms of consequence management. In line they confirm the compliance of the unit and its employees with with this policy, 32 employees were dismissed in 2016 as a result applicable laws and regulations, the Code and related values of breaches of the Code or other legal or local company trainings as well as corporate policies and requirements. regulations. In addition, 76 cases were reported that have led to other kinds of consequence management (official warning or Consequence management suspension). Overall this is at approximately the same level as 2015. DSM applies zero-tolerance consequence management to violations of the Code. Under our whistleblower procedure People: Most of the cases in the People dimension are related (DSM Alert), most Code incidents are reported to, and dealt with to violations of the Life Saving Rules or inappropriate behavior. by, local line management. In cases where reporting to line Safety and health in the workplace has a priority for the company management is not considered appropriate, complaints are and incident-reporting channels are well known. made directly to the DSM Alert Officer. In all cases, consequence management practices are in place (e.g. official warning, Planet: There were a few violations of the Code reported in the temporary suspension, dismissal) to support compliance with Planet dimension in 2016 due to seriously negligent or the Code. The DSM Alert Officer reports to the Managing Board irresponsible behavior by employees. None of these violations and reports independently to the Audit Committee of the led to serious environmental incidents. Supervisory Board twice a year. People who are not DSM employees but wish to raise a concern regarding a violation of Profit: Half of the cases that were reported in the Profit dimension the Code can also contact the DSM Alert Officer via the company were related to the incorrect registration of working hours. There website. were also a number of conflict of interest and fraud cases. In 2016, 24 reports of a potential violation were received via the Alert channel, 3 of which were reported by an external person or Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 100 www.dsm.com Code of Business Conduct 2016 2015 Training and awareness e-learning: % of targeted employees trained General Code of Business Conduct 97% 96% People Life Saving Rules 99% 96% Unlawful Harassment Prevention 98% -1 Data Privacy Knowledge 90% -1 Planet Basic Course Responsible Care 98% 93% Profit Global Trade Controls 92% 90% Anti-Bribery and Corruption 93%2 94% Security 97% 93% DSM Competition Law: % of targeted employees signed off DSM Competition Law compliance annual statement 99% 100% Violations of the Code: Number of dismissals/other consequence management Triple P breakdown People 20/58 26/45 Planet 3/5 0/0 Profit 9/13 12/6 Regional breakdown Europe & Africa 13/31 5/19 Americas 14/37 27/30 Asia-Pacific 5/8 6/2 Total 32/76 38/51 Alert cases (whistleblower procedure): Number substantiated/not substantiated/under investigation Triple P breakdown People 11/7/3 3/10/0 Planet 0/0/0 0/0/0 Profit 2/1/0 3/0/0 Regional breakdown Europe & Africa 2/2/0 2/1/0 Americas 7/6/3 4/6/0 Asia-Pacific 4/0/0 0/3/0 Total 13/8/3 6/10/0 1 No overall global data available for this period 2 Average of 4 quarters Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 101 www.dsm.com Risk management as depicted in the figure below, and this section is structured accordingly. The Managing Board is responsible for risk management within DSM. With the support of the Corporate Risk Management A full description of DSM’s risk management system and department, which reports directly to the CFO, the Managing process together with a description of the identified risks is Board has designed and implemented a well-embedded risk available on the company website. These descriptions are to be management system and organization in all company units. Risk considered an integral part of this Report. management at DSM is based upon the COSO-ERM framework, Core Value Sustainability, CoBC + other training, CSD, BSD, Corporate Requirements Risk appetite Mission / Strategy / Information and Internal environment Objective setting Communication Enterprise Risk Management Monitoring & Control Risk assessment activities & response Annual Report Letter of Representation CRA, BRA, PRA, others RM system / plan / Internal Control Audits / Mitigating actions website / training Audit Committee Emerging risks Mission / Internal environment In order to improve the effective use of the DSM Corporate Requirements, a number of these requirements were Values and business principles are a key element of the internal simplified during 2016, making it easier for target audiences environment for risk management and form the starting point for to understand which elements of the requirements apply to the risk management cycle. DSM’s core value is sustainability, them and how to effectively deploy them. Online tools have which is directly related to its mission to create brighter lives for also been improved in support. people today and generations to come. All DSM employees receive regular training regarding values and business principles, Strategy / Objective setting covering generic and specific elements as required. This starts with an overarching training in the DSM Code of Business A corporate risk management plan has been developed to Conduct (CoBC) (see the company website) and is then further support the delivery of the strategic targets of DSM's Strategy developed along the Triple P principles, whereby either all or else 2018: Driving Profitable Growth. This plan also forms the basis selected target groups of DSM employees are required to follow for the individual units to define their risk management year mandatory e-courses for risks related to People, Planet and plans at either business group, (support) function or regional Profit. See ‘DSM Code of Business Conduct’ on page 98. level. This plan was updated and incorporated in the incentive system applicable to certain (senior) managers in 2016. In 2016, the average implementation score across DSM for An important precursor to risk assessments is the company’s the values-related courses mentioned above further increased overall risk appetite, which is defined by the Managing Board. to more than 95%. This figure includes a new e-learning on In 2016, DSM extended and updated its risk categories. This Data Privacy Knowledge. Data protection is an area of was followed by an update of the company’s risk appetite by increasing importance and societal interest. This course was the Executive Committee. The risk appetite depiction has been introduced to increase awareness and further safeguard the updated to show a somewhat more ‘hungry’ position on data DSM holds on, for instance, employees, customers, Generic/strategic risks in 2016; this is acknowledged as being suppliers and other partners in line with applicable legal a better reflection of DSM’s appetite, in particular with regard requirements. to innovation and talent management. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 102 www.dsm.com DSM’s Risk appetite Averse Minimalist Cautious Open Hungry Generic/strategic (e.g.: Innovation, People/organization/culture, Intellectual property, Raw materials/energy, Price/availability, Acquisitions and partnerships, Divestments, Brand) Operational (e.g.: Reputation, Customer, Project management, Production process, (Information-) Security, Business continuity, Product liability, Safety, Health and Environment) Financial and reporting (e.g.: Liquidity and market, Reporting integrity, Pensions, Financial risks (e.g. credit, tax)) Legal and compliance (e.g.: Legal non-compliance, Non-compliance with DSM Requirements) Risk assessment and response provides an additional platform to report material risks and incidents including possible reputational risks. In 2016, we Risk assessments and corresponding mitigation plans are further strengthened the LoR procedure by requesting the carried out at various levels in the organization. The Managing units to also report potential deviations from laws and Board is responsible for the Corporate Risk Assessment regulations and/or the Corporate Requirements that may (CRA). The full Executive Committee reaches consensus occur for a given period due to specific circumstances; for about the top risks DSM is facing and how to mitigate these, instance, it takes time to train the employees at a newly as well as how to respond to other important risks. The acquired unit in all of DSM’s safety and ethical requirements. Corporate Risks are discussed on a regular basis by the Another improvement in 2016 was the use of high-level risk Executive Committee and owners are assigned for the various findings, such as from the CRA and/or outside-in risk risk mitigation plans. Several risks were reduced during 2016, examples, to further complete and improve the quality of the for instance through the roll-out of SAP-GRC access controls LoR. for continuous control monitoring, which has nearly been Besides numerous external audits, DSM’s risk managers also finalized. Meanwhile some new risk elements emerged as support internal audits to check the effectiveness of the indicated below, especially in the top risks section. The internal controls and risk and incident mitigations. Executive Committee also defined monitoring actions for a Independent audits, including unannounced audits, were slightly higher number of emerging risks that DSM might face executed by the Corporate Operational Audit (COA) in the longer term (details below). department in a program that was agreed with the Executive Various opportunities have been defined to further strengthen Committee and the Audit Committee of the Supervisory how risks are being assessed and mitigated across the various Board. units. DSM intends to further improve the quality of risk Building on a new COA approach to executing end-to-end management facilitation, challenge, and the definition and process audits, DSM has concluded that it should further monitoring of mitigation actions, both in its running businesses strengthen end-to-end operational risk management. DSM as well as in projects. Potential risk correlations were also also believes that in case incidents do occur, more in-depth discussed to prevent − as far as possible − a scenario with a root cause analysis will ensure that learnings can be better potential ‘domino effect’ of risks; see ‘Top risks’ in this extracted and shared to prevent recurrence in the future. section. The consolidated overview of all aforementioned risks, incidents, audits and mitigating actions is the basis for this risk Monitoring and reporting section and the statements of the Managing Board in accordance with the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act Various means of monitoring and reporting are in place, including at the end of this section. It is additionally provided in the risk risk committees and ICT tools. These provide a robust and management section of the half-year figures. continuous overview of the functioning of the common controls and the mitigation of common risks. The following points should Control activities also be noted: Control activities are carried out by the appointed unit risk The Letter of Representation (LoR), which all reporting units managers and related unit risk committees, who regularly review: are required to sign, also confirms their reporting integrity and Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 103 www.dsm.com compliance aspects such as the implementation of training on ‘Geopolitical, global financial and economic developments’ values, segregation of duties, and follow-up of audits from have become the number two top risk for our company (2015: various stakeholders; number three) as geopolitical risks have increased, while at the the execution, follow-up and quality of the relevant set of risk same time oil prices have become very uncertain and more assessments; and volatile. best practices from internal and external sources to further 'People, organization and culture' dropped to the number strengthen DSM’s risk management cycle as well as to ensure three position as a result of the implementation of the new appropriate risk management training for all employees at talent management model, as well as the on-going roll-out of DSM. the new target operating model for the company. DSM continued to implement new advanced ICT tools such as Other important risks SAP-GRC covering access control, user provisioning and Besides the top strategic risks reported on the right, the CRA privileged user management for the majority of the company’s has identified a number of other important (sometimes more units. After some delay due to the development of the new target operational) risks with a potential EBITDA impact of operating model for the Finance function, the Financial Shared approximately € 5 million and over; these include business Service Center started work on a pilot for the further continuity, product liability, cyber security, ICT complexity, implementation of financial process controls. intellectual property and raw material prices. Some of these risks, such as tax risks, are managed at corporate level, while Information and Communication others are managed at unit level through rigorous application of the DSM risk management cycle and its risk management Continuous efforts are made to inform employees about the practices as explained above. Some risks with the potential to DSM risk management system and train them in its use. In emerge in the midand longer-term have been identified and addition to the many initiatives from 2015 listed on the discussed by the Managing Board and are reported in the company website, the main 2016 deliverable was the further following paragraph. The company’s risk management and roll-out of updated and intensive risk management training internal control system has been designed to monitor and programs in the US, China, Switzerland and the Netherlands. respond to these developments in a timely manner, however In 2016, DSM received external recognition for its risk complete prevention or mitigation can never be achieved. A management approach, being named best in class in this combined corporate and unit effort is ongoing to reduce respect in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index, while the potential ICT, cyber security and internal control-related risks. Dutch AFM (Autoriteit Financiële Markten) highlighted DSM’s reporting on Risk appetite and Top risks as good practices. Emerging & mid-term risks The following three emerging and mid-term risks have been The company’s top and emerging risks reported by the Managing Board (the first two of which were identified in 2015, with the third a new addition following the The preliminary outcome of the CRA was reported to and 2016 CRA) and are being carefully monitored so as to be able discussed with the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board in to mitigate them or use them as new opportunities in a timely the meeting of 6 December 2016. This ‘top-down’ outcome manner: corresponded very well with the ‘bottom-up’ risks and incidents as reported by all the individual units in their LoR, as well as with Slower development pace of some longer-term DSM the findings from the internal and external audits. This final risk Innovation projects such as Clean Cow, new natural profile was reported to and discussed with the Audit Committee sweeteners, etc. To secure these key projects as early as on 13 February 2017 and forms the basis for the main risks and possible, DSM must ensure strict project governance, staffing, responses as reported on the next page. and adequate R&D and innovation budgets, as well as customer alliances. Top risks DSM's Nutrition and Materials markets may be disrupted by The table on the next page shows the four most important risks longer-term changes in food preferences/food systems, such to DSM not achieving its targets as defined in Strategy 2018: as the potential impact of climate change and health trends on Driving Profitable Growth as well as the remedial actions to animal protein consumption, and/or by innovations such as mitigate them. Top risks have a potential impact on DSM's 3D printing, new systems replacing fossil fuels by energy from EBITDA of approximately € 30 million and over. renewable sources, new mobility and transport options, and the circular and sharing economy. At the same time, these The top risks as defined in 2016 relate to the same topics as changes might also offer new opportunities in the value chains those identified in 2015. Besides a further sharpening of the DSM serves. definitions used to reflect both internal and external New: DSM may not be able to develop new business models developments during the year, the main changes versus 2015 fast enough to take advantage of digital transformation trends are: in all its market segments. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 104 www.dsm.com Top risks and related mitigating actions Description of risks Mitigating actions Market environment In 2015, DSM finalized key transformation steps, completing DSM leverages its innovation power to differentiate in the value the creation of a streamlined and simplified business portfolio chain and secure growth. Furthermore, DSM is broadening its and a good platform for growth, as 2016’s results have shown. offering in terms of products, applications and customer base. Nonetheless the risk of facing increased competition for some Improved marketing and sales management programs should product-market combinations remains, while DSM actively contribute to enabling DSM to increase/protect the value it needs to manage capacity expansions for selected products. captures, while the company plans timely capacity expansions and/or external sourcing to manage growth. This is strictly monitored by the Executive Committee. Geopolitical, global financial and economic developments DSM's Strategy 2018 assumed no major economic downturn The same mitigating actions apply to macro-economic with a global GDP growth-rate of 3.2%, although economic developments as for risks related to the market environment. headwinds might occur. Events such as major changes in the Furthermore, DSM continues to match cost and revenue political landscape and/or an increase in oil price (volatility) may currencies wherever possible, while the transactional impact the Materials business in particular. exchange rate risk has been reduced by, among other things, DSM assumed exchange rates versus the euro of the continued development of DSM’s acquired businesses in approximately USD 1.10 and CHF 1.08, while future currency China and Latin America, which provide a measure of natural volatilities could have a significant impact on the achievement hedge with 'local for local' production. of DSM's targets. Improved scenario planning is being developed to secure continued delivery in line with targets even should the oil price deviate significantly from original assumptions. People, organization and culture DSM has significantly altered its organizational structure and DSM is adjusting its operating model and has strengthened its operating model, potentially temporarily affecting DSM's top leadership structure precisely to manage performance and capabilities in certain disciplines. The way DSM manages talent drive the achievement of its objectives. A culture change may also not be fully at the desired level to execute its plans program is on-going focused on a results-driven trust/support/ for above-market growth or its cost and productivity can-do mindset. Moreover, DSM will speed up/be more improvement programs. progressive in rolling out its talent management approach. DSM will improve its existing capabilities by training and attracting additional competences if required. Program and project management Besides achieving above-market growth in the period DSM's new way of working with its focus on Accountability 2016-2018, EBITDA improvements have to be generated via (delivering the results) and Collaboration (increased speed) in cost savings to be derived from globally leveraging DSM's combination with a new operating model and a new, support functions and a Nutrition-specific cost and productivity strengthened, top structure should enable faster and better improvement program. Although DSM’s well-identified execution of the strategic cost and productivity improvement initiatives with targeted overall savings of € 250-300 million in programs. Moreover, DSM continues to invest in change Adjusted EBITDA by the end of 2018 (versus the 2014 management and ongoing monitoring, which includes taking baseline) are on track at the end of 2016, the final delivery of corrective actions where needed. So far these major programs the programs will continue to require strong program and are well on track. project management. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 105 www.dsm.com Risk correlation the top risk of 'Market environment'; a domino or compounding In terms of possible risk correlations, the potential geopolitical effect could occur. This kind of potential risk correlation is and economic headwinds mentioned in the top risk 'Geopolitical, visualized for the top four risks in the chart below. Correlated global financial and economic developments' might also impact risks could either strengthen or partly mitigate one another. Top risk correlations Major Medium Market Geopolitical/ Personnel & Program & project Minor environment global economy organization management Market environment Geopolitical/ global economy Personnel & organization Program & project management Broadly the same mitigating actions apply for these potentially The Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board was given incorrelated top risks. As a further mitigating action, DSM is depth insight into the 2016 improvements to the DSM risk strengthening its commercial capabilities as well as its innovation management system, including those areas recognized and sourcing strategies to secure insofar as possible the top-line externally as best in class, as well as the areas for future efforts growth and margins it targets. as mentioned above. This ensured that they remained fully involved and aware of the developments in enterprise risk Enhancement of the risk management system management and how these risk management improvements (could) contribute to the achievement of DSM’s strategic A number of improvements to the risk management system were objectives. developed and implemented during the year, some of which have been mentioned above. The key improvements were: Compliance: DSM further strengthened the implementation score of the nine values-related trainings (which now include Privacy) to an average of above 95%. A program to improve the effectiveness and execution of the DSM Corporate requirements and related internal controls by simplifying them is underway. Improved learning from incidents and better operational end-to-end risk management are on the agenda for 2017 and onward. Risk assessments: improvements include updating and extending the list of risk definitions, while additional Executive Committee attention to the topic clearly strengthened the tracking of actions from the CRA. Potential risk correlations were also discussed to prevent – insofar as possible − situations with a potential ‘compounding effect’ of risks. Nonetheless, there is more work required to further enhance the quality of the risk assessments in terms of preparation, facilitation, challenging and defining mitigating actions. Risk solutions: an updated risk management training program was delivered to DSM’s largest regions. The inclusion of more outside-in views and the sharing of internal and external best practices contributed to risk management maturity. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 106 www.dsm.com Statements of the Managing Board On the basis of the above and in accordance with best practice II.1.5 of the Dutch corporate governance code of December 2008, and Article 5:25c of the Financial Markets Supervision Act, the Managing Board confirms that internal controls over financial reporting provide a reasonable level of assurance that the financial reporting does not contain any material inaccuracies, and confirms that these controls functioned properly in the year under review and that there are no indications that they will not continue to do so. The financial statements fairly represent the company's financial condition and the results of the company’s operations, and provide the required disclosures. It should be noted that the above does not imply that these systems and procedures provide absolute assurance as to the realization of operational and strategic business objectives, or that they can prevent all misstatements, inaccuracies, errors, fraud and non-compliances with legislation, rules and regulations. In view of all of the above, the Managing Board confirms that, to the best of its knowledge, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company, and the management report includes a fair review of the position at the balance sheet date and the development and performance of the business during the financial year, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the company faces. Heerlen, 2 March 2017 The Managing Board Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman Managing Board Geraldine Matchett, CFO Dimitri de Vreeze Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 107 www.dsm.com Report Reportbybythe theSupervisory SupervisoryBoard Board Supervisory Board report “ My colleagues and I were keen to x assess how well our company is using Strategy 2018 to drive the profitable growth for which we are so well positioned. It was pleasing to see the clear focus on delivery throughout the organization in 2016. ” Rob Routs, Chairman Supervisory Board Besides growth, we are also raising our sustainability aspirations The past year brought our company an important step closer to as part of Strategy 2018. The Supervisory Board is very proud its growth aspirations. Going into 2016, my colleagues and I on of our company’s achievements in this field in 2016. In the light the Supervisory Board were keen to assess how well DSM is of the substantial role he played in supporting the COP21 using Strategy 2018 to drive the profitable growth for which our agreement, Feike Sijbesma was invited to co-chair the Carbon company is so well positioned. We were pleased by the clear Pricing Leadership Coalition together with Minister Ségolène sense of direction that we witnessed on all sides, and by the Royal of France – a great honor, and thoroughly deserved. Our strong focus on delivery throughout the organization. CEO and Chairman also received a so-called ‘duurzaam lintje’ in the Netherlands, a decoration that recognizes his personal During the year, the Supervisory Board dedicated two working commitment to sustainability, which is our company’s core sessions to assessing the execution of Strategy 2018. We were value. gratified to see that DSM as a whole is really in ‘delivery’ mode. The improvement programs are firmly on track and the business Likewise very impressive was the professionalism with which is growing. At the same time, the investments in talent DSM as a whole tackled the necessary improvement programs development − the third key aim of Strategy 2018 alongside during 2016, which affected many of our colleagues. The year Adjusted EBITDA and ROCE growth − are bearing fruit. 2016 was a demanding one in many ways, but one in which we took a big step toward achieving our ambitions. On behalf of my A highlight of 2016 was our site visit to DSM Nutritional Products colleagues on the Supervisory Board, I would like to thank our in Switzerland and Germany. This was an informative and also a employees and Executive Committee for all their hard work and very energizing trip. It gave the Supervisory Board a welcome commitment in the past year, as well as thanking all the other chance to deepen our understanding of the various global stakeholders who continue to place their trust in our company. industrial sectors that this business group serves. More than this, All in all, 2016 was a good year for DSM and we are on track for it provided valuable insights into DSM Nutritional Products’ an even brighter future. growth opportunities, innovation platforms and philosophy of continuous improvement. We also very much welcomed the opportunity to meet some of our managers and employees in Switzerland and Germany, whose enthusiasm and commitment were inspirational. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 108 www.dsm.com This Report provides further information on the way the The Supervisory Board furthermore regularly receives Supervisory Board performed its duties in 2016. These concern information on relevant topics from senior leaders and experts supervising the policy pursued by the Managing Board, the within DSM during committee meetings, full Supervisory Board Managing Board's performance of its managerial duties and the meetings, annual site visits, and as part of their ongoing general course of affairs within DSM and its businesses, as well professional education. In 2016, this was the case with respect as in assisting the Managing Board with advice, either upon to the revision of the Dutch corporate governance code; request or proactively. Finally, these duties also include economic and political developments in Latin America; the assessing the Managing Board’s performance and ensuring that progress of the POET-DSM joint venture; talent development; their remuneration is both in line with that performance and and IT and cyber security. During its annual site visit, the provides the appropriate incentives. Supervisory Board has and actively takes the opportunity to interact with employees at different levels within the company, Composition of the Supervisory Board from the shop-, laband work-floor to senior leadership, thus collecting information from different sources within DSM. The composition of the DSM Supervisory Board is diverse in gender (four men, three women), nationality (three Dutch, one Relationship and stakeholder management Swiss, two American and one Singaporean), background, knowledge and experience. The Board's current members are In performing its duties, the Supervisory Board acts in Rob Routs (Chair), Tom de Swaan (Deputy Chair), Victoria accordance with the interests of the company and the business Haynes, Pierre Hochuli, Eileen Kennedy, Pauline van der Meer connected with it, taking into consideration the interests of the Mohr, and Pradeep Pant. For detailed information on their company's stakeholders. The Chairman of the Supervisory background, see 'Corporate Governance' on the company Board is in close contact with the CEO/Chairman of the website and page 120 of this Report. Managing Board, as is the Chairman of the Audit Committee with the CFO. The Supervisory Board interacts with DSM employees The targeted profile of the Supervisory Board is reflected in its on various occasions and in various settings. In general, bilateral regulations, which are published on the company website under contacts between Supervisory Board members and Managing 'Corporate Governance'. The Supervisory Board has four Board members follow naturally from topics discussed in the committees to cover key areas in greater detail: auditing, Supervisory Board meetings and match the respective fields of nominations (of the Supervisory Board and Managing Board), expertise. In view of that expertise, Managing Board members remuneration (of the Supervisory Board and Managing Board) also seek the advice of Supervisory Board members on specific and sustainability. Information on these committees is given matters. The same goes for bilateral contacts with other elsewhere in this chapter. The charters of the committees are employees. Examples are a visit by the Chairman of the published on the company website under 'Corporate Supervisory Board to the POET-DSM plant in Emmetsburg Governance'. (Iowa, USA) to gain a better understanding of the pretreatment issues at the plant and contribute his experience to solving these. Information Another member of the Supervisory Board met with DSM’s Senior Vice President Group Taxation to obtain a more in-depth The Managing Board is the most important source of information understanding of DSM’s taxation policy. The members of the for the Supervisory Board. Information is mainly submitted for Sustainability Committee held an informal meeting to discuss Supervisory Board meetings but also provided around those how to get the most out of the Sustainability Committee meetings and in bilateral contacts between Supervisory Board meetings, as a result of which the concept of deep dives into and Managing Board members. At the start of each Supervisory specific topics was introduced. Our new member Pradeep Pant Board meeting, the Managing Board shares news as well as had numerous bilateral meetings and visited several sites as part highlights and lowlights since the previous meeting. This not only of his introduction program. The Chairman of the Supervisory keeps the Supervisory Board informed, but also enables them Board also met a group of senior DSM managers taking part in to indicate any topics on which they would like to receive more DSM’s executive leadership program to share his views on information or have a discussion. Whenever the Supervisory leadership with them. The Supervisory Board is informed of the Board as a whole or an individual member feels the need to be position of other DSM stakeholders by the Managing Board. In informed on a specific topic, this is requested; follow-up is addition, the Supervisory Board collects such information provided by the Managing Board. In 2016, for example, following through its own network. The Supervisory Board has an active a continuous education session on cyber security, the interest in maintaining a good understanding of shareholders' Supervisory Board asked for an update of DSM’s IT strategy and perceptions. on how DSM was viewing, grasping and, where applicable, pursuing opportunities and mitigating risks following Supervision and advice developments in the digital arena. The Supervisory Board performs its duties of supervising and advising the Managing Board both with respect to recurring Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 109 www.dsm.com standard agenda items for Supervisory Board meetings as well Site visit to DSM Nutritional Products (Switzerland and as to specific topics that become relevant at a given point in time. Germany) The most prominent regular agenda item is an update on Each year the Supervisory Board takes a number of days to visit business, financials and treasury topics. As part of this agenda DSM sites in a particular region. This year’s visit was fully item, the Supervisory Board tracks the financial performance of dedicated to DSM Nutritional Products. The site visits offer an the company, approves the annual Finance Plan and deliberates opportunity to interact with employees across the company as on any additional treasury topics as applicable. The Supervisory well as providing the Supervisory Board members with Board thus discussed and approved the share buy-back continuing education opportunities. The visit deepened the program to cover the company's commitments under existing Supervisory Board’s understanding of DSM’s Nutrition activities, management and employee option plans and to implement its with the Board members gaining additional insights into the stock dividend policy; the issue of bonds; and the hedging policy. technologies used, DSM’s positioning in the value chains, and Furthermore, the treatment of DSM’s cumulative preference the business models applied. shares A was discussed several times with the Supervisory Board. The site visit began with a general overview of DSM’s largest business group, its organizational principles, people and In 2015, the Supervisory Board’s involvement in the financials. DSM Nutritional Products combines global production development of Strategy 2018 went beyond supervision and capabilities with customized local formulations. The site visit was approval. Part of the Supervisory Board meetings were used by designed in such a way that the Supervisory Board followed the the Managing Board for working sessions to ensure that the manufacturing chain, starting with the manufacturing of base Supervisory Board’s expertise could be utilized to the full. In the products, which was witnessed at the Lalden (Switzerland) site. spirit of these working sessions and in order for the Supervisory These products are subsequently used to produce DSM’s final Board to track the execution of Strategy 2018, working sessions products in Animal Nutrition & Health, Human Nutrition & Health were again organized in 2016, one focusing on materials, and and Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients at locations around the another on health and nutrition. During these sessions, the world. Moving along the value chain, the Supervisory Board also Supervisory Board was provided with a performance update as visited the site in Grenzach (Germany), which produces vitamins well as a growth outlook for the respective businesses. BreakB1, B2 and D3. Presentations on the different business units as out group discussions subsequently focused on whether well as on DSM’s current nutritional products innovation enough was being done to execute the current strategy and the platforms completed the visit. Given the importance the extent to which all relevant trends had been identified, either in Supervisory Board always attaches to customer intimacy and terms of risks or opportunities. The Supervisory Board started understanding, the program included a visit to the Nestlé the year assessing past acquisitions, investments and Research Centre in Lausanne (Switzerland), Nestlé being one of divestments to identify lessons learned going forward. DSM Nutritional Product’s major customers. Town hall meeting with the DSM Supervisory Board in Switzerland Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 110 www.dsm.com During the site visit, time was also spent to enable employees supervising and advising the Managing Board. Given some of and the Supervisory Board to get to know each other. For the the conflicting commitments that arose during the year, it was first time, the Supervisory Board held a ‘town hall’ meeting with agreed to come to an additional planning effort to avoid such employees, which met with overwhelmingly positive feedback. conflicts in the future. An evening was spent with local executives discussing the execution of the strategy, culture and talent development, and Committees the future of Nutrition. Finally, time was taken for reflection meetings in which the Supervisory Board shared its impressions The Supervisory Board has four committees to cover key areas with the Executive Committee members who participated. in greater detail: nominations, remuneration, sustainability and During these meetings, the Supervisory Board members shared auditing, which are described in more detail below. any specific advice they had pertaining to the business models applied and technologies used, as well as to talent development. Board nominations Members of the Nomination Committee are Rob Routs (Chair), Supervisory Board meetings and performance evaluation Eileen Kennedy and Pauline van der Meer Mohr. Feike Sijbesma and Peter Vrijsen, Executive Vice President Group People & In 2016, the Supervisory Board had six meetings in the presence Organization, were also involved in the discussions of the of the Managing Board. On two occasions, a member was Committee. The Committee met five times in 2016, once via excused on health grounds and on two other occasions a conference call. The recommendations and minutes of all member was excused due to conflicting commitments. The Nomination Committee meetings were shared with the entire Supervisory Board held one additional conference call to assess Supervisory Board. This feedback included advice and the subsequent event procedure performed between the recommendations regarding topics to be approved by the full publication of DSM’s full year results 2015 and the publication Supervisory Board. of its 2015 financial statements. In 2016, nomination discussions were focused on succession The Supervisory Board also convenes in the absence of the planning for both the Managing Board and the Supervisory Managing Board, which happens either before or after each Board. With respect to the Managing Board, the discussions meeting. were focused on the talent pipeline available for succession of Managing Board members. The Nomination Committee also A Supervisory Board evaluation is performed once every three discussed the proposed nomination for reappointment of Dimitri years by an external advisor; this was again the case in 2016. de Vreeze, whose first term as Managing Board member will end The evaluation was carried out on the basis of a short written in 2017. At the end of the year, discussions also covered the questionnaire, followed by more in-depth one-on-one interviews arrangements around the departure of Stephan Tanda. The between the external advisor and individual Supervisory Board responsibilities of Stephan Tanda have been re-arranged among members. In completing his assessment, the external advisor the Managing Board and Executive Committee members. also interviewed the members of the Managing Board, the Executive Vice President Group People & Organization, and The Supervisory Board assessed the composition of the DSM’s Company Secretary. As part of the evaluation, the Managing Board following Stephan Tanda’s departure. It collective performance of the Board and its Committees and the concluded that the Managing Board is still diverse in nationality performance of the Chairman were assessed. (two Dutch and one member being a Swiss, British and French citizen), gender (two men, one woman), background, knowledge The overall feedback from the evaluation is that the Board has and experience, and provides a good foundation to support all made good progress in its development as a team: it has a clusters and business groups in achieving their targets and thus balanced composition and works well together in a very open contributing to the company strategy aimed at driving profitable atmosphere, also in the discussions with the Managing Board. growth. For detailed background information on all Managing Interactions are both supportive and respectful as well as Board members, see the company website under 'Corporate challenging; there is a constructive and collegial meeting culture. Governance' and page 120 of this Report. The advice going forward was to maintain or perhaps even increase the amount of time spent on strategy, including insights Taking into account the Supervisory Board profile as laid down into DSM’s competitive environment, customer focus, in the Supervisory Board regulations, the Nomination Committee developments in the markets in which DSM operates, and the continued discussions on the overall composition of the impact of digitization. This outcome was presented to and Supervisory Board and discussed the succession planning for discussed with the Supervisory Board in December, in the the Supervisory Board. Both Pierre Hochuli and Tom de Swaan absence of the Managing Board. are approaching the maximum tenure as members of the Supervisory Board (as per the 2017 and 2018 Annual General The Board established that all of its members are committed to Meetings of Shareholders respectively). The Nomination allocating sufficient time and attention to the Board's duties of Committee consequently spent a reasonable amount of time on Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 111 www.dsm.com the profiles of new Supervisory Board members to be attracted of DSM's product categories and confirms minimum compliance in the coming years, and searches for new Board members were levels. Furthermore the Committee was updated on DSM’s initiated in the year. performance in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (DJSI). The Committee's view that DSM is doing well when it comes to Board remuneration sustainability is supported by the fact that in 2016 DSM was The Remuneration Committee had five meetings and two named the leader in its industry in the DJSI and has thereby conference calls in 2016. Pauline van der Meer Mohr (Chair), maintained its position in the so-called Gold Class. Victoria Haynes, Rob Routs and Tom de Swaan are members of this committee. Recommendations and minutes of the Financials and auditing Remuneration Committee meetings were shared with the full The activities of the Supervisory Board in the area of financials Supervisory Board and used to determine the final remuneration and auditing are prepared by the Audit Committee. The Audit of the members of the Managing Board. Committee met six times in 2016, of which three times via conference call. Tom de Swaan (Chair), Victoria Haynes, Pierre Discussions were focused on the performance and the related Hochuli and Pradeep Pant are members of the Audit Committee. remuneration of the members of the Managing Board, both in All Supervisory Board members have a standing invitation to respect of company and individual performance in 2016, as well attend Audit Committee meetings; they do so most often for the as the way the current remuneration policy should be applied regular conference calls in which financial developments and given the targets set as part of Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable interim results are discussed. The Chair of the Supervisory Board Growth. Feike Sijbesma and Peter Vrijsen were also partly participated in all meetings and calls. Whenever relevant, involved in these discussions. managers responsible for corporate control, internal audit, risk management, and operational audit and compliance were Sustainability invited to explain developments in their areas to the Audit The Sustainability Committee prepares the Supervisory Board’s Committee. DSM's external auditor KPMG, the CFO and discussions on sustainability topics. The Sustainability occasionally the CEO also participated in the Audit Committee’s Committee met three times in 2016. One member had to excuse meetings and calls. At least once a year, the Audit Committee himself once for health reasons. The members of this Committee meets with the external auditor without the Managing Board are Eileen Kennedy (Chair), Pierre Hochuli and Pradeep Pant. being present. Two such meetings took place in 2016. The The Chair of the Supervisory Board has a standing invitation and highlights and the minutes of all Audit Committee meetings were participated in all meetings. The recommendations and minutes shared with the full Supervisory Board. This feedback included of these meetings were shared and discussed with the entire advice and recommendations regarding topics to be approved Supervisory Board during its meetings with the Managing Board. by the full Supervisory Board. This feedback included advice and recommendations regarding topics to be approved by the full Supervisory Board, in particular The Committee had in-depth discussions on the company’s the sustainability reporting in this Report. With the 'Independent financials; financing and guarantee plan; capital expenditure assurance report on the sustainability information' by KPMG on plan; dividend proposals; financial statements; accounting policy page 211 of this Report taken into consideration, the full changes; internal risk management and control systems; Supervisory Board approved the reporting in these sections in potential risks (including Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) its meeting of 2 March 2017. The Sustainability Information is in and security risks); compliance with recommendations and compliance with the Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative observations made by internal and external auditors, and on the and the internal reporting criteria of DSM, which are included in role and functioning of the Operational Audit department, this Report, and is also aligned with the International Integrated including the endorsement of its proposed audit plan. As part of Reporting Council <IR> Framework where possible. the Corporate Risk Assessment, the company’s main risks and their mitigation were discussed. The Committee also discussed During the year, a recurring topic has been DSM’s performance and evaluated cases submitted under DSM’s whistleblower on its People and Planet aspirations with a focus on Brighter policy (DSM Alert), and mitigating actions to prevent recurrence. Living Solutions, Responsible Care and Inclusion & Diversity. Discussions were held with KPMG about the Management Letter Through these discussions, the Sustainability Committee and financial statements for 2016. As part of the planning followed up on the progress made with the implementation of process, key audit matters dealing with, among other topics, the sustainability and safety aspirations set by the company as impairment triggers, on-going litigation and the accounting of the part of its Strategy 2018. Deep dives were made into Planet results of ChemicaInvest were explained and shared with the (DSM’s road to reducing greenhouse-gas emissions) and People Audit Committee. (DSM’s Personal Care product Alpaflor® Edelweiss was discussed as an example of the People+ assessment for Brighter Financial statements 2016 Living Solutions). The Committee was also briefed on the newly introduced Product Category Sustainability Report, which The Report by the Managing Board and the financial statements identifies environmental and social impact differentiators for each for 2016 were submitted by the Managing Board to the Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 112 www.dsm.com Supervisory Board, in accordance with the provisions of Article 30 of the Articles of Association, and subsequently approved by the Supervisory Board on 2 March 2017. The financial statements were audited by KPMG, who issued an unqualified opinion (see the ‘Independent auditor's report’ on page 206). The Supervisory Board established that the external auditor was independent of DSM. The Supervisory Board will submit the 2016 financial statements to the 2017 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, and will propose that the shareholders adopt them and release the Managing Board from all liability in respect of its managerial activities and release the Supervisory Board from all liability in respect of its supervision of the Managing Board. The profit appropriation as proposed by the Managing Board and approved by the Supervisory Board is presented in the Profit section of the 2016 Integrated Annual Report. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 113 www.dsm.com Remuneration policy for the Managing The approved adjustments at that time did not change the overall Board remuneration model for the Managing Board. This model is based on providing fair compensation approaching the median, This chapter outlines the remuneration policy as approved by the and consists of a base salary and a well-balanced mix of ShortAnnual General Meeting of Shareholders. Details of the actual Term and Long-Term Incentives. Both the Short-Term Incentive remuneration in 2016 as prepared by the Remuneration (STI) and the Long-Term Incentive (LTI) consist of two equal Committee and approved by the Supervisory Board can be parts, one of which is linked to financial targets and the other to found in Note 12 of the 'Parent company financial statements' sustainability and in addition – for STI only – individual targets. on page 199. Labor-market peer group Remuneration policy In order to be able to recruit the right caliber of people for the The objective of DSM’s remuneration policy is to attract, reward, Managing Board and to secure long-term retention of the current motivate, incentivize and retain qualified and expert individuals Board members, DSM takes external reference data into that the company needs in order to achieve its strategic and account in determining adequate remuneration levels. For this operational objectives, while acknowledging the societal context purpose, a specific labor-market peer group has been defined around remuneration and recognizing the interests of DSM's which consists of a number of Dutch and European companies stakeholders. The following elements are taken into that are more or less comparable to DSM in terms of size, consideration: international scope and complexity in business portfolio. The Supervisory Board regularly reviews the peer group to ensure The remuneration policy reflects a balance between the that its composition is still appropriate. interests of DSM’s main stakeholders as well as a balance between the company’s short-term and long-term strategy. The labor-market peer group for 2016 consisted of the following As a result, the structure of the remuneration package for the 16 companies (eight of which are peers on the Amsterdam stock Managing Board is designed to balance short-term exchange, the other eight being European industry peers): operational performance with the mediumand long-term objective of creating sustainable value within the company, while taking into account the interests of its stakeholders. DSM AkzoNobel KPN strives for a high performance in the field of sustainability and ASML LANXESS aims to maintain a good balance between economic gain, Clariant Lonza respect for people and concern for the environment in line with Covestro Philips (Health Tech) the DSM values and business principles as reflected in the Evonik Randstad DSM Code of Business Conduct. Givaudan Relx (Reed Elsevier) To ensure that highly skilled and qualified senior executives Heineken Solvay can be attracted, motivated and retained, DSM aims for a total Johnson Matthey Wolters Kluwer remuneration level that is comparable to levels provided by other (Dutch and European) multinational companies that are similar to DSM in terms of size and complexity. As part of its remuneration policy DSM will benchmark its The remuneration policies for the members of the Managing remuneration package against the packages offered by the Board and for other Executive Committee members as well as labor-market peer group once every three years, potentially other senior executives of DSM are aligned. leading to adjustments. In addition, the company may apply a In designing and setting the levels of remuneration for the yearly increase to the base salary based on the ‘general Managing Board, the Supervisory Board also takes into increase’ (market movement) for DSM executives in the account the relevant statutory provisions and provisions of the Netherlands. Dutch corporate governance code, societal and market trends and the interests of stakeholders. The remuneration policy was benchmarked against the peer DSM’s policy is to offer the Managing Board a total direct group in Q4 2016. DSM aims to offer the Managing Board compensation approaching the median of the labor-market members a total direct compensation approaching the median peer group. of the labor-market peer group. The Supervisory Board of DSM has determined that the remuneration level of the CEO during No adjustments to the remuneration policy for the Managing the past years was clearly lower than the median of the preBoard in 2016 determined peer group (lowest quartile). This is due to the conservative approach of the CEO regarding his own There were no adjustments to DSM’s remuneration policy in remuneration. The remuneration of the other members of the 2016. The policy was last adjusted in 2013. Managing Board is at median level. The DSM remuneration policy is to pay the Managing Board at a level approaching the median of the peer group. For the CEO this resulted in a Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 114 www.dsm.com substantial gap in total rewards (base salary and related pension Distribution of variable income (on target): entitlement, STI and LTI) versus peers. In order not to increase the total remuneration gap further the Supervisory Board decided to grant a one-time amount allocated as a pension A: Short-Term Incentive (STI) contribution. (50% base salary) 50% B: Long-Term Incentive (LTI) Total Direct Compensation (TDC) (50% base salary)1 50% The total direct compensation of the Managing Board consists of the following components: Total variable income as % of base salary 100% (I) Base salary 1 LTI at discounted fair value (II) Variable income Performance-related STI (Deferral and Share Matching Plan) Short-Term Incentive (STI) Performance-related LTI (Restricted Share Plan) Managing Board members are eligible to participate in an STI scheme. The scheme is designed to reward short-term In addition to this total direct compensation, the members of the operational performance with the long-term objective of creating Managing Board participate in the Dutch pension scheme for sustainable value, taking into account the interests of all DSM employees in the Netherlands and are entitled to other stakeholders. benefits, such as a company car and representation allowance. The STI opportunity amounts to 50% of the annual base salary Value as percentage of Total Direct Compensation (on target): for on-target performance (100% in the case of excellent overperformance). Half of the STI opportunity (i.e. 25% of base salary at on-target performance) is related to financial targets, the other A: Base salary 50% half to sustainability and individual targets. B: Variable income (STI + LTI)1 50% Total Direct Compensation (TDC) 100% Target areas Total Shared Individual Financial 25% 25% 0% 1 LTI at discounted fair value Sustainability and individual 25% 15% 10% Base salary On joining the Board, the Managing Board members receive a Total 50% 40% 10% base salary that is comparable with the median of the labormarket peer group. Base salary levels are reviewed based on a three-year remuneration benchmark. In addition, the company STI linked to financial targets will, when appropriate, apply a yearly increase to the base salary The part of the STI that is linked to shared financial targets (25% based on the ‘general increase’ (market movement) for DSM of base salary at on-target) consists of elements related to the executives in the Netherlands, taking into account the general company's focus on delivering the financial targets of its movements of the labor-market peer group as well. Adjustment Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth. These are: Adjusted of the base salary is at the discretion of the Supervisory Board. EBITDA, which represents an opportunity at target performance of 12.5%; gross free cash flow, with an opportunity of 10%; and Variable income organic net sales growth, with a 2.5% opportunity. The variable income part of remuneration consists of the ShortTerm and Long-Term Incentives. The distribution between Short-Term and Long-Term Incentives for (on target) performance aims to achieve a proper balance between shortterm result and long-term value creation. The parameters relating to the various elements of the variable income part of the remuneration are established and where necessary adjusted by, and at the discretion of, the Supervisory Board, taking into account the general rules and principles of the remuneration policy itself. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 115 www.dsm.com The company does not disclose the actual targets, as they Target areas On-target qualify as commercially sensitive information. However, full pay-out transparency will be given on target areas and definitions. The (% of base salary) external auditors performed agreed-upon mandate procedures Financial targets on target-setting and realization. For detailed information see Adjusted EBITDA 12.5 Note 12 of the 'Parent company financial statements' on page Gross free cash flow 10.0 199. Organic net sales growth1 2.5 Mandatory and voluntary deferral of STI Total 25.0 A mandatory (25%) and a voluntary proportion (up to a total maximum of 50% of the total gross STI) of the STI amount earned 1 Excluding currency fluctuations, acquisitions and divestments in a year is deferred into DSM shares with a three-year holding period. This is linked to a one-for-one matching award on the total deferred amount under the condition that predefined STI linked to sustainability and individual targets performance targets and measures are met at the end of the The part of the STI that is linked to non-financial targets (25% of three-year vesting period. The performance measures are base salary at on-target) relates to shared sustainability as well equivalent to the measures under the Long-Term Incentive Plan. as to individual targets. Further refinement/adaptations of The Deferral and Share Matching Plan thus provides an performance measures in the area of sustainability and their additional link between Managing Board remuneration and longrelative weight may take place following proper evaluation. term sustainable value creation. The following shared measures linked to sustainability are Long-Term Incentives (LTI) applicable for the STI: The Managing Board members are eligible to receive performance-related shares. Under the performance share plan, Brighter Living Solutions (BLS): percentage of running shares will conditionally be granted to Managing Board business that meets ECO+ and People+ criteria members. Vesting of these shares is conditional on the Employee Engagement Index: related to the High achievement of certain predetermined performance targets at Performance Norm in industry the end of a three-year period. Safety Performance: defined as Frequency Index for Recordable Injuries. The following four performance measures are applicable in equal measure for the calculation of the vesting of LTI performance Definitions of these elements can be found in 'Brighter Living shares: Solutions' on page 22 and ‘People in 2016’ on page 39. Relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance versus In addition to shared sustainability targets (15%), a limited a peer group number of individual non-financial targets (10%) will apply. Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) growth Energy Efficiency Improvement (EEI) Greenhouse-gas Emissions (GHGE) Efficiency Improvement. Target areas On-target pay-out (% of base salary) The LTI performance targets can be defined as follows: Non-financial targets Sustainability (3 targets with an equal Relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) weight of 5% each; BLS, Employee This is used to compare the performance of different Engagement and Safety) 15 companies’ stocks and shares over time. It combines share Individual 10 price appreciation and dividends paid to show the total return to shareholders. The relative TSR position reflects the market Total 25 perception of overall performance relative to a reference group. Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) growth The targets are determined each year by the Supervisory Board, This is the operating profit as a percentage of weighted based on historical performance, the operational and strategic average capital employed. In line with DSM’s updated outlook of the company in the short term and expectations of strategic targets, as of 2016 the LTI target on ROCE relates to the company’s management and stakeholders, among other ROCE growth as opposed to the absolute ROCE percentage things. The targets contribute to the realization of the objective used up until the end of the 2015 performance period. of long-term value creation. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 116 www.dsm.com Energy Efficiency Improvement (EEI) competitors that the Supervisory Board considers to be suitable This is the reduction of the amount of energy that is used per benchmarks for DSM. unit of product (known as energy efficiency) on a three-year rolling average basis. The peer group is verified and updated by the Supervisory Board Greenhouse-gas Emissions (GHGE) Efficiency each year based on market circumstances (such as mergers and Improvement acquisitions) that determine the appropriateness of the This is the reduction of the amount of greenhouse-gas composition of the performance peer group. emissions per unit of product. The definition of greenhouse gases (GHG) according to the Kyoto Protocol includes carbon ROCE growth as a performance measure dioxide (CO2), methane, nitrous oxide (N2O), sulfur ROCE growth counts for the vesting of 25% of the performance hexafluoride, hydrofluorocarbons and perfluorocarbons. The shares. scope for calculation of GHGE reduction is as follows: (I) DSM’s direct emissions (on-site or from DSM assets) EEI as a performance measure mainly comprise CO2 (scope 1). EEI counts for the vesting of 25% of the performance shares. (II) DSM’s indirect emissions (emissions created on behalf of DSM in the generation of electricity or the delivery of GHGE Efficiency Improvement as a performance measure energy via hot water or steam) relate to electricity from the GHGE Efficiency Improvement in percentage points (over a grid. DSM relies on local suppliers (scope 2). three-year period) is used as a basis for the vesting of 25% of the performance shares. In determining the number of shares to be conditionally granted, the Supervisory Board takes into account the face value of the Performance incentive zones DSM share instead of the discounted fair value. This is in line with The following vesting scheme has been established to reflect best practice and provides total transparency to shareholders. DSM’s sharpened, challenging targets for the strategy period The policy for the value of the LTI is set at 100% of base salary 2016-2018: when on target and 150% in the case of excellent performance (face value). The number of conditionally granted shares is set by dividing the policy level at maximum (150% of base salary) by TSR vesting scheme GHGE vesting scheme a share price at the beginning of the year of the conditional grant. % of DSM GHGE reduction % of The annual grant level will fluctuate as a consequence of this shares that over volume-related shares mechanism. vest revenue in % points that vest (3-year average Granting date improvement) The grant date of the conditional performance shares will be the last trading day of March. 1 100 ≥ 8.25 100 2 97 7.75 < 8.25 83 TSR as a performance measure 3 93 7.25 < 7.75 67 TSR counts for the vesting of 25% of the performance shares. 4 87 6.75 < 7.25 50 DSM’s TSR performance is compared to the average TSR 5 80 6.25 < 6.75 33 performance of a set of predefined peer companies. 6 73 5.75 < 6.25 17 7 67 < 5.75 0 8 50 The TSR peer group for the 2016 performance period 9 33 consists of the following 14 companies: 10-15 0 AkzoNobel Evonik Arkema Givaudan ROCE and EEI targets and vesting schemes are not being BASF Kerry disclosed given their business-sensitive nature. Christian Hansen LANXESS Clariant Lonza Group Up to and including the 2014 grant (i.e. shares vesting up to and Croda International Novozymes including 2017 depending on the fulfilment of performance Dupont Solvay criteria), the vesting scheme for the part of the grant related to GHGE performance was based on DSM’s reduction of GHGE over volume-related revenue as set out in the tables in the DSM The TSR peer group reflects the relevant market in which DSM Integrated Annual Report over 2013 and 2014. competes for shareholder preference. It includes sector-specific Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 117 www.dsm.com The retention period for performance shares expires five years Claw-back / change-of-control after the three-year vesting period or at termination of Legislation entered into force regarding the revision and clawemployment if this occurs earlier. The final TSR performance of back of bonuses and profit-sharing arrangements of board DSM versus its peers will be determined and validated by a bank members of Dutch listed companies as of January 2014. Part of and agreed-upon mandate procedures are performed by the this legislation was already covered in comparable rules of the external auditor at the end of the vesting period. Dutch corporate governance code and consequently already included in the employment contracts of the members of the Pensions Managing Board. This regards in particular the possibility (1) to The members of the Managing Board participate in the Dutch revise an incentive prior to payment, if unaltered payment of the pension fund Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM Nederland (PDN). bonus/incentive would be unreasonable and unfair, and (2) to This pension scheme for the Managing Board is equal to the claw back an incentive, if payment took place on the basis of pension scheme for the employees of DSM Executive Services incorrect information on the fulfilment of the incentive targets or B.V. and DSM employees in the Netherlands. The Supervisory the conditions for payment of the incentive. In addition, it is Board decided to grant a contribution to the pension of the CEO, enacted that in the case of a change-of-control event, a related also in view of the fact that the CEO’s total compensation is increase in value of the securities that have been granted to a clearly below targeted policy level as mentioned on page 114. board member as part of his/her remuneration will be deducted from the remuneration to be paid to the board member at the Contractual arrangements time of selling these securities or when his/her board Term of employment membership ends. Managing Board members who joined DSM prior to 1 January 2013 are engaged on the basis of an individual employment Share ownership agreement for an indefinite period of time. Managing Board The Supervisory Board encourages the Managing Board to hold members joining the company after 1 January 2013 are engaged shares in the company to emphasize its confidence in the on the basis of a Management Services Agreement with a fourstrategy and performance of the company. year term, to be renewed at reappointment. Minimum shareholding guidelines for the members of the Term of appointment Managing Board are applicable, equivalent to three times the Members of the Managing Board appointed before 1 January base salary in the case of the CEO and one time the base salary 2005 are appointed for an indefinite period of time. Managing for the other Managing Board members. These shareholdings Board members appointed after 1 January 2005 are appointed can be built up over five years. For more information, see the for a period of four years, after which they are eligible for position paper ‘Royal DSM’s position on Board Member reappointment by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. shareholdings in the company’ on the company website. Notice period Loans Resignation by a member of the Managing Board is subject to DSM does not provide any loans to members of the Managing three months’ notice (six months in case of a Management Board. Services Agreement). A notice period of six months applies in the event of termination by the company. Scenario analysis The Dutch corporate governance code requires that the Severance arrangement Supervisory Board ‘shall analyze possible outcomes of the There are no specific contractual exit arrangements for members variable income components and the effect on Managing Board of the Managing Board appointed before 1 January 2005. remuneration’. Within DSM this analysis is conducted at least Should a situation arise in which a severance payment is every three years. appropriate for such a Board member, the Remuneration Committee will recommend the terms and conditions. The Supervisory Board will decide upon this, taking into account Heerlen, 2 March 2017 usual practices for these types of situations, as well as applicable laws and corporate governance requirements. The Supervisory Board Rob Routs, Chairman Members of the Managing Board appointed after 1 January Tom de Swaan, Deputy Chairman 2005 are covered by a severance provision in accordance with Victoria Haynes the Dutch corporate governance code, which is set at a Pierre Hochuli maximum of one annual base salary. Eileen Kennedy Pauline van der Meer Mohr Pradeep Pant Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 118 www.dsm.com Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 119 www.dsm.com Supervisory Board and Managing Board Royal DSM Supervisory Board Rob Routs (1946, m), Chairman Tom de Swaan (1946, m), Deputy First appointed: 2010. End of current term: 2018. Chairman Nationality: Dutch. Nomination Committee First appointed: 2006. End of current term: 2018. (Chairman), Remuneration Committee (member). Nationality: Dutch. Audit Committee (Chairman), Last executive position held: Executive Director Remuneration Committee (member). Last Downstream and member of the Board of Royal executive position held: member Managing Dutch Shell plc. Supervisory directorships/other Board and CFO/CRO ABN AMRO. Supervisory positions: Chairman Supervisory Board of Aegon directorships/other positions: Chairman Zurich N.V.; member Board of Directors of AECOM; Insurance Group; Chairman Board of Trustees of ATCO Group Ltd. and A.P. Moeller-Maersk Netherlands Cancer Institute-Antoni van Group. Leeuwenhoek Hospital; Chairman of the Board of Trustees of The Van Leer Jerusalem Institute; member of the IIF Board of Directors, member of the European Financial Services Round Table and member of the advisory board of China Banking Regulatory Commission in Beijing. Victoria Haynes (1947, f) Pierre Hochuli (1947, m) First appointed: 2012. End of current term: 2020. First appointed: 2005. End of current term: 2017. Nationality: American. Audit Committee Nationality: Swiss. Audit Committee (member), (member), Remuneration Committee (member). Sustainability Committee (member). Last Last executive position held: President and CEO executive position held: Chairman Board of Research Triangle Institute International. Directors of Devgen N.V. Supervisory Supervisory directorships/other positions: directorships/other positions: none. member Board of Directors of PPG and Nucor. Eileen Kennedy (1947, f) Pauline van der Meer Mohr (1960, f) First appointed: 2012. End of current term: 2020. First appointed: 2011. End of current term: 2019. Nationality: American. Sustainability Committee Nationality: Dutch. Remuneration Committee (Chair), Nomination Committee (member). (Chair), Nomination Committee (member). Last Position: Professor Nutrition Friedman School of executive position held: President Executive Nutrition Science and Policy at Tufts University in Board of Erasmus University Rotterdam. Boston (USA); Supervisory directorships/other Supervisory directorships/other positions: positions: High Level Panel of Experts on Food independent non-executive Director HSBC; Security and Nutrition of the UN Committee on member Supervisory Board of ASML N.V.; Chair World Food Security. Supervisory Board of EY Netherlands; director Hollandsche Maatschappij van Wetenschappen; member Board Concertgebouw Fonds; Chair Supervisory Board Nederlands Danstheater. Pradeep Pant (1953, m) First appointed: 2016. End of current term: 2020. Nationality: Singaporean. Audit Committee (member), Sustainability Committee (member). Last executive position held: EVP and President APAC and EMEA of Mondelez International. Supervisory directorships and other positions: member of the Honorary Council of Food Industry Asia; member of the Advisory Board of the Lee Kong Chian School of Business at Singapore Management University; independent non-executive Director of Max BUPA Health Insurance Co Ltd. (India), Antara Senior Living Ltd. (India) and Antara Purukul Senior Living Ltd. (India); President of Pant Consulting Pte. Ltd. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 120 www.dsm.com Managing Board Feike Sijbesma (1959, m), CEO/ Geraldine Matchett (1972, f), CFO Chairman Position: member Managing Board since August Position: CEO/Chairman Managing Board since 2014 and CFO since December 2014. End of May 2007; member Managing Board since July current term: 2018. 2000. Nationality: British, French, Swiss. Nationality: Dutch. Supervisory directorships/other positions held: Supervisory directorships/other positions held: none. member Supervisory Board De Nederlandsche e-mail: geraldine.matchett@dsm.com Bank N.V. (Dutch Central Bank); member Supervisory Board (Non-Executive Director) Unilever N.V. and PLC; member Global CEO Council Chinese Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries; Co-Chair of the High Assembly of the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition. e-mail: feike.sijbesma@dsm.com Stephan Tanda (1965, m) Dimitri de Vreeze (1967, m) Position: member Managing Board since May Position: member Managing Board since 2007. Left the company per 1 February 2017. September 2013. End of current term: 2017. Nationality: Austrian. Nationality: Dutch. Supervisory directorships/other positions held: Supervisory directorships/other positions held: board member DSM Sinochem Chairman Supervisory Board DSM Netherlands; Pharmaceuticals; board member Patheon; board member CEFIC (European Chemical Chairman Industrial Biotech Section, EuropaBio Industry Council); board member 'Fonds voor de (European Biotechnology Industry Association); topsport' (NOC*NSF; Dutch Olympic Committee board member BIO (US Biotechnology Fund for top sport); member Supervisory Board Innovation Organization); board member Sanquin; member Advisory Board ECP FoodDrinkEurope (European Food and Drink (Electronic Commerce Platform Netherlands); Industry Association); member of the Supervisory board member Young Captain Foundation. Board of Semperit AG. e-mail: dimitri.vreeze-de@dsm.com Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 121 www.dsm.com What still went wrong in 2016 Introduction People Although we continuously strive to improve our performance in At DSM Engineering Plastics in Genk (Belgium), liquid material all areas of DSM’s activities, sometimes things can still go wrong. spilled over the edge of a container onto an operator’s forearm. Some of the hot material ran into his glove, causing This chapter summarizes the most significant incidents in 2016, second degree burns to the back of the right hand. In a across the three dimensions of People, Planet and Profit. We separate incident at this site, an operator was scalded when endeavor to remedy the outcome of incidents and prevent these hot water splashed onto his right forearm while removing a from recurring, as well as to identify and learn from business piece of melted material. developments that have not progressed as planned. To this end, At DSM Nutritional Products in Jiangshan (China), a contractor we investigate the root cause of any serious occurrence and take suffered a fractured toe when he was hit by a reversing forklift, steps to close the loop to eliminate the cause and start the whose driver had failed to notice him. improvement cycle. Measures are identified and communicated At DSM Food Specialties in Seclin (France), an operator was as appropriate, including applying stricter requirements or caught by a sudden release of condensate from an open operating procedures if called for. pipeline, causing burns to both of his legs. At DSM Nutritional Products in Mszczonów (Poland), an In 2016, DSM took steps to raise awareness about mindful operator put his right hand on a conveyor and kicked the behavior among its workforce. In many cases, our own actions closing mechanism. The conveyor started to close, nipping the are a major contributory factor to the cause of injuries. Rushing, operator’s hand in the process. He was taken to hospital and frustration, fatigue and complacency; being in or moving into the needed four stitches. ‘line of fire’; losing balance, traction or grip – all these things can At DSM Engineering Plastics in Emmen (Netherlands), an lead to unintentional risky behavior and injuries. Several sites operator put his hand into the vacuum dome of an extruder to provided courses to support participants in increasing their clean it, unaware that the extruder screw was still slowly awareness and promoting a mindful way of working, thus turning. His glove and fingers were caught by the screw, reducing injuries — at work, at home and on the road. resulting in the (partial) loss of three fingers on his right hand. In a separate incident at the site, a hot mixture of lactam and water flowed into an operator’s shoe during a draining operation. The operator was sent to a specialized hospital where he had to undergo a skin graft. At DSM Nutritional Products in Schenectady (New York, USA), an operator’s hand was outside the forklift he was driving when it became caught between the forklift and a wall, injuring his hand. At DSM Nutritional Products in Grenzach (Germany), a hose came loose during a standard restart procedure, spraying a calcium hydroxide solution, some of which got into an operator’s eyes. The operator was treated on site then taken to hospital. A light but reversible erosion of the cornea of the right eye was diagnosed. At DSM Hydrocolloids in Tongxiang (China), a cabinet was being moved on a pallet by trolley when it toppled over, catching a contractor as it fell. This resulted in hairline fractures Where necessary, consequence management is applied to to the pelvis and an open wound to the right leg. individual employees based on the 'DSM Code of Business At DSM Nutritional Products in Mairinque (Brazil), a truck Conduct', see page 98. We do not disclose any personal details exploded during unloading. It transpired that it was in cases involving individuals. pressurized at the time. Fortunately nobody was hurt. The onsite learnings following this incident focused on more specific In line with our reporting policy on Safety, Health and and additional contractual requirements for haulage Environment and Security, this overview includes not only actual companies as well as the institution of an audit program to incidents but also some serious near misses. These are incidents ensure that the equipment these suppliers use is fit for that did not result in injury, illness or damage, but had the purpose. This prompted several other sites to also run checks potential to do so, and are therefore used as a learning with their suppliers. opportunity. During implementation of a new online tool for employee performance management, a data security flaw was discovered which potentially could have led to a privacy Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 122 www.dsm.com incident. Immediate response actions were taken and the flaw Theft of material from a warehouse was discovered by a was repaired before an incident could occur. Awareness customer who notified us that the product was being offered training has been instigated around new and stricter privacy online. The incident was investigated, the product was laws. removed from eBay and inventory procedures tightened to In the US, DSM Biomedical was informed by a supplier that prevent theft. there may be a risk of contamination by glass particles in two On arrival at a customer premises, a shipment of a DSM of its products. After an initial investigation, we could not product was discovered to have been tampered with; 20% of exclude the possibility that DSM's products may have been the product had been stolen and replaced by sand. Although contaminated with glass fragments in turn, with potential risks this was an isolated incident, improved quality checks on the to patient health. The products were recalled as a precaution original sealing have since been made part of the standard and undelivered stock quarantined. This rapid response logistics process. prevented any further consequences. At one of DSM’s shared financial service centers, an employee In São Paulo (Brazil), an employee was tragically killed when transferred money into a private bank account, defrauding the commuting home on his motorcycle after working a night shift. company. Appropriate consequence management was Despite the fact that the company provides private applied. Procedures were investigated in detail and transportation as a benefit to all employees in Brazil, the safeguards including segregation of duties were re-enforced. number of employees opting for the flexibility of their own Two cases of fraudulent expense report claims were means of transport is increasing. Besides offering transport, discovered in the US, whereby hotel invoices were changed DSM offers alert driving e-courses to raise awareness around to show a longer stay than was actually the case. The safe driving. employees concerned received sanctions and additional controls on expense claim checks were implemented. Planet Some production restrictions at DSM Food Specialties in Seclin (France) prevented the enzyme business from fully In 2016, DSM again experienced a number of more minor benefiting from continued strong customer demand. incidents that led to a loss of primary containment (LOPC) from our installations. For example at one of our sites around 11m3 of ethanol was lost due to a leaking flange connection, and in another site 200 liters of hexane was lost in the tank bund when the hexane tank was overfilled. In both situations an immediate cleanup prevented any impact to the environment. The resulting waste was properly disposed of. DSM is committed to continue to reduce these incidents. A clear reduction was achieved in 2016 compared with 2015, which is reflected in the number of Process Safety Incidents recorded. For more information on this KPI, see ‘Safety and health’ on page 40. Profit At DSM Nutritional Products in Heanor (United Kingdom), a section of the roof of a production tower was damaged in a fire following an explosion caused by a self-heating reaction resulting from cross-contamination of certain raw materials. Changes have been implemented in cleaning frequency and raw material dosing to prevent this from happening in future. Cybercrime attempts have become a fact of life for organizations large and small; DSM is no exception. There were various incidents of attempted cybercrime during 2016, including once again online fraudsters posing as DSM’s CEO or someone close to him, appearing to send email instructions relating to financial or privileged information to employees (Brazil, Japan, the Netherlands and Turkey). Thanks to the watchfulness of the employees involved, no monies were transferred. In addition to regular reminders to employees, one of the ways we raise awareness about cybersecurity is by executing ‘phishing’ mail tests. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 123 www.dsm.com Information about the DSM share Shares and listings determined by the Managing Board and shall as much as Ordinary shares in Koninklijke DSM N.V. are listed on the possible be calculated on the basis of the trading prices of Euronext stock exchange in Amsterdam (Netherlands) (Stock ordinary shares on the Euronext Amsterdam Stock Exchange. code 00982, ISIN code NL0000009827). Options on ordinary DSM shares are traded on the European Option Exchange in Distribution of shares Amsterdam (Euronext.liffe). In the US, a sponsored unlisted Under the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act, American Depositary Receipts (ADR) program is offered by shareholdings of 3% or more in any Dutch company must be Deutsche Bank Trust Co. Americas (Cusip 780249108), with disclosed to the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets four ADRs representing the value of one ordinary DSM share. (AFM). According to the register kept by the AFM the following shareholders had disclosed that they have a direct or indirect Besides the ordinary shares, 44.04 million cumulative preference (potential) interest between 3% and 10% in DSM’s total share shares A (cumprefs A) are in issue, which are not listed on the capital on 31 December 2016: stock exchange; these have been placed with institutional investors. The cumprefs A have the same voting rights as ASR Nederland B.V. ordinary shares, as their nominal value of € 1.50 per share is Rabobank Nederland Participatie B.V. equal to the nominal value of the ordinary shares. Transfer of the Delta Lloyd N.V. cumprefs A requires the approval of the Managing Board, unless Capital Research and Management Company and Capital the shareholder is obliged by law to transfer his shares to a Group International previous shareholder. BlackRock, Inc. The average number of ordinary shares outstanding in 2016 was Repurchase of own shares 175,099,827. All shares in issue are fully paid. On 31 December The company may acquire paid-up own shares by virtue of a 2016 the company had 175,001,666 ordinary shares decision of the Managing Board, provided that the par value of outstanding. the acquired shares in its capital amounts to no more than one tenth of the issued capital. Such a decision is subject to the Issue of shares approval of the Supervisory Board. In the Annual General The issue of shares takes place by a decision of the Managing Meeting of Shareholders of 29 April 2016 the Managing Board Board. The decision is subject to the approval of the Supervisory was authorized to acquire own shares for a period of 18 months Board. The scope of this power of the Managing Board shall be from said date (i.e. up to and including 29 October 2017), up to determined by a resolution of the General Meeting of a maximum of 10% of the issued capital, provided that the Shareholders and shall relate to at most all unissued shares of company will hold no more shares in stock than at maximum the authorized capital, as applicable now or at any time in the 10% of the issued capital. future. In the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of 29 April 2016 this power was extended up to and including 29 October DSM repurchased a number of its own shares during 2016 for 2017, on the understanding that this authorization of the the purpose of covering the company's commitments under Managing Board is limited to a number of ordinary shares with a existing management and employee option plans and stock nominal value amounting to 10% of the issued capital at the time dividend. Two programs were run for this purpose during the of issue, and to an additional 10% of the issued capital at the year, the first from 22 February to 21 July 2016 and the second time of issue if the issue takes place within the context of a from 4 November to 8 December 2016. In total DSM merger or acquisition within the scope of DSM's strategy as repurchased 5,200,000 of its own shares for a combined published on the company website. The issue price will be consideration of € 272.8 million. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 124 www.dsm.com Development of the number of ordinary DSM shares 2016 2015 Issued Repurchased Outstanding Outstanding Balance at 1 January 181,425,000 6,501,973 174,923,027 173,536,815 Changes: Reissue of shares in connection with exercise of option rights (3,243,102) 3,243,102 1,056,880 Repurchase of shares 5,200,000 (5,200,000) (2,300,000) Dividend in the form of ordinary shares (2,035,537) 2,035,537 2,629,332 Balance at 31 December 181,425,000 6,423,334 175,001,666 174,923,027 DSM share prices on Euronext Amsterdam (€ per ordinary share): Highest closing price 64.18 55.11 Lowest closing price 41.40 39.62 At 31 December 56.96 46.28 Market capitalization at 31 December (€ million)1 10,334 8,396 1 Source: Bloomberg Geographical spread of DSM shares outstanding DSM share price development versus AEX and Dow Jones Euro StoXX Chemical Index, 2016 in % (excl. cumprefs A) 2016 2015 (Rebased versus DSM share price) x€ North America 39 34 DSM United Kingdom 17 14 AEX Index Netherlands 16 17 Dow Jones Euro StoXX Chemical Index France 7 7 Switzerland 5 6 65 Germany 4 5 Asia-Pacific 4 5 60 Other countries 8 12 55 7 50 45 40 35 01/16 02/16 03/16 04/16 05/16 06/16 07/16 08/16 09/16 10/16 11/16 12/16 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 125 www.dsm.com Trading volume DSM shares 2016 x million shares as reported by Euronext Amsterdam 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 January February March April May June July August September October November December Article 10 of Directive 2004/25 Dividend With regard to the information referred to in the Resolution of DSM’s dividend policy is to provide a stable and preferably rising article 10 of the EC Directive pertaining to a takeover bid which dividend. DSM proposes to increase the dividend to € 1.75 per is required to be provided according to Dutch law, the following ordinary share for 2016. This will be proposed to the Annual can be reported: General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on 3 May 2017. An interim dividend of € 0.55 per ordinary share having been paid in Information on major shareholdings can be found above August 2016, the final dividend would then amount to € 1.20 per (Distribution of shares). ordinary share. Dividend in cash will be paid after deduction of There are no special statutory rights attached to the shares of 15% Dutch dividend withholding tax. The ex-dividend date is the company. 5 May 2017. There are no restrictions on the voting rights of the company’s shares. When convening a General Meeting of Shareholders, Dividend per ordinary share in € 2016 dividend subject to approval by Annual General Meeting of Shareholders the Managing Board is entitled to determine a registration date in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Dutch Civil Code. The applicable provisions regarding the appointment and 2 1.75 dismissal of members of the Managing Board and the 1.65 1.65 1.65 Supervisory Board and amendments to the Articles of 1.45 1.50 1.35 Association can be found in the chapter 'Corporate 1.20 1.20 1.20 Governance' on page 93. 1 The powers of the Managing Board regarding the issue and repurchase of shares in the company can be found in the sections Issue of shares and Repurchase of own shares above. Other information can be found in the 'Notes to the 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 consolidated financial statements' (16 'Equity', 19 'Borrowings', 27 'Share-based compensation'). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 126 www.dsm.com Sustainability statements Sustainability statements – People 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Total workforce 20,786 20,796 21,351 23,485 23,498 Female / male ratio 27/73 28/72 27/73 26/74 26/74 % by age category <26 years 6 5 6 6 6 26-35 years 25 26 25 24 24 36-45 years 28 30 29 30 30 46-55 years 27 27 28 28 28 >55 14 12 12 12 12 % non-Dutch Executives 53 49 51 50 47 Management 67 68 64 65 63 Other 81 82 77 78 76 % female Executives 15 15 12 11 10 Management 26 27 24 23 23 Other 29 29 28 27 27 % executive hires Non-Dutch 88 79 88 75 58 Female 13 38 25 23 8 % new hires by region Netherlands 5 11 11 10 12 Rest of Europe 23 22 19 23 21 North America 27 16 26 26 23 China 20 18 18 16 22 Rest of Asia-Pacific 8 13 18 19 18 Rest of the world 17 22 8 6 4 Total number new hires (excluding acquisitions) 1,730 2,171 1,997 1,834 2,073 Outflow of employees Voluntary resignations 585 1,153 1,011 1,043 1,094 Dismissed 781 647 411 224 507 Reorganization 208 230 221 408 323 Retirements 143 170 167 259 225 Deceased 12 12 11 34 22 Total outflow (excluding divestments) 1,729 2,212 1,821 1,968 2,171 Divestments 57 2,324 2,479 78 18 Voluntary resignations (% total workforce) 2.8 5.5 4.7 4.4 4.7 Total resignations (% total workforce) 8.3 10.6 8.5 8.4 9.2 Training in hours per employee 25 29 25 25 24 Net sales per employee (x € 1,000) 386 374 409 401 399 Safety Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries (per 100 DSM employees and contractor employees) 0.33 0.41 0.47 0.38 0.44 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 127 www.dsm.com Sustainability statements – Brighter Living Solutions 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Brighter Living Solutions sales as % of net sales 63 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 2016 was the first year of reporting; consequently, there are no comparative figures for the previous years Sustainability statements − Planet 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Energy and greenhouse gases Energy use (in petajoules) 22.6 20.9 39.1 41.1 40.6 Energy efficiency improvement (in %) 22 Greenhouse-gas emissions (in CO2equivalents x million tons) 1.5 1.1 4.2 4.2 4.3 Emissions to air Volatile Organic Compounds (x 1,000 tons) 8.9 3.1 4.2 4.3 3.5 Nitrogen oxide (NOx) (x 1,000 tons) 0.8 0.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 Sulfur dioxide (SO2) (x 1,000 tons) 0.33 0.04 0.08 0.07 0.13 Discharges to water and landfill Chemical Oxygen Demand discharges to surface waters (x 1,000 tons) 2.4 2.1 3.9 4.8 5.5 Waste recycled (in %) 83 1 (Landfilling) Non-hazardous waste (x 1,000 tons) 17.5 12.9 18.2 22.7 29.9 Water Water consumption (x million m3) 221 Water use (x million m3) 104 101 118 150 149 Raw materials Renewable raw materials (in %) 16.5 16 10.8 9.9 8.7 Biodiversity Sites in or adjacent to protected areas (in %) 60 58 52 40 40 Fines (in € ) 27,900 35,600 62,500 62,300 45,100 Non-monetary sanctions 2 5 4 4 6 Environmental incidents 1093 257 297 261 316 Environmental complaints 21 31 56 42 34 1 2016 was the first year of reporting; consequently, there are no comparative figures for the previous years 2 Compared to 2015 3 As of 2016, the Loss of Primary Containment of non-hazardous substances is no longer included in this number DSM bases its sustainability reporting on best practice standards and international guidelines. Most important are the Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). A detailed overview of how DSM reports according to the GRI Standards comprehensive indicators, including a reference to relevant sections in this report, is provided on the company website. DSM aligns with the recommendations of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) Framework where possible. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 128 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree at fair value policies or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Any contingent consideration payable is measured at fair Basis of preparation value at the acquisition date. DSM’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Segmentation (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union and the provisions of Segment information is presented in respect to the group’s section 362-8 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. The accounting operating segments about which separate financial information policies applied by DSM comply with IFRS and the is available that is regularly evaluated by the chief operating pronouncements of the International Financial Reporting decision maker. DSM has determined that Nutrition, Materials Interpretation Committee (IFRIC) effective at 31 December 2016. and the Innovation Center represent reportable segments in addition to Corporate Activities. The Managing Board decides Consolidation how to allocate resources and assesses the performance of the The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial clusters. Cluster performance is reported and reviewed down to statements of Royal DSM and its subsidiaries (together ‘DSM’ the level of Adjusted EBITDA. The clusters are organized in or ‘group’). As a parent DSM is exposed, or has right to, the accordance with the type of products produced and the nature variable returns from its involvement with its subsidiaries and has of the markets served. The same accounting policies that are the ability to affect the returns through its power over the applied for the consolidated financial statements of DSM are also subsidiary. The financial data of subsidiaries are fully applied for the operating segments. Prices for transactions consolidated. Non-controlling interests in the group’s equity and between segments are determined on an arm’s length basis. profit and loss are stated separately. A joint arrangement is an Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly entity in which DSM holds an interest and which is jointly attributable to a segment as well as those that can reasonably controlled by DSM and one or more other venturers under a and consistently be allocated. Selected information on a country contractual arrangement. A joint arrangement can either be a and regional basis is provided in addition to the information about joint venture where DSM and the other partner(s) have rights to operating segments. the net assets of the arrangement or a joint operation where DSM and the partner(s) have rights to the assets, and obligations for Foreign currency translation the liabilities to the arrangement. For joint ventures the The presentation currency of the group is the euro. investment in the net assets is recognized and accounted for in accordance with the equity method. For a joint operation, assets, Each entity of the group records transactions and balance sheet liabilities, revenues and expenses are recognized in the financial items in its functional currency. Transactions denominated in a statements of DSM in accordance with the contractual currency other than the functional currency are recorded at the entitlement or obligations of DSM. spot exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other Subsidiaries are consolidated from the acquisition date until the than the functional currency of the entity are translated at the date on which DSM ceases to have control. From the acquisition closing rates. Exchange differences resulting from the settlement date onwards, all intra-group balances and transactions and of these transactions and from the translation of monetary items unrealized profits or losses from intra-group transactions are are recognized in the income statement. eliminated, with one exception: unrealized losses are not eliminated if there is evidence of an impairment of the asset Non-monetary assets that are measured on the basis of transferred. In such cases an impairment of the asset is historical costs denominated in a currency other than the recognized. functional currency continue to be translated against the rate at initial recognition and will not result in exchange differences. Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition On consolidation, the balance sheets of subsidiaries that do not method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate have the euro as their functional currency are translated into euro of the consideration transferred, including liabilities incurred, at the closing rate. The income statements of these entities are measured at acquisition date fair value, and the amount of any translated into euro at the average rates for the relevant period. non-controlling interest in the acquiree. Acquisition costs Goodwill paid on acquisition is recorded in the functional incurred are expensed. currency of the acquired entity. Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in entities with a As of the acquisition date identifiable, assets acquired, liabilities functional currency other than the euro are recorded in Other assumed and any non-controlling interest in the acquiree are comprehensive income. The same applies to exchange recognized separately from goodwill. Identifiable assets acquired differences arising from borrowings and other financial and the liabilities assumed are measured at acquisition date fair instruments in so far as those instruments hedge the currency value. For each business combination, DSM elects whether it risk related to the net investment. On disposal of an entity with Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 129 www.dsm.com a functional currency other than the euro, the cumulative of assets are reviewed every year, taking account of commercial exchange differences relating to the translation of the net and technological obsolescence as well as normal wear and investment are recognized in profit or loss. tear. The initially assumed expected useful lives are in principle as follows: for buildings 10-50 years; for plant and machinery Distinction between current and non-current 5-15 years; for other equipment 4-10 years. Land is not An asset (liability) is classified as current when it is expected to depreciated. be realized (settled) within 12 months after the balance sheet date. An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to Intangible assets arise from the continued use or the sale of the asset. Any gain Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is recorded in profit DSM’s share in the net fair value of the identifiable assets and or loss. liabilities of an acquired subsidiary, joint venture or associate. Goodwill paid on acquisition of subsidiaries is included in Leases intangible assets. Goodwill paid on acquisition of joint ventures Finance leases, which transfer to the group substantially all the or associates is included in the carrying amount of these entities. risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are Goodwill recognized as an intangible asset is not amortized but capitalized at inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased tested for impairment annually and when there are indications property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease that the carrying amount may exceed the recoverable amount. payments. All other leases are operating leases. A gain or loss on the disposal of an entity includes the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. Lease payments for finance leases are apportioned to finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. recognized at fair value on the date of acquisition and Finance charges are included in interest costs. Capitalized subsequently amortized over their expected useful lives, which leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated vary from 4 to 20 years. useful life of the asset or the lease term. Operating lease payments are recognized as an expense over the lease term. Separately acquired licenses, patents, drawing rights and application software are carried at historical cost less straightAssociates and joint ventures line amortization and less any impairment losses. The expected An associate is an entity over which DSM has significant useful lives vary from 4 to 15 years. Costs of software influence but no control or joint control, usually evidenced by a maintenance are expensed when incurred. Capital expenditure shareholding that entitles DSM to between 20% and 50% of the that is directly related to the development of application software voting rights. A joint venture is an entity where DSM has joint is recognized as an intangible asset and amortized over its control and is entitled to its share of the assets and liabilities. estimated useful life (5-8 years). Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for by the equity method, which involves recognition in the income Research costs are expensed when incurred. Development statement of DSM’s share of the associate’s or joint venture's expenditure is capitalized if the recognition criteria are met and profit or loss for the year determined in accordance with the if it is demonstrated that it is technically feasible to complete the accounting policies of DSM. DSM’s interest in an associate is asset; that the entity intends to complete the asset; that the entity carried in the balance sheet at its share in the net assets of the is able to sell the asset; that the asset is capable of generating associate together with goodwill paid on acquisition, less any future economic benefits; that adequate resources are available impairment loss. to complete the asset; and that the expenditure attributable to the asset can be reliably measured. Development expenditure is When DSM’s share in the loss of an associate or joint venture amortized over the asset’s useful life. exceeds the carrying amount of that entity, the carrying amount is reduced to zero. No further losses are recognized, unless DSM Property, plant and equipment has responsibility for obligations relating to the entity. Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less depreciation calculated on a straight-line basis and less any Non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities impairment losses. Interest during construction is capitalized. DSM initially recognizes loans and receivables and debt Expenditures relating to major scheduled turnarounds are securities on the date when they are originated. All other financial capitalized and depreciated over the period up to the next assets and financial liabilities are initially recognized on the date turnaround. when DSM becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. DSM derecognizes a financial asset when the Property, plant and equipment are systematically depreciated contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or over their estimated useful lives. The estimated remaining lives when it transfers the rights to receive the contractual cash flows Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 130 www.dsm.com in a transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards been a change in estimate that is relevant for the determination of ownership of the financial asset are transferred, or when DSM of the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss neither transfers nor retains substantially all of the risks and was recognized. rewards of ownership and does not retain control over the transferred asset. DSM derecognizes a financial liability when its All financial assets are reviewed for impairment. If there is contractual obligations are discharged or cancelled, or expire. objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events after initial recognition, an impairment loss is recognized Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net in profit or loss. Impairment losses for goodwill and other amount is presented in the statement of financial position when participations are never reversed. DSM has a legal right to offset the amounts and intends either to settle them on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the Inventories liability simultaneously. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. The first in, first out (FIFO) method of valuation is used Loans and long-term receivables are measured at fair value upon unless the nature of the inventories requires the use of a different initial recognition and subsequently at amortized cost, if cost formula, in which case the weighted average cost method necessary after deduction for impairment. The proceeds from is used. The cost of intermediates and finished goods includes these assets and the gain or loss upon their disposal are directly attributable costs and related production overhead recognized in profit or loss. expenses. Net realizable value is determined as the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the Other financial assets estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs Other financial assets comprise loans to associates and joint necessary to make the sale. Products whose manufacturing cost ventures, other participations, other receivables and other cannot be calculated because of joint cost components are deferred items. stated at net realizable value after deduction of a margin for selling and distribution efforts. Other participations comprise equity interests in entities in which DSM has no significant influence; they are accounted for as Current receivables available-for-sale securities. These other participations are Current receivables are initially recognized at fair value plus any measured against fair value, with changes in fair value being directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognized in Other comprehensive income (Fair value reserve). recognition, they are measured at amortized cost using the A significant or prolonged decline of the fair value of an equity effective interest method, which generally corresponds to interest below cost represents an impairment, which is nominal value, less an adjustment for bad debts. recognized in profit or loss. On disposal, the cumulative fair value adjustments of the related other participations are released from Current investments equity and included in the income statement. If a reliable fair Current investments are initially recognized at fair value plus any value cannot be established, the other participations are directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognized at cost. The proceeds from these other participations recognition, they are measured at amortized cost using the and the gain or loss upon their disposal are recognized in profit effective interest method. Deposits with banks with a maturity or loss. between 3 and 12 months are classified as current investments. Impairment of assets Cash and cash equivalents When there are indications that the carrying amount of a nonCash and cash equivalents comprise cash at banks and in hand current asset (an intangible asset or an item of property, plant and deposits held at call with banks with a maturity of less than and equipment) may exceed the estimated recoverable amount three months at inception. Bank overdrafts are included in (the higher of its value in use and fair value less costs to sell), the current liabilities. Cash and cash equivalents are measured at possible existence of an impairment loss is investigated. If an nominal value. asset does not generate largely independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale (CGU) to which the asset belongs. In assessing the value in use, Non-current assets and disposal groups (assets and liabilities the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present relating to an activity that is to be sold) are classified as ‘held for value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market sale’ if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally interest rates and the risks specific to the asset. through a sales transaction rather than through continuing use. The reclassification takes place when the assets are available for When the recoverable amount of a non-current asset is less than immediate sale and the sale is highly probable. These conditions its carrying amount, the carrying amount is impaired to its are usually met as from the date on which a letter of intent or recoverable amount and an impairment charge is recognized in agreement to sell is ready for signing. Non-current assets held profit or loss. An impairment loss is reversed when there has for sale and disposal groups are measured at the lower of Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 131 www.dsm.com carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Non-current Other current liabilities assets held for sale are not depreciated or amortized. For Other current liabilities are measured at amortized cost, which transparency, non-current assets and disposal groups that will generally corresponds to the nominal value. be contributed to joint ventures are reported separately from other assets and liabilities held for sale. Revenue recognition Revenue from the sale of goods is recognized when significant Discontinued operations risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer. Net Discontinued operations comprise those activities that were sales represent the invoice value less estimated rebates and disposed of during the period or which were classified as held cash discounts, and excluding indirect taxes. for sale at the end of the period, and represent a separate major line of business or geographical area that can be clearly Royalty income is recognized in Other operating income or in Net distinguished for operational and financial reporting purposes. sales on an accrual basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreements. Royalty income is reported in Net sales Royal DSM Shareholders’ equity when licensing-out technologies is part of the ordinary and DSM’s ordinary shares and cumulative preference shares are recurring activities of a business. Income that relates to the sale classified as Royal DSM Shareholders’ equity. This is the case or out-licensing of technologies or technological expertise is for the latter, as there is no mandatory redemption, and recognized in profit or loss as of the effective date of the distributions to the shareholders are at the discretion of DSM. respective agreement if all rights relating to the technologies and The price paid for repurchased DSM shares (treasury shares) is all obligations resulting from them have been transferred under deducted from Royal DSM Shareholders’ equity until the shares the contract terms. However, if rights to the technologies are cancelled or reissued. Treasury shares are presented in the continue to exist or obligations resulting from them have yet to treasury share reserve. When treasury shares are sold or be fulfilled, the payments received are deferred accordingly. reissued, the amount received is recognized as an increase in Interest income is recognized on a time-proportion basis using equity, and the result on the transaction is presented as share the effective interest method. Dividend income is recognized premium. Dividend to be distributed to holders of cumulative when the right to receive payment is established. preference shares is recognized as a liability when the Supervisory Board approves the proposal for profit distribution. Government grants Dividend to be distributed to holders of ordinary shares is Government grants are recognized at their fair value if there is recognized as a liability when the Annual General Meeting of reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all Shareholders approves the profit appropriation. related conditions will be complied with. Cost grants are recognized as income over the periods necessary to match the Provisions grant on a systematic basis to the cost that it is intended to Provisions are recognized when all of the following conditions compensate. If the grant is an investment grant, its fair value is are met: 1) there is a present legal or constructive obligation as initially recognized as deferred income in Other non-current a result of past events; 2) it is probable that a transfer of liabilities and then released to profit or loss over the expected economic benefits will settle the obligation; and 3) a reliable useful life of the relevant asset. estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Share-based compensation The probable amount required to settle long-term obligations is The costs of option plans are measured by reference to the fair discounted if the effect of discounting is material. Where value of the options on the date on which the options are discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the granted. The fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes passage of time is recognized as interest costs. model, taking into account market conditions linked to the price of the DSM share. The costs of these options are recognized in Borrowings profit or loss (Employee benefits costs) during the vesting period, Borrowings are initially recognized at fair value of the proceeds together with a corresponding increase in Equity in the case of received, net of transaction costs. Subsequently, borrowings are equity-settled options or Other non-current liabilities in the case stated at amortized cost using the effective interest method. of cash-settled options (Share Appreciation Rights). No expense Amortized cost is calculated taking into account any discount or is recognized for options that do not ultimately vest, except for premium. Interest expenses are recorded in profit or loss. options where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting, irrespective of whether or not the Where the interest rate risk relating to a long-term borrowing is market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance hedged through a fair value hedge, and the hedge is effective, conditions are met. the carrying amount of the long-term loan is adjusted for changes in fair value of the interest component of the hedged Performance shares and restricted share units (matching shares) loan. are granted free of charge and vest after three years on the achievement of previously determined targets. The cost of Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 132 www.dsm.com performance shares and restricted share units is measured by utilized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are stated at nominal reference to the fair value of the DSM shares on the date on value. which the performance shares and restricted share units were granted and is recognized in profit or loss (Employee benefits Deferred taxes are not provided for the following temporary costs) during the vesting period, together with a corresponding differences: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial increase in equity. recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in Emission rights subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in DSM is subject to legislation encouraging reductions in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax greenhouse-gas emissions and has been awarded emission liabilities are offset and presented net when there is a legally rights (principally CO2 emission rights) in a number of enforceable right to offset, and the assets and liabilities relate to jurisdictions. Emission rights are reserved for meeting delivery income taxes levied by the same taxation authority. obligations and are recognized at cost (usually zero). Revenue is recognized when surplus emission rights are sold to third parties. Financial derivatives When actual emissions exceed the emission rights available to The group uses financial derivatives such as foreign currency DSM, a provision is recognized for the expected additional costs. forward contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. Alternative performance measures (APMs) Financial derivatives are initially recognized in the balance sheet Up until now, DSM used the term exceptional items to refer to at fair value. Subsequently, financial derivatives, bank balances material items of income or expense. As of 2016, DSM has and deposits in foreign currency are valued against the rates changed this term from 'Exceptional Items' to 'APM applicable on the balance sheet closing date. Changes in fair adjustments'. These APM adjustments to operating profit relate value are recognized in profit or loss unless cash flow hedge to material items of income and expense arising from accounting or net investment hedge accounting is applied. For circumstances such as: the measurement basis, see page 181. acquisitions/divestments; Changes in the fair value of financial derivatives designated and restructuring; qualifying as cash flow hedges are recognized in Other impairments; and comprehensive income (Hedging reserve) to the extent that the other. hedge is effective. Upon recognition of the related asset or liability, the cumulative gain or loss is transferred from the 'Other' APM adjustments can be related to onerous contracts Hedging reserve and included in the carrying amount of the and litigation settlements. Other than items related to acquisition hedged item if it is a non-financial asset or liability. Any ineffective and integration costs incurred in the first year from the acquisition portion of the changes of the fair value of the derivative is date including non-recurring inventory value adjustments the recognized immediately in profit and loss. If the forecasted threshold is >€ 10 million. transaction is no longer expected to occur, the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the hedging instrument Income tax expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the designation is Income tax expense is recognized in the income statement revoked, then hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively. except to the extent that it relates to an item recognized directly If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur then in Other comprehensive income or Shareholders’ equity. the amount accumulated in equity is reclassified to profit or loss. If the hedged item is a financial asset or liability, the gain or loss Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the is transferred to profit or loss. Changes in the fair value of financial taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted at the derivatives designated and qualifying as net investment hedges balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect are recognized in Other comprehensive income (Translation to previous years. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are reserve) to the extent that the hedge is effective and the change recognized for the expected tax consequences of temporary in fair value is caused by changes in currency exchange rates. differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities Accumulated gains and losses are released from Other and their tax base. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are comprehensive income and are included in profit or loss when measured at the tax rates that have been enacted or the net investment is disposed of. Changes in the fair value of substantially enacted at the balance sheet date and are financial derivatives designated and qualifying as fair value expected to apply when the related deferred tax assets are hedges are immediately recognized in the income statement, realized or the deferred tax liabilities are settled. Deferred tax together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged assets assets, including assets arising from losses carried forward and or liabilities attributable to the hedged risk. tax credits, are recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses can be Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 133 www.dsm.com Pensions and other post-employment benefits IFRS 15, 'Revenue from Contracts with Customers', establishes DSM has both defined contribution plans and defined benefit a new five-step approach to revenue recognition that applies to plans. In the case of defined contribution plans, obligations are all entities. The new standard is effective for annual reporting limited to the payment of contributions, which are recognized as periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. The impact of this Employee benefits costs. In the case of defined benefit plans, new standard on DSM’s financial position and performance is the aggregate of the value of the defined benefit obligation and not expected to be significant. An analysis was performed for the fair value of plan assets for each plan is recognized as a net DSM’s main revenue categories ‘goods sold’, ‘services defined benefit liability or asset. Defined benefit obligations are rendered’ and ‘royalties from ordinary activities’. From an determined using the projected unit credit method. Plan assets accounting perspective IFRS 15 is expected to impact the latter are recognized at fair value. If the fair value of plan assets category, however this impact is not considered significant as exceeds the present value of the defined benefit obligation, a net the royalty revenue accounts for around 0.1% of total revenue asset is only recognized to the extent that the asset is available (2015: 0.2%). for refunds to the employer or for reductions in future contributions to the plan. Defined benefit pension costs consist IFRS 16, ‘Leases’, establishes a new model for lessee of three elements: service costs, net interest, and accounting that requires a lessee to recognize assets and remeasurements. Service costs are part of Employee benefits liabilities for the rights and obligations created by leases. The new costs and consist of current service costs. Past service costs standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on and results of plan settlements are included in Other operating or after 1 January 2019. The impact of this new standard on income or expense. Net interest is part of Financial income and DSM’s financial position and performance is currently being expense and is determined on the basis of the value of the net investigated. Please refer to the contingent liabilities and other defined benefit asset or liability at the start of the year, and on financial obligations (Note 22) for DSM's current operating lease the interest on high-quality corporate bonds. Remeasurements commitments. are actuarial gains and losses, the return (or interest cost) on net plan assets (or liabilities) excluding amounts included in net The amendments to IAS 7 involving the ‘Statement of Cash interest and changes in the effect of the asset ceiling. These Flows’ will have limited impact, because DSM already provides remeasurements are recognized in Other comprehensive a net debt reconciliation on a voluntary basis. The additional income as they occur and are not recycled through profit or loss requirements with respect to IAS 12 involving the ‘Recognition at a later stage. of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses’ are taken into account in the annual evaluation of the tax position. These Effect of new accounting standards amendments and requirements are effective for annual periods The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and IFRIC beginning on or after 1 January 2017. have issued new standards, amendments to existing standards and interpretations, some of which are not yet effective or have New IFRIC interpretations are not expected to have a material not yet been endorsed by the European Union. effect on the financial statements of DSM. In 2016, no new or amended standards had to be applied for the first time that had an impact on the financial position, performance or disclosures of DSM. Neither were new or amended standards adopted early and applied in 2016 for the first time. Effect of forthcoming accounting standards not yet applied The following accounting standards are forthcoming but are not yet being applied by DSM. They will be adopted on the required effective date: IFRS 9, ‘Financial Instruments’ will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. During 2016, DSM has performed a high-level impact assessment of IFRS 9. DSM expects no significant balance sheet and equity impact on the classification and measurement of its financial instruments, no significant impact due to the implementation of the expected credit loss model and no significant impact on DSM's hedge accounting practices. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 134 www.dsm.com Consolidated statements Consolidated income statement x € million Notes 2016 2015 Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total operations operations1 operations operations1 Net sales 5 7,920 7,920 7,722 1,213 8,935 Cost of sales 5 (5,262) (5,262) (5,413) (1,190) (6,603) Gross margin 2,658 2,658 2,309 23 2,332 Marketing and sales (1,132) (1,132) (1,060) (59) (1,119) Research and development (309) (309) (332) (8) (340) General and administrative (552) (552) (534) (11) (545) Other operating income 109 109 86 6 92 Other operating expense (89) (28) (117) (107) (9) (116) 5 (1,973) (28) (2,001) (1,947) (81) (2,028) Operating profit 685 (28) 657 362 (58) 304 Financial income 6 23 23 10 3 13 Financial expense 6 (156) (156) (174) (13) (187) Profit before income tax expense 552 (28) 524 198 (68) 130 Income tax expense 7 (89) (89) (46) (22) (68) Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures 10 (38) (38) 30 30 Other results related to associates and joint ventures 10 232 232 Profit for the year 657 (28) 629 182 (90) 92 Of which: Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 17 8 8 (2) 6 4 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 649 (28) 621 184 (96) 88 Dividend on cumulative preference shares (4) (4) (10) (10) Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares 645 (28) 617 174 (96) 78 Earnings per share (EPS) (in € ): Net basic EPS 2 3.68 (0.16) 3.52 1.00 (0.55) 0.45 Net diluted EPS 2 3.67 (0.16) 3.51 1.00 (0.55) 0.45 1 See disposals in Note 3, 'Change in the scope of the consolidation' Please refer to Note 2 'Alternative performance measures' for the reconciliation to Adjusted EBITDA of € 1,262 million and other adjusted IFRS performance measures. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 135 www.dsm.com Consolidated statement of comprehensive income x € million 2016 2015 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans (8) (60) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations relating to the non-controlling interests 14 Equity accounted investees share of Other comprehensive income (6) 1 Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations Change for the year 216 78 Reclassification adjustment to the income statement related to discontinued operations (19) (59) Fair value reserve Change for the year 7 6 Reclassification adjustment to the income statement Hedging reserve Change for the year (52) (52) Reclassification adjustment to the income statement 52 51 Reclassification adjustment to deferred items (4) (4) Equity accounted investees share of Other comprehensive income (1) (18) Other comprehensive income, before tax 185 (43) Income tax (expense)/income relating to: Remeasurements of defined benefit plans 5 3 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 1 25 Fair value reserve Hedging reserve 2 (27) Total income tax (expense) / income 8 1 Other comprehensive income, net of tax 193 (42) Profit for the year 629 92 Total comprehensive income 822 50 Of which: Attributable to non-controlling interests 8 17 Attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 814 33 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 136 www.dsm.com Consolidated balance sheet at 31 December x € million Notes 2016 2015 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 8 3,188 3,228 Property, plant and equipment 9 3,325 3,171 Deferred tax assets 7 355 366 Share in associates and joint ventures 10 586 644 Other financial assets 11 463 419 7,917 7,828 Current assets Inventories 12 1,800 1,627 Trade receivables 13 1,504 1,349 Income tax receivables 13 62 71 Other current receivables 13 87 136 Financial derivatives 23 40 47 Current investments 14 944 9 Cash and cash equivalents 15 604 665 5,041 3,904 Assets held for sale 3 11 5,041 3,915 Total 12,958 11,743 Equity and liabilities Equity 16 Shareholders' equity 6,072 5,541 Non-controlling interests 17 108 90 6,180 5,631 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 7 278 319 Employee benefits liabilities 24 490 496 Provisions 18 128 98 Borrowings 19 2,552 2,557 Other non-current liabilities 20 158 228 3,606 3,698 Current liabilities Employee benefits liabilities 24 40 44 Provisions 18 54 41 Borrowings 19 853 253 Financial derivatives 23 253 232 Trade payables 21 1,376 1,168 Income tax payables 21 56 32 Other current liabilities 21 540 642 3,172 2,412 Liabilities held for sale 3 2 3,172 2,414 Total 12,958 11,743 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 137 www.dsm.com Consolidated statement of changes in equity (Note 16) x € million Share Share Treasury Other Retained1 Total NonTotal capital premium shares reserves earnings controlling equity interests Balance at 1 January 2015 338 489 (349) 166 5,079 5,723 213 5,936 Dividend (297) (297) (13) (310) Options / performance shares granted 29 29 29 Options / performance shares exercised / cancelled (15) 15 Proceeds from reissued shares 152 24 176 176 Change in DSM's share in subsidiaries (127) (127) Repurchase of shares (122) (122) (122) Other (7) 6 (1) (1) Total comprehensive income (2) 35 33 17 50 Balance at 31 December 2015 338 489 (319) 171 4,862 5,541 90 5,631 Dividend (296) (296) (5) (301) Options / performance shares granted 32 32 32 Options / performance shares exercised / cancelled (30) 30 Proceeds from reissued shares 253 253 253 Change in DSM's share in subsidiaries 15 15 Repurchase of shares (273) (273) (273) Reclassification 20 (20) Other 1 1 1 Total comprehensive income 203 611 814 8 822 Balance at 31 December 2016 338 489 (339) 396 5,188 6,072 108 6,180 1 As of 2016, Actuarial gains and losses and Other retained earnings have been grouped together in Retained earnings. See also Note 16 for movements within the Actuarial gains and losses. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 138 www.dsm.com Consolidated cash flow statement (Note 26) x € million 2016 2015 Operating activities Profit for the year 629 92 Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures (194) (30) Income tax 89 68 Profit before income tax expense 524 130 Financial income and expense 133 174 Operating profit1 657 304 Depreciation, amortization and impairments 489 742 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA)1 1,146 1,046 Adjustments for: (Gain) or loss from disposals (3) (6) Acquisition/divestment related in EBITDA 15 12 Change in provisions 20 4 Defined benefit plans (27) (60) 5 (50) Income tax received 7 4 Income tax paid (84) (79) Settlement intercompany hedges (218) Other 33 5 Changes, excluding working capital (39) (338) Operating cash flow before changes in working capital 1,107 708 Changes in operating working capital: Inventories (138) 45 Trade receivables (115) (65) Trade payables 195 (32) (58) (52) Changes in other working capital (31) 40 Changes in working capital (89) (12) Cash provided by operating activities 1,018 696 1 Please refer to Note 2 'Alternative performance measures' for the reconciliation to Adjusted EBITDA of € 1,262 million and other adjusted IFRS performance measures Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 139 www.dsm.com Consolidated cash flow statement (Note 26) continued x € million 2016 2015 Cash provided by operating activities 1,018 696 Investing activities Capital expenditure for:1 Intangible assets (63) (74) Property, plant and equipment (413) (458) Payments regarding drawing rights (19) (11) Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 4 10 Acquisition of subsidiaries and associates 4 (86) Cash from net investment hedge (136) Disposal of subsidiaries, businesses and associates 80 297 Change in fixed-term deposits (936) (2) Interest received 40 66 Other financial assets: Capital payments and acquisitions (35) (52) Dividends received 152 144 Change in loans granted (11) 27 Proceeds from disposals 3 Cash used in investing activities (1,194) (275) Financing activities Capital payments from / to non-controlling interests 6 1 Loans taken up 749 1,004 Repayment of loans (4) (653) Change in debt to credit institutions (11) 18 Repayment of commercial paper (150) (250) Dividend paid (190) (174) Interest paid (151) (303) Proceeds from reissued treasury shares 137 39 Repurchase of shares (273) (122) Cash from / used in financing activities 113 (440) Change in cash and cash equivalents (63) (19) Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 665 669 Exchange differences relating to cash held 2 15 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 604 665 1 An amount of € 1 million included in capital expenditure was funded by customers (2015: € 7 million) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 140 www.dsm.com Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 1 General information Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are in € million. A list of DSM participations has been filed with the Chamber of Commerce (Netherlands) and is available from the company upon request. The list can also be downloaded from the company website. The preparation of financial statements requires estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. The policies that management considers to be the most important to the presentation of the financial condition and results of operations are discussed in the relevant Notes. The same holds for the issues that require management judgments or estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Management cautions that future events often vary from forecasts and that estimates routinely require adjustment. Areas of judgment that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognized in the financial statements relate to the categorization of certain items as 'APM adjustments' relating to the Alternative performance measures, the identification of cash generating units (CGUs) and the classification of activities as 'held for sale' and 'discontinued operations'. Key assumptions and estimates that need to be made by management relate to the useful lives of non-current assets (Notes 8 and 9), the establishment of provisions for retirement and other post-employment benefits (Note 24), the recognition and measurement of income taxes (Note 7) and the determination of fair values for financial instruments (Note 23) and for share-based compensation (Note 27). Furthermore, impairment testing requires judgments by management, amongst others with respect to the determination of CGUs, growth rates and discount rates to apply (Notes 2, 8, 9 and 10). Significant judgment is also required for the determination of earn-out receivables and payables in business combinations (Note 3) and for the valuation of drawing rights (Note 8). For drawing rights, the most important judgments relate to the estimation of the required maintenance and replacement outlays. Estimates are based on historical quoted market prices, experience and assumptions that are considered reasonable under the circumstances. Exchange rates The currency exchange rates that were used in preparing the consolidated statements are listed below for the most important currencies. 1 euro = Exchange rate at balance sheet date Average exchange rate 2016 2015 2016 2015 US dollar 1.05 1.09 1.11 1.11 Swiss franc 1.07 1.08 1.09 1.07 Pound sterling 0.85 0.74 0.82 0.73 Brazilian real 3.41 4.26 3.86 3.69 Chinese renminbi 7.29 7.09 7.34 6.91 Presentation of consolidated income statement In the consolidated income statement, the qualifying activities that were disposed of during the period or which were classified as held for sale at the end of the period are presented as discontinued operations. As a consequence of the disposal of the caprolactam, acrylonitrile and composite resins businesses, the results of these bulk chemicals businesses were presented as discontinued operations. DSM presents expenses in the consolidated income statement in accordance with their function. This allows the presentation of gross margin on the face of the income statement, which is a widely used performance measure in the industry. The composition of the costs allocated to the individual functions is explained below. Cost of sales encompasses all manufacturing costs (including raw materials, employee benefits, and depreciation and amortization) related to goods and services captured in net sales. They are measured at their actual cost based on FIFO, or weighted average cost. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 141 www.dsm.com Marketing and sales relates to the selling and marketing of goods and services, and also includes all costs that are directly related to the sale of goods, but that are not originated by the manufacturing of the goods (e.g. freight). Research and development consists of: research, which is defined as original and planned investigation undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding; and development, which is defined as the application of research findings or other knowledge to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved materials, devices, products, processes, systems or services before the start of commercial production or use. General and administrative relates to the strategic and governance role of the general management of the company as well as the representation of DSM as a whole in the financial, political or business community. It also relates to business support activities of staff departments that are not directly related to the other functional areas. 2 Alternative performance measures (APMs) In presenting and discussing DSM’s financial position, operating results and cash flows, management uses certain alternative performance measures not defined by IFRS. These alternative performance measures should not be viewed in isolation as alternatives to the equivalent IFRS measures and should be used as supplementary information in conjunction with the most directly comparable IFRS measures. Alternative performance measures do not have standardized meaning under IFRS and therefore may not be comparable to similar measures presented by other companies. Respectively Adjusted EBITDA, organic growth and ROCE are important measures of the group’s performance and are the basis for measuring management performance. ROCE is defined as Adjusted EBIT as a percentage of weighted average capital employed. 'EBIT' is an alternative term for the IFRS performance measure ‘operating profit’. Where a non-financial measure is used to calculate an operational or statistical ratio, this is also considered an APM. For DSM, the most important APM is the application of APM adjustments to the IFRS measures to provide clear reporting on the underlying developments of the business, these APM adjustments may impact the EBIT(DA), net profit and the EPS. A reconciliation of these alternative performance measures to the most directly comparable IFRS measures can be found on page 144. The APM adjustments to net profit, as included in the APMs, can be specified as follows: 2016 2015 Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total operations operations operations operations APM adjustments: Acquisitions / divestments (13) 28 15 7 5 12 Restructuring 101 101 102 102 Other 10 10 Impairments of PPE, intangible assets and business activities 18 18 92 130 222 Adjustments to financial income and expense 15 15 Income tax related to adjustments (31) (31) (51) (6) (57) Adjustments to share in result associates (212) (212) 24 24 Total APM adjustments (income) / expense (137) 28 (109) 199 129 328 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 142 www.dsm.com 2016 2015 The APM adjustments in 2016 are listed below: The APM adjustments in 2015 are listed below: Restructuring costs of € 101 million relate to project costs of Acquisition and divestment costs of € 12 million mainly relate the restructuring projects together with the redundancy to the acquisition of Aland and Cubic Tech (€ 5 million) and schemes connected to the dismissal and transfer of divestment-related costs (€ 5 million). employees and costs of termination of contracts. Restructuring costs of € 102 million relate to project costs of The impairments of property, plant and equipment (PPE), the restructuring projects together with the redundancy intangible assets, and business activities of € 18 million in total schemes connected to the dismissal and transfer of relate mainly to the impairment of PPE at DSM Engineering employees and costs of termination of contracts. Plastics in the US (€ 10 million) and intangible assets at DSM The impairments of PPE and business activities of € 222 million Bio-based Products & Services in Brazil (€ 10 million). relate mainly to the impairment of the DSM Fibre Intermediates Acquisition and divestment costs of € 15 million relate to the and DSM Composite Resins business, divested per 31 July adjustments due to various settlements relating to the 2015 (€ 130 million; discontinued operations); the impairment divestment of DSM Fibre Intermediates and Composite Resins of the DSM-AGI business (€ 26 million), of which goodwill to ChemicaInvest of € 28 million and other acquisition-related € 16 million; an impairment of US tape line assets at DSM costs (€ 4 million), offset partly by the release of an acquisitionDyneema (€ 19 million) and an impairment at the site of DSM related liability (€ 17 million). Resins & Functional Materials in Stanley (North Carolina, USA) APM adjustments to share in result associates mainly relate to (€ 15 million). Furthermore, impairments were recognized of the gain of € 232 million on the IPO of Patheon N.V. and the equipments by DSM Nutritional Products (€ 9 million) and DSM secondary offering, partly offset by financing, reorganization Innovation Center (€ 5 million) and of software within DSM and acquisition-related costs of Patheon (€ 20 million). See Business Services (€ 16 million). Note 10 for further details. APM adjustments to financial income and expense of € 15 million relate to the revaluation of monetary positions in Venezuela. APM adjustments to share in result associates mainly relates to financing, reorganization and acquisition-related costs of Patheon (€ 32 million), offset by the share in the gain of the divestment of Banner Life Sciences (€ 8 million). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 143 www.dsm.com Alternative performance measures 2016 2015 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total operations operations Total Operating profit 685 (28) 657 362 (58) 304 Depreciation, amortization and impairments 489 489 594 148 742 EBITDA 1,174 (28) 1,146 956 90 1,046 APM adjustments to EBITDA: Acquisitions / divestments (13) 28 15 7 5 12 Restructuring 101 101 102 102 Other 10 10 Total APM adjustments 88 28 116 119 5 124 Adjusted EBITDA 1,262 1,262 1,075 95 1,170 Operating profit 685 (28) 657 362 (58) 304 APM adjustments to Operating profit: APM adjustments to EBITDA 88 28 116 119 5 124 Impairments of PPE and intangible assets 18 18 92 130 222 Total APM adjustments 106 28 134 211 135 346 Adjusted operating profit 791 791 573 77 650 Net profit (for equity holders of of Koninklijke DSM N.V.) 649 (28) 621 184 (96) 88 APM adjustments to: Operating profit 106 28 134 211 135 346 Financial income and expense 15 15 Share in resultassociates (212) (212) 24 24 Income tax related to APM adjustments (31) (31) (51) (6) (57) Total APM adjustments (137) 28 (109) 199 129 328 Adjusted net profit 512 512 383 33 416 Dividend on cumulative preference shares (4) (4) (10) (10) Adjusted net profit available to holders of ordinary shares 508 508 373 33 406 Earnings per share Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (x 1,000) 175,100 174,357 Effect of dilution due to share options (x 1,000) 603 624 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (x 1,000) 175,703 174,981 Earnings per share (EPS) (in € ): Net basic EPS 3.68 (0.16) 3.52 1.00 (0.55) 0.45 Net diluted EPS 3.67 (0.16) 3.51 1.00 (0.55) 0.45 Adjusted net basic EPS 2.90 2.90 2.14 0.19 2.33 Adjusted net diluted EPS 2.89 2.89 2.13 0.19 2.32 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 144 www.dsm.com 3 Change in the scope of the consolidation Acquisitions 2016 In order to further strengthen and integrate its Resins business, DSM agreed with joint venture partner JSR Corporation to increase its stake in Japan Fine Coatings (JFC) to 70% in the coming years. As a first step, DSM increased its shareholding from 50.0% to 50.1% in July 2016. Based on the changes in the joint venture agreement and the articles of incorporation, together with acquiring the voting rights of JFC, DSM obtained a controlling interest in JFC in July 2016. Prior to obtaining control, DSM accounted for its investment in accordance with the equity method. Revaluation of this existing 50% investment in JFC to fair value resulted in a book profit of € 6 million. From the date of control, the financial statements of JFC are consolidated by DSM and reported in the Materials cluster. In accordance with IFRS 3, the purchase price of JFC was allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. Goodwill amounted to € 10 million. The goodwill relates to the expected synergies from integrating JFC within DSM's existing Coating Resins business. The non-controlling interest in JFC was measured at the proportionate share of the fair value and amounted to € 6 million at the acquisition date. The consolidation of JFC contributed € 18 million to net sales and € 6 million to Adjusted EBITDA (€ 5 million to EBITDA) in 2016. Up to one year from the acquisition date, the initial accounting for business combinations needs to be adjusted to reflect additional information that has been received about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date and would have affected the measurement of amounts recognized as of that date. As a result of such adjustments, the values of assets and liabilities recognized may change in the one-year period from the acquisition date, which resulted in some adjustments to the opening balance sheet of Cubic Tech, acquired in May 2015. The Purchase Price Allocation (PPA) was finalized in the course of the year. The impact of the acquisitions on DSM's consolidated balance sheet at the date of acquisition is shown in the following table. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 145 www.dsm.com Acquisitions 2016 Japan Fine Coatings Cubic Tech adj. Total Change Book Fair Book Fair value in fair Book Fair value value value total value value value Assets Intangible assets 9 5 5 14 Property, plant and equipment 16 11 1 1 17 11 Other non-current assets (4) (4) (4) (4) Inventories 3 4 3 4 Receivables 3 3 1 1 4 3 Cash and cash equivalents 5 5 5 5 Total assets 23 28 2 7 5 25 33 Non-controlling interests 5 6 5 6 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 2 2 2 4 Current liabilities 19 19 1 1 20 19 Total non-controlling interests and liabilities 24 27 1 3 2 25 29 Net assets (1) 1 1 4 3 4 Acquisition price (in cash) 10 Fair value of associate contributed 10 10 Acquisition price (payable earn-out) 6 5 6 Consideration 16 15 16 Elimination book value associate (5) (5) Goodwill 10 11 (3) 7 Acquisition costs recognized in APM adjustments (see Note 2) 1 1 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 146 www.dsm.com 2015 On 31 March 2015, DSM obtained control of Aland Nutraceutical Holding, Ltd., a Hong Kong-based company producing vitamin C in China, by buying 100% of the shares. Aland was founded in 1990 and is one of the leading vitamin C manufacturers in China. The company has a production facility in Jingjiang (China). From the acquisition date onwards, the financial statements of Aland have been consolidated by DSM and reported in the Nutrition segment. The acquisition strengthens and complements DSM’s position as a producer of vitamin C. In accordance with IFRS 3, the purchase price of Aland had to be allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. Goodwill amounted to € 15 million. The value of goodwill and intangible assets acquired was rather limited because the principal driver for the acquisition was the ability to obtain plant and equipment and related production capacity. The acquisition of Aland contributed € 63 million to net sales and € 8 million to EBITDA in 2015. Acquisition-related costs in this respect amounted to € 5 million before tax (see Note 2 'Alternative performance measures'). On 13 May 2015, DSM Dyneema finalized the acquisition of Cubic Tech Corporation by buying 100% of the shares. This privatelyowned company based in Mesa (Arizona, USA) is focused on high-end solutions in applications as diverse as racing yacht sails, equipment and apparel for sportswear, outdoor and future soldier programs as well as emergency medical equipment. From the acquisition date onwards, the financial statements of Cubic Tech have been consolidated by DSM and reported in the segment Materials. In accordance with IFRS 3, the purchase price of Cubic Tech has to be allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. The goodwill relates to buyer-specific synergies due to DSM’s unique value chain proposition in ultra high molecular weight polyethylene. Acquisitions 2015 Aland Cubic Tech Total Book Fair Book Fair Book Fair value value value value value value Assets Intangible assets 8 16 8 16 Property, plant and equipment 58 64 1 1 59 65 Other non-current assets 1 1 1 1 Inventories 15 16 15 16 Receivables 11 11 1 1 12 12 Cash and cash equivalents 4 4 4 4 Total assets 97 112 2 2 99 114 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 8 11 8 11 Current liabilities 25 25 1 25 26 Total liabilities 33 36 1 33 37 Net assets 64 76 2 1 66 77 Acquisition price (in cash) 74 10 84 Acquisition price (payable earn-out) 17 5 22 Consideration 91 15 106 Goodwill 15 14 29 Acquisition costs recognized in APM adjustments 5 5 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 147 www.dsm.com Disposals 2016 In the second quarter of 2016, DSM completed the sale of certain assets and liabilities of the cultures and enzymes business of DSM Food Specialties in La Ferté (France). This business had been impaired in 2015 by € 1 million and reclassified to held for sale. The divestment was finalized for a net consideration of € 11 million with no additional book result. In view of the limited importance of the activities, they are not presented as discontinued operations. These activities were reported in the Nutrition cluster prior to disposal. The impact of the deconsolidation of these activities on the DSM consolidated financial statements is presented in the following table: Disposals 2016 Cultures and Other Total Enzymes France Assets Property, plant and equipment (7) (7) Inventories (3) (3) Receivables (2) (2) Total assets (12) (12) Liabilities Current liabilities (1) (1) Total liabilities (1) (1) Net assets (11) (11) Consideration 12 12 Transaction and other costs (1) (1) Consideration (net of selling costs, translation differences and net debt) 11 11 Book result In 2015, the partial divestment of DSM Fibre Intermediates and Composite Resins to ChemicaInvest was finalized. See also Disposals 2015 for more details. In 2016, following various settlements relating to this partial divestment, an amount of -€ 28 million was included in discontinued operations without any impact on the cash flow statement. 2015 In March, DSM and CVC Capital Partners announced the establishment of a partnership comprising the DSM Fibre Intermediates and DSM Composite Resins businesses. The formation of ChemicaInvest, in which DSM has a 35% shareholding, was finalized on 31 July. From 31 July onwards, both businesses are no longer consolidated by DSM. The 35% shareholding in ChemicaInvest is reported as an associate and accounted in accordance with the equity method. The result on the contribution of DSM Fibre Intermediates and DSM Composite Resins to ChemicaInvest amounted to a loss of € 130 million and was recognized in 2015. The impairment/book result and the impact of the deconsolidation of these activities on the DSM consolidated financial statements is presented in the following table: Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 148 www.dsm.com Disposals 2015 Bulk Chemicals Other Total Assets Intangible assets (15) (15) Property, plant and equipment (818) (3) (821) Other non-current assets (65) (2) (67) Inventories (200) (12) (212) Receivables (416) (29) (445) Cash and cash equivalents (31) (1) (32) Total assets (1,545) (47) (1,592) Non-controlling interests (126) (126) Liabilities Provisions (44) (44) Non-current liabilities (369) (369) Current liabilities (333) (32) (365) Non-controlling interests and liabilities (872) (32) (904) Net assets (673) (15) (688) Consideration 502 21 523 Transaction and other costs (18) (5) (23) Realization cumulative translation reserves 59 (2) 57 Consideration (net of selling costs, translation differences and net debt) 543 14 557 Impairment / book result (130) (1) (131) Income tax Net impairment / book result (130) (1) (131) The impact of disposals on the cash flow statement is presented Deconsolidation and other changes in the following table: In 2016, there were no material deconsolidations or material changes in the percentage of ownership of subsidiaries (same as in 2015). 2015 Net cash provided by / used in Operating activities (112) Investing activities (21) Net change in cash and cash equivalents (133) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 149 www.dsm.com 4 Segment information Business segments1 Continuing operations DisconEliminaTotal 2016 Nutrition Materials Innovation Corporate2 EliminaTotal tinued tions Center Activities tions operations Financial performance Net sales 5,169 2,513 167 71 7,920 7,920 Supplies to other clusters 55 7 23 (85) Supplies 5,224 2,520 190 71 (85) 7,920 7,920 Adjusted EBITDA 931 435 1 (105) 1,262 1,262 EBITDA 934 419 (5) (174) 1,174 (28) 1,146 Adjusted operating profit 645 311 (24) (141) 791 791 Operating profit 648 285 (38) (210) 685 (28) 657 Depreciation and amortization 278 124 24 34 460 460 Impairments 8 10 9 2 29 29 of which included in APM adjustments 10 8 18 18 Additions to provisions 4 15 3 77 99 99 Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures 7 (24) 211 194 194 R&D costs3 104 109 64 32 309 309 Wages, salaries and social security costs 902 332 78 309 1,621 1,621 Financial position Total assets 6,935 2,207 826 2,990 12,958 12,958 Total liabilities 1,857 774 84 4,063 6,778 6,778 Capital employed at year-end 5,537 1,807 576 (31) 7,889 7,889 Capital expenditure 331 106 32 16 485 485 Share in equity of associates and joint ventures 1 2 133 450 586 586 Adjusted EBITDA margin (in %) 18.0 17.3 15.9 15.9 Workforce Average in FTE 13,168 4,453 613 2,275 20,509 20,509 Year-end (headcount) 13,260 4,460 619 2,447 20,786 20,786 1 For a description of the types of products and services of each segment please refer to the 'Review of business' in the 'Report by the Managing Board'. Supplies between segments were fairly limited and were generally executed at market-based prices. 2 Corporate Activities also includes costs for regional holdings, corporate overhead and share-based compensation. 3 R&D costs relate to the functional area Research and development and exclude R&D cost included in the functional areas Cost of sales and Marketing and sales as well as R&D expenditure capitalized. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 150 www.dsm.com Business segments1 Continuing operations DisconEliminaTotal 2015 Nutrition Materials Innovation Corporate2 EliminaTotal tinued tions Center Activities tions operations Financial performance Net sales 4,963 2,528 155 76 7,722 1,213 8,935 Supplies to other clusters 56 19 3 (61) 17 253 (270) Supplies 5,019 2,547 158 76 (61) 7,739 1,466 (270) 8,935 Adjusted EBITDA 822 384 (9) (122) 1,075 95 1,170 EBITDA 791 379 (27) (187) 956 90 1,046 Adjusted operating profit 535 250 (43) (169) 573 77 650 Operating profit 495 185 (66) (252) 362 (58) 304 Depreciation and amortization 271 133 28 43 475 13 488 Impairments 25 61 11 22 119 135 254 of which included in APM adjustments 9 60 5 18 92 130 222 Additions to provisions 3 23 55 81 1 82 Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures 3 (18) 45 30 30 R&D costs3 123 109 70 30 332 8 340 Wages, salaries and social security costs 859 319 71 320 1,569 82 1,651 Financial position Total assets 6,523 2,122 809 2,289 11,743 11,743 Total liabilities 1,755 791 77 3,489 6,112 6,112 Capital employed at year-end 5,309 1,723 560 (39) 7,553 7,553 Capital expenditure 322 98 34 24 478 92 570 Share in equity of associates and joint ventures 1 7 135 501 644 644 Adjusted EBITDA margin (in %) 16.6 15.2 13.9 7.8 13.1 Workforce Average in FTE 13,474 4,463 625 2,065 20,627 1,238 21,865 Year-end (headcount) 12,978 4,472 630 2,716 20,796 20,796 1 For a description of the types of products and services of each segment please refer to the 'Review of business' in the 'Report by the Managing Board'. Supplies from DSM Fibre Intermediates to DSM Engineering Plastics were executed at cost until deconsolidation. Transfers between other segments were fairly limited and were generally executed at market-based prices. 2 Corporate Activities also includes costs for regional holdings, corporate overhead and share-based compensation. 3 R&D costs relate to the functional area Research and development and exclude R&D costs included in the functional areas Cost of sales and Marketing and sales as well as R&D expenditure capitalized. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 151 www.dsm.com Geographical information Continuing operations The Rest of Eastern North Latin China India Japan Rest of Rest of Total 2015 NetherWestern Europe America America Asia the lands Europe world Net sales by origin In € million 1,938 2,123 154 1,451 719 837 76 73 272 79 7,722 In % 25 27 2 19 9 11 1 1 4 1 100 Net sales by destination In € million 280 1,851 467 1,779 1,053 937 153 209 740 253 7,722 In % 4 24 6 23 13 12 2 3 10 3 100 Workforce at year-end (headcount) 4,166 4,732 439 3,161 2,020 4,556 501 144 821 256 20,796 Average workforce (FTE) 4,017 4,589 426 3,153 2,164 4,534 516 144 832 252 20,627 Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment Capital expenditure 138 121 2 102 22 84 2 5 2 478 Carrying amount 1,619 1,238 29 2,537 292 505 19 22 117 21 6,399 Total assets (total DSM) 3,838 2,038 119 3,486 749 882 82 95 361 93 11,743 2016 Net sales by origin In € million 2,006 2,444 160 1,436 544 842 73 100 241 74 7,920 In % 25 31 2 18 7 11 1 1 3 1 100 Net sales by destination In € million 303 1,877 494 1,795 989 989 178 264 787 244 7,920 In % 4 25 6 23 12 12 2 3 10 3 100 Workforce at year-end (headcount) 4,026 4,715 439 3,187 2,069 4,594 475 193 828 260 20,786 Average workforce (FTE) 3,944 4,575 435 3,153 2,065 4,581 498 163 823 272 20,509 Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment Capital expenditure 120 151 4 91 36 73 1 1 5 3 485 Carrying amount 1,587 1,703 31 2,104 376 523 18 42 104 25 6,513 Total assets (total DSM) 4,560 2,495 126 3,110 885 1,077 87 144 367 107 12,958 DSM has no single external customer that represents 10% or more of revenues, and therefore information about major customers is not provided. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 152 www.dsm.com 5 Net sales and costs Other operating income Net sales 2016 2015 2016 2015 Continuing operations Release of provisions 19 18 Continuing operations Gain on sale of assets and Goods sold 7,724 7,532 activities 6 11 Services rendered 188 183 Gain on scrap, waste material, Royalties from ordinary activities 8 7 emission rights, royalties and licenses sold 2 Total 7,920 7,722 Insurance benefits 31 7 Amendments / settlements pension plans 18 12 Total costs Release earn-out payments 16 2 Sundry 19 34 In 2016, total operating costs of continuing operations amounted to € 7.2 billion, € 0.2 billion lower than in 2015, when Total 109 86 these costs stood at € 7.4 billion. Total operating costs in 2016 included Cost of sales amounting to € 5.3 billion (2015: € 5.4 billion); gross margin as a percentage of net sales Other operating expense stood at 34% (2015: 30%). Employee benefits costs 2016 2015 Continuing operations 2016 2015 Additions to provisions 74 74 Loss from the disposal or closure Continuing operations of assets and activities 1 Wages and salaries 1,420 1,365 Exchange differences 1 16 Social security costs 177 181 Acquisitions 2 6 Pension costs (see also Note 24) 131 122 Sundry 11 11 Share-based compensation (see also Note 27) 24 23 Total 89 107 Total 1,752 1,691 Depreciation, amortization and impairments 2016 2015 Continuing operations Amortization of intangible assets 143 153 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 317 322 Impairment losses 29 119 Total 489 594 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 153 www.dsm.com 6 Financial income and expense 7 Income tax The income tax expense on the total result was € 89 million, 2016 2015 which represents an effective income tax rate of 17.0% (2015: € 68 million, representing an effective income tax rate of Continuing operations 52.4%) and can be broken down as follows: Financial income Interest income (23) (10) 2016 2015 Financial expense Interest expense 121 125 Current tax expense: Interest relating to defined benefit Current year (113) (104) plans 10 11 Prior-year adjustments (10) 1 Capitalized interest during Tax credits compensated 3 3 construction (3) (6) Non-recoverable withholding Interest charge on discounted tax (2) (6) provisions 1 8 Exchange differences 6 6 (122) (106) Unwinding discounted Deferred tax expense: receivables / payables 7 7 Originating from temporary Revaluation monetary positions differences and their reversal 79 48 Venezuela 15 Prior-year adjustments 7 7 Sundry 14 8 Change in tax rate (4) (2) Change in tax losses and tax Total financial expense 156 174 credits recognized (49) (15) Financial income and expense 133 164 33 38 Total (89) (68) In 2016, the interest rate applied in the capitalization of interest during construction was 5% (2015: 5%). Of which related to: Adjusted result from continuing operations (120) (97) APM adjustments 31 51 Result from discontinued operations (22) The effective tax rate on the Adjusted result from continuing operations was 18.3% in 2016 (2015: 22.9%). This decrease was due amongst others to a more favorable geographical mix and a one-time tax settlement for the internal transfer of a business in 2015. For the strategy period 2016-2018, DSM expects the effective tax rate to be in the range of 18-20%. The relationship between the income tax rate in the Netherlands and the effective tax rate on the result is as follows: Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 154 www.dsm.com Effective tax rate in % 2016 2015 Domestic income tax rate 25.0 25.0 Tax effects of: Deviating rates (5.4) 7.1 Tax-exempt income and nondeductible expense (0.3) (3.9) Other effects (1.0) (5.3) Effective tax rate Adjusted result, continuing operations 18.3 22.9 Discontinued operations (1.1) 2.5 APM adjustments (see Note 2) (0.2) 0.9 Impairment / book result bulk chemicals 26.1 Total effective tax rate 17.0 52.4 Other effects mainly include an internal transfer of business (-5.5%) and a change in the recognition of tax losses (+3.6%). The balance of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities increased by € 30 million owing to the changes presented in the table below: Deferred tax assets and liabilities 2016 2015 Balance at 1 January Deferred tax assets 366 427 Deferred tax liabilities (319) (365) Total 47 62 Changes: Income tax expense in income statement 33 38 Income tax expense in other comprehensive income 8 1 Acquisitions and disposals (3) (49) Exchange differences (12) (16) Transfer 4 11 Balance at 31 December 77 47 Of which: Deferred tax assets 355 366 Deferred tax liabilities (278) (319) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 155 www.dsm.com In various countries, DSM has taken standpoints regarding its tax position which may at any time be challenged, or have already been challenged, by the tax authorities, because the authorities in question interpret the law differently. These uncertainties are taken into account in determining the probability of realization of deferred tax assets and liabilities. The deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to the following balance sheet items: Deferred tax assets and liabilities by balance sheet item 2016 2015 Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax assets liabilities assets liabilities Intangible assets 13 (209) 20 (261) Property, plant and equipment 18 (200) 11 (214) Financial assets 3 (1) 2 (5) Inventories 71 (22) 54 (7) Receivables 5 (5) 5 (6) Equity 1 (3) 1 (3) Other non-current liabilities 18 (1) 40 (1) Non-current provisions 95 (6) 92 Non-current borrowings Other current liabilities 95 (3) 71 (2) 319 (450) 296 (499) Tax losses carried forward 208 250 Set-off (172) 172 (180) 180 Total 355 (278) 366 (319) No deferred tax assets were recognized for loss carryforwards amounting to € 216 million (2015: € 121 million). Unrecognized loss carryforwards amounting to € 74 million will expire in the years up to and including 2021 (2015: € 30 million up to and including 2020), € 77 million between 2022 and 2026 (2015: € 77 million between 2021 and 2025) and the remaining € 65 million between 2027 and 2031 (2015: € 14 million between 2026 and 2030). The valuation of deferred tax assets depends on the probability of the reversal of temporary differences and the utilization of tax loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets are recognized for future tax benefits arising from temporary differences and for tax loss carryforwards to the extent that the tax benefits are likely to be realized. In the Netherlands, tax losses may be carried forward for nine years. For the entities in the Dutch tax consolidation, losses will start to expire in 2019. DSM has to assess the likelihood that deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable profits. Deferred tax assets are reduced if, and to the extent that, it is not probable that all or some portion of the deferred tax assets will be realized. In the event that actual future results differ from estimates, and depending on tax strategies that DSM may be able to implement, changes to the measurement of deferred taxes could be required, which could impact on the company’s financial position and profit for the year. The recoverability of the Dutch deferred tax assets was enhanced in 2015 due to steps that were taken to structurally improve the profitability of the operations in the Netherlands. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 156 www.dsm.com 8 Intangible assets Goodwill Licenses Under Development Other Total and patents construction projects Balance at 1 January 2015 Cost 1,788 204 102 75 1,525 3,694 Amortization and impairment losses 93 21 713 827 Carrying amount 1,788 111 102 54 812 2,867 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 31 47 7 85 Put into operation 7 (35) 28 Acquisitions 29 4 12 45 Disposals (2) (2) (11) (15) Deconsolidation 334 334 Amortization (11) (3) (140) (154) Impairment losses (18) (2) (13) (23) (56) Exchange differences 67 1 4 1 44 117 Other reclassifications 4 1 5 78 (3) 2 32 252 361 Balance at 31 December 2015 Cost 1,883 199 104 122 1,880 4,188 Amortization and impairment losses 17 91 36 816 960 Carrying amount 1,866 108 104 86 1,064 3,228 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 1 60 1 1 63 Put into operation 9 (58) 27 22 Acquisitions 7 5 9 21 Amortization (14) (5) (124) (143) Decreased drawing rights obligation (88) (88) Impairment losses (9) (6) (1) (16) Exchange differences 85 3 1 30 119 Other reclassifications 1 (2) (3) 8 4 92 (4) 1 14 (143) (40) Balance at 31 December 2016 Cost 1,977 215 105 133 1,748 4,178 Amortization and impairment losses 19 111 33 827 990 Carrying amount 1,958 104 105 100 921 3,188 Other intangible assets include drawing rights contracts with the partnership ChemicaInvest (included under deconsolidation of € 334 million in 2015). ChemicaInvest will continue to supply at least 80% of DSM Engineering Plastics' caprolactam needs in Europe and North America for 15 years (2015-2030) via a drawing rights contract, effectively maintaining DSM Engineering Plastics' backward integration. Initially the fair value of this contract has been recognized as an intangible asset by DSM Engineering Plastics; for subsequent measurement, the initial fair value is the deemed cost of the asset, which is subject to straight-line amortization. At the end of 2016, it had a carrying amount of € 220 million (2015: € 325 million), and an amount of € 74 million was still payable to ChemicaInvest for the acquisition of the drawing rights (2015: € 160 million). The decrease in the carrying amount is mainly caused by the lower obligation of € 88 million due to the renewed contract in the US and the revised investment obligation in Europe. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 157 www.dsm.com The non-current liability for drawing rights was similarly updated. Furthermore, acquisition-related intangibles are included that have been included in the annual goodwill impairment test discussed later in this section. These assets are amortized on a straight-line basis, except for the intangible assets with an indefinite useful life, which amount to € 52 million (2015: € 50 million). In 2016, an impairment on Intangible assets of € 16 million was recognized. This mainly related to an impairment of € 10 million at DSM Bio-based Products & Services in Brazil (see Note 2 'Alternative performance measures'). In 2015, an impairment on Intangible assets of € 56 million was recognized. This mainly related to an impairment of € 16 million at DSM Resins & Functional Materials against goodwill relating to DSM-AGI (see Note 2 'Alternative performance measures'). Furthermore, an impairment of development costs in DSM Nutritional Products of € 13 million had been included as certain new production techniques that had been developed were not taken into operation. Also an impairment of € 14 million was included relating to software, as a consequence of outsourcing the related activity. Over the past few years, DSM has acquired several entities in business combinations that have been accounted for by the acquisition method, resulting in recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets. The amounts assigned to the acquired assets and liabilities are based on assumptions and estimates about their fair values. In making these estimates, management consults independent, qualified appraisers if appropriate. A change in assumptions and estimates could change the values allocated to certain assets and their estimated useful lives, which could affect the amount or timing of charges to the income statement, such as amortization of intangible assets. The breakdown of the carrying amount of goodwill at year-end 2016 is as follows: Goodwill Functional Year of Acquisition 2016 2015 Cash generating unit Currency acquisition Martek 444 425 DSM Nutritional Products USD 2011 NeoResins 358 358 DSM Resins & Functional Materials EUR 2005 Fortitech 333 318 DSM Nutritional Products USD 2012 Ocean Nutrition Canada 210 196 DSM Nutritional Products CAD 2012 Kensey Nash 155 148 DSM Biomedical USD 2012 Tortuga 118 94 DSM Nutritional Products BRL 2013 The Polymer Technology Group 84 80 DSM Biomedical USD 2008 Pentapharm 36 36 DSM Nutritional Products CHF 2007 Cargill Cultures and enzymes business 30 30 DSM Food Specialties EUR/USD 2012 Shandong ICD 26 27 DSM Dyneema CNY 2011 Unitech 18 17 DSM Nutritional Products NZD 2013 Aland 14 14 DSM Nutritional Products CNY 2015 Novamid 14 9 DSM Engineering Plastics JPY 2010 Syntech Far East 13 12 DSM Resins & Functional Materials HKD 2005 Cubic Tech 12 15 DSM Dyneema USD 2015 Zhejiang Zhongken Biotechnology 11 11 DSM Food Specialties CNY 2010 Verenium 11 10 DSM Food Specialties USD 2012 Japan Fine Coatings 10 DSM Resins & Functional Materials JPY 2016 C5 Yeast Company 9 9 DSM Bio-based Products & Services EUR 2011 Crina 9 9 DSM Nutritional Products CHF 2006 DSM Japan Engineering Plastics 6 6 DSM Engineering Plastics EUR 2003 DSM Valley Research 6 6 DSM Food Specialties USD 2008 Other acquisitions 31 36 Total 1,958 1,866 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 158 www.dsm.com Goodwill per Cash generating unit For DSM Nutritional Products the growth assumptions are based on the growth of the global food and feed markets, for DSM Cash generating unit 2016 2015 Resins & Functional Materials on the demand for advanced coating resins (influenced by growth in building and construction DSM Nutritional Products 1,198 1,125 markets) and for DSM Biomedical on the growth of the market DSM Resins & Functional for medical devices. For both DSM Nutrional Products (2016 Materials 386 375 pre-tax discount rate 8.6%, 2015: 7.8%) and DSM Resins & DSM Biomedical 238 228 Functional Materials (2016 pre-tax discount rate 11.2%, 2015: DSM Food Specialties 64 63 11.1%) the organic sales growth for the first 5 years is expected DSM Dyneema 44 47 to be between 3-5%. For the subsequent 5 year period, a DSM Engineering Plastics 16 16 declining growth rate of 2.4% for DSM Nutritional Products and DSM Bio-based Products & 1.2% for DSM Resins & Functional Materials was applied. Services 9 9 A sensitivity test was performed on the impairment tests of the DSM Advanced Solar 3 3 CGUs and showed that the conclusions of these tests would not have been different if reasonable possible adverse change in key Total 1,958 1,866 parameters had been assumed, with the exception of DSM Biomedical. The annual impairment tests of goodwill are performed in the The goodwill allocated to DSM Biomedical (2016 pre-tax fourth quarter. The recoverable amount of the cash generating discount rate 10.5%, 2015 10.5%) amounted to € 238 million units (CGUs) concerned is based on a value-in-use calculation. and, similar to last year, the headroom is limited. The key DSM Nutritional Products, DSM Resins & Functional Materials assumptions determining the value in use are a compounded and DSM Biomedical are the three CGUs to which significant annual sales growth rate of 7.7% (2015: >10%) for the 10-year amounts of goodwill is allocated. forecast period, an expected average EBITDA margin of 25% (2015: 18%) for the first 5 years and 34% (2015: 25%) for the The cash flow projections for the first 5 years are derived from remainder of the forecast period (due to better coverage of R&D DSM’s business plan (Corporate Strategy Dialogue) as adopted spend). The terminal value growth rate was set at 1% (2015: 1%). by the Managing Board. For the subsequent 5 years a gradual A sensitivity test shows that an increase in the pre-tax weighted declining growth is applied for mature businesses to come to a average cost of capital of 152.5 basis points in combination with terminal value after 10 years. The terminal value growth rate is the same decrease in the EBITDA margin over the full forecast determined with the assumption of limited inflationary growth of period would result in no headroom. 1% (2015: 1%). For emerging businesses an explicit forecast period of 10 years is used with the same assumption for growth The market capitalization of DSM at 31 December 2016 in the terminal value. The key assumptions in the cash flow amounted to € 10,334 million (31 December 2015: € 8,396 projections relate to the market growth for the CGUs and the million) and was clearly above the carrying amount of net assets, related revenue projections, EBITDA developments, and the providing an additional indication that goodwill was not impaired. rates used for discounting cash flows. Other intangible assets 2016 2015 Cost Amortization Carrying Of which Of which amount acquisitionacquisitionrelated related Application software 170 (113) 57 11 12 Marketing-related 69 (15) 54 54 60 Customer-related 522 (185) 337 275 296 Technology-based 680 (457) 223 188 184 Drawing rights 245 (25) 220 Other 62 (32) 30 12 15 Total 1,748 (827) 921 540 567 Total 2015 1,880 (816) 1,064 567 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 159 www.dsm.com 9 Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant and Other Under Not used for Total buildings machinery equipconstrucoperating ment tion activities Balance at 1 January 2015 Cost 2,155 5,097 234 669 20 8,175 Depreciation and impairment losses 925 3,293 160 110 14 4,502 Carrying amount 1,230 1,804 74 559 6 3,673 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 3 31 3 448 485 Put into operation 69 238 15 (322) Acquisitions 32 28 4 1 65 Disposals (108) (418) (10) (157) 2 (691) Depreciation (74) (238) (20) (2) (334) Impairment losses (12) (185) (2) (199) Impairment reversals 1 1 Exchange differences 53 112 1 17 183 Reclassification to/from held for sale (5) (2) (7) Other reclassifications (3) (3) 1 (5) (44) (437) (8) (13) (502) Balance at 31 December 2015 Cost 2,013 3,825 206 547 15 6,606 Depreciation and impairment losses 827 2,458 140 1 9 3,435 Carrying amount 1,186 1,367 66 546 6 3,171 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 2 26 4 390 422 Put into operation 110 315 14 (439) Acquisitions 10 1 11 Disposals (2) (2) Depreciation (73) (226) (18) (317) Impairment losses (15) (15) Impairment reversals 2 2 Exchange differences 28 11 2 13 54 Other reclassification (2) (3) 1 (4) Other changes (2) 6 (1) 3 73 120 (39) 154 Balance at 31 December 2016 Cost 2,138 4,176 220 508 15 7,057 Depreciation and impairment losses 879 2,689 154 1 9 3,732 Carrying amount 1,259 1,487 66 507 6 3,325 There were no material finance lease agreements in 2016 (as was the case in 2015). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 160 www.dsm.com In 2016, impairment losses of € 15 million were recognized on Property, plant and equipment (PPE). This mainly related to the impairment of PPE at DSM Engineering Plastics in the US (€ 10 million). In 2015, impairment losses on PPE of € 198 million were recognized. This included an impairment of € 130 million relating to the disposal of Bulk Chemicals (see Note 3 'Change in the scope of consolidation'). Furthermore this included a € 19 million impairment of a DSM Dyneema tape production line in the US, primarily used for vehicle protection. At DSM Resins & Functional Materials an impairment of € 15 million was taken relating to the factory in Stanley (North Carolina, USA) and € 10 million to PPE of DSM-AGI (see also Note 2 'Alternative performance measures'). 10 Associates and joint ventures The interests in POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels and DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals are classified as joint ventures in accordance with IFRS 11 and accounted for using the equity method. DSM had a 49% interest and significant influence in Patheon as of the formation of this company early in 2014; this decreased to 33.5% at the end of July 2016, following a successful IPO and secondary offering. DSM has had a 35% interest and significant influence in ChemicaInvest since the formation of this partnership in July 2015. DSM accounts for these interests using the equity method. Relations with these joint ventures and associates and their strategic importance are discussed in more detail in sections 'Innovation Center' and 'Partnerships' in the Report by the Managing Board. No entities meeting the IFRS 11 definition of joint operations were identified. DSM's share in its most important associates and joint ventures is disclosed below: Company DSM interest 2016 2015 DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals, Ltd. (Hong Kong, China) joint control 50% 50% POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels LLC (Sioux Falls, South Dakota, USA) joint control 50% 50% Patheon N.V. (Amsterdam, Netherlands) significant influence 33.5% 48.9% ChemicaInvest Holding B.V. (Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands) significant influence 35% 35% The following tables provide an overview of DSM's investments in associates and joint ventures, the bridge between ‘Profit for the year’ of the associates as shown in this Note, and the lines ‘Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures’ and ‘Other results related to associates and joint ventures’ in the Consolidated income statement. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 161 www.dsm.com Associates and joint ventures 2016 2015 Patheon DSP ChemicaPOET-DSM Other1 Total Group Invest Balance at 1 January 351 142 162 166 51 872 762 Changes: Share in results (15) 6 (9) (24) (5) (47) 23 Capital payments 5 16 12 33 51 Dividend / capital repayments (150) (2) (152) (175) New loans 27 4 31 166 Disposals 128 128 (27) Consolidation changes (10)2 (10) 18 Transfers (28) 1 (8) (35) (6) Exchange differences 12 (3) 2 7 2 20 45 Other 4 (3) (2) (1) 15 Total changes (49) 26 (1) (9) (33) 110 Balance at 31 December 302 142 188 165 42 839 872 Of which carrying amount of the investment 302 130 117 37 586 644 Of which loans granted 12 188 48 5 253 228 1 Among others Actamax, Africa Improved Foods and Limburg Ventures are included in Other 2 Relates to Japan Fine Coatings Profit of associates and joint ventures 2016 2015 Patheon DSP ChemicaPOET-DSM Other Total Group Invest Profit for the year (100%) (43) 14 (83) (48) Non-controlling interest 18 (1) Net profit shareholders (100%) (25) 13 (83) (48) DSM's %-share in capital 33.5%1 50% 35% 50% Share in result based upon %-share (15) 6 (29) (24) (5) (67) 23 Share in losses in excess of investment 20 20 Share in result of associates and joint ventures (15) 6 (9) (24) (5) (47) 23 Tax 8 1 9 7 Share in result associates and JVs (15) 6 (9) (16) (4) (38) 30 Book profit IPO/secondary offering Patheon 232 232 Total result related to associates and JVs 217 6 (9) (16) (4) 194 30 1 DSM's share decreased from 49% to 33.5% during 2016 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 162 www.dsm.com Loans include a € 58 million shareholder loan with an annual fixed interest rate of 9.875% and € 130 million bridge loans with an annually rising interest rate from 7 to 10%, both with an expected 4-year maturity, granted to ChemicaInvest; a loan of € 12 million to DSP maturing in 2018; a USD 50 million loan to POET-DSM with a 5% interest rate repayable in 2018 and secured for 50% by a guarantee from the joint venture partner POET LLC. Patheon is included from 1 November 2014 until the end of fiscal year 2015 (31 October) for 2015 and from 1 November 2015 until 31 October 2016 for 2016. Transfers at Patheon of € 28 million relates to an earn-out contract, which has been recognized within Other non-current receivables (see Note 11). ChemicaInvest is included from 31 July 2015. The net result in 2016 is significantly impacted by the wind-down of Fibrant caprolactam operations in the US, leading to a loss of € 83 million and an equity value of -€ 74 million. DSM decreased its carrying amount in this associate to zero and will not recognize any further losses on its investment in the associate, as DSM has no obligation to fund beyond its net interest in ChemicaInvest. The POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels joint venture has a commercial-scale production facility for cellulosic bio-ethanol in Emmetsburg (Iowa, USA). It processes corn-crop residues through a bioconversion process using enzymatic hydrolysis followed by fermentation. Work in 2016 focused on bringing the plant to continuous production and toward full capacity and progress was made during the year on addressing the pretreatment issues. At year-end, the total assets of POET-DSM amounted to € 293 million (2015: € 292 million) on a 100% basis. DSM tested the POET-DSM investment for impairment based on cash flow projections of the ten-year plan. The key assumptions used in the projection are that revenue and margin assume that the start-up delays of the POET-DSM factory will be resolved and that the factory realizes full capacity in 2019 in order to produce the projected volumes against the projected costs. The projected production volumes and related variable costs include further efficiency improvements. Furthermore, the expected market price for bio-ethanol is based on current grain ethanol pricing as well as the continuation of the US Renewable Fuel Standard subsidy program for bioethanol after 2022. The terminal value growth rate was set at 1.5% (2015: 1.5%). A sensitivity test for the development of the market price for bio-ethanol – as well as the pre-tax weighted average cost of capital – demonstrates that a decrease of more than 10% in the market price of bio-ethanol or an increase of more than 100 basis points on the pre-tax weighted average costs of capital will result in an impairment. The table on the next page gives an overview of associates and joint ventures (on a 100% basis). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 163 www.dsm.com Associates and joint ventures on a 100% basis Patheon N.V. DSP ChemicaInvest2 Other Total 2016 20151 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Assets Intangible assets 1,379 1,351 26 22 107 9 8 11 1,520 1,393 Property, plant and equipment 988 863 219 234 270 545 366 349 1,843 1,991 Other non-current assets 391 473 28 30 137 166 24 4 580 673 Inventories 378 340 82 81 112 171 23 14 595 606 Receivables 413 348 142 142 366 376 16 25 937 891 Cash and cash equivalents 158 567 92 102 158 107 96 33 504 809 Other current assets 7 10 17 Total assets 3,707 3,942 589 611 1,150 1,381 533 446 5,979 6,380 Liabilities Provisions (non-current) 125 1 1 68 1 8 202 2 Borrowings (non-current) 2,009 2,422 15 46 561 534 93 80 2,678 3,082 Other non-current liabilities 237 339 9 10 127 295 2 6 375 650 Provisions (current) 7 23 87 3 94 26 Borrowings and financial derivatives 21 26 144 127 78 82 14 21 257 256 (current) Other current liabilities 523 513 154 165 303 366 47 27 1,027 1,071 Total liabilities 2,922 3,323 323 349 1,224 1,281 164 134 4,633 5,087 Net assets (100% basis) 785 619 266 262 (74) 100 369 312 1,346 1,293 Of which non-controlling interest 62 (5) 4 3 94 (2) 160 Net assets excluding goodwill 785 619 266 262 (74) 100 369 312 1,346 1,293 Contingent liabilities 25 20 5 5 54 45 84 70 Summarized statement of profit or loss Revenue (net sales)3 1,786 1,621 431 418 1,802 756 45 214 4,064 3,009 Operating profit (EBIT) 125 173 34 28 (37) (32) (72) (42) 50 127 Financial income 1 1 1 2 1 Financial expense (159) (123) (12) (7) (52) (22) (7) (3) (230) (155) Share of the profit of associates (3) (2) 6 4 1 4 2 Profit before income tax expense (37) 48 23 22 (82) (50) (78) (45) (174) (25) Income tax expense 27 (8) (9) (6) (1) 10 (24) (4) (7) (8) Profit for the year (continuing operations) (10) 40 14 16 (83) (40) (102) (49) (181) (33) Post-tax result discontinued operations (3) 93 5 2 93 Profit for the year (total) (13) 133 14 16 (83) (40) (97) (49) (179) 60 Other comprehensive income 2 2 Total comprehensive income (13) 135 14 16 (83) (40) (97) (49) (179) 62 of which non-controlling interest 20 (1) (18) (19) 20 Adjusted EBITDA 364 366 62 57 105 (3) (49) (31) 482 389 EBITDA 290 348 62 57 23 (3) (49) (31) 326 371 Depreciation, amortization and (165) (175) (28) (29) (60) (29) (23) (11) (276) (244) impairment 1 Including Banner Life Sciences 2 ChemicaInvest updated the initial recognition of assets and liabilities acquired on the basis of a purchase price allocation in 2016 3 Excluding sales to DSM by DSP of € 8 million (2015: € 10 million) and ChemicaInvest of € 328 million (2015: € 123 million) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 164 www.dsm.com Following an IPO at Patheon N.V. and a secondary offering of 4,761,905 ordinary shares, DSM's share in Patheon decreased from 48.8% to 33.5%. As a consequence, DSM realized a profit of € 232 million. The cash flow impact of this transaction for DSM is € 219 million and consists of the proceeds of the secondary offering of € 85 million and a dividend relating to the IPO of € 134 million, both included under Cash flow from investing activities in the Cash flow statement. IPO/Secondary offering Patheon Share DSM Value DSM Result DSM Book value pre-IPO 48.8% 128 Dilution DSM's share due to the IPO (12.0%) 159 159 Book value after IPO 36.8% 287 Net proceeds secondary offering 85 Shares/book value divested in secondary offering (3.3%) (26) (26) Related costs (5) (5) Book value after secondary offering 33.5% 256 Proportionate release of translation reserve 19 Total result of IPO/secondary offering Patheon 232 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 165 www.dsm.com 11 Other financial assets Loans Other Other Other Total associates and participations receivables deferred joint ventures items Balance at 1 January 2015 145 44 45 41 275 Changes: Charged to the income statement (8) 16 8 Capital payments 2 2 Disposals 56 56 Loans granted 166 2 168 Repayments (32) (2) (34) Consolidation changes 4 4 Exchange differences 11 1 (3) 2 11 Transfers (22) (1) (23) Changes in fair value 5 5 Other (40) 3 (16) (53) Balance at 31 December 2015 228 51 113 27 419 Changes: Charged to the income statement (9) 3 (6) (12) Capital payments 3 3 Disposals (3) 2 (1) Loans granted 31 31 Repayments (4) 2 (2) Consolidation changes Exchange differences 3 5 1 9 Transfers (8) 33 (2) 23 Changes in fair value 7 7 Other (1) 1 (16) 2 (14) Balance at 31 December 2016 253 50 136 24 463 For Loans associates and joint ventures, see Note 10 'Associates and joint ventures'. Other participations relate to equity instruments in companies whose activities support DSM’s business and which can be quoted or unquoted. An amount of € 26 million included in Other participations relates to equity instruments, with a fair value that cannot be measured reliably (2015: € 32 million). These instruments are therefore measured at cost. Disposals in 2015 of € 56 million relate mainly to the deconsolidation of the bulk chemicals business and the related earn-out receivable. Transfers include the earn-out of Patheon of € 28 million (see Note 10 'Associates and joint ventures'). Other includes € 16 million decrease due to divestment settlements (see Note 3 'Changes in the scope of the consolidation' at disposals). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 166 www.dsm.com 12 Inventories 13 Current receivables 2016 2015 2016 2015 Raw materials and consumables 504 448 Trade receivables Intermediates and finished goods 1,359 1,227 Trade accounts receivable 1,490 1,312 Deferred items 24 30 1,863 1,675 Receivables from associates 15 24 Adjustments to lower net 1,529 1,366 realizable value (63) (48) Adjustment for bad debts (25) (17) Total 1,800 1,627 Total Trade receivables 1,504 1,349 Income tax receivable 62 71 The carrying amount of inventories adjusted to net realizable value (before reclassification to held for sale) was € 240 million Other current receivables (2015: € 172 million). Other taxes and social security contributions 31 22 At the end of 2016 there were no inventories reclassified to held Loans 25 32 for sale (2015: € 2 million). Receivables from joint venture partners 3 9 Changes in the adjustment to net realizable value Interest 1 Receivables associates and joint ventures relating to cash facility 17 36 2016 2015 Other receivables 9 32 Deferred items 2 4 Balance at 1 January (48) (56) Total Other current receivables 87 136 Additions charged to income statement (101) (71) Utilization / reversals 86 73 Deferred items comprised € 26 million (2015: € 34 million) in Exchange differences (3) prepaid expenses that will impact profit or loss in future periods. Reclassification to held for sale Disposals 9 With respect to trade accounts receivable that are neither Balance at 31 December (63) (48) impaired nor past due, there are no indications that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations. An aging overview of trade receivables related to commercial transactions amounting to € 1,343 million (2015: € 1,177 million) is provided below. The remaining balance reported as trade receivables amounting to € 146 million (2015: € 135 million) is excluded from this analysis because it principally concerns reclaimable VAT and accruals that are not related to the payment behavior of customers. Aging overview Trade receivables in % 2016 2015 Neither past due nor impaired 82 87 1-29 days overdue 12 9 30-89 days overdue 3 2 90 days or more overdue 3 2 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 167 www.dsm.com The changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable 15 Cash and cash equivalents are as follows: 2016 2015 2016 2015 Deposits 33 27 Balance at 1 January (17) (18) Cash at bank and in hand 556 615 Payments in transit 10 19 Additions charged to income Bills of exchange 5 4 statement (12) (10) Deductions 5 6 Total 604 665 Disposals 5 Exchange differences (1) Balance at 31 December (25) (17) Cash at year-end 2016 was used as collateral and therefore restricted for an amount of € 1 million (2015: zero). In a few countries DSM faces cross-border foreign exchange controls 14 Current investments and/or other legal restrictions that limit its ability to make these balances available on short notice for general use by the group. The amount of cash held in these countries was € 109 million 2016 2015 (2015: € 109 million). The cash will generally be invested or held in the relevant country and, given the other capital resources Fixed term deposits 944 9 available to the group, does not significantly affect the ability of the group to meet its cash obligations. Total 944 9 Cash held by DSM includes cash from certain associates and joint ventures that continue to participate in the cash-pooling All fixed term deposits have been placed with institutions with a arrangements of DSM. At the end of 2016, the amount had high credit rating in line with the policy as outlined in Note 23 decreased by € 75 million to € 62 million. This applies, among 'Financial instruments and risks'. The deposits earn interest others, to the former DSM-entities DSM Fibre Intermediates and relative to the fixed term. DSM Composite Resins as well as DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals. See also Note 21 'Current liabilities'. The increase is mainly due to the launch of a € 750 million bond in September 2016 to lock in low interest rates taking into account the maturing of a € 750 million bond in 2017. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 168 www.dsm.com 16 Equity 2016 2015 Balance at 1 January 5,631 5,936 Net profit 629 92 Net exchange differences 197 30 Net actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit obligations (9) (54) Dividend (301) (310) Proceeds from reissue of ordinary shares 253 176 Repurchase of shares (273) (122) Disposals (126) Other changes 53 9 Balance at 31 December 6,180 5,631 Disposals in 2015 relates to the derecognition of the non-controlling interest in the bulk chemicals activities, see Note 17 ‘Noncontrolling interests’. After the balance sheet date, the following dividends were declared by the Managing Board: Dividend 2016 2015 Per cumulative preference share A: € 0.09 (2015: € 0.23) 4 10 Per ordinary share: € 1.75 (2015: € 1.65) 306 288 Total 310 298 The proposed final dividend on ordinary shares is subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and has not been deducted from Equity. For a description of the rules of profit appropriation and of the statutory rights attached to preference shares B, see page 197. Share capital On 31 December 2016, the authorized capital amounted to € 1,125 million (2015: € 1,125 million), distributed over 330,960,000 ordinary shares, 44,040,000 cumulative preference shares A and 375,000,000 cumulative preference shares B. All shares have a nominal value of € 1.50 each. The changes in the number of issued and outstanding shares in 2015 and 2016 are shown in the following table. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 169 www.dsm.com Overview of shares Issued shares Treasury shares Ordinary Cumprefs A Ordinary Balance at 1 January 2015 181,425,000 44,040,000 7,888,185 Reissue of shares in connection with share-based payments (1,056,880) Repurchase of shares 2,300,000 Dividend in the form of ordinary shares (2,629,332) Balance at 31 December 2015 181,425,000 44,040,000 6,501,973 Number of treasury shares at 31 December 2015 (6,501,973) Number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2015 174,923,027 44,040,000 Balance at 1 January 2016 181,425,000 44,040,000 6,501,973 Reissue of shares in connection with share-based payments (3,243,102) Repurchase of shares 5,200,000 Dividend in the form of ordinary shares (2,035,537) Balance at 31 December 2016 181,425,000 44,040,000 6,423,334 Number of treasury shares at 31 December 2016 (6,423,334) Number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2016 175,001,666 44,040,000 The average number of ordinary shares outstanding in 2016 was 175,099,827 (2015: 174,357,139). All shares issued are fully paid. The cumulative preference shares A have been classified as equity because there is no mandatory redemption and distributions to the shareholders are at the discretion of DSM. On 31 December 2016, no cumulative preference shares B were outstanding. Share premium Of the total share premium of € 489 million (2015: € 489 million), an amount of € 104 million (2015: € 106 million) can be regarded as entirely free of tax. Treasury shares On 31 December 2016, DSM possessed 6,423,334 ordinary shares (nominal value € 10 million, 2.85% of the share capital). The average purchase price of the ordinary treasury shares was € 52.77. As at 31 December 2016, 6,044,486 of the total number of treasury shares outstanding were held for servicing management and personnel share-option rights. The remainder, 378,848 shares, is the balance of shares that were purchased under the company's share buy-back program in 2007, 2008 and 2016 and shares that were reissued as stock dividend in the years 2011 through 2016. On 31 December 2015, DSM possessed 6,501,973 ordinary shares (nominal value € 10 million, 2.9% of the share capital). The average purchase price of the ordinary treasury shares was € 49.05. As at 31 December 2015, 5,087,588 of the total number of treasury shares outstanding were held for servicing management and personnel share-option rights. The remainder, 1,414,385 shares, is the balance of shares that were purchased under the company's share buy-back program in 2007 and 2008 and shares that were reissued as stock dividend in the years 2011 through 2015. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 170 www.dsm.com Other reserves in Shareholders' equity Reserve for Translation share-based Fair value reserve Hedging reserve compensation reserve Total Balance at 1 January 2015 298 (170) 49 (11) 166 Changes: Fair-value changes of derivatives (51) (51) Release to income statement (59) 51 (8) Release to retained earnings (7) (7) Reclassification to deferred items (4) (4) Fair-value changes of other financial assets 8 8 Exchange differences 57 57 Options and performance shares granted 29 29 Options and performance shares exercised/cancelled (15) (15) Income tax 25 (29) (4) Total changes 16 (33) 14 8 5 Balance at 31 December 2015 314 (203) 63 (3) 171 Changes: Fair-value changes of derivatives (52) (52) Release to income statement (19) 52 33 Release to deferred items (4) (4) Fair-value changes of other financial assets 7 7 Exchange differences 216 216 Options and performance shares granted 32 32 Options and performance shares exercised/cancelled (30) (30) Reclassification1 18 (2) 4 20 Income tax 1 2 3 Total changes 216 (4) 2 11 225 Balance at 31 December 2016 530 (207) 65 8 396 1 Reclassification to retained earnings The increase in the Translation reserve in 2016 is mainly caused by strengthening of the US dollar and the Brazilian real compared to the euro. As a consequence the value of the subsidiaries in those countries increased, which led to a positive exchange difference of € 216 million. This is offset by the € 19 million release of the cumulative translation reserve at Patheon to the income statement following the IPO and secondary offering. The increase in the Translation reserve in 2015 is mainly caused by strengthening of the US dollar, Chinese renminbi and Swiss franc compared to the euro, which led to a positive exchange difference impact of € 57 million. This is offset by the € 59 million release of the cumulative translation reserve at the Bulk Chemical entities to the income statement upon their disposal. The Translation reserve, Hedging reserve and the Fair value reserve are legal reserves in accordance with Dutch law and cannot be distributed to shareholders. Additional information is provided in Note 7 to the 'Parent company financial statements'. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 171 www.dsm.com 17 Non-controlling interests 2016 2015 Andre Pectin Other Total Total % of non-controlling interest 71% Balance at 1 January 56 34 90 213 Changes: Share of profit/charged to income statement 9 (1) 8 4 Acquisitions 6 6 Capital payments 9 9 1 Dividend paid (5) (5) (13) Disposals (126) Consolidation changes (2) Exchange differences (1) 1 14 Other (1) Total changes 8 10 18 (123) Balance at 31 December 64 44 108 90 Not fully-owned subsidiaries on a 100% basis Andre Pectin Other 2016 2015 2016 20151 Assets Intangible assets 26 29 38 32 Property, plant and equipment 28 31 197 176 Other non-current assets 27 20 Inventories 29 21 25 17 Receivables 23 27 56 34 Cash and cash equivalents 3 4 32 27 Total assets 109 112 375 306 Liabilities Provisions (non-current) 4 4 3 3 Borrowings (non-current) 23 23 Other non-current liabilities 26 28 Borrowings and financial derivatives (current) 3 12 85 75 Other current liabilities 12 17 80 46 Total liabilities 19 33 217 175 Net assets (100% basis) 90 79 158 131 Net sales 55 45 202 700 Profit for the year 13 3 (6) (18) Total comprehensive income (1) 3 1 (18) Operating cash flows 15 3 18 15 Dividend paid to non-controlling interests 5 13 1 Including DNCC Nanjing (CN); due to the disposal of the bulk chemicals activities only up to and including July 2015 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 172 www.dsm.com 18 Provisions Restructuring Environmental Other longOther Total costs and costs term employee provisions termination benefits benefits Balance at 1 January 2015 43 28 47 29 147 Of which current 24 2 4 12 42 Changes in 2015: Additions 51 3 5 23 82 Releases (7) (19) (26) Uses (48) (4) (2) (7) (61) Acquisitions 4 4 Disposals (4) (1) (9) (1) (15) Exchange differences 4 1 (2) 3 Other reclassifications (1) 6 5 Total changes (4) (1) (3) (8) Balance at 31 December 2015 39 27 44 29 139 Of which current 28 2 3 8 41 Changes in 2016: Additions 59 28 1 13 101 Releases (3) (2) (5) Uses (34) (4) (1) (15) (54) Exchange differences 1 1 Total changes 23 22 (2) 43 Balance at 31 December 2016 62 49 44 27 182 Of which current 35 7 3 9 54 In cases where the effect of the time value of money is material, The addition to the provision for environmental costs relates provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures mainly to discontinued businesses in the US and the expected to be required to settle the obligation. The discount Netherlands, next to the existing soil remediation plans. rate used decreased from 2.0% to 1.7%. The balance of provisions measured at present value increased by The provisions for other long-term employee benefits mainly € 0.7 million in 2016 in view of the passage of time (2015: relate to length-of-service and end-of-service payments. The increase of € 0.4 million). average life of this provision is estimated to be between 10 and 12 years. The provisions for restructuring costs and termination benefits mainly relate to the costs of redundancy schemes connected to Several items have been combined under Other provisions, for the dismissal and transfer of employees and costs of termination example onerous contracts and legal risks. These provisions of contracts. These provisions have an average life of 1 to 3 have an average life of 1 to 3 years. years. The additions to the provisions for restructuring costs and The provisions for environmental costs relate to soil clean-up termination benefits in 2016 mainly relate to the various obligations, among other things. These provisions have an restructuring projects (same as in 2015), in particular for the average life of around 10 years. Support functions (€ 36 million) and the Engineering Plastics business (€ 14 million). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 173 www.dsm.com 19 Borrowings A breakdown of the borrowings by currency is given in the 2016 2015 following table: Total Of which Total Of which current current Borrowings by currency Debenture loans 3,290 749 2,541 2016 2015 Private loans 44 37 38 22 Finance lease EUR 3,291 2,693 liabilities 4 USD 38 37 Credit institutions / CNY 5 20 commercial paper 67 67 231 231 TWD 50 47 Other 21 13 Total 3,405 853 2,810 253 Total 3,405 2,810 In agreements governing loans with a residual amount at yearend 2016 of € 3,290 million, of which € 749 million is of a shortOn balance, total borrowings increased by € 595 million owing term nature (31 December 2015: € 2,541 million, none of which to the following changes: of a short-term nature), negative pledge clauses have been included that restrict the provision of security. Movements of borrowings The documentation of the € 750 million bond issued in October 2016 2015 2007, the € 300 million bond issued in November 2013, the € 500 million bond issued in March 2014, the € 500 million bond Balance at 1 January 2,810 2,780 issued in April 2015, the € 500 million bond issued in September 2015 and the € 750 million bond issued in September 2016 Loans taken up 754 1,008 include a change-of-control clause. This clause allows the bond Repayments (4) (653) investors to request repayment at par if 50% or more of the DSM Acquisitions/disposals 8 (121) shares are controlled by a third party and if the company is Changes in debt to credit downgraded below investment grade (< BBB-). In December institutions/commercial paper (161) (232) 2016, Moody's left the negative outlook for their A3 credit rating Exchange differences (2) 28 for DSM unchanged. Standard & Poor's confirmed DSM's credit rating in March 2016 to be Awith a stable outlook. Balance at 31 December 3,405 2,810 At 31 December 2016, there was € 2,245 million in borrowings outstanding with a remaining term of more than five years (at The average effective interest rate on the portfolio of borrowings 31 December 2015, there was € 1,493 million with a remaining outstanding in 2016, including hedge instruments related to term of more than five years). these borrowings, amounted to 3.40% (2015: 3.63%). The schedule of repayment of borrowings is as follows: A breakdown of debenture loans is given below: Borrowings by maturity 2016 2015 2016 253 2017 853 760 2018 6 4 2019 300 300 2020 and 2021 1 After 2021 2,245 1,493 Total 3,405 2,810 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 174 www.dsm.com Debenture loans Private loans Nom. 2016 2015 amt. 2016 2015 TWD loan floating 2013-2018 34 31 EUR loan 5.25% 2007-2017 750 749 748 (1 month) EUR loan 1.75% 2013-2019 300 300 300 Other loans 10 7 EUR loan 2.38% 2014-2024 500 498 497 EUR loan 1.00% 2015-2025 500 497 497 Total 44 38 EUR loan 1.38% 2015-2022 500 499 499 EUR loan 0.75% 2016-2026 750 747 DSM’s policy regarding financial-risk management is described Total 3,300 3,290 2,541 in Note 23. 20 Other non-current liabilities All debenture loans have a fixed interest rate. At the end of 2016, an amount of € 300 million (year-end 2015: 2016 2015 € 300 million) of the 5.25% EUR loan 2007-2017 was swapped into CHF to hedge the currency risk of net investments in CHFInvestment grants 41 40 denominated subsidiaries. In 2006 and 2007, the loan had been Deferred items 20 11 partly pre-hedged (cash flow hedge) by means of forward Drawing rights 68 160 starting swaps, leading to a lower effective fixed interest rate of Other non-current liabilities 29 17 4.89% for the full loan. Total 158 228 The 1.75% EUR bond 2013-2019 of € 300 million has an effective interest rate of 1.76%. The 2.375% EUR bond 2014-2024 of € 500 million was pre-hedged by means of The decrease in the non-current liabilities relates to the drawing forward starting swaps, resulting in an effective interest rate for rights agreements with ChemicaInvest for caprolactam supply this bond at 3.97% including settlement of pre-hedge. The for a period of 15 years. See Note 8 'Intangible assets' for further 1.375% EUR bond 2015-2022 of € 500 million has an effective details on this change. interest rate of 1.40%. The 1% EUR bond 2015-2025 of € 500 million was pre-hedged by means of forward starting swaps, resulting in an effective interest rate for this bond at 3.65% including settlement of prehedge. In September 2016, a new 0.75% EUR bond of € 750 million was issued for a tenor of 10 years. In August 2015, pre-hedge contracts were concluded for an intended refinancing in 2017 of the 5.25% EUR loan 2007-2017 by means of a collar on 10-year interest with a floor of 1% and capped at 1.97%, both excluding DSM spread. At the issue of the new bond this pre-hedge was settled. The effective interest rate of the new bond amounts 1.08% including settlement of pre-hedge. The time value at moment of settlement of the collar amounted € 4 million negative (year-end 2015: € 1 million negative), resulting in a charge for 2016 of € 3 million reported in Financial income and expense. A breakdown of private loans is given below: Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 175 www.dsm.com 21 Current liabilities The commitments for operating leases and rents are spread as follows: 2016 2015 Operating leases and rents Trade payables 2016 2015 Received in advance 6 4 Trade accounts payable 1,276 1,114 2016 43 Notes and cheques due 5 6 2017 31 5 Owing to associates and joint 2018 4 4 ventures 89 44 2019 4 3 2020 4 3 Total Trade payables 1,376 1,168 2021 4 3 After 2021 36 32 Income tax payable 56 32 Total 83 93 Other current liabilities Other taxes and social security contributions 51 44 Litigation Interest 26 25 DSM has a process in place to monitor legal claims periodically Pensions 4 6 and systematically. Investment creditors 100 103 Employee-related liabilities 278 256 DSM is involved in several legal proceedings, most of which are Payables associates and joint related to the ordinary course of business. DSM does not expect ventures relating to cash facility 62 137 these proceedings to result in liabilities that have a material effect Other liabilities 18 69 on the company's financial position. In cases where it is probable Deferred items 1 2 that the outcome of the proceedings will be unfavorable, and the financial outcome can be measured reliably, a provision has Total Other current liabilities 540 642 been recognized in the financial statements and disclosed in Note 18 'Provisions'. 22 Contingent liabilities and other financial obligations In 2015 an award was issued against DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals India Private Ltd. (DSP India) in a protracted The contingent liabilities and other financial obligations in the arbitration case in India going back to 2004 involving a joint following table are not recognized in the balance sheet. venture that DSP India had formed with Hindustan Antibiotics Ltd., which suspended its operations in 2003. DSP India is covered by an indemnity from Koninklijke DSM N.V. for this case. 2016 2015 In 2015 DSP India has made an application with the Civil Court in Pune (India) to set aside the arbitral award. The award Operating leases and rents 83 93 amounts to approximately € 18 million (excluding interest of 12% Guarantee obligations on behalf of per annum). At the end of 2016, the application proceedings associates and third parties 117 142 were still pending. DSM has always viewed this case as Outstanding orders for projects unfounded and is of the opinion that the likelihood of the award under construction 31 21 being ultimately set aside is high. Therefore no liability is Other 4 4 recognized in respect of this case. Total 235 260 23 Financial instruments and risks Policies on financial risks Guarantee obligations are principally related to VAT and duties General on the one hand and to financing obligations of associates on The main financial risks faced by DSM relate to liquidity risk, the other. Most of the outstanding orders for projects under market risk (comprising interest rate risk, currency risk and price construction will be completed in 2017. Property, plant and risk) and credit risk. DSM’s financial policy is aimed at minimizing equipment under operating leases primarily concerns catalysts, the effects of fluctuations in currency-exchange and interest buildings and various equipment items. rates on its results in the short term and following market rates in the long term. DSM uses financial derivatives to manage Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 176 www.dsm.com financial risks relating to business operations and does not enter the commercial paper program to a total of not more than into speculative derivative positions. DSM does not hold financial € 1,000 million (2015: € 1,000 million). The agreements for the instruments with embedded derivatives. DSM's financial policy, committed credit facilities have neither financial covenants nor including policies and processes for managing capital, is material adverse changes clauses. At year-end 2016, no loans discussed more extensively in Financial and reporting policy of had been taken up under the committed credit facilities. DSM the Report by the Managing Board. has no derivative contracts to manage currency risk or interest rate risk outstanding under which margin calls by the Liquidity risk counterparty would be permitted. Liquidity risk is the financial risk due to uncertain development of liquidity. An institution may not get access to sufficient liquidity if Floating-rate and fixed-rate borrowings and monetary liabilities its credit rating falls, when it experiences sudden unexpected analyzed by maturity are summarized in the following table. cash outflows or an unexpected drop in cash inflows, or some Borrowings excluding credit institutions are shown after taking other event causes counterparties to avoid trading with or into account related interest rate derivatives in designated lending to the institution. A company is also exposed to liquidity hedging relationships. DSM manages financial liabilities and risk if markets on which it depends are subject to loss of liquidity. related derivative contracts on the basis of the remaining contractual maturities of these instruments. The remaining DSM has two committed credit facilities: one facility of € 500 maturities presented in the following table provide an overview million issued in 2011 and maturing in September 2018 and one of the timing of the cash flows related to these instruments. facility issued in 2013 of € 500 million and maturing in March Financial assets are not linked to financial liabilities in order to 2020. Together, the facilities amount to a total of meet cash outflows on these liabilities. € 1,000 million (2015: € 1,000 million). Furthermore, DSM has a commercial paper program amounting to € 1,500 million (2015: € 1,500 million). The company will use Borrowings and monetary liabilities by maturity Fixed-rate FloatingMonetary Guarantees Subtotal Interest Cash at1 Total cash borrowings rate liabilities payments redemption out 2015 borrowings 2015 Within 1 year 1 21 2,073 2,095 69 19 2,183 Within 1 to 2 years 751 7 8 766 68 13 847 Within 2 to 3 years 1 3 8 12 29 10 51 Within 3 to 4 years 300 7 307 29 10 346 Within 4 to 5 years 2 25 27 24 9 60 After 5 years 1,493 112 142 1,747 872 59 1,893 Total 2,548 31 2,233 142 4,954 306 120 5,380 2016 Within 1 year 756 30 2,039 2,825 74 6 2,905 Within 1 to 2 years 6 3 9 35 5 49 Within 2 to 3 years 300 4 304 35 4 343 Within 3 to 4 years 14 14 29 4 47 Within 4 to 5 years 1 2 3 29 3 35 After 5 years 2,245 45 117 2,407 912 25 2,523 Total 3,302 36 2,107 117 5,562 293 47 5,902 1 Difference between nominal redemption and amortized costs 2 Cumulative interest payment in remaining years Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 177 www.dsm.com The exposure of the financial derivatives to liquidity risk is as follows. The amounts are gross and undiscounted. Financial derivatives cash flow 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Total 2015 Inflow 1,382 1,058 42 55 42 2,579 Outflow (1,418) (1,177) (49) (62) (43) (2,749) 2016 Inflow 2,143 42 58 42 12 2,297 Outflow (2,337) (43) (66) (45) (12) (2,503) Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that adverse movements of interest rates lead to high costs on interest-bearing debt, which negatively impact the company's capability to honor its commitments. DSM’s interest rate risk policy is aimed at minimizing the interest rate risks associated with the financing of the company and thus at the same time optimizing the net interest costs. This policy translates into a certain desired profile of fixed-interest and floatinginterest positions, including cash and cash equivalents, with the floating-interest position not exceeding 60% of net debt. As at 31 December 2016, DSM had no outstanding fixed-floating interest rate swaps (end of 2015 only pre-hedges for refinancing in 2017). The zero-cost collar as pre-hedge for the interest rate of a € 750 million bond to be issued in 2017 was settled at the early refinance in September 2016, making use of the positive market conditions. See Note 19 'Borrowings'. The following analysis of the sensitivity of borrowings and related financial derivatives to interest rate movements assumes an instantaneous 1% change in interest rates for all currencies and maturities from their level on 31 December 2016, with all other variables held constant. A 1% reduction in interest rates would result in a € 5 million pre-tax loss in the income statement on the basis of the composition of financial instruments on 31 December 2016, as floating-rate borrowings are more than compensated for by floating-rate assets (mainly cash). The opposite applies in the case of a 1% increase in interest rates. The sensitivity of the fair value of financial instruments on 31 December 2016 to changes in interest rates is set out in the following table: Sensitivity of fair value to change in interest rate 2016 2015 Carrying Fair value Sensitivity of fair value Carrying Fair value Sensitivity of fair value amount to change in interest of: amount to change in interest of: +1% (1%) +1% (1%) Loans to associates and joint ventures 253 258 (7) 6 228 234 (7) 7 Current investments 944 945 (5) 5 9 9 Cash and cash equivalents 604 604 665 665 Short-term borrowings (853) (886) 7 (7) (253) (253) 1 (1) Long-term borrowings (2,552) (2,717) 185 (203) (2,557) (2,750) 144 (156) Interest rate swaps (fixed to floating and prehedges) (1) (1) 31 (31) Currency risk Currency risk is the risk that adverse movements of foreign currency rates lead to losses on assets or liabilities in currencies, which negatively impacts the results of operations and financial condition of the company. It is DSM’s policy to hedge 100% of the currency risks resulting from sales and purchases at the moment of recognition of the receivables and payables. In addition, operating companies may – under strict conditions – opt for hedging currency risks from firm commitments and forecasted transactions. The currencies giving rise to these risks are primarily USD, GBP and JPY. The risks arising from currency exposures are regularly reviewed and hedged when appropriate. DSM uses average-rate currency forward contracts, currency forward contracts, spot contracts, and average-rate currency options to hedge the exposure to fluctuations Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 178 www.dsm.com in foreign exchange rates. At year-end, these instruments had remaining maturities of less than one year. For the hedging of currency risks from firm commitments and forecasted transactions cash flow, hedge accounting is applied: valuation effects of hedge obligations are reported as Hedging reserve in Note 16 'Equity'. Hedge accounting is not applied for hedges of recognized trade receivables and trade payables hedged with short-term derivatives. To hedge intercompany loans, receivables and payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiaries, DSM uses currency swaps or forward contracts. Cash flow hedge accounting is applied for instruments related to some larger internal loans with a total notional amount of € 865 million. As at 31 December 2016, the notional amount of the currency forward contracts was € 2,241 million (2015: € 2,541 million). In 2016, DSM hedged USD 580 million (2015: USD 650 million) of its projected net cash flow in USD in 2017, of which USD 190 million against EUR and USD 390 million against CHF by means of average-rate currency forward contracts at an average exchange rate of USD 1.14 per euro and CHF 0.96 per US dollar, respectively, for the four quarters of 2017. In 2016, DSM also hedged JPY 5,550 million (2015: JPY 5,450 million) of its projected net cash flow in JPY in 2017, of which JPY 4,000 million against CHF and JPY 1,550 million against EUR by means of average-rate currency forward contracts at an average exchange rate of JPY 108 per Swiss franc and JPY 118 per euro, respectively, for the four quarters of 2017. DSM also continued the hedge of projected GBP cash obligations against CHF, namely GBP 11 million at an average exchange rate of CHF 1.32 per British pound. These hedges have fixed the exchange rate for part of the USD and JPY receipts and GBP payments in 2017. Cash flow hedge accounting is applied for these hedges. As a result of similar hedges concluded in 2015 for the year 2016, in 2016 € 32 million negative (2015: € 40 million negative) was recognized in the operating income of the segments involved in accordance with the realization of the expected cash flows. There was no material ineffectiveness in relation to these hedges. The currency risk associated with the translation of DSM's net investment in entities denominated in currencies other than the euro was partially hedged at year-end 2016. CHF-denominated net assets have been partially hedged by currency swaps (2016: CHF 370 million; 2015: CHF 370 million). There was no material ineffectiveness in relation to these hedges. The following analysis of the sensitivity of net borrowings and derivative financial instruments to currency movements against the euro assumes a 10% change in all foreign currency rates against the euro from their level on 31 December, with all other variables held constant. A +10% change indicates a strengthening of the foreign currencies against the euro. A -10% change represents a weakening of the foreign currencies against the euro. Sensitivity of fair value to change in exchange rate 2016 2015 Carrying Fair value Sensitivity of fair value to Carrying Fair value Sensitivity of fair value to amount change in all exchange amount change in all exchange rates of: rates of: +10% (10%) +10% (10%) Loans to associates and joint ventures 253 258 6 (6) 228 234 6 (6) Current investments 944 945 34 (34) 9 9 1 (1) Cash and cash equivalents 604 604 42 (42) 665 665 54 (54) Short-term borrowings (853) (886) (10) 10 (253) (253) (18) 18 Long-term borrowings (2,552) (2,717) (1) 1 (2,557) (2,750) (1) 1 Interest rate swaps (1) (1) Cross currency swaps (136) (136) (108) 108 (110) (110) (112) 112 Currency forward contracts (3) (3) (20) 20 (19) 19 Cross currency swaps related to net investments in foreign entities1 (47) (47) (36) 36 (47) (47) (38) 38 Average-rate forwards used for economic hedging2 (27) (27) (17) 17 (27) (27) (19) 19 1 Fair-value change reported in Translation reserve 2 Fair-value change reported in Hedging reserve Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 179 www.dsm.com Fair-value changes on these positions will generally be recognized in profit or loss, with the exception of the instruments for which cash flow hedge accounting or net-investment hedge accounting is applied. Cash flow hedge accounting is applied for the averagerate forwards and average-rate currency options used for economic hedging; the fair value changes of these derivatives are recognized in the Hedging reserve in equity until recognition of the related cash flows. See also 'Financial derivatives cash flow'. Net-investment hedge accounting is applied for the cross-currency swaps used to protect net investments in foreign entities; the fair-value changes of these derivatives are recognized in the Translation reserve in equity until the net investment is disposed of, to the extent that the changes in fair value are caused by changes in currency-exchange rates. Price risk Financial instruments that are subject to changes in stock exchange prices or indexes are subject to a price risk. At year-end 2016, price risks related to investments in securities were limited. Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a (commercial or financial) counterparty may not be able to honor a financial commitment vis-à-vis DSM. The company manages the credit risk to which it is exposed by applying credit limits per institution and by dealing exclusively with institutions having a high credit rating. At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations of credit risk other than some financing relationships with associates and joint ventures (see Note 10). With regard to treasury activities (for example cash, cash equivalents and financial derivatives held with banks or financial institutions) it is ensured that financial transactions are only concluded with counterparties that have at least a Moody's credit rating of A3 for long-term instruments. At business group level, outstanding receivables are continuously monitored by the management of the operating companies. Appropriate allowances are made for any credit risks that have been identified (as listed in Note 13 'Current receivables'). It is therefore unlikely that significant losses will arise in relation to receivables that have not been provided for. The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amounts of financial assets that are recognized in the balance sheet, including derivative financial instruments. DSM has International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) agreements in place with its financial counterparties that allow for the netting of exposures in case of a default of either party. No significant agreements or financial instruments were available at the reporting date that would reduce the maximum exposure to credit risk. Information about financial assets is presented in Note 10 'Associates and joint ventures', Note 11 'Other financial assets', Note 13 'Current receivables', Note 14 'Current investments', Note 15 'Cash and cash equivalents' and Note 23 'Financial instruments and risks'. Information on guarantees is presented in Note 22 'Contingent liabilities and other financial obligations'. Fair value of financial instruments In the following table the carrying amounts and the estimated fair values of financial instruments are given: 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Assets Other participations 50 50 51 51 Loans to associates and joint ventures 253 258 228 234 Other non-current receivables 136 136 113 113 Current receivables 1,653 1,653 1,556 1,556 Financial derivatives 40 40 47 47 Current investments 944 944 9 9 Cash and cash equivalents 604 604 665 665 Liabilities Non-current borrowings 2,552 2,717 2,557 2,750 Drawing rights liabilities 68 68 160 160 Current borrowings 853 886 253 253 Financial derivatives 253 253 232 232 Other current liabilities 1,972 1,972 1,842 1,842 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 180 www.dsm.com The following methods and assumptions were used to determine the fair value of financial instruments: cash, current investments, current receivables, current borrowings and other current liabilities are stated at carrying amount, which approximates fair value in view of the short maturity of these instruments. The fair values of financial derivatives and long-term instruments are based on calculations, quoted market prices or quotes obtained from intermediaries. The portfolio of derivatives consists of average-rate forward contracts that are valued against average foreign exchange forward rates obtained from Bloomberg and other derivatives that are valued using a discounted cash flow model, applicable market yield curves and foreign exchange spot rates. All inputs for the fair value calculations represent observable market data that are obtained from external sources that are deemed to be independent and reliable. DSM uses the following hierarchy for determining the fair value of financial instruments measured at fair value: Level 1: quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly Level 3: techniques that use inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value that are not based on observable market data The financial instruments that have a fair value different from the carrying amounts are classified as level 2 for both 2015 and 2016. The following table shows the carrying amounts of the financial instruments recognized at fair value, broken down by type and purpose: Carrying amounts financial instruments at fair value Fair value hierarchy Assets Liabilities Total Interest rate swaps Level 2 (1) (1) Currency swaps Level 2 2 (74) (72) Total financial derivatives related to borrowings / investments 2 (75) (73) Currency forward contracts Level 2 45 (157) (112) Balance at 31 December 2015 47 (232) (185) Interest rate swaps Level 2 Currency swaps Level 2 (47) (47) Total financial derivatives related to investments (47) (47) Currency forward contracts Level 2 40 (206) (166) Balance at 31 December 2016 40 (253) (213) During the year there were no transfers between individual levels of the fair value hierarchy. 24 Post-employment benefits The group operates a number of defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans throughout the world, the assets of which are generally held in separately administered funds. The pension plans are generally funded by payments from employees and from the relevant group companies. The group also provides certain additional healthcare benefits to retired employees in the US. Post-employment benefits relate to obligations that will be settled in the future and require assumptions to project benefit obligations. Post-employment benefit accounting is intended to reflect the recognition of post-employment benefits over the employee’s approximate service period, based on the terms of the plans and the investment and funding. The accounting requires management to make assumptions regarding variables such as discount rate, future salary increases, life expectancy, and future healthcare costs. Management consults with external actuaries regarding these assumptions at least annually for significant plans. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 181 www.dsm.com Changes in these key assumptions can have a significant impact Employment benefits liabilities on the projected defined benefit obligations, funding requirements and periodic costs incurred. 2016 2015 The charges for pension costs recognized in the income Balance at 1 January 540 524 statement (Note 5) relate to the following: Changes: Pension costs Balance of actuarial (gains) / losses 8 61 2016 2015 Employee benefits costs 32 29 Contributions by employer (49) (79) Defined benefit plans: Acquisitions 1 Pension costs included in Disposals (20) employee benefit costs: Exchange differences (1) 21 Current service costs pension Reclassification from/to held for plans 35 35 sale Healthcare plans 1 Other changes 3 Other post-employment benefits 1 2 Total changes (10) 16 Defined contribution plans 95 84 Balance at 31 December 530 540 Total pension costs included in employee benefits costs 131 122 The Employee benefits liabilities of € 530 million Pension costs included in Other (2015: € 540 million) consist of € 509 million related to pensions operating income (16)1 (12) (2015: € 521 million), € 7 million related to healthcare and other costs (2015: € 7 million), and € 14 million related to other postTotal Continuing operations 115 110 employment benefits (2015: € 12 million). Discontinued operations 9 Pension costs included in Net Pensions finance costs 10 11 The DSM group companies have various pension plans, which Pension costs included in APM are geared to the local regulations and practices in the countries adjustments 1 (11) in which they operate. As these plans are designed to comply with the statutory framework, tax legislation, local customs and Total 126 119 economic situation of the countries concerned, it follows that the nature of the plans varies from country to country. The plans are 1 Curtailment gains because of plan freezes in the UK and the US based on local legal and contractual obligations. DSM’s current policy is to offer defined contribution retirement For 2017, costs (continuing operations) for the defined benefit benefit plans to new employees wherever possible. However, plans relating to pensions will be € 38 million DSM still has a (small) number of defined benefit pension and (2016: € 36 million). healthcare schemes from the past. Generally, these schemes have been funded through external trusts or foundations, where Changes in Employee benefits liabilities recognized in the DSM faces the potential risk of funding shortfalls. The most balance sheet are shown in the following overview: significant defined benefit schemes are: Pension Plan at DSM Nutritional Products AG in Switzerland (DNP AG) DSM UK Pension Scheme in the UK Consolidated Pension Plan from DSM Services USA in the US Pension Plan at DSM Nutritional Products GmbH in Germany (DNP GmbH) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 182 www.dsm.com For each plan the following characteristics are relevant: pension scheme. The pension plan is managed and controlled by a DSM company pension fund. The board of Trustees DNP AG Pension Plan in Switzerland consists of representatives of the employer and the employees The DNP AG Pension Plan is a typical Swiss Cash Balance plan. who have an independent role. Since 2011, there has been a For accounting purposes this plan is qualified as a defined benefit separate investment strategy for the closed plan (liability related plan. It is a contribution based-plan. There is no promise of to divested businesses/companies) and the open plan (liability indexation for on-going pensions. The Swiss state minimal related to the current businesses/companies). The investment requirements for occupational benefit plans have however to be strategy for the closed plan has a very low risk profile, whereas respected; the Minimum Guaranteed Interest Return on the cash the investment strategy for the open plan anticipates on balance accounts for 2016 was 1.25% (2015: 1.75%) for the expected future returns on equity. This investment strategy is mandatory portion (BVG/LPP). There is also a minimal supported by an ALM study which was carried out in 2014. For conversion rate applicable. both the open and the closed plan there is a de-risking strategy applicable to ensure that the asset will be de-risked if the funding The pension plan is managed and controlled by a DSM company level improves. The impact of the plan freeze on the pension fund pension fund. The board of Trustees consists of representatives strategy will be discussed in the course of 2017. The internal of the employer and the employees who have an independent funding policy of this plan is based on IFRS valuation. This implies role. a stricter funding policy than the minimum requirements on local funding. The current IFRS funding level is 84% (30 November The plan assets are collectively invested (no individual 2016), whereas the funding level on local standards (Pension investment choice). In 2016 an Asset Liability Management Protection Act) is 114% (estimate 30 November 2016). The (ALM) study was performed which has led to an adjustment of minimum required funding level on local standards is 80% on the the investment strategy. basis of this Act. The current funding level, based on local standards, is 115% DNP GmbH Pension Plan in Germany (estimate 31 December 2016), which is above the legally The DNP GmbH Pension Plan in Germany has been closed to required minimum funding level. new entrants as of 31 December 2008. Accrual is still applicable for employees who have been participating in the plan since DSM UK Pension Scheme 2008. The pension plan is a final pay pension plan (averaged over The DSM UK Pension Scheme is closed per 30 September 2016 the last 12 months prior to retirement) and service-related for all pension accruals. An unconditional indexation policy is benefit. The liability is on the balance sheet of DNP GmbH. No applicable for the vested pension rights. The pension plan is assets are allocated to this liability. All reimbursements will be managed and controlled by a DSM company pension fund. The paid out by DNP GmbH. board of Trustees consists of representatives of the employer and the employees who have an independent role. The impact The most important unfunded plans are in Germany. They of the plan freeze on the pension fund strategy will be discussed amount to € 312 million (2015: € 296 million). in 2017. In 2015, an ALM study was performed to support the development of a de-risking strategy. The current funding level, based on local standards, is 94% (estimate 31 December 2016). In the UK, funding requirements are a result of the triennial valuation. A new valuation was performed in 2016, resulting in the continuation of the annual recovery contributions (GBP 1 million) and the company guarantee of GBP 14 million. Consolidated Plan in the US The Consolidated Plan in the US has been closed to new entrants since 2014. As of 31 December 2016, the plan was closed for pension accrual of the non-unionized employees. New accrual is only applicable for a small group of unionized employees. There is no indexation applicable for the vested pension rights. DSM will continue to pay (recovery) contributions into this Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 183 www.dsm.com The changes in the present value of the defined benefit The actuarial gains/losses as included in the previous tables can obligations and in the fair value of plan assets of the major plans be specified as follows: are listed below: Remeasurement effects as included in Other Present value of defined benefit obligations comprehensive income 2016 2015 2016 2015 Balance at 1 January 1,745 1,564 Defined benefit obligation major pension plans Changes: Actuarial (gain)/loss due to Service costs 35 37 experience (15) 39 Interest costs 32 34 Actuarial (gain)/loss due to Contributions 14 14 demographic assumption (16) (2) Actuarial (gains)/losses 65 43 Actuarial (gain)/loss due to Past service costs (4) financial assumption changes 96 6 Curtailments/termination 65 43 benefits (15) (9) Acquisitions/disposals (2) Plan assets major pension plans Exchange differences (11) 131 Change in irrecoverable surplus Settlements other than interest (1) Benefits paid (59) (63) Return on plan assets (greater)/ less then discount rate 60 (22) Balance at 31 December 1,806 1,745 59 (22) Total actuarial (gain)/loss 6 65 Fair value of plan assets Actuarial (gain)/loss other plans 2 (4) 2016 2015 Total actuarial (gain)/loss 8 61 Balance at 1 January 1,224 1,086 Changes: Interest income on plan assets 23 24 Actuarial gains/(losses) 60 (22) Actual return on plan assets 83 2 Contributions by employer 33 57 Contributions by employees 14 14 Disbursement (46) (50) Exchange differences (10) 112 Settlements Other 3 Balance at 31 December 1,298 1,224 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 184 www.dsm.com The amounts recognized of these major plans in the balance The major categories of pension-plan assets as a percentage of sheet are as follows: total plan assets are as follows: Net assets/liabilities Pension-plan assets by category 2016 2015 2016 2015 Present value of funded Bonds 53% 53% obligations (1,484) (1,440) Equities 32% 33% Fair value of plan assets 1,298 1,224 Property 12% 11% Other 3% 3% (186) (216) Present value of unfunded obligations (322) (305) The pension-plan assets include neither ordinary DSM shares nor property occupied by DSM. Funded status (508) (521) Effect of asset ceiling (1) The total expense recognized in the income statement is as follows: Net assets/liabilities1 (509) (521) Costs major defined benefit plans Of which: Liabilities (Employee benefits 2016 2015 liabilities) (509) (521) Assets (Prepaid pension costs) Current service costs 35 37 Net interest costs 10 10 1 Excluding less material plans with a net liability of € 21 million (2015: € 19 million) Past service costs in Other operating income (16) (4) Costs included in APM The changes in the net assets/liabilities recognized in the adjustments 1 (11) balance sheet are as follows: Costs related to defined benefit Changes in net assets/liabilities plans 30 32 2016 2015 The main actuarial assumptions for the year (weighted averages) Balance at 1 January (521) (478) are: Expense recognized in the income statement (29) (32) Actuarial assumptions for plans outside the Netherlands Actuarial gains/(losses) recognized directly in Other 2016 2015 comprehensive income during the year (6) (65) Discount rate 1.63% 1.98% Contributions paid by employer 33 58 Price inflation 1.57% 1.70% Disbursements and settlements Salary increase 2.08% 2.40% paid by employer 13 12 Pension increase 0.88-2.15% 0.87-2.1% Acquisitions/disposals 2 Exchange differences 2 (19) Other (1) 1 Balance at 31 December1 (509) (521) 1 Excluding less material plans with a net liability of € 21 million (2015: € 19 million) In 2017, DSM is expected to contribute € 27 million (actual 2016: € 33 million) to its major defined benefit plans. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 185 www.dsm.com Year-end amounts for the current and previous periods are as follows: Major defined benefit plans per year 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Defined benefit obligations (1,806) (1,745) (1,564) (1,316) (1,317) Plan assets 1,297 1,224 1,086 958 931 Funded status of asset/(liability) (509) (521) (478) (358) (386) Experience adjustments on plan assets, gain/(loss) 60 (22) 61 7 55 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities, gain/(loss) 15 (39) (1) 16 (27) Gain/(loss) on liabilities due to changes in assumptions (80) (4) (222) (25) (157) Sensitivities of significant actuarial assumptions The discount rate, the future increase in wages and salaries and the pension increase rate were identified as significant actuarial assumptions. The following impacts on the defined benefit obligation are to be expected: A 0.25% increase/decrease in the discount rate would lead to a decrease/increase of 3.6% in the defined benefit obligation A 0.25% increase/decrease in the expected increase in salaries/wages would lead to an increase/decrease of 0.4% in the defined benefit obligation A 0.25% increase/decrease in the expected rate of pension increase would lead to an increase/decrease of less than 1.0% in the defined benefit obligation The sensitivity analysis is based on realistically possible changes as of the end of the reporting year. Each change in a significant actuarial assumption was analyzed separately as part of the test. Interdependencies were not taken into account. Healthcare and other costs In some countries, particularly in the US, group companies provide retired employees and their surviving dependants with postemployment benefits other than pensions, mainly allowances for healthcare expenses and life-insurance premiums. Some of these are unfunded; in these cases, approved expense claims are reimbursed out of the financial resources of the group companies concerned. These plans are not sufficiently material to warrant the individual disclosures required by IAS 19. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 186 www.dsm.com 25 Net debt The development of the components of net debt is as follows: Cash and Current Non-current Current Credit Derivatives Total cash investments borrowings borrowings institutions equivalents Balance at 1 January 2015 669 6 (1,637) (641) (502) (315) (2,420) Change from operating activities 696 225 921 Change from investing activities (275) 3 64 8 45 136 (19) Reclassification from non-current to current 30 (30) Transfers 119 (1,004) 653 232 Dividend (174) (174) Interest (173) (173) Proceeds from reissued shares 39 39 Repurchase of shares (122) (122) Derivatives (130) (221) (351) Other 1 1 Change from financing activities (440) (974) 623 232 (221) (780) Exchange differences 15 (10) (12) (6) (10) (23) Total changes (4) 3 (920) 619 271 130 99 Balance at 31 December 2015 665 9 (2,557) (22) (231) (185) (2,321) Change from operating activities 1,018 8 1,026 Change from investing activities (1,194) 935 (7) (266) Reclassification from non-current to current 759 (759) Transfers 584 (748) 3 161 Dividend (190) (190) Interest (151) 27 (124) Proceeds from reissued shares 137 137 Repurchase of shares (273) (273) Derivatives (65) (65) Other 6 (5) 1 Change from financing activities 113 6 (756) 161 (38) (514) Exchange differences 2 (1) (1) 3 2 5 Total changes (61) 935 5 (764) 164 (28) 251 Balance at 31 December 2016 604 944 (2,552) (786) (67) (213) (2,070) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 187 www.dsm.com 26 Notes to the cash flow statement The cash flow statement provides an explanation of the changes in cash and cash equivalents. It is prepared on the basis of a comparison of the balance sheets as at 1 January and 31 December. Changes that do not involve cash flows, such as changes in exchange rates, amortization, depreciation, impairment losses and transfers to other balance sheet items, are eliminated. Changes in working capital due to the acquisition or disposal of consolidated companies are included under Investing activities. Most of the changes in the cash flow statement can be traced back to the detailed statements of changes for the balance sheet items concerned. For those balance sheet items for which no detailed statement of changes is included, the table below shows the link between the change according to the balance sheet and the change according to the cash flow statement: Change in operating working capital 2016 2015 Operating working capital Balance at 1 January 1,808 1,948 Balance at 31 December 1,928 1,808 Balance sheet change 120 (140) Adjustments: Exchange differences (78) (127) Changes in consolidation (including acquisitions and disposals) (4) 285 Reclassification from / to held for sale (3) 3 Transfers / non cash value adjustments 23 31 Total change in operating working capital according to the cash flow statement 58 52 In 2016, the operating working capital of continuing operations before reclassification to held for sale was € 1,928 million, which amounts to 23.9% of annualized fourth quarter net sales (2015: 23.5%). Besides the business impact this increase was due to an exchange rate effect. 27 Share-based compensation Under the DSM Stock Incentive Plan, performance-based and non-performance-based stock options or Share Appreciation Rights (SARs) are granted to senior management. Such a grant takes place on the first day on which the DSM stock is quoted ex-dividend following the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. The opening price of the DSM stock on that day is the exercise price of the stock options and SARs. Since 2011, only stock options have been granted, and Share Appreciation Rights are no longer used as share-based compensation. Stock options and SARs have a term of eight years and are subject to a vesting period of three years. After this three-year period, one third of the stock options and SARs (non-performance-related) will vest and two thirds of the stock options and SARs that are performance-based will become exercisable in whole, in part, or not at all. Final vesting of the performance-based stock options depends on the total shareholder return (TSR) achieved by DSM in comparison with a peer group. The performance measurement of the 2016 option series is based on four equally weighted factors: Relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance versus a peer group, Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) growth, Energy Efficiency Improvement (EEI), and Greenhouse-gas Emissions (GHGE) Efficiency Improvement. Non-vested performance-based stock options and SARs will be forfeited. If employment is terminated prior to the vesting date, specific rules regarding vesting and forfeitures apply. The exercise of stock incentives is regulated. For members of the Managing Board specifically, only LTI performance shares have been granted since 2010 (no longer stock options). LTI performance shares vest after three years upon the realization of a predefined performance measure. The performance schedule is the same as that for stock options. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 188 www.dsm.com For LTI performance shares, see Note 12 'Remuneration of Managing Board and Supervisory Board' to the Financial statements of the parent company. All stock options and LTI performance shares are settled by physical delivery of DSM shares, while SARs are settled in cash. Overview of stock options and Share Appreciation Rights for management Year of issue Outstanding at In 2016 Outstanding at Fair value on Exercise price Expiry date 31 Dec. 2015 Granted Exercised Average Forfeited/ 31 Dec. 2016 grant date (€ ) (€ ) price (€ ) expired 2008 231,029 (229,779) 46.58 (1,250) 5.73 29.79 28 Mar. 2016 2009 281,800 (238,400) 57.12 43,400 2.83 21.10 27 Mar. 2017 2010 456,125 (231,625) 57.31 224,500 6.07 33.10 6 Apr. 2018 2011 921,483 (494,432) 57.48 (15,125) 411,926 9.60 46.20 2 May 2019 2012 756,263 (387,013) 56.29 (1,250) 368,000 6.88 40.90 15 May 2020 2013 1,2 2,748,038 (536,675) 58.46 (1,595,775) 3 615,588 9.23 48.91 7 May 2021 20141 2,651,613 (139,000) 59.30 (311,625)3 2,200,988 10.66 52.00 9 May 2022 20151 2,971,750 (78,750) 58.52 (314,125)3 2,578,875 9.89 50.98 5 May 2023 20161 2,815,225 (4,500) 61.77 (66,250)3 2,744,475 9.36 52.57 3 May 2024 2016 Total 11,018,101 2,815,225 (2,340,174) 56.54 (2,305,400) 9,187,752 Of which vested 3,188,150 1,983,364 at 31 Dec. at 31 Dec. 2014 2015 2015 Total 11,088,364 3,115,000 (815,638) 52.34 (2,369,625) 11,018,101 Of which vested 2,767,500 3,188,150 1 Stock options will partly vest, and may therefore be immediately exercised, upon termination of employment in connection with divestments, retirement or early retirement. The remaining term to exercise stock options or SARs after their vesting as a result of divestments, retirement or early retirement is limited to three years (the remaining term to exercise in the case of regular vesting is five years). 2 Based on TSR performance, the stock incentives tied to performance granted in 2013 did not vest and have been forfeited. 3 Number of forfeited options: 1,595,025 (2013), 300,375 (2014), 302,875 (2015) and 66,250 (2016). DSM grants certain members of senior management performance shares based on EBITDA and ROCE performance targets set for 2016 and 2017. Settlement in shares takes place after this two-year period. If employment is terminated prior to the settlement date, specific rules regarding vesting and forfeitures apply. In 2016, DSM granted 42,791 shares under this plan against a fair value of € 45.22 per share. The fair value of these shares is determined based on the average quoted market price in Q1 2016. No shares forfeited in 2016. Certain employees in the Netherlands are entitled to employee stock options that are granted on the first day on which the DSM stock is quoted ex-dividend following the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. The opening price of the DSM stock on that day is the exercise price of the stock options. Employee stock options can immediately be exercised and have a term of five years. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 189 www.dsm.com Overview of stock options for employees Year of issue Outstanding at In 2016 Outstanding at Fair value on Exercise price Exercise 31 Dec. 2015 Granted Exercised Average Forfeited/ 31 Dec. 2016 grant date (€ ) (€ ) period until price (€ ) expired 2011 192,375 (166,260) 51.65 (26,115) 10.35 46.20 May 2016 2012 158,845 (99,740) 57.03 (1,060) 58,045 6.79 40.90 May 2017 2013 155,565 (84,105) 59.38 (2,690) 68,770 6.51 48.91 May 2018 2014 262,305 (141,010) 59.64 (4,745) 116,550 5.68 52.00 May 2019 2015 114,065 (61,515) 59.52 (2,300) 50,250 4.50 50.98 May 2020 2016 561,135 (299,310) 59.67 (4,210) 257,615 4.38 52.57 May 2021 2016 Total 883,155 561,135 (851,940) 57.75 (41,120) 551,230 2015 Total 927,490 130,385 (152,410) 53.23 (22,310) 883,155 Measurement of fair value An amount of € 24 million is included in the costs for wages and The costs of option plans are measured by reference to the fair salaries for share-based compensation (2015: € 23 million). The value of the options at the date on which the options are granted. following table specifies the share-based compensation: The fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes model, taking into account market conditions linked to the price of the Share-based compensation DSM share. Stock-price volatility is determined on the basis of historical volatilities of the DSM share price measured each 2016 2015 month over a period equal to the expected option life. The costs of these options are recognized in the income statement Stock options 18 20 (Employee benefits costs). Share appreciation rights 1 Performance shares 5 3 The following assumptions were used in the Black-Scholes model to determine the fair value at grant date: Total expense 24 23 2016 2015 28 Related parties Management options Risk-free rate (0.23%) 0.18% Koninklijke DSM N.V. is the group holding company that is listed Expected option life in years 6 6 on the Euronext Amsterdam stock exchange. The financial Nominal option life in years 8 8 statements of the company are included in the chapter 'Parent Share price 52.57 50.98 company financial statements'. Exercise price 52.57 50.98 Volatility 29.5% 31% In the ordinary course of business, DSM buys and sells goods Expected dividend 3.14% 3.24% and services to various related parties in which DSM has Fair value of option granted 9.36 9.89 significant influence. Transactions are conducted under terms and conditions that are equivalent to those that apply to arm's Employee options length transactions. Risk-free rate (0.48%) (0.12%) Expected option life in years 2.5 2.5 Nominal option life in years 5 5 Share price 52.57 50.98 Exercise price 52.57 50.98 Volatility 20.0% 20.5% Expected dividend 3.14% 3.24% Fair value of option granted 4.38 4.50 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 190 www.dsm.com Transactions and relationships with related parties are reported Other related-parties disclosure relates entirely to the key in the table below. management of DSM, being represented by the company's Managing Board, Executive Committee and Supervisory Board. Transactions with related parties The total remuneration and related costs of the Managing Board includes fixed annual salary including other items to the amount Joint ventures Associates of € 2.9 million (2015: € 3.1 million), short-term incentives to the 2016 2015 2016 2015 amount of € 2.1 million (2015: € 1.7 million), pension expenditure Continuing operations amounting to € 2.7 million (2015: € 0.7 million) and long-term Sales to 27 31 43 45 incentives amounting to € 2.3 million (2015: € 2.3 million). The Purchases from 8 10 338 129 total remuneration and related costs (including pension Loans to 62 62 191 183 expenditures, other commitments, short-term and long-term Receivables from 41 61 144 82 incentives) of the other members of the Executive Committee Payables to 62 72 163 245 amounted to € 5.7 million in 2016 (2015: € 1.6 million; only 4 Interest from 4 5 13 5 months). For further details about the remuneration of the Managing DSM may issue guarantees as credit enhancement of associates Board, the Executive Committee and the Supervisory Board, to acquire bank facilities for these associates. please refer to Note 12 to the 'Parent company financial DSM has provided guarantees to third parties for debts of statements'. associates for an amount of € 75 million (2015: € 91 million). 29 Service fees paid to external auditors The service fees recognized in the financial statements 2016 for the service of KPMG amounted to € 4.6 million (2015: € 4.0 million). The amounts per service category are shown in the following table. Total service fee Of which KPMG KPMG KPMG NL KPMG NL 2016 2015 2016 2015 Audit of the group financial statements 4.1 3.8 2.4 2.0 Audit of other (statutory) financial statements 0.41 0.1 Other assurance services 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Total assurance services 4.6 4.0 2.5 2.1 1 Statutory audits previously carried out by another auditor 30 Events after the balance sheet date In January 2017, DSM acquired the technology and other assets of “Sunshine” (Suzhou SunShine New Materials Technology Co., Ltd.), a manufacturer of a novel, high-performance solar photovoltaic (PV) backsheet based on co-extrusion technology. Through this acquisition, DSM will expand its product portfolio for the solar PV market to include polymer backsheets that protect PV solar cells. Sunshine currently has 44 employees and an annual production capacity of 10 million m2. The initial consideration amounted to € 19 million and in addition earn-out payments, depending on future milestones, were included in the agreement reached. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 191 www.dsm.com Parent company financial statements Balance sheet at 31 December of Koninklijke DSM N.V. before profit appropriation x € million Notes 2016 2015 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 2 447 450 Property, plant and equipment 3 15 16 Financial assets 4 9,975 9,385 Deferred tax assets 5 173 195 10,610 10,046 Current assets Receivables 6 98 121 Cash and cash equivalents 41 98 162 Total 10,708 10,208 Shareholders' equity and liabilities Shareholders' equity 7 Share capital 338 338 Share premium 489 489 Treasury shares (339) (319) Other reserves (95) (103) Retained earnings 5,058 5,048 Profit for the year 621 88 6,072 5,541 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 8 2,541 2,541 2,541 2,541 Current liabilities Borrowings 8 749 150 Financial derivatives 47 51 Other current liabilities 9 1,299 1,925 2,095 2,126 Total 10,708 10,208 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 192 www.dsm.com Income statement of Koninklijke DSM N.V. x € million Notes 2016 2015 Other income 1 205 195 Wages and salaries 10 (78) (61) Social security and pension charges (12) (11) Amortization of intangible assets and depreciation of property, plant and equipment (8) (8) Cost of outsourced work and other external costs (95) (118) Total operating expenses (193) (198) Operating profit 12 (3) Financial income 11 16 61 Financial expense 11 (112) (150) Result before income tax (84) (92) Income tax 5 17 80 Share of the profit of subsidiaries 4 465 36 Profit after income tax 398 24 Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures 4 (9) 64 Other results related to associates and joint ventures 4 232 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 621 88 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 193 www.dsm.com Notes to the parent company financial statements 1 General Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are in € million. The Parent company financial statements are the financial statements of Koninklijke DSM N.V., which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the Netherlands. The accounting policies used are the same as those used in the consolidated financial statements, in accordance with the provisions of article 362-8 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. In these separate financial statements, investments in subsidiaries are accounted for using the net asset value. The balance sheet presentation is aligned with the consolidated financial statements in order to enhance transparency and facilitate understanding. The statutory seat of DSM is Het Overloon 1, Heerlen (Netherlands). A list of DSM participations has been filed with the Chamber of Commerce (Netherlands) and is available from the company upon request. The list can also be downloaded from the company website. DSM is registered with the Dutch Commercial Register under number 14022069. Information on the use of financial instruments and on related risks for the group is provided in the 'Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM'. Other income consists mainly of the charged corporate overhead and services to the group companies. The company forms a fiscal unity for corporate income tax purposes together with the group companies in the Netherlands. Each of the companies recognizes the portion of corporate income tax that the relevant company would owe as an independent tax payer, taking into account the tax liabilities applicable to the company. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 194 www.dsm.com 2 Intangible assets The carrying amount of intangible assets mainly comprises goodwill on the acquisition of NeoResins in 2005 (€ 358 million), Crina in 2006 (€ 9 million) and Pentapharm in 2007 (€ 36 million). For further information on these assets including the discussion of the related impairment tests, please refer to Note 8 'Intangible assets' in the 'Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM'. Goodwill Under Other Total construction Balance at 1 January 2015 Cost 398 11 61 470 Amortization and impairment losses 26 26 Carrying amount 398 11 35 444 Change in carrying amount Capital expenditure 7 7 Put into operation (1) 1 Amortization (6) (6) Exchanged differences 5 5 Other reclassifications 1 1 5 6 (4) 7 Balance at 31 December 2015 Cost 403 17 62 482 Amortization and impairment losses 32 32 Carrying amount 403 17 30 450 Change in carrying amount Capital expenditure 3 3 Put into operation (16) 16 Amortization (6) (6) (13) 10 (3) Balance at 31 December 2016 Cost 403 4 78 485 Amortization and impairment losses 38 38 Carrying amount 403 4 40 447 3 Property, plant and equipment This item mainly relates to land and buildings. Capital expenditure in 2016 was nil (2015: € 1 million), while the depreciation charge in 2016 was € 1 million (2015: € 2 million). The historical cost of property, plant and equipment as at 31 December 2016 was € 62 million (2015: € 62 million); accumulated depreciation amounted to € 47 million (2015: € 46 million). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 195 www.dsm.com 4 Financial assets Subsidiaries Associates Receivables Total Share in Loans Share in Loans equity equity Balance at 1 January 2015 8,933 315 471 51 3 9,773 Changes: Share in profit 36 64 100 Dividend received (109) (141) (250) Capital payments 2 13 15 Net actuarial gains/(losses) (56) 1 (55) Change in Fair value reserve 8 8 Change in Hedging reserve 5 1 6 Exchange differences 519 22 4 545 New loans 3 93 96 Disposals (172) (172) Transfers (359) (315) 51 (55) (3) (681) Balance at 31 December 2015 8,807 482 3 93 9,385 Changes: Share in profit 465 (9) 456 Dividend received (27) (150) (177) Capital payments 1 1 Net actuarial gains/(losses) (3) (3) Change in Fair value reserve 7 7 Change in Hedging reserve 1 1 Exchange differences 196 9 2 207 Divestments 128 128 Transfers (14) (28) (3) 15 (30) Balance at 31 December 2016 9,433 432 110 9,975 For movements in Associates see Note 10 to the 'Consolidated financial statements'. In 2015, transfers and the main part of dividend received and capital payments relate to the restructuring of the legal set-up of financing companies within DSM. Transfers within Receivables include the earn-out of Patheon of € 28 million and the divestment settlements of -€ 16 million (see Note 11 'Other financial assets' to the Consolidated financial statements. 5 Deferred tax assets This item mainly relates to net operating losses in the Dutch fiscal unity. In 2016 a tax income of € 17 million (2015: € 80 million) was included and other movements (mainly settlements with group companies) of -€ 39 million (2015: -€ 145 million). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 196 www.dsm.com 6 Receivables shares A, based on a share price of € 5.29 per cumulative preference share A. For 2016 this distribution amounts to € 0.09 per share, which is € 4 million in total. An interim dividend 2016 2015 of € 0.03 per cumulative preference share A having been paid in August 2016, the final dividend will then amount to € 0.06 per Receivable from subsidiaries 83 100 cumulative preference share A. Other receivables / deferred items 15 21 The profit remaining after distribution of these dividends on the Total 98 121 cumulative preference shares A (€ 617 million) will be put at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders in accordance with the provisions of Article 32, section 5 of the 7 Shareholders' equity Articles of Association. The Managing Board proposes a dividend on ordinary shares 2016 2015 outstanding for the year 2016 of € 1.75 per share. With an interim dividend of € 0.55 per ordinary share having been paid in August Balance at 1 January 5,541 5,723 2016, the final dividend would then amount to € 1.20 per ordinary share. Net profit 621 88 Exchange differences, net of If the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders makes a decision income tax 197 16 in accordance with the proposal, the net profit will be Net actuarial gains/(losses) on appropriated as follows: defined benefit obligations (9) (54) Dividend (296) (297) Repurchase of shares (273) (122) 2016 2015 Proceeds from reissue of ordinary shares 253 176 Net profit 621 88 Other changes 38 11 Profit appropriation: Balance at 31 December 6,072 5,541 To be added to / paid from the reserves 311 (210) Dividend on cumprefs A 4 10 For details see the consolidated statement of changes in equity Interim dividend on ordinary (Note 16) and page 138. shares 96 96 Final dividend distributable on Legal reserve ordinary shares 210 192 In Shareholders' equity, an amount of € 530 million (2015: € 314 million) is included for Translation reserve, -€ 207 million (2015: -€ 203 million) for Hedging reserve, € 8 million (2015: -€ 3 million) 8 Borrowings for Fair value reserve and -€ 100 million (2015: -€ 86 million) for intangible assets related to product development projects. In addition, a legal reserve of € 120 million (2015: € 111 million) 2016 2015 is recognized for profits that cannot be distributed and received Total Of which Total Of which in the Netherlands. current current Profit appropriation Debenture loans 3,290 749 2,541 According to article 32 of the Articles of Association of Koninklijke Commercial paper 150 150 DSM N.V. and with the approval of the Supervisory Board, every year the Managing Board determines the portion of the net profit Total 3,290 749 2,691 150 to be appropriated to the reserves. For the year 2016 the net profit is € 621 million and the amount to be appropriated to the reserves has been established at € 311 million. From the At 31 December 2016, there were four debenture loans subsequent balance of the net profit of € 310 million, dividend is (€ 2,241 million, maturing in 2022, 2024, 2025 and 2026) with a first distributed on the cumulative preference shares B. At the remaining term of more than five years (€ 1,493 million at end of 2016 no cumprefs B were in issue. Subsequently, a 31 December 2015). 1.759% dividend is distributed on the cumulative preference Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 197 www.dsm.com The repayment schedule for borrowings (excluding commercial 10 Personnel paper) is as follows: The average number of employees working for Koninklijke DSM Borrowings by maturity N.V. in 2016 was 376 (2015: 366), all of whom are based in the Netherlands. 2016 2015 11 Financial income and expense 2017 749 748 2018 Financial income of € 16 million (2015: € 61 million) mainly 2019 300 300 consists of interest income relating to a net investment hedge. 2020 and 2021 Financial expense of € 112 million (2015: € 150 million) mainly 2022 through 2026 2,241 1,493 consists of the interest costs on bonds issued and the counterpart of the net investment hedge. See also Notes 19 and 23 to the 'Consolidated financial statements'. Total 3,290 2,541 In agreements governing loans with a residual amount at yearend 2016 of € 3,290 million, of which € 749 million is of a current nature (31 December 2015: € 2,541 million, of which none of a current nature), clauses have been included which restrict the provision of security. More information on borrowings is provided in Note 20 to the 'Consolidated financial statements', 'Borrowings'. 9 Other current liabilities 2016 2015 Owing to subsidiaries 1,203 1,840 Other liabilities 91 84 Deferred items 5 1 Total 1,299 1,925 Contingent liabilities Guarantee obligations on behalf of affiliated companies and third parties amounted to € 380 million (31 December 2015: € 190 million). Koninklijke DSM N.V. has declared in writing that it accepts several liabilities for debts arising from acts in law of a number of consolidated companies (including relating to the fiscal unity for income tax and VAT). These debts are included in the consolidated balance sheet. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 198 www.dsm.com 12 Remuneration of Managing Board and Supervisory maximum, and the score on the Employee Engagement Index Board was on target. The Safety Performance score was at maximum. Managing Board members also have individual targets. The Remuneration Managing Board in 2016 scores achieved on these targets were different per person and As part of its remuneration policy for the Managing Board, DSM varying between target and maximum. The realization of the benchmarks its remuneration package against the packages 2016 financial STI targets has been assessed by KPMG. offered by the labor-market peer group once every three years. Furthermore, KPMG has assessed the process with respect to the target realization of the non-financial STI targets. The average Base salary in 2016 realization percentage was 73.5-82.5% of base salary. Adjustment of the base salary is at the discretion of the Supervisory Board. During the Remuneration Committee With the STI Deferral and Share Matching Plan, only part of the meeting of 7 December 2015, it was decided to adjust the annual STI outcome is paid in cash. 25% of the gross STI value is base salary of the members of the Managing Board by 3.5% as mandatorily converted into DSM Investment shares. Managing of 1 January 2016. This was the first increase in base salary since Board members can choose to convert up to a further 25% into that applied in 2014, given that, at the Managing Board’s request additional DSM Investment shares (in 5% increments, with a in light of the various cost-reduction programs being set up at minimum of 5% and a maximum of 25%). the company at the time, the Supervisory Board decided to refrain from an increase in 2015. Since the next moment at which The company matches these STI Investment shares with an an increase will apply concerns 2017, this 3.5% increase equivalent number of Restricted Share Units (RSUs), vesting of effectively covered the two-year period 2015-2016. which is deferred for three years, conditional on achieving predefined performance targets equivalent to the measures Fixed annual salary under the Long-Term Incentive (LTI) Plan. The remainder of the STI gross outcome (50% to maximum 75%) is paid out in cash. in € 1 July 2016 1 July 2015 Short-Term Incentives Feike Sijbesma 900,000 870,000 Geraldine Matchett 590,000 570,000 in € 20161 20152 Stephan Tanda 590,000 570,000 Dimitri de Vreeze 590,000 570,000 Feike Sijbesma 742,500 522,000 Geraldine Matchett 457,250 342,000 Stephan Tanda 433,650 347,700 Short-Term Incentives (STI) for 2016 Dimitri de Vreeze 457,250 342,000 STI targets are revised annually so as to ensure that they are Stefan Doboczky 3 143,291 stretching but realistic. Considerations regarding the performance targets are influenced by the operational and 1 Based on results achieved in 2016 and therefore payable in 2017 strategic course taken by the company and are directly linked to 2 Based on results achieved in 2015 and therefore paid in 2016 3 Left DSM to pursue career outside of the company as of 1 June 2015 the company’s ambitions. The targets are determined at the beginning of the year for each Board member. All members of the Managing Board decided to invest the Target STI level and pay-out maximum of 50% of their gross 2015 STI (payable in 2016) in When they achieve all their targets, Managing Board members accordance with the STI Deferral and Share Matching Plan. In all receive an incentive of 50% of their annual base salary. cases, these investment shares were matched with an equal Outstanding performance can increase the STI level to 100% of number of Restricted Share Units (RSU’s). This was also the the annual base salary. case with regard to the gross 2016 STI (which will be paid in 2017), with the exception of Stephan Tanda in view of his leaving The 2016 Integrated Annual Report presents the Short-Term the company. Incentives that have been earned on the basis of results achieved in 2016. These Short-Term Incentives will be paid out in 2017. Long-Term Incentives (LTI) The following table provides an overview of the LTI performance The Supervisory Board has established the extent to which the shares that were granted to members of the Managing Board in targets for 2016 were achieved. Regarding the financial targets, the respective year. These performance shares are subject to a the score on the EBITDA target was between target and three-year vesting period. maximum achievement, while the score on gross free cash flow was at maximum. The score for net sales growth was below target but above threshold. For the sustainability targets, the score on Brighter Living Solutions was between target and Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 199 www.dsm.com Number of LTI performance shares granted1 A. Mandatory plan 2016 2015 Covers all employees employed in the Netherlands. Collective Defined Contribution Scheme: accrual based on Feike Sijbesma 31,000 29,000 fixed contribution. Indexation or reduction of accrued benefits, Geraldine Matchett 20,500 19,000 depending on PDN's coverage ratio. Stephan Tanda 20,500 19,000 The accrual is tax exempt, the benefits will be taxed. Dimitri de Vreeze 20,500 19,000 Based on career-average base pay. Pensionable salary equals base salary up to a maximum of (in 2016) € 101,519 per 1 Grant according to Koninklijke DSM N.V. Performance Share Plan annum considering a deductible of € 13,415 (in 2016 subject to annual review). Accrual of 1.875% per annum. Retirement age 67 (as of 2016). For 2017, the number of conditionally granted ordinary shares The scheme includes a spouses’and disability pension. under the LTI program will be: Employee and employer contributions. Chairman 23,500 Members 15,500 B. Allowance for salary exceeding € 101,519 For an overview of all granted and vested stock options and Employees whose pensionable salary exceeds € 101,519 performance shares see page 202. receive an age-dependent gross allowance that can be used to participate in a net pension scheme. The allowance is taxed. In 2016, the Supervisory Board established which proportion of the shares conditionally granted in 2013, vested. The following Revision and claw-back of bonuses four performance measures are applicable to the 2013 grant: As in 2015, no revision or claw-back of bonuses occurred in relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) versus a peer group, 2016. Return on Capital Employed (ROCE), Energy Efficiency Improvement (EEI) and the Greenhouse-gas Emissions (GHGE) Remuneration Managing Board and Executive Committee reduction over volume-related revenue. Each of these measures The remuneration of the members of the Managing Board is determines 25% of the total vesting percentage. The applicable determined by the Supervisory Board within the framework of vesting schemes for the three-year vesting period starting in the remuneration policy as approved by the Annual General 2013 were published in DSM’s 2013 Integrated Annual Report. Meeting of Shareholders. More details about the remuneration DSM’s TSR performance minus the peer group performance policy are included in the 'Report by the Supervisory Board' from over the vesting period did not result in the vesting of any shares, page 114 onwards. whilst the performance in terms of GHGE reduction led to full vesting on this measure. Overall this resulted in the vesting of Since 2015, DSM has had an Executive Committee, enabling 33% of the total amount of shares granted in 2013. faster strategic alignment and operational execution by increasing focus on the development of the business, innovation Pensions in 2016 and people. The members of the Executive Committee are the The members of the Managing Board participate in the Dutch Managing Board members Feike Sijbesma (CEO/Chairman), pension fund Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM Nederland (PDN). Geraldine Matchett (CFO), Stephan Tanda (Nutrition) and Dimitri This pension scheme for the Managing Board is equal to the de Vreeze (Materials), as well as Chris Goppelsroeder (Nutritional pension scheme for other DSM employees in the Netherlands. Products), Philip Eykerman (Strategy and M&A), Rob van Leen In 2016, a one-off pension contribution was made for the CEO. (R&D and Innovation) and Peter Vrijsen (People & Organization). The current pension plan for DSM in the Netherlands came into The members of the Executive Committee meet the definition of effect in 2011. As of 1 January 2015, the Dutch tax treatment of key management personnel. pension contributions changed resulting in a change to the DSM pension plan. As a consequence, DSM now offers two nonqualifying individual defined contribution plans to employees whose pensionable salary exceeds € 101,519 (2016 ceiling) per annum, including the Managing Board. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 200 www.dsm.com The total remuneration and related costs (including pension expenditures, other commitments, shortand long-term incentives) of the current members of the Managing Board amounted to € 10.0 million (2015: € 7.8 million). The increase was the result of a higher STI payout due to better performance and a one-time contribution of € 2.2 million regarding the pension of the CEO granted by the Supervisory Board in view of the fact that the CEO’s total compensation is clearly below targeted policy level, including salary and pension entitlement. The total remuneration and related costs (including pension expenditures, other commitments, shortterm and long-term incentives) of the other members of the Executive Committee amounted to € 5.7 million (2015: € 1.6 million; 4 months) in 2016. The cost of the remuneration of the individual members of the Managing Board and of the other members of the Executive Committee collectively was as follows: DSM’s remuneration for the Managing Board and the Executive Committee (IFRS defined reported costs for DSM, are not in all cases the compensation paid, nor the cash outflows for DSM) x € thousand Salary Short-term Pension1 Share-based2 Other items3 Total incentive expenditure compensation 2016 2015 2016 2015 20164 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Feike Sijbesma 900 870 743 522 206 180 811 709 50 47 2,710 2,328 2,2005 2,200 Geraldine Matchett 590 570 457 342 87 72 445 224 77 93 1,656 1,301 Stephan Tanda 590 570 434 348 116 92 531 464 111 62 1,782 1,536 Dimitri de Vreeze 590 570 457 342 100 85 496 372 40 88 1,683 1,457 Stefan Doboczky6 238 143 2497 576 4 1,210 Total Managing Board 2,670 2,818 2,091 1,697 2,709 678 2,283 2,345 278 294 10,031 7,832 Other members of the Executive Committee8 1,950 674 1,489 345 408 119 1,255 399 615 41 5,717 1,578 Total Executive Committee 4,620 3,492 3,580 2,042 3,117 797 3,538 2,744 893 335 15,748 9,410 1 The employers' pension expenditure increased due to an adjustment of the employer/employee ratio, not impacting the overall contribution to the net pension scheme. 2 Share-based compensation expense represents the non-cash cost for DSM of performance shares awarded to members of the Managing Board and stock options to other members of the Executive Committee. These costs are recognized over the vesting period of the performance shares and stock options and therefore cover several years. The vested shares/options can be lower than the granted amount. 3 Other items include company car and allowances. 4 The pension expenditure contains an age-dependent contribution for the salary exceeding € 101,519. For employees with a higher age, a higher contribution level is applicable. 5 This amount is a one-time additional pension contribution. 6 Left DSM to pursue career outside of the company as of 1 June 2015. 7 This amount includes € 212,645 in relation to the settlement of a pension arrangement. 8 From 1 September 2015 onwards. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 201 www.dsm.com Outstanding and exercised stock incentives The following table shows the stock incentives of the individual members of the Managing Board and the rights exercised. Overview of stock options Year of issue Outstanding In 2016 Outstanding1 Average Exercise price Expiry date at 31 Dec. Granted Exercised Forfeited/ at 31 Dec. share price at (€ ) 2015 expired 2016 exercise (€ ) Feike Sijbesma 2008 28,125 (28,125) 47.00 29.79 28 Mar 2016 2009 18,750 (18,750) 59.57 21.10 27 Mar 2017 Total 46,875 (46,875) Of which vested 46,875 Stephan Tanda 2008 22,500 (22,500) 47.00 29.79 28 Mar 2016 2009 15,000 (15,000) 60.00 21.10 27 Mar 2017 Total 37,500 (37,500) Of which vested 37,500 Dimitri de Vreeze 2008 22,500 (22,500) 47.10 29.79 28 Mar 2016 2009 18,000 (18,000) 60.75 21.10 27 Mar 2017 2010 18,000 18,000 33.10 6 Apr 2018 2011 18,000 18,000 46.20 2 May 2019 2012 12,000 12,000 40.90 15 May2020 2013 36,000 (24,000) 12,000 48.91 7 May 2021 Total 124,500 (40,500) (24,000) 60,000 Of which vested 88,500 60,000 1 Geraldine Matchett does not hold any stock options Since 2010, the Managing Board has been granted LTI performance shares instead of stock options. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 202 www.dsm.com Overview of performance shares Year of issue Outstanding In 2016 Outstanding Share price at 31 Dec. Granted Vested Forfeited / at 31 Dec. at date of 2015 expired 2016 grant (€ ) Feike Sijbesma 2013 24,000 (8,000) (16,000) 48.91 2014 28,822 28,822 49.88 2015 32,051 32,051 52.58 2016 36,350 36,350 48.79 Total 84,873 36,350 (8,000) (16,000) 97,223 Retained shares originated from performance shares 66,624 Geraldine Matchett 2015 27,008 27,008 52.58 2016 24,006 24,006 48.79 Total 27,008 24,006 51,014 Retained shares originated from performance shares Stephan Tanda 2013 16,000 (5,334) (10,666) 48.91 2014 18,990 18,990 49.88 2015 20,511 20,511 52.58 2016 24,064 24,064 48.79 Total 55,501 24,064 (5,334) (10,666) 63,565 Retained shares originated from performance shares 37,350 Dimitri de Vreeze 2014 16,910 16,910 49.88 2015 20,836 20,836 52.58 2016 24,005 24,005 48.79 Total 37,746 24,005 61,751 Retained shares originated from performance shares Purchasing shares In addition to the performance shares granted under the DSM Stock Incentive Plan, the current members of the Managing Board have themselves invested in DSM shares. All members of the Managing Board have purchased shares in the company to emphasize their confidence in the strategy and the company. At 31 December 2016, the members of the Managing Board together held 198,290 (2015: 161,853) shares in Koninklijke DSM N.V. These shares were bought through private transactions with private funds (including shares bought from earned STI) and obtained through vested performance shares. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 203 www.dsm.com Managing Board holdings of DSM shares 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Ordinary shares Holdings from Total Ordinary shares Holdings from Total purchased with vested holdings purchased with vested holdings private money performance private money performance shares shares Feike Sijbesma 58,376 66,624 125,000 48,973 58,624 107,597 Geraldine Matchett 4,384 4,384 878 878 Stephan Tanda 18,065 37,350 55,415 14,501 33,721 48,222 Dimitri de Vreeze 13,491 13,491 4,886 4,886 Stefan Doboczky1 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 24,017 n.a. Rolf-Dieter Schwalb2 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 53,832 n.a. Total holdings 94,316 103,974 198,290 69,238 170,194 161,583 1 Left DSM to pursue career outside of the company as of 1 June 2015 2 Retired as member of the Managing Board as of 1 December 2014 Loans The company does not provide any loans to members of the Managing Board. Supervisory Board remuneration in 2016 The remuneration package for the Supervisory Board comprises an annual fixed fee and an annual committee membership fee. In addition, Supervisory Board members receive an intercontinental travel allowance for each meeting that they attend outside their continent of residence. At the Annual General Meeting held on 29 April 2016, an increase of these fees and travel allowance was approved and applied as of that date. The intercontinental travel allowance is € 4,000 (2015: € 3,000) per meeting. The fixed fee per appointed year for the Chairman of the Supervisory Board is € 85,000 (2015: € 70,000). The other members of the Supervisory Board each receive a fixed fee of € 60,000 (2015: € 50,000). Audit Committee membership is awarded € 10,000 per member and € 15,000 (2015: € 12,500) for the Chairman. Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee and Sustainability Committee membership is awarded € 7,000 (2015: € 5,000) per member and € 10,000 (2015: € 7,500) for the Chairman. Overview of remuneration awarded to the Supervisory Board in 2016 The total remuneration (annual fixed fee, annual committee membership fee and other costs such as the intercontinental travel allowance) of the members of the Supervisory Board amounted to € 0.6 million (2015: € 0.5 million). The remuneration of the individual members of the Supervisory Board was as follows: Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 204 www.dsm.com Annual fixed fee Committee fee Other costs Total Total 2016 2015 Rob Routs, Chairman 80,000 15,500 1,250 96,750 83,750 Chairman Nomination Committee Member Remuneration Committee Tom de Swaan, Deputy Chairman as of 29 April 2016 56,667 20,500 2,437 79,604 69,954 Chairman Audit Committee Member Remuneration Committee Victoria Haynes 56,667 14,667 16,250 87,584 79,250 Member Audit Committee Member Remuneration Committee as of 29 April 2016 Pierre Hochuli 56,667 16,333 1,250 74,250 66,250 Member Audit Committee Member Sustainability Committee Eileen Kennedy 56,667 13,000 24,250 93,917 74,250 Chairman Sustainability Committee as of 29 April 2016 (member until 29 April 2016) Member Nomination Committee as of 29 April 2016 Ewald Kist, Deputy Chairman until 29 April 2016 16,667 4,167 906 21,740 64,954 Chairman Remuneration Committee Member Nomination Committee Pauline van der Meer Mohr 56,667 15,500 2,437 74,604 64,954 Chairman Remuneration Committee as of 29 April 2016 Chairman Sustainability Committee until 29 April 2016 Member Nomination Committee Pradeep Pant 40,000 11,333 20,938 72,271 Member Audit Committee as of 29 April 2016 Member Sustainability Committee Total 420,002 111,000 69,718 600,720 503,362 Total 2015 370,000 85,000 48,362 503,362 At year-end 2016, three members of the Supervisory Board held shares in Koninklijke DSM N.V.: Pierre Hochuli 7,210 (2015: 7,210), Victoria Haynes 300 (2015: 300) and Pauline van der Meer Mohr 1,029 (2015: 0). Loans The company does not provide any loans to members of the Supervisory Board. Heerlen, 2 March 2017 Heerlen, 2 March 2017 Managing Board, Supervisory Board, Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman Rob Routs, Chairman Geraldine Matchett, CFO Tom de Swaan, Deputy Chairman Dimitri de Vreeze Victoria Haynes Pierre Hochuli Eileen Kennedy Pauline van der Meer Mohr Pradeep Pant Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 205 www.dsm.com Other information Independent auditor's report We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. To: the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and the Supervisory Board of Koninklijke DSM N.V. Audit approach Summary Report on the accompanying financial statements 2016 Our opinion In our opinion: the accompanying consolidated financial statements give a • Overall materiality of € 30 million true and fair view of the financial position of Koninklijke DSM • 4.9% of adjusted N.V. (hereafter: Royal DSM) as at 31 December 2016, and of profit before tax from continuing operations its result and its cash flows for 2016 in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the Unqualified audit opinion Materiality European Union (EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code; Key audit matters Audit scope the accompanying parent company financial statements give • Goodwill Audit at (business) group a true and fair view of the financial position of Royal DSM as • Deferred tax assets and local entity level • POET DSM resulting in a coverage at 31 December 2016, and of its result for 2016 in accordance joint venture of 74% of net sales from with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code. • Alternative continuing operations Performance and 81% of Measures total assets What we have audited We have audited the financial statements 2016 of Royal DSM, based in Heerlen, the Netherlands. The financial statements include the consolidated financial statements and the parent company financial statements. Materiality Based on our professional judgment we determined the The consolidated financial statements comprise: materiality for the financial statements as a whole at € 30 million (2015: € 25 million). The materiality is determined with reference the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2016; to Adjusted profit before tax from continuing operations (Note 2: the following consolidated statements for 2016: the income € 609 million; 2015: € 427 million) of which it represents 4.9% statement, the statement of comprehensive income, the (2015: 5.9%). In addition, the appropriateness of the materiality statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement; and was assessed by comparing the amount to consolidated net the notes comprising a summary of the significant accounting sales from continuing operations of which it represents 0.4% policies and other explanatory information. (2015: 0.3%). We have also taken into account misstatements and/or possible misstatements that in our opinion are material The parent company financial statements comprise: for qualitative reasons for the users of the financial statements. the parent company balance sheet as at 31 December 2016; We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstatements in the parent company income statement for 2016; and excess of € 1 million (2015: € 1 million), which are identified the notes comprising a summary of the accounting policies during the audit, are reported to them, as well as smaller and other explanatory information. misstatements that in our view must be reported on qualitative grounds. Basis for our opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including Scope of the group audit the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under Royal DSM is head of a group of reporting entities (hereafter: those standards are further described in the ‘Our responsibilities entities). The financial information of this group is included in the for the audit of the financial statements’ section of our report. consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM. We are independent of Royal DSM in accordance with the Because we are ultimately responsible for the auditor’s report, Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij we are also responsible for directing, supervising and performing assurance-opdrachten (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional the group audit. In this respect we have determined the nature Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence) and and extent of the audit procedures to be carried out for entities other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands. reporting for group audit purposes. Decisive were the size and/ Furthermore, we have complied with the Verordening gedragsor the risk profile of the entities or operations. On this basis, we en beroepsregels accountants (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 206 www.dsm.com selected 27 entities (2015: 29 entities) to perform audits for used the work of local KPMG auditors when auditing or group reporting purposes on a complete set of financial performing specified audit procedures at business group and information as well as 14 entities (2015: 16 entities) to perform local entity level and Royal DSM’s investment in POET-DSM specified audit procedures for group reporting purposes on Advanced Biofuels LLC; specific items of financial information. used the work of local non-KPMG auditors when auditing Royal DSM’s investments such as Patheon, DSM Sinochem This resulted in a coverage of 74% (2015: 74%) of total net sales Pharmaceuticals, Ltd and ChemicaInvest Holding B.V. from continuing operations and 81% (2015: 75%) of total assets. The remaining 26% of total net sales from continuing operations The group audit team has set materiality levels for the entities, (2015: 26%) and 19% of total assets (2015: 25%) is represented which ranged from € 5 million to € 12.5 million (2015: € 5 million by a significant number of entities (‘Remaining entities’) none of to € 12.5 million), based on the mix of size and risk profile of the which individually represents more than 2% of total net sales entities within the group. from continuing operations and 1% of total assets. The group audit team provided detailed instructions to all For these remaining entities, we performed amongst others business group and local entity auditors part of the group audit, analytical procedures at (business) group level to validate our covering the significant audit areas, including the relevant risks assessment that there are no significant risks of material of material misstatement, and the information required to be misstatement within these entities. reported back to the group audit team. The group audit team visited entity locations in the United States of America, Switzerland and the shared service center in India (2015: United Total sales from continuing operations in % States of America, Switzerland, China, Brazil and the shared service center in India). Also Royal DSM’s investments in ■ Full scope audits ■ Central procedures remaining entities Patheon, POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels LLC and ■ Specified audit procedures ChemicaInvest Holding B.V. (2015: Patheon, POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels LLC) were visited by the group audit team. 26 Telephone conferences were held with all entity auditors part of the group audit. During these visits and telephone conferences, we discussed the audit approach and the audit findings and 55 observations reported to the group audit team. For a number of 19 these entities we also performed file reviews. By performing the procedures mentioned above at reporting entities, together with additional procedures at (business) group Total assets level, we have been able to obtain sufficient and appropriate in % audit evidence about the group’s financial information to provide ■ Full scope audits ■ Central procedures remaining entities an opinion about the financial statements. ■ Specified audit procedures Our key audit matters 19 Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial 11 statements. We have communicated the key audit matters to the Supervisory Board. The key audit matters are not a comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed. 70 These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole and in forming our opinion We have: thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. performed audit procedures ourselves at (business) group level in respect of areas such as the annual goodwill Compared to last year we have added as a key audit matter the impairment tests, other (in)tangible asset impairments, valuation of joint venture POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels LLC. accounting for associates and joint ventures, valuation of Last year’s key audit matters about the Transition as auditor and deferred tax assets, acquisitions, restructurings, treasury and the Assessment of the loss on disposal of the Polymer shared service centers; Intermediates and Composite Resins business are not included anymore in 2016, given the one-off nature of these matters in 2015. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 207 www.dsm.com Valuation of goodwill its markets and changes in regulations may impact these projections. Description Our response Royal DSM carries a significant amount of goodwill on the balance sheet. Under EU-IFRSs, the Company is required to test In this area, our audit procedures included, amongst others, the amount of goodwill for impairment at least annually. In case using our own tax specialists to assist us in assessing the of impairment triggers, goodwill requires impairment testing as appropriateness of the level of deferred taxes recognised in the well. The impairment tests were significant to our audit due to balance sheet. We paid attention to the long-term forecasts and the complexity of the assessment process and judgments and critically assessed the assumptions and judgments underlying assumptions involved, which are affected by expected future these forecasts by considering the historical accuracy of market and economic developments. forecasts and the sensitivities of the profit forecasts. We assessed the adequacy of the income tax disclosures (Note 7) Our response to the financial statements, setting out the basis of the deferred tax balance and the level of estimation involved. We challenged the cash flow projections included in the annual goodwill impairment tests. Our audit procedures included, Our observations amongst others, the involvement of a valuation specialist to assist us in evaluating the assumptions, in particular the terminal We found that the assumptions and estimates were within the growth and pre-tax discount rates, and the valuation acceptable range and that the disclosures (Note 7) were methodology used by Royal DSM. We furthermore assessed the proportionate. appropriateness of other data used by comparing them to external and historical data, such as external market growth Valuation of joint venture POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels expectations and by analyzing sensitivities in Royal DSM’s LLC valuation model. We specifically focused on the sensitivity in the available headroom for the cash generating units, evaluating Description whether a reasonably possible change in assumptions could cause the carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount and Royal DSM has a 50% investment in POET-DSM Advanced assessed the historical accuracy of management’s estimates. Biofuels amounting to € 117 million as at 31 December 2016. We assessed the adequacy of the disclosures (Note 8) to the This investment is classified as joint venture in accordance with financial statements. IFRS 11 and accounted for using the equity method. The POETDSM Advanced Biofuels joint venture is a start-up entity which Our observations experiences delays in the start-up of the factory. As in 2015, management concluded that delays in the start-up of the factory We consider management’s key assumptions and estimates to triggered an impairment test. This impairment test required be within the acceptable range and we assessed the disclosure significant management judgment in determining the expected (Note 8) to the financial statements being proportionate. We note cash flows to calculate the recoverable amount. Changes in, for that Royal DSM concluded from its impairment test that the example, projected volumes, related variable costs and the headroom for the cash generating unit DSM Biomedical is limited anticipated market price for bio-ethanol may impact the future and sensitive to changes in the assumptions. cash flow projections. Valuation of deferred tax assets Our response Description In our audit we assessed and tested the assumptions, methodologies, the weighted average cost of capital and other The group has a significant amount of deferred tax assets, mainly data used, for example by comparing them to external data. Key resulting from net operating losses. The valuation of deferred tax assumptions tested by us are expectations of revenue growth, assets is significant to our audit because the assessment margin improvements as a result of anticipated improvements in process is complex and is based on estimates of future taxable the factory, developments of the market price for bio-ethanol and income. The risk exists that future (fiscal) profits will not be anticipated continuation of the US renewable fuel standard sufficient to recover all or part of these deferred tax assets. subsidy program after 2022. We furthermore analyzed Management has supported the recoverability of the deferred sensitivities in Royal DSM’s valuation model. We included in our tax assets mainly with taxable income projections which contain team valuation specialists to assist us with these procedures. We estimates of and tax strategies for future taxable income. specifically focused on the sensitivities by evaluating whether a Changes in for example the industrial footprint, the business and reasonably possible change in assumptions could cause the carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 208 www.dsm.com We assessed the adequacy of the disclosure in Note 10 to the Five-year summary of key figures. financial statements. Based on the below procedures performed, we conclude that Our observations the other information: We consider management’s key assumptions and estimates to is consistent with the financial statements and does not be within the acceptable range and we assessed the disclosures contain material misstatements; (Note 10) to the financial statements as being proportionate. We contains the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the note that Royal DSM concluded from its impairment test that the Netherlands Civil Code. headroom for joint venture POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels LLC is limited and sensitive to changes in the assumptions. We have read the other information. Based on our knowledge and understanding obtained through our audit of the financial Alternative performance measures statements or otherwise, we have considered whether the other information contains material misstatements. Description By performing these procedures, we comply with the As in prior years, DSM makes use of Alternative performance requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code measures which are not defined by EU-IFRS. Compared with and the Dutch Standard on Auditing 720. The scope of the last year, Royal DSM has changed its presentation of exceptional procedures performed is substantially less than the scope of items in the income statement, which does not include those performed in our audit of the financial statements. alternative performance measures anymore. These Alternative performance measures are now disclosed in Note 2 to the The Managing Board is responsible for the preparation of the financial statements. The presentation of Alternative other information, including the Report by the Managing Board performance measures was significant to our audit, given the in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil size and nature of the amounts involved and the prominence Code and other Information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the given to the Alternative performance measures by management. Netherlands Civil Code. Our response Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Engagement We assessed the appropriateness of the basis for the We were appointed by the Annual General Meeting of adjustments between the EU-IFRS income statement and the Shareholders as auditor of Royal DSM on 7 May 2014, as of the Alternative performance measures and the consistent audit for year 2015 and have operated as statutory auditor since application thereof as deﬁned in Note 2 to the ﬁnancial then. statements. We tested these adjustments, through examination of the audit evidence obtained relating to the underlying Description of the responsibilities for the financial transactions and discussions with management. statements Responsibilities of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Our observations Board for the financial statements The Managing Board is responsible for the preparation and fair We consider that there is adequate disclosure of the nature and presentation of the financial statements in accordance with EUamounts of adjustments in accordance with the definition as IFRS and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code. described in Note 2, and determined that the definition of these Furthermore, the Managing Board is responsible for such adjustments is consistently applied. internal control as the Managing Board determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements that are free Report on the other information included in the Integrated from material misstatement, whether due to errors or fraud. Annual Report As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the In addition to the financial statements and our auditor’s report Managing Board is responsible for assessing the company’s thereon, the Integrated Annual Report contains other information ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial that consists of: reporting framework mentioned, the Managing Board should prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis Report by the Managing Board; of accounting unless the Managing Board either intends to Corporate governance and risk management report; liquidate the company or to cease operations, or has no realistic Report by the Supervisory Board; alternative but to do so. The Managing Board should disclose Other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the Netherlands Civil Code; Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 209 www.dsm.com company’s ability to continue as a going concern in the financial statements. The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the company’s financial reporting process, amongst other things. Our responsibilities for the audit of financial statements Our objective is to plan and perform the audit to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence for our opinion. Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not have detected all material errors and fraud during the audit. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our opinion. For a further description of our responsibilities in respect of an audit of financial statements, we refer to the website of the professional body for accountants in the Netherlands (NBA). https://www.nba.nl/Documents/Tools%20Vaktechniek/ Standaardpassages/ Standaardpassage_nieuwe_controletekst_oob_variant_% 20Engels.docx. Amstelveen, 2 March 2017 KPMG Accountants N.V. E.H.W. Weusten RA Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 210 www.dsm.com Independent auditor's assurance report Report on the sustainability information included in other parts of the Integrated Annual Report To: the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and the In addition to the Selected Sustainability Information and our Supervisory Board of Koninklijke DSM N.V. assurance report thereon, the Integrated Annual Report contains other sustainability information. Independent Auditor’s Assurance Report 2016 Our conclusion Based on the following procedures performed, we conclude that We have reviewed the sustainability information in the sections: the sustainability information included in other parts of the ‘Nourishing the Base of the Pyramid’, ‘DSM and the Sustainable Integrated Annual Report is consistent with the Selected Development Goals’, ‘Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Sustainability Information and does not contain material Growth’, ‘How DSM creates value for its stakeholders’, ‘Brighter misstatements. Living Solutions’, ‘Stakeholder engagement’, ‘People in 2016’, ‘Planet in 2016’, and ‘Sustainability statements’, as included in We have read the other parts of the Integrated Annual Report. the Integrated Annual Report (hereafter: the Selected Based on our knowledge and understanding obtained through Sustainability Information) over the year 2016 of Koninklijke DSM our review of the Selected Sustainability Information, we have N.V. (hereafter: Royal DSM), based in Heerlen, the Netherlands. considered whether the sustainability information included in other parts of the Integrated Annual Report contains material Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention to misstatements. indicate that the Selected Sustainability Information is not presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI The scope of the procedures performed is substantially less than Sustainability Reporting Standards and the internally developed the scope of those performed in our review of the Selected criteria as described in the section ‘Reporting policy’ on page Sustainability Information. 91. Responsibilities of Management for the Selected The Selected Sustainability Information includes prospective Sustainability Information information such as ambitions, strategy, plans, expectations and The Managing Board of Royal DSM is responsible for the estimates. Inherently the actual future results may differ from preparation of the Selected Sustainability Information in these and are therefore uncertain. We do not provide any accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards and assurance on the assumptions and achievability of prospective the internally developed criteria as described in the section information in the Selected Sustainability Information. ‘Reporting policy’ on page 91. Basis for our conclusion The Managing Board is also responsible for such internal control We have performed our review on the Selected Sustainability as it determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the Information in accordance with Dutch law, including Dutch Selected Sustainability Information that is free from material Standard 3810N: Assurance engagements relating to misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. sustainability reports, which is a specified Dutch standard that is based on the International Standard on Assurance Our responsibility for the review of the Selected Sustainability Engagements (ISAE) 3000: Assurance Engagements other than Information Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. Our responsibility is to plan and perform the review assignment in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate This review engagement aims to obtain limited assurance. Our assurance evidence for our conclusion. responsibilities under this standard are further described in the section ‘Our responsibilities for the review of the Selected A review is aimed to obtain a limited level of assurance. Sustainability Information‘ below. Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance are aimed at determining the plausibility of information and are less We are independent of Koninklijke DSM N.V. in accordance with extensive than those in a reasonable assurance engagement. the Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants The level of assurance obtained in review engagements is bij assurance-opdrachten (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional therefore substantially less than the level of assurance obtained Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence) and in an audit engagement. other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the Verordening gedragsWe apply the Nadere voorschriften accountantskantoren ter en beroepsregels accountants (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics). zake van assurance opdrachten (RA) (Regulations for Audit Firms Regarding Assurance Engagements) and accordingly We believe that the review evidence we have obtained is maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 211 www.dsm.com ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Misstatements can arise from fraud or errors and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the decisions of users taken on the basis of the Selected Sustainability Information. The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our review procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our conclusion. We have exercised professional judgement and have maintained professional scepticism throughout the review, in accordance with the Dutch Standard 3810N, ethical requirements and independence requirements. Our main procedures consisted of: Performing an analysis of the external environment, obtaining an understanding of relevant social trends and issues, and of the organization’s business; Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria and its consistent application, including the evaluation of the reasonableness of management’s estimates; Evaluating the design and implementation of the reporting systems and processes related to the information in the Selected Sustainability Information; Interviewing management and relevant staff at corporate and business group level responsible for the sustainability strategy and policy; Interviewing relevant staff responsible for providing the Selected Sustainability Information, carrying out internal control procedures on the data and consolidating the data in the Selected Sustainability Information; A limited number of visits to production sites to review the source data and the design and implementation of internal controls and validation procedures at local level; An analytical review of the data and trends submitted for consolidation at corporate level; Reviewing relevant data and evaluating internal and external documentation, based on limited sampling, to assess the accuracy of the information in the Selected Sustainability Information; and Reviewing the results of procedures performed by the Corporate Operational Audit department of Royal DSM with respect to sustainability information. Amstelveen, 2 March 2017 KPMG Accountants N.V. E.H.W. Weusten RA Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 212 www.dsm.com Special statutory rights On 31 December 2016, the board of the Foundation was composed as follows: DSM Preference Shares Foundation The DSM Preference Shares Foundation was established in Gerard Kleisterlee, Chairman 1989. Cees Maas, Vice-Chairman Mick den Boogert By virtue of DSM's Articles of Association, 375,000,000 cumulative preference shares B can be issued. The listing Important dates prospectus of 1989 stated that if, without the approval of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board, either a bid is made for the ordinary shares or a significant participation in ordinary Annual General Meeting of Shareholders shares is built up, or such an event is likely to occur, then these The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders is to be held at the DSM preference shares B may be issued, which shall have the same head office in Heerlen (Netherlands) on Wednesday, 3 May 2017 at voting rights as the ordinary shares. 14:00 hours CET. Under an agreement entered into in 1999, and subsequently Important dates amended, between the DSM Preference Shares Foundation and Publication of first-quarter results Tuesday, 2 May 2017 DSM, the Foundation has the right to acquire such preference Ex-dividend quotation Friday, 5 May 2017 shares (call option) to a maximum corresponding to 100% of the Publication of second-quarter capital issued in any form other than preference shares B, less results Tuesday, 1 August 2017 one. Publication of third-quarter results Thursday, 2 November 2017 The objective of the Foundation is to promote the interest of DSM, and the enterprise maintained by DSM and all parties connected therewith, whereby influences that would threaten the continuity, independence or identity, contrary to the aforementioned interests, are resisted to the maximum extent possible. The purpose of the agreement with the Foundation is, among other things, for the Foundation to allow DSM the opportunity to determine its position, for example with regard to a possible bidder for DSM shares or a party or parties tempting to obtain (de facto) control, to examine any plans in detail and, to the extent applicable, to look for (better) alternatives. Preference shares B will not be outstanding longer than necessary. As soon as there are no longer any reasons for the preference shares B to remain outstanding, the Managing Board will convene a General Meeting of Shareholders and recommend the cancellation of the preference shares B that are still outstanding. The Foundation acquired no preference shares B in 2016. The DSM Preference Shares Foundation is an independent legal entity within the meaning of article 5:71, first paragraph, under c of the Dutch Act on Financial Supervision (Wet op het financieel toezicht). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 213 www.dsm.com DSM figures: five-year summary Balance sheet x € million 20161 20151 20141 2013 2012 Assets Intangible assets 3,188 3,228 2,867 2,690 2,793 Property, plant and equipment 3,325 3,171 3,673 3,611 3,811 Deferred tax assets 355 366 427 364 340 Share in associates and joint ventures 586 644 617 247 27 Other financial assets 463 419 275 200 154 Non-current assets 7,917 7,828 7,859 7,112 7,125 Inventories 1,800 1,627 1,739 1,638 1,803 Current receivables 1,653 1,556 1,769 1,597 1,799 Financial derivatives 40 47 47 126 62 Current investments 944 9 6 19 12 Cash and cash equivalents 604 665 669 770 1,121 5,041 3,904 4,230 4,150 4,797 Assets held for sale 11 37 637 44 Current assets 5,041 3,915 4,267 4,787 4,841 Total assets 12,958 11,743 12,126 11,899 11,966 Equity and liabilities Shareholders' equity 6,072 5,541 5,723 5,908 5,874 Non-controlling interests 108 90 213 188 168 Equity 6,180 5,631 5,936 6,096 6,042 Deferred tax liabilities 278 319 365 375 236 Employee benefits liabilities 490 496 479 326 388 Provisions 128 98 105 97 125 Borrowings 2,552 2,557 1,637 1,725 1,922 Other non-current liabilities 158 228 81 75 94 Non-current liabilities 3,606 3,698 2,667 2,598 2,765 Employee benefits liabilities 40 44 45 34 42 Provisions 54 41 42 65 81 Borrowings 853 253 1,143 841 642 Financial derivatives 253 232 362 190 299 Current liabilities 1,972 1,842 1,915 1,845 2,081 3,172 2,412 3,507 2,975 3,145 Liabilities held for sale 2 16 230 14 Current liabilities 3,172 2,414 3,523 3,205 3,159 Total equity and liabilities 12,958 11,743 12,126 11,899 11,966 1 Application of IFRS 11 'Joint Arrangements' that came into effect from 1 January 2014. 2013 has been restated. The year 2012 has not been restated. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 214 www.dsm.com Income statement x € million 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Net sales 7,920 8,935 9,283 9,429 9,131 Adjusted EBITDA 1,262 1,170 1,166 1,312 1,109 EBITDA 1,146 1,046 1,134 1,187 941 Adjusted operating profit (EBIT) 791 650 617 773 635 Operating profit (EBIT) 657 304 290 476 441 Financial income and expense (133) (174) (125) (144) (109) Income tax expense (89) (68) (7) (76) (46) Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures 194 30 (59) 13 2 Profit for the year 629 92 99 269 288 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 8 4 (46) (2) 10 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 621 88 145 271 278 Dividend on cumulative preference shares (4) (10) (10) (10) (10) Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares 617 78 135 261 268 Key figures and financial ratios Capital employed1 7,889 7,553 8,105 8,060 8,084 Capital expenditure: Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment 485 570 616 694 715 Acquisitions 16 106 424 1,265 Disposals 87 307 93 78 46 Depreciation, amortization and impairments 489 742 798 730 500 Net debt (2,070) (2,321) (2,420) (1,841) (1,668) Dividend 310 297 296 297 263 Workforce at 31 December, headcount 20,786 20,796 21,351 23,485 23,498 Employee benefits costs (x € million) 1,752 1,778 1,713 1,822 1,761 Financial ratios1 ROCE in % 10.4 8.2 7.8 9.6 8.9 Net sales / average capital employed 1.04 1.13 1.17 1.18 1.29 Current assets / current liabilities 1.58 1.62 1.21 1.49 1.53 Equity / total assets 0.48 0.48 0.49 0.51 0.50 Gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt) 0.25 0.29 0.29 0.23 0.22 Adjusted EBIT / net sales in % 10.0 7.3 6.6 8.2 7.0 Net profit / average Shareholders' equity available to holders of ordinary shares in % 11.1 1.4 2.4 4.5 4.8 Adjusted EBITDA / Financial income and expense 9.5 7.4 9.9 9.6 10.2 1 Before reclassification to held for sale Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 215 www.dsm.com Information about ordinary DSM shares per ordinary share in € 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Adjusted Net profit 2.90 2.14 2.34 2.84 2.52 Net profit 3.52 0.45 0.78 1.52 1.62 Operating cash flow 5.79 3.93 4.62 5.74 4.35 Dividend: 1.751 1.65 1.65 1.65 1.50 Interim dividend 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.50 0.48 Final dividend 1.20 1.10 1.10 1.15 1.02 Pay-out including dividend on cumulative preference shares as % of Adjusted net profit 60 71 71 59 60 Dividend yield (dividend as % of average price of an ordinary DSM share) 3.3 3.4 3.3 3.2 3.7 Share prices on Euronext Amsterdam (closing price): Highest price 64.18 55.11 57.97 59.75 46.29 Lowest price 41.40 39.62 44.44 43.93 36.33 At 31 December 56.96 46.28 50.64 57.16 45.79 (x 1,000) Number of ordinary shares outstanding: At 31 December 175,002 174,923 173,537 173,963 168,684 Average 175,100 174,357 172,605 172,183 165,543 Daily trading volumes on Euronext Amsterdam: Average 787 912 801 728 823 Lowest 152 130 104 95 225 Highest 2,554 4,506 7,981 3,049 2,720 1 Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 216 www.dsm.com Explanation of some concepts and ratios PEOPLE methodology has been developed by DSM based on international standards, extensive road testing and external Eubiotics stakeholder dialogues. DSM takes an active approach to further Eubiotics is the science of hygienic and healthy living. The term harmonize and standardize this metrics in the Roundtable for is used to refer to a healthy balance of the micro-flora in the Product Social Metrics and World Business Council for gastrointestinal tract. Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Frequency Index (FI) REC-rate DSM all The Frequency Index is a way to measure safety performance. The REC-rate DSM all is the number of recordable injuries per The number of accidents of a particular category per 100 100 DSM employees and contractor employees in the past 12 employees per year. months: REC-rate = 100 * (number of RECs (past 12 months) / average effective manpower including contractor employees Inclusion Index (past 12 months)). The Inclusion Index is a subset of items in the Employee Engagement (Pulse) Survey to specifically measure Inclusion. Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) Inclusion is: “A working environment where all employees are a DSM’s policy is to maintain business activities and produce full and equal member of a team; where diverse perspectives are products that do not adversely affect safety or health, and that valued, and investment is made in their development; where fit with the concept of sustainable development. The company people are respected and able to contribute as they are and not does this by setting the following objectives: to provide an injuryhaving to conform; where they can reach their potential, and free and incident-free workplace; to prevent all work-related where they can speak up without fear of retribution. disabilities or health problems; to control and minimize the risks associated with DSM's products for their whole life cycle and to LWC-rate DSM own choose production processes and products such that the use The LWC-rate DSM own is the number of lost workday cases of raw materials and energy is minimized; to evaluate and per 100 DSM employees in the past 12 months: improve DSM's practices, processes and products continuously LWC-rate = 100 * (number of LWCs (past 12 months) / average in order to make them safe and acceptable to its employees, the effective manpower (past 12 months)). customers, the public and the environment. Occupational Health Case United Nations Global Compact This refers to any abnormal condition or disorder requiring A strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to medical treatment – other than one resulting directly from an aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accident – caused by, or mainly caused by, repeated exposure accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, to work-related factors. environment and anti-corruption. People+ United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights Brighter Living Solutions are products and services that, when On 10 December 1948, the General Assembly of the United considered over their whole life cycle, offer a clear environmental Nations adopted and proclaimed the Universal Declaration of benefit (ECO+) and/or a social benefit (People+). People+ Human Rights. Following this historic act, the Assembly called solutions are products and services that, when considered over upon all Member countries to publicize the text of the Declaration their whole life cycle, offer a clear social benefit compared to the and 'to cause it to be disseminated, displayed, read and mainstream reference solutions. The social benefit can occur at expounded principally in schools and other educational any stage of the product life cycle. People+ solutions, in short, institutions, without distinction based on the political status of create more value with a better social impact. The qualification countries or territories'. People+ is based upon the DSM People Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) method or expert opinion. For the definition of mainstream PLANET competing/reference solutions, please see the company website. Biofuel A fuel which is derived from renewable organic resources, as People Life Cycle Assessment (People LCA) distinct from one which is derived from non-renewable resources The People LCA identifies the social impacts of products over its such as oil and natural gas. life cycle on the dimensions of health, comfort and well-being, working conditions and community development. The Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 217 www.dsm.com Carbon footprint Eco-efficiency The total set of direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Eco-efficiency is a concept (created in 1992 by WBCSD) that expressed as CO2eq. refers to the creation of more goods and services while using less resources and creating less waste and pollution throughout Circular economy their entire life cycle. DSM applies the concept to its ECO+ Circular economy refers to an economy that is restorative and in program. In the context of DSM’s SHE targets, eco-efficiency which materials flows are of two types: biological nutrients, relates specifically to the reduction of emissions and energy and designed to re-enter the biosphere safely, and technical water consumption, relative to the production volumes of DSM’s nutrients, which are designed to circulate at high quality without plants. entering the biosphere throughout their entire lifecycle. Greenhouse-gas emissions (GHGE) reduction over volumeCO2 related revenue (VRR) Carbon dioxide, a gas that naturally occurs in the atmosphere. The GHGE definition is according to the Kyoto Protocol and It is part of the natural carbon cycle through photosynthesis and includes carbon dioxide (CO2), methane, nitrous oxide (N2O), respiration. It is also generated as a by-product of combustion. sulfur hexafluoride, hydrofluorocarbons and perfluorocarbons. Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas. VRR is net sales adjusted for changes in selling prices, exchange rates and the impact of acquisitions and divestments. GHGE/ Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) VRR is one of the ratios in the Long-Term Incentive part of the COD is an indicator of the degree of pollution of waste water by Managing Board remuneration and relates to a three-year organic substances. period. ECO+ Greenhouse-gas emissions (GHGE) efficiency improvement Brighter Living Solutions are products and services that, when The GHGE efficiency improvement is the amount of GHG considered over their whole life cycle, offer a clear environmental emissions per unit of output (specific emissions) in a given year benefit (ECO+) and/or a social benefit (People+). ECO+ is DSM’s compared to the specific emissions in the prior year. GHG program for the development of sustainable, innovative products efficiency improvements are one of the ratios in the Long-Term and solutions with environmental benefits. Products qualify as Incentive part of the Managing Board remuneration and relate to ECO+ when their environmental impact is lower than competing a three-year period. mainstream solutions that fulfill the same function. The environmental benefits can be created at any stage of the GRI product life cycle, from the raw materials through to The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) has developed Sustainability manufacturing and potential re-use and end-of-life disposal. Reporting Guidelines that strive to increase the transparency and ECO+ solutions, in short, create more value with the least accountability of economic, environmental, and social environmental impact. The qualification ECO+ is based upon performance. The GRI was established in 1997 in partnership internal expert opinions where various impact categories are with the United Nations’ Environment Programme. It is an evaluated. For a growing number of products these expert international, multi-stakeholder and independent institution opinions are supported by Life Cycle Assessments (LCA). As of whose mission is to develop and disseminate globally applicable 2016, the expert opinion process will be prescribed to harmonize Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. These Guidelines are for the processes for expert opinion and LCA-based ECO+ voluntary use by organizations for reporting on the economic, solutions. For the definition of mainstream competing/reference environmental, and social dimensions of their activities, solutions, please see the company website. products, and services. Environmental Life Cycle Assessment (Eco LCA) Loss of Primary Containment (LOPC) The Environmental Life Cycle Assessment (Eco LCA) identifies Loss of Primary Containment is an unplanned or uncontrolled the material, energy and waste flows associated with a product release of material from the container that is in direct contact with or process over its entire life cycle to determine environmental the material. impacts and potential improvements; this full life cycle approach is also referred to as ‘Cradle to Grave’. It is also possible to N assess a partial life cycle of a product or process with the most Nitrogen. A mostly inert gas constituting 78% of the earth’s common type being ‘Cradle to Gate’ which assesses the atmosphere, nitrogen is present in all living organisms. environmental impacts of a manufacturing process without accounting for use phase or end of life impacts. There are many N2O different environmental impact categories that can be assessed Nitrous oxide. A gas that is formed during combustion. When using LCA; at DSM the standard approach is to evaluate the emitted to the environment, it contributes to global warming. carbon footprint and eco-footprint, published by the WBCSD Chemical Sector in 2014. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 218 www.dsm.com NOx Disposals Nitrogen oxides. These gases are released mainly during This includes the disposal of intangible assets and property, combustion and cause acidification. plant and equipment as well as the disposal of participating interests and other securities. Renewable resource A natural resource which is replenished by natural processes at Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization a rate comparable to, or faster than, its rate of consumption by (EBITDA) humans or other users. The term covers perpetual resources EBITDA is the sum total of operating profit plus depreciation and such as solar radiation, tides, winds and hydroelectricity as well amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is the EBITDA adjusted for as fuels derived from organic matter (bio-based fuels). material items of profit or loss coming from acquisitions/ divestments, restructuring and other circumstances that SO2 management deem it necessary to adjust in order to provide Sulfur dioxide. This gas is formed during the combustion of fossil clear-reporting on the underlying developments of the business. fuels and causes acidification. Earnings per ordinary share VOC Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. Volatile organic compounds. The term covers a wide range of minus dividend on cumulative preference shares, divided by the chemical compounds, such as organic solvents, some of which average number of ordinary shares outstanding. can be harmful. Innovation sales Water use and water consumption Innovation sales are defined as products and applications that Water use includes water used for ‘once-through cooling’ that have been introduced over the last five years. is returned to the original water source after use. Water consumption is the portion of water used that is not returned to Operating working capital the original water source after being withdrawn. The total of inventories and trade receivables, less trade payables. PROFIT Organic sales growth General Organic sales growth is the total impact of volume and price/mix. In calculating financial profitability ratios, use is made of the Impact of acquisitions and divestments as well as currency average of the opening and closing values of balance sheet items impact are excluded. in the year under review. Return on capital employed (ROCE) The financial indicators per ordinary share are calculated on the Adjusted operating profit as a percentage of weighted average basis of the average number of ordinary shares outstanding capital employed. (average daily number). In calculating Shareholders’ equity per ordinary share, however, the number of shares outstanding at Total shareholder return (TSR) year-end is used. Total shareholder return is capital gain plus dividend paid. In calculating the figures per ordinary share and the ‘net profit as Working capital a percentage of average Shareholders’ equity available to The total of inventories and current receivables, less current holders of ordinary shares’, the amounts available to the holders payables. of cumulative preference shares are deducted from the profits and from Shareholders’ equity. Capital employed The total of the carrying amount of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, inventories, trade receivables and other receivables, less trade payables and other current liabilities. Capital expenditure This includes all investments in intangible assets and property, plant and equipment as well as the acquisition of subsidiaries and associates and related cash flows. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 219 www.dsm.com List of abbreviations ABS Acrylonitrile Butadiene Styrene LCA Life Cycle Assessment ADR American Depositary Receipts LoR Letter of Representation AFM Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets LTI Long-Term Incentive API Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients LWC Lost Workday Case ARA Arachidonic acid NGO Non-Governmental Organization BIO Biotechnology Industry Organization NPS Net Promoter Score BRA Business Risk Assessment OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development CDP The new name for the Carbon Disclosure Project OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer CEFIC Conseil Européen des Fédérations de l'Industrie Chimique PA Polyamide (European Chemical Industry Council) PBT Polybutylene Terephthalate CGU Cash Generating Unit PDN Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM Nederland COA Corporate Operational Audit department PE Polyethylene CoBC Code of Business Conduct PEA Polyesteramide COD Chemical Oxygen Demand PET Polyethylene Terephthalate CPLC Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition PPA Purchase Price Allocation CRA Corporate Risk Assessment PPS Polyphenylene Sulfide CRP Corporate Research Programme PRA Process Risk Assessment CSD Corporate Strategy Dialogue PSI Process Safety Incident CSR Corporate Social Responsibility R&D Research & Development DHA Docosahexaenoic acid REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of DNCC DSM Nanjing Chemical Co., Ltd. Chemical substances DNP DSM Nutritional Products RFQ Request For Quote DSGC Dutch Sustainable Growth Coalition ROCE Return on Capital Employed DSP DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals SAM Sustainable Asset Management EBA Emerging Business Area SAR Share Appreciation Rights EBIT Earnings before interest and taxes (Operating Profit) SDG Sustainable Development Goal EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization SHE Safety, Health and Environment EEI Energy Efficiency Improvement SSP Supplier Sustainability Program EPA Eicosapentaenoic Acid STI Short-Term Incentive FIFO First in, first out SUN Scaling Up Nutrition Movement FTE Full-time equivalent SVHC Substances of Very High Concern GDP Gross Domestic Product TDC Total Direct Compensation GHG Greenhouse-gas TSR Total Shareholder Return GHGE Greenhouse-gas emissions UN United Nations GHS Globally Harmonized System UNGC United Nations Global Compact GMM Genetically Modified Micro-organisms VOC Volatile Organic Compound GRI Global Reporting Initiative VRR Volume-Related Revenue IAS International Accounting Standards WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable Development IASB International Accounting Standards Board WEF World Economic Forum IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee WFP United Nations World Food Programme IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards ILO International Labour Organization IP Intellectual Property IPO Initial Public Offering Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2016 220 www.dsm.com Questions about or feedback on this report can be addressed to: Royal DSM P.O. Box 6500 6401 JH Heerlen The Netherlands T +31 (0)45 578 8111 E media.contacts@dsm.com W www.dsm.com For the printing of this report 100% biological ink and FSC-paper was used. This report is printed carbon neutral.
