Strength in Unity UNITY RESOURCES GROUP PTE LTD COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS (COP) TO UN GLOBAL COMPACT FEBRUARY 2017 Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd unityresourcesgroup.com Strength in Unity Mr Ban Ki-Moon Secretary-General of the United Nations United Nations New York NY 10017 USA 20 February 2017 Dear Secretary-General, Re: Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd Participation in the UN Global Compact. I am pleased to confirm that Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd (hereafter “Unity”) continues to actively support the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Unity is committed to advancing the Ten Principles, as well as the Sustainable Development Goals (“SDGs”) throughout our business. We are dedicated to making the UN Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day to day operations of our company. Unity continues to make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the UN Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s effort to implement the ten principles along with the SDGs. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore submit the attached report and commit to report on progress annually according to the UN Global Compact COP policy. Yours sincerely, Gordon Conroy Executive Chairman Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd unityresourcesgroup.com Strength in Unity Contents INTRODUCTION .................................................................................................................... 4 OVERVIEW ........................................................................................................................... 4 VALUES ................................................................................................................................ 4 SERVICES.............................................................................................................................. 4 ETHICS ................................................................................................................................. 4 CODE OF CONDUCT ............................................................................................................. 5 INTERNATIONAL CODE OF CONDUCT (ICOC)................ ERROR! BOOKMARK NOT DEFINED. UNITY COMMUNITY RELATIONS POLICY ............................................................................. 5 LOCAL INDUSTRY PARTICIPATION/LOCAL CONTENT .......................................................... 5 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ......................................................................... 5 OUR PROMISE ..................................................................................................................... 5 THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT............................................................ 6 MEASUREMENT AND OUTCOMES ...................................................................................... 12 CONCLUSION ..................................................................................................................... 12 Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd unityresourcesgroup.com Strength in Unity INTRODUCTION OVERVIEW Unity is a trusted and reliable solutions provider of land and air services in complex environments, where dependable infrastructure may not be present. We work in partnership with our clients to deliver resilience and improved results across their business projects. Our innovative approach to the delivery of tailored support services makes us the partner of choice to our diverse global client base. Unity has developed the business by independently winning and managing a number of large contracts covering a broader range of consultancy services to assist our clients to enter new markets, set up and secure their operations and provide on-going facilities and consultation services to ensure success. Unity's global footprint includes over 1200 staff operating from a network of global offices across Australasia, Africa, the Americas, the Middle East and Europe. We support a wide range of clients in the public and private sectors including governments, resource sector clients, international organisations, the world’s leading commercial brands and public identities, as well as development and not for profit organisations VALUES We employ the following values throughout our business: > Trust > Respect > Integrity > Accountability/Responsibility > Courage > Resilience SERVICES Unity provides a range of services internationally: > Security > Advisory > Crisis Management > Facilities Management > Aviation ETHICS Unity is an ethical leader in the security and risk management industry; compliant with all rules, regulations and legislations. We value our people, our clients and respect the countries in which we operate. Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd unityresourcesgroup.com Strength in Unity CODE OF CONDUCT Unity’s Code of Conduct was derived from the Code of Conduct of the International Stability Operations Association (“ISOA”) and the International Code of Conduct (“ICOC”). The key elements of both codes clearly embrace and reflect good industry practices as supported by the Montreux Document released by the UN in 2008 (UN A/63/467-S2008/636). Unity understands the importance of safeguarding the integrity of company personnel and members of local communities, and is committed to fulfilling its humanitarian responsibilities towards all those affected by its business activities. We recognise a commitment to act in a manner consistent with the laws of the countries within which we are present, to be mindful of the highest international standards, and to promote the observance of applicable international law enforcement principles (e.g. the UN Code of Conduct for Law Enforcement Officials and the UN Basic Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms by Law Enforcement Officials). UNITY COMMUNITY RELATIONS POLICY Unity is well aware of the impact that the companies activities may have on local communities, as well as the benefits of our presence. We recognise the value of engaging with civil society, as well as host governments to contribute to the welfare of the local community. LOCAL INDUSTRY PARTICIPATION/LOCAL CONTENT Unity’s global indigenous employment strategy aims to promote the development and growth of local industry through increased local employment, training and career development opportunities across its worldwide operations. It also embraces local procurement solutions where these values add to the local economy and do not materially risk the quality or timeline of project deliverables. CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Unity ensure that all personnel, suppliers and clients are engaged and doing the utmost to adhere to the high standards of Unity’s Code of Conduct and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) program. All Country Managers and Senior Management are responsible for regular reporting and meetings to discuss what we are doing and how we can do more. OUR PROMISE To provide full, fair and reasonable opportunity for local industry to contribute to client projects and maximise local industry participation where it is capable and competitive on the basis of health, safety and environment, quality, cost and delivery. Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd unityresourcesgroup.com Strength in Unity THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS APPROACH PRACTICAL IMPLEMENTATION PRINCIPLE 1 Unity is an ethical leader in expeditionary Unity offers emergency medical care and Businesses environments. We have made it our policy to shelter in areas that have endured natural should remain compliant with all rules, regulations and disaster. In situations where a natural risk support and legislations in areas where we operate. We remains, we also offer an emergency respect the value our people, our clients and respect the evacuation service. protection of countries in which we operate. Internationally We recruit Local National personnel without proclaimed Before engagement with suppliers, venders and discrimination against gender or ethno-religious human rights clients Unity carries out an exhaustive due background. As an example across sixteen within their diligence process designed to ensure admin staff in Iraq, eight are women, including sphere of compatibility with Unity’s compliance policies, two Christians. This is further amplified in the influence including the Ten Principles. mix of Kurdish, Shia and Sunni personnel employed on our projects. We aim to reduce Unity actively supports the humanitarian inequalities, therefore no set gender or religious requirements, defence and reconstruction of faction is recruited; rather, we embrace a communities in areas of the world that suffer “strength comes from the sum of all parts” from conflict and natural disaster. With inapproach, with the ability to understand and house capabilities to manage all aspects of operate in Kurdish, Sunni and Shia areas by shipping, aircraft and trucking as well as embracing the knowledge and backgrounds of providing other support services, we offer our employees. clients a close partnership that addresses their particular needs in fulfilling complex multidisciplined projects in suffering communities. PRINCIPLE 2 Unity takes workplace relations seriously. All Unity’s Whistle Blower policy allows employees constituents of Unity follow the appropriate and contractors to draw the attention of Senior Make sure they are not complicit labour laws for all countries of operation. Management to any perceived human rights in human rights Where we believe local labour laws do not meet abuse. abuses our high standards, we strive to offer employees All expats have background checks prior to greater working conditions and benefits. Unity completing Unity contracts. Similarly, Local has a comprehensive Group-wide Occupational National personnel are cleared through the Health and Safety Policy and additionally the Ministry of Interior (or appropriate government Group has formal specific policies covering department) who check for any background of areas such as: Staff Welfare, Risk Management, terrorist or human rights abuses. Health and Safety, Environment, and Alcohol and Drugs abuse. Any or all of these are The welfare of Local National employees is available to staff and all staff are to be fully constantly reviewed. Many of the Local conversant with these as a condition of their Nationals working on projects do so at Contract. significant risk to themselves and their families. Accordingly, respect of their privacy and a large Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd unityresourcesgroup.com Strength in Unity degree of anonymity is afforded. Where an employee indicates they are threatened or are facing hardship, all efforts are made to assist them wherever possible. LABOR STANDARDS PRINCIPLE 3 The Unity executive team are committed Unity has a consultation arrangement which to building an organisation that people encourages cooperation and engagement of Businesses should uphold the want to be a part of. employees and management. This enables all freedom of Unity employees to voice any concerns over Our goal is to have a professional, engaged association and working conditions and rights. Recently this and flexible workforce operating in a the effective initiative led to employees receiving additional recognition of the successful and positive environment. leave time, above local labour law right to collective The responsibility for this is shared by all requirements, in order to respect religious bargaining personnel, suppliers and clients. holidays from a variety of cultures. Unity understands and respects our employees’ rights in relation to freedom of association and the right to representation at work, including actively allowing our employees to be able to make a free and informed choice about whether to join a union and be represented at work. Our projects, through promotion of inclusion and active engagement, seek feedback from the Local National Staff regularly, particularly on issues of potential sensitivity. A key element of this is our Situational Awareness Team who act as a compass on cultural and protocol issues in countries of operation. Staff are also encouraged to provide feedback via their chain of command, or if there is an issue of a sensitive nature, then they can approach the Project Manager directly. A weekly meeting is held where all Staff are present and any questions for an open forum response / discussion are raised. Similar “Toolbox” meetings are held by each individual project team. Communication is open and honest. Feedback is welcomed and acted on. Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd unityresourcesgroup.com Strength in Unity PRINCIPLE 4 Unity takes a strong standpoint against In each country of operation, the Unity Country inhumane labour practices. In all countries of Director is required to report any incident Elimination of all forms of forced and operation, Unity employs staff in accordance involving labour irregularities. Our Group compulsory labour with or above local labour laws and is fully Human Resources and Legal teams oversee the compliant with the relevant labour codes. employment and contract process for each and Unity maintains policies and procedures every member of staff. We also employ including Employee Relations Management specialists to further enhance our commitment Plans and Industrial Relations Plans. Our to maintaining fair labour practices. We are Grievance Policy and Whistleblower Policy also dedicated to being a best practice employer. enables any person to report incidents of Unity is confident that its processes have concern. ensured that all personnel are employed at the will of both the employee and Unity, in accordance with, or above, local labour laws. PRINCIPLE 5 Unity is against the exploitation of children, Country Management Teams are required to through direct employment or indirectly. Our conform to our Code of Conduct and policies Effective abolition of child labour wider polices flow down to all sub-contractors for recruitment. Unity’s screening and vetting and consultants. procedures ensures that all staff are of legal employment age. This is confirmed by national ID card checks in the country of operation. This process is overseen by Unity’s group Human Resources and Legal teams. For example, in Iraq we ensure that each candidate undergoes a compliance check with the Ministry of Labour who set a higher minimum age for employment. Documents are then further checked by our Human Resources and in-house Legal team before contractual and employment terms are approved. Our contracts in Iraq abide by the Iraqi Ministry of Interior Laws and Ministry of Labour laws. We are proud to ensure that all government labour requirements are met and embraced with strict vigilance. No employee comes onto a contract without an appropriate level of experience and training. PRINCIPLE 6 Unity believes in equal opportunities and Unity’s global indigenous employment Eliminate outcomes regardless of nationality or gender. strategy aims to promote the development discrimination This involves the removal of discrimination and growth of local industry through increased in respect of and structural inequalities in access to indigenous employment, training and career employment resources, opportunities and services, and development opportunities. This embraces and occupation the promotion of equal rights. Promoting local procurement solutions where these Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd unityresourcesgroup.com Strength in Unity equality, Unity will take into account and values add to the local economy and do not recognise employee differences and risk the quality or timeline of project background/experience for diverse roles and deliverables. needs, and takes these into account in Unity actively follows a stringent recruitment development planning and programmes. policy which is built on gender equality and the absolute avoidance of discrimination of all kinds. For example, we employ over 50 women in various roles across ten countries, which we believe is significantly higher than industry norms. We also have a number of women in our Senior Management team, who provide a central role in the strategy and decision making process. Similarly, the recruitment process for aviation positions is based on skills, qualifications, experience on aircraft type and security clearance/assessment. The process is therefore performance based and is blind to issues of gender, sexuality, race, religious beliefs etc. THE ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Unity is well aware of the impact that the Unity maintains an Environmental Policy that Businesses companies activities may have on local provides guidance for our programmes and should support communities. As such we recognise the value projects. We give strong emphasis to EHS a precautionary of engaging with civil society and host and Policies and Plans on all Projects. approach to home governments to contribute to the environmental For example, our aviation programme confirms welfare of the local community while challenges to best industry standards. We are constantly mitigating any potential for conflict where reviewing this procedure to ensure that it possible. remains up to date. Unity has received ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management Systems accreditation. The operating environment in Iraq is not overly conducive to good environmental practices. The culture of the country is not one of recycling, ethical waste removal or even the most basic of environmental education, due to conflict since early 2003. Unity’s contracts in this region try to lead by example by recycling and practicing environmentally friendly waste disposal. Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd unityresourcesgroup.com Strength in Unity PRINCIPLE 8 Unity is committed to appropriate on-going Unity ensures that any individual performing Undertake monitoring of environmental impacts in tasks for Unity (or on Unity’s behalf) are initiatives to performance of its personnel, activities, competently educated and experienced in the promote resources, equipment and implementation of appropriate environment. greater improvements where necessary. environmental Unity keeps track of its training needs responsibility Unity supplies its products and services within associated with environmental aspects and the scope of its certification to ISO 14001:2004 will provide continuing training to meet these Environmental Management Systems needs. Standard. We have introduced a policy to ensure that all Quality Assurance is also a high priority for our operations recycle waste where possible. Unity and as such, it conforms to the We have advised all operations to print only certification requirements of the ISO when absolutely necessary. Unity seeks to only 9001:2008 Quality Management Systems use paper companies that are ISO 14001 Standard. endorsed, seeking to reduce the organisations carbon footprint. Unity has achieved this by promoting a culture of printing only when absolutely necessary. PRINCIPLE 9 Our approach will always consider the Innovative technologies are considered at our Encourage the environment and community through culturally project design stage. We can provide solar development integrated solutions such as engaging local photovoltaic, solar water heating, portable and diffusion of resources and staff, where possible, in order to water condenser technology and biomass environmentally have a positive effect on the local economy and digesters to our clients in order to reduce the friendly community as well as to minimise our carbon negative impact on the local environment. technologies footprint. We provide training and mentoring For example, our Aviation Department is for local staff to provide project support which, currently researching biofuel use for our in turn, leads to a skilled, experienced and selfaircrafts, in the aim for affordable and clean sufficient workforce for future employment. energy. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 Unity has a clear policy on unethical behaviours All staff have signed the Unity Code of Conduct Businesses and improper actions and each employee is and are aware of the effect that unethical should work required to sign a Code of Conduct. behaviour has on the fragile operating against environments in which Unity works. corruption in all its forms, Unity has ensured that transparency and including compliance is a central theme in the way that extortion and we conduct business. For example, undergoing bribery audits by one of the “Big Four” accounting firms as part of our bid to ensure that our business can demonstrate complete financial transparency. Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd unityresourcesgroup.com Strength in Unity By nature of the Clients we work for, anticorrupt practices are at the forefront of our Operations. Unity has a “no gifts” policy which extends to our personnel and their interaction with local authorities. We do not exchange gifts or favours to local agencies or any other party. Furthermore, a culture of being a “good corporate citizens” is encouraged. By abiding by local rules and laws, completing correct and proper paperwork, following all steps in application processes, and only paying applicable fees as opposed to any unexplained add on, we minimise corrupt practices and being unwittingly a party to it. Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd unityresourcesgroup.com Strength in Unity MEASUREMENT AND OUTCOMES All Country Directors and Senior Managers must achieve a Board endorsed Key Performance Indicator (“KPI”), concerning the active implementation of Unity’s Code of Conduct and CSR program, including the Ten Principles. Regular management meetings take place to outline and review Unity’s policies and procedures. This process also highlights shortfalls and areas for improvement. Guidelines for Corporate Social Responsibility targets are formulated at Board level with the input of senior management and circulated accordingly. The results of our quantitative/qualitative assessment is communicated to all stakeholders annually so that the organisation and other interested parties can track our performance. This enables us to foster a corporate environment of transparency and accountability. CONCLUSION Unity values being a participant in the UN Global Compact. We believe that our active participation reflects our commitment to align operations and strategies with universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Unity continually measures its activities and those of its personnel, suppliers, venders and clients against the Ten Principles as part of our wider CSR Programme. In addition, more than one of the SDGs, such as gender equality, reducing inequalities, and affordable and clean energy, are currently part of Unity’s business model. The measurement of Unity’s activities in relation to the Ten Principles and SDGs is done through regular reporting from Country Managers and Senior Managers, board meetings, and a questionnaire sent to our entire staff. The results help to identify areas of improvement. Overall, our corporate ethos is integrally structured towards minimising negative influence and maximising positive impact in the areas in which we operate. Unity Resources Group makes no representations or warranties with respect to the contents or use of this document, and specifically disclaims any express or implied warranties or usefulness for any particular purpose of this publication. This document is not to be used by any third party with without the written approval of Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd. Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd unityresourcesgroup.com
