Eurrotech UN U Globaal Comppact Com mmunicaation Onn Progress Repo rting Period: May 2016 Apri l 2017 [this pagge intentionally left blank] 2 Glob bal Compact – C ommunication On Progress 20166-207 Index Introduction ..................................................................................................................................................... 5 Statemment from Eurrotech CEO ....................................................................................................................... 7 SECTTION: Human Rights ............................................................................................................................... 9 SECTTION: Labour ......................................................................................................................................... 11 Collective Bargaaining ................................................................................................................................ 13 SECTTION: Environment ................................................................................................................................ 14 Prooducts and Seervices: Defenders of the ennvironment ........................................................................... 15 SECTTION: Anti-corrruption............................................................................................................................. 20 Reseaarch Activitiess ....................................................................................................................................... 21 Otherr Activities andd Recognitionss ................................................................................................................. 23 Futuree goals .................................................................................................................................................. 25 Conclusion .................................................................................................................................................... 26 3 Glob bal Compact – C Communication On Progress 20166-207 [this pagge intentionally left blank] 4 Glob bal Compact – C ommunication On Progress 20166-207 INTR RODUCT TION The UN Global Compact “G GC” was bo orn to prom mote a susta ainable globbal economy y that respe ects the mo ost fundammental huma an rights as s well as th he planet’s delicate na atural envirronment. Itt was pres sented by UN Secrettary Kofi Annan A at tthe 1999 World W Econ nomic Foru um “WEF” in Davos, Switzerlan nd. There is i an inherrent symb biosis betwween the WE EF and the GC since the WEF is s “Committe ed to improvving the sta ate of the w world by en ngaging bu usiness, pollitical, acaddemic and other leadeers of socie ety to shap pe global, re egional and industry ag gendas.” Its s annual me eeting is hosst to nearly 3000 of thhe world’s top t businesss leaders, politicians, economistts and jourrnalists and they discuuss the most m pressing matterss facing th he world. Sustainablle Develop pment repreesents one of the mos st critical isssues that must be co onfronted aas resources are explooited to de epletion wh hile popula ations explode. Adhe erence to iits principle es is volunntary and thherefore it does d not se erve a regullatory function for com mpanies. Ins stead it is a forum fo or dialogue and, it pro omotes pro ojects and initiatives tthat supporrt the Susta ainable Devvelopment Goals. Its vvoluntary na ature is proof that signnatories are e both profooundly serioous and enthusiastic in their pursu uit of sustainnable develoopment. In 20009 Eurotecch joined th he Global C Compact and d presented d its first coommunicatio on on progress outlining its vis sion and th he measurres it takes to prom mote sustainable deve elopment an nd the ten principles of the Global Compact. This document contains: c  A statemment from our CEO e expressing Eurotech’s s continuedd support of o the Global Compact C  An illustration of Euurotech’s a ctions to promote Sus stainable D Development and specific response too each of th he principless of the Global Compacct  Future goals g and co onclusions 5 Glob bal Compact – C Communication On Progress 20166-207 The e 10 Princ ciples off the Glo obal Com mpact Hum man Rights s Prrinciple 1 Businesses should d support and res spect the protection n of internationally recog nized procla aimed human rights; aand Prrinciple 2 Make sure that theyy are not complicit in hu uman rightss abuses Laboour Prrinciple 3 Businesses should uphold th he freedom m of assocciation and d the effective recognition r of the rightt to collectiv ve bargaininng; Prrinciple 4 The elimination of al l forms of foorced and compulsory c labour Prrinciple 5 The effecctive abolitio on of child laabour; and Prrinciple 6 The elimmination of discrimination in res spect of eemploymentt and occupatioon. Environment Prrinciple 7 Businesses shouldd supportt a preccautionary approach h to environmental challe enges; Prrinciple 8 Undertake initiativess to promote e greater environmenttal responsiibility; and Prrinciple 9 Encourag ge the deve elopment an nd diffusion of environm mentally friendly technologgies Antii-corruptio on Prrinciple 10 Businesses should w work against corruptio on in all its forms, including extortion and briberyy 6 Glob bal Compact – C Communication On Progress 20166-207 STA ATEMENT T FROM EUROTEC E CH CEO I am ppleased to annnounce Euroteech’s continueed support of the UN Globaal Compact. It is a great souurce of pride to note that 2017 marks 8 years that Eurotech hass officially andd formally pleedged its suppport of sustaiinable developpment. I am also proud to ppoint out that 2017 2 is a landmark year for our company as we approoach our 25th year y in operattion. We havee not only grow wn in this quarteer century, wee have becom me a world leaader in the technology sectorr. From a modest staart up in remoote northern Italy, we now w boast a global presence annd are currenntly active in Asia, Europe and the Ameriicas. We deesign produccts and servvices for deemanding appliccations in the Industrial, Trransportation, Defense andd Medical markeets. These areas repressent the greeatest challeenge for sustaiinable develoopment and an a equitable future for ouur planet. Euroteech aims to develop d produucts that will nnot only solvee today’s challeenges, our teechnological offerings mu st also contribute to sustaiinable development therebby guaranteeinng a secure future f for everyoone. Beforee The Cloud, IoT and M22M, Eurotech’ss goal was always a to createe specific soluutions to satisfy the needs of our custom mers, while at the same tim me creating products that wwould respond on a largeer scale to thhe challengess our planet faces as poppulations grow w and resources become increasingly scarce. In facct, Eurotech’ss slogan was Digital Technnologies for a Better Worldd which meannt to expresss this ideal aand Eurotechh’s commitment to sustainnability, long before sustaiinability was a global trend. How ddo we address sustainabilitty and the UN N’s call to act on o sustainability? We respoond both locally and globally. In all of our o companiess worldwide w we encouragee collaborationn and involveement with thee local commmunity. This caan mean sponnsorship of scchools, sportss teams, clubss and cultural activities. It means m being present and lending a haand when co mmunities are struck by natural n disasteters leaving citizens c vulnerrable and in need. n In all ouur facilities thee doors are open to schools and organizzations becauuse we 7 Glob bal Compact – C Communication On Progress 20166-207 are pproud of whaat we do and we want tto share ourr expertise and encouragee involvemennt and responsibility. Globbally it means that we show w solidarity whhen there is upheaval or caatastrophe andd local agenccies are not sufficient to aid disposseessed populations. In adddition, we resspect internattionally recognized Humann Rights, as well as envi ronmental annd labor lawss. We encourrage inter-com mpany comm munication andd collaborationn to eliminatee redundancies and waste and a maximizee efficiency. Itt is not just ussing less it is about getting more out of wwhat we are currently c usingg while remainning transpareent and ethicaal. A com mmitment to thet Global Coompact is nott simply a maarketing strateegy to appearr “greener” orr more compaassionate in an a increasingly divided andd uncertain world, w it is first and foremosst a commitm ment to ourselves. It is prooof of our pridee and our ambbition. We knoow that it is simply not enouugh, for exam mple, to reducce our carbon footprint or offer o equality iin employmennt. These are actions that uultimately bennefit us first aas we save money and we expand and enhance our human resouurce profile. W We are a technology compaany and thereefore best poised to undersstand the envvironmental annd social challlenges we facce and find thhe solutions tot improve quuality of life thhrough technoology. From Digital D Technoologies for a Better Worldd to Imagine. Build. B Succeedd. because Euurotech is steaadfast in its coommitment to tthe Global Coompact and thhe principles itt safeguards and, a we will suucceed. Signed byy Roberto Siagri S President & CEO 8 Globbal Compact – C Communication On Progress 20166-207 SEC CTION: HUMAN RIIGHTS Euroteech specializes in frontierr technologiees, specificallyy in the interconnection, miniaturizatioon and integrration of compputers. While the future is M2M, i.e, maachine to macchine, we recoognize that it is our peoplee that form thhe basis of Euurotech and reepresent our most m valuablee asset. They are our employees, our suuppliers and our customerrs and it is w with them in mind, m as well as a greateer world outsidde our factorries and officees, that we pledge our com mmitment to their protection and defensse. In fact, Euurotech speciffically addressses the principples of the Gloobal Compactt in its code off ethics and cllearly states thhat the compaany is committted to respeccting human riights and will not tolerate thhe abuse of ssuch rights at any of its faccilities worldwiide. More impportantly howeever, Eurotechh goes beyond a pledge in its efforts to ensure e that itss global workfforce enjoys reecognition andd protection. AllA Eurotech Group G Compannies are expeccted to follow w its Code of Ethics which, “Express thhe standards and rules of conduct that enhance corrporate decision-making prrocesses and guide corpo rate conduct””. Moreover, “All “ recipientss of the Codee must comply and it is vaalid in all geoographies wheere the Comppany is activee“. The Code openly and directly d declarres the Comppany’s desire to t contribute tto sustainablee development and addressses many prinnciples of the Global Comppact.  Eurotech does d not emplloy children annd would neveer employ children at any off its locations.  Eurotech is i unfaltering in its condem mnation of Fem male Genital Mutilation. M It iss a clear violaation of the humann rights of girlss and women.  Eurotech stands s firmly against a forcedd labor and strives to offer a safe, supporttive environmeent  Employees are always paid accordinng to local laaws with the commitmentc tto offer a real living wage.  Eurotech actively a suppoorts human rigghts by maintaining its prom mise of non-ddiscrimination on the basis of raace, gender orr religion.  Our HR Managers M reguularly attend eemployment laaw seminars which w include updates on equality and humaan rights. All of o its companiies are expeccted to follow non-discriminnatory practicees with regards too their customeers, partners aand employeees. Comppany examplee Euroteech pledges to t consider all potential appplicants regarddless of their race, r religion oor sexual orienntation and w we are proud of o our employyees who reprresent the many nations, raaces and religi gions of the woorld as well aas the LGBT community. In I fact, Euroteech demonstrrated their com mmitment to diversity during the succeessful transitioon of their transgender emplloyee who has been supported by both in internal and exxternal stakehholders. 9 Glob bal Compact – CCommunication On Progress 20166-207  Eurotech extends theirr commitmentt to human rights to includde women’s rrights and woorks to ensure equal opportunitty at all its faciilities.  Eurotech respects r mateernity laws andd supports its female emplooyees in the traansition to maaternity leave as well w as in their reintroductionn back to the workplace w lateer.  Eurotech offers o flexible working hourrs in order to assist a familiess and accomm modate today’ss busy lifestyle. Comppany examplee Euroteech values itss female emplooyees and apppreciates theiir contribution and thus aim ms to employ women w in uppper management at its locaations. At our hheadquarters,, the Head of Administration on is not only female f and oone of the com mpany’s most valuable v emplloyees; she hoolds the honorr as Eurotech’’s first recruit shortly after the companyy was formedd. Also in Am maro, a womaan leads as Head H of Globbal Communiication. Euroteech France iss headed by a female who hhas been in coommand sincee 1993. And, iin recognition of her talents ts, she was assked to continuue in her role following acquisition of the organization. In the US, the CFO of Eurrotech Inc., onne of Eurotechh Group’s larggest companiees is also femaale. Most impoortant, at the highest h echeloons of directiion, Eurotechh has always sought femaale participatioon and repressentation. Sinnce its incepttion, its Boardd of Directors has always fe featured at leaast two femalee Directors. Inn addition, Euurotech has aalways appoinnted women to t its Audit CCommittee, thhe body respoonsible for ovversight of finnancial reportting and discloosure.  Internshipss are offered for f students att all of our locations in nearly all departmeents.  Eurotech opens o its doors to younger pupils, with ana eye particularly aimed att girls, to show w them cutting edge technologiies in a suppoortive environnment to ultim mately help shhape their acaademic and career goals. 10 Globbal Compact – C Communication On Progress 20166-207 SEC CTION: LA ABOUR  Eurotech is i absolute in its adherencee to labor law ws, particularlyy those that reepresent health and safety conncerns.  Employees at all Euroteech locations aare trained reggarding workpplace safety a nd there are regular r checks and audits that guarantee g a respected. thaat procedures are Comppany examplee Not oonly is the worrkplace regulaarly surveilledd, employees also receive periodic p scheeduled check-uups by doctorrs specializedd in labor relateed health to ennsure any riskks are identifieed and addresssed.  Eurotech goes beyond what the law mandates to not only makee the work pla ce a safe placce, it is also a suupportive envvironment wheere workers are encouragged to cultivaate their skillls and interests and a they feel valued. v  Eurotech offers o certifiedd English courrses for all of its i employees in Italy. Not oonly are the coourses free for emmployees, theey take place during the woork day allowiing for maxim mum participattion. In Japan Engglish classes are a also availaable for emplooyees.  Eurotech grants its employees thee possibility to serve at another com mpany location and experiencee diverse professional reallities. Eurotecch employees in Europe haave been placed at companiess in the US and Japan aand a temporary transfer from f one Eurropean compaany to another is common.  Employees are encouraaged to continnue their education by com mpleting univeersity degreess or by participatinng in training courses, c workkshops and seeminars. Eurottech allows itss employees tiime off from workk to attend couurses or take exams so thaat they can fulfill their acaddemic ambitionns and complete their t universityy degree.  Formation and training are always paaid for by the Company as well as any ex expenses assoociated with particcipation.  Eurotech headquarters h makes a poinnt to annually recognize r its outstanding o m members and honors h them both publically andd privately. Comppany examplee Euroteech understannds that its employees e havve busy, dynaamic lives outside the officce and tries to t help them balance their professional lives l and theirr personal livees by offering time and monney saving services. For exxample, emplloyees in Italyy can do groccery shoppingg on-line throuugh local venddors, who also offer speciaal discounts, and a then havee their purchasses delivered to the office. It might seem m like a small service s 11 Glob bal Compact – C Communication On Progress 20166-207 but it aims to make the lives of itss employees eeasier and alloow them to maake the most oof the free tim me they have. A carpooling service that connects c driveers is just anoother examplee of the many initiatives proomoted by Dirrection to imprrove the wellness of its staffff. 12 Globbal Compact – C Communication On Progress 20166-207 COLLLECTIVE BARGAINING  All Eurotecch employeess are represennted collectiveely within eachh organization by a representative that may be b an employeee of that com mpany or by ann external orgaanization.  Representtatives meet regularly witth direction to t discuss labor issues aand bring forrth the questions and concerns of those thhey represent. Workers aree encouragedd to meet with their representaatives when there is an issue and they never face f discrimi nation or neegative repercussiions for their actions. a  Where coollective bargaaining organizzations are prresent and acctive, Eurotecch is compliannt and meetings are scheduledd during the w work day andd meeting spaace is offered on the premiises to accommoddate assemblyy. 13 Glob bal Compact – C Communication On Progress 20166-207 SEC CTION: EN NVIRONM MENT  The enviroonment is an important prioority for Eurottech and again addresses this principle of the Global Coompact in its Code C of Ethicss. It states, “N None of our faacilities, includding both prodduction and designn facilities, aree located in prrotected areass.” In fact, ourr facilities worlldwide are designed “to minimizze environmenntal impact duue to our activities.”  High efficiiency is at thhe core of all systems in our o establishm ments includinng, air conditioning, lighting annd thermal insuulation. Comppany examplee We hhave installedd power saving office equuipment at all a our worldw wide facilitiess including prrinters, photoocopiers and computing c equuipment. Eurootech also aim ms to upgradee its facilities in order to immprove perforrmance and eliminate e wastte. For exampple, sensors have h been insstalled in low w traffic areas in our compaanies so that lights l do not remain r on wheen there is no one present.  Eurotech employs e renew wable energy sources at soome of its facilities and is w working to expand its use.  Eurotech encourages recyclingr at aall levels from m respecting electronic annd electric waaste to recycling bins b in all of itss break roomss worldwide.  Eurotech encourages its employeess to reduce their t plastic im mpact by intrroducing free water filtering fouuntains at its facilities. f  Eurotech is i ISO 14001 certified whichh is voluntary standard creaated to inform m stakeholderss of the adoption of o a company’’s Environmenntal Managem ment System. It is open to oorganizations of any size and scope s that wissh to reduce ttheir environm mental impact and enhance their environm mental credentialss. 14 Glob bal Compact – C Communication On Progress 20166-207 PRODDUCTS AND SERVICES: DEFENDERSS OF THE ENNVIRONMENTT It is nnot only throuugh our facilities and produuction processses that Eurootech considerrs the environnment. Euroteech technologgy and Eurotech products are at the heart h of our commitment c too sustainability and repressent the areaa where we can c have the biggest impaact. Eurotech divides its pproduct catalog in 2 busineess lines: Nanno PC and HPC (High Perrformance Coomputing). Our Nano PC buusiness line can c be furtheer divided into our Board andd Systems offferings and ouur M2M / IoT service line. Boarrds and Systtems Euroteech board cattalogue spans a wide rangee of industry sttandards and form factors. W Within this business line w we have built an ecosysttem of interooperable components, softtware and seervices that enable e consisstent and quicck developmeent of end useer products. Listed are just a few of our many produccts that demonstrate the eco-friendly annd sustainablee features likee low power consumption, compact struucture, robustness, reliabiliity, flexibility and a modular deesign that chaaracterize this and our otherr products linees. ReliaS SENS 19-11 is i a compact, easy to insta ll environment monitor systtem that allow ws the collectioon and analyzzation of air quality q parameters, electroomagnetic fieldds ionizing radiation levelss and upon reequest, soundd pollution. It is the ideal solution for pprivate and public entities that need to get real timee 24/7 statisttical analysis and a identify sppatial and timee patterns relaated to pollutant generation and propagattion. DynaPCN 10-20 iss a compact autonomous device that has h been speecifically desiggned for passsenger counting above dooorways in busses and trainss; it can also be b used to couunt people ass they enter orr leave buildinngs or any arreas with resttricted accesss. It operates in any lighting condition aand a wide range of climattic conditions as well. The device d analysees the height,, shape and direction of anyy object passiing the field oof view; if thee object is reecognized as a person enntering or exiting, the incooming and ouutgoing numbers are increm mented accorddingly in addittion to time annd date inform mation. It is nott only highly reliable r it is booth lightweight, robust and lowl power. DynaC COR 10-00 is a rugged mobile m compuuter platform that t targets demanding d veehicle and inddustrial installations such as those in heaavy industry m machinery, rail networks andd rolling stock,, buses, etc. Itt offers excepptional perform mance not onlyy for its compuutational poweer, it is fanlesss and featuress low consumpption. Internnet of Thing g (IoT) It is aan accepted faact that IoT teechnologies, pphysical objeccts rooted with sensors, sooftware and network conneectivity, will haave an increassing role in thee pursuit of suustainable devvelopment. Th e UN estimatees that 15 Glob bal Compact – C Communication On Progress 20166-207 our global populatioon will be 9.7 billion peoplee by 2050. This represents a growth of 2..2 billion peopple that will coontinue to straain already limited resourcess and further stress s the deliicate natural eenvironment. Iot I and the Clloud will servee an even greater function iin the manageement of natural resources and infrastrucctures. The im mpact on our cities c will be im mmense as thhey will be hom me to the greaatest portion of our populatioon, not to meention the greaatest producers of greenho use gas emisssions as well as consumers rs of energy. IoT will providde real time datad on enerrgy and wateer resources. This will improve resourcee conservatioon and simplify data collecction on trafficc patterns andd parking andd help reduce congestion. SSensors instaalled in buildinngs will monitoor and managge lighting, tem mperature andd ventilation. IoT annd Cloud techhnologies’ susstainability is tw wofold. First, sustainability is inherent in the structure of the Cloudd. One way iss through shaared data ce nters which employ e fewerr machines bbut enjoy equivalent capaccity. Fewer machines m means less spacee required to house data centers and, organizing devices d within a space according to heat load densitiees and tempeerature requireements, contriibutes even more m to reduccing supply fann power and im mproves coolinng performance. Sharing thhe costs meanns that organizzations can employ the besst machinery withoutw spend ing extra. Thee best machinery will consuume less energgy and providde the greatesst per unit effficiency possi ble. Moreover, data centerrs can be straategically locaated in areas where costs can be kept low and eneergy consumpttion is most sustainable. s FFor example, Nordic countries are fastt becoming attractive a locaations for daata centers. Not only cann the cold outside o tempeeratures be uttilized for cooling inside, eneergy often com mes from reneewable sourcees thus makinng their use evven more sustainable. Seconnd, reducing the t need for hardware h reduuces our need for the resoources requireed for its prodduction and thhus eases preessures on the environmennt; the value iss increased when w one conssiders that this also significantly reducees the need for emergency maintenance and repairs as a well as all tthe associatedd costs that mmachinery maintenance cann require over its lifetime. While W no one expects appliannces and devices to functioon indefinitelyy since partss are weakenned by use and a ultimatelyy give out, thhis process can c be controolled and limited. For example, A comproomised compoonent in a facttory’s machineery could jeoppardize other parts involvedd in its use and eventually leead to the breeakdown of thee machine. In this scenario, when the faailed part finallly breaks and the factory iss forced to haalt production, there is downntime for the factory f as theey locate sparre parts in warrehouses, whoo may in turn,, need to ordeer the necessaary pieces. Thhen the factorry awaits the spare s parts annd technicianss to do repairss. Once the neew parts are loocated and orrdered, they m must be physically deliveredd. Finally the repair is madee to the originnal part as welll as any other parts that wwere affected by the breakddown. The imppact on the ennvironment ass well as the ccost to the com mpany could have been significantly s reduced had the factory simply s installed sensors annd gateways on its machinery. The sennsor is monitoored by a gateeway that sennds the data reegarding the m machine’s opeeration 16 Globbal Compact – C Communication On Progress 20166-207 to thee Cloud wheree it is elaboraated. The dataa can be acccessed and managedm by faactory operatoors but more importantly, the Cloud is able to geneerate automattic alerts and even take aaction when specific s condittions are met.. In this way, the t factory woould have beeen alerted that one of the paarts in its macchinery was inn need of repllacement and therefore, coould have scheeduled mainteenance, withouut breaking doown or affecting other partss of the machine. IoT also helps thee environmentt by helping everyday connsumers optim mize their shoopping and mobility m therebby saving timee as well as limiting waste . For examplee. Refrigerators can notify home ownerss when speciffic items are missing. m Whenn a complete list of the item ms necessary has been com mpiled shoppeers are directeed to the closest store that has the itemss they need annd, can even advise a them w when there aree sales or proomotions that reflect the shopper’s prefeerences. Oncee at the store shoppers cann be directed to the items they are lookking for as theeir mobile phoone can be trraced. In this way shopperrs won’t buy excess e food tthat will inevitaably end up in the trash or w waste time andd fuel looking for the items tthey need. Regarrdless of the line of businness, today ccompanies rely on data froom intelligentt devices. Euurotech providdes the tools required to makem M2M coommunication a reality in an affordable, secure and reliabler way. Eurotech takees the compleexity out of thhe IT process, surrounding it and tamingg it, so an efffective devicee data infrastrructure can bee implementedd using a widee range of cutting edge netw worked devicees and an innnovative cloudd-based M2M platform. Heree are a few exxamples of Eurotech’s IoT/M M2M offerings. Everyyware Softwaare Framework (ESF) is a device appliccation specialized to build m machine to machine (m2M) or Internet of Things (IooT) applicatioons. ESF provvides a highly cost-effectivve, flexible and a ITorientted frameworkk to build thee new generaation of connnected, smart devices andd applicationss. ESF enablees developerss to concentraate on the appplication by prroviding a set of field proveen M2M/IoT building blockss. Everyyware Device Cloud (ED DC) unlocks M2M potenntial. Everywaare Cloud iss a completee data management and delivery soluution for com mprehensive distributed d devvice platformss. Distributedd retail appliccations such as a vending machines m can leverage thee Everyware CloudC to mannage their datta and comm munications ass the number of devices groows, data maanagement needs change oor new servicees and capabbilities are coonceived. Thrrough EDC ccustomers caan reduce thee time, cost and complexxity of implem menting, managing and scaaling their M2M M device netwworks and usinng the device ddata in the business appliccation. Eurotecch’s EDC soluution is compleete with all the necessary components c too design, implement and iinstall M2M infrastructuress or Device to Enterprisee applications. The Devicce Cloud Euurotech engineeered allows customers c d from everry device or seensor that makes up to make decisionns based on data the neetwork. 17 Glob bal Compact – C Communication On Progress 20166-207 ReliaG GATE 10-11 is a low pow wer gateway ssuitable for intensive workload in industtrial and automotive appliccations. It features a broad operating o tem mperature as well w as a wide range power supply and feeatures an exxtensive rangge of connecctivity capabiliities. Distributed and supported by Euurotech, ESF F adds advannced security, diagnostics, provisioning, remote acceess and full inntegration witth Everyware Cloud (EC) E Eurotech’s IoTT integration platform. p ReliaG GATE 20-25 is a high perfformance, gloobally certifiedd, IoT gatewayy for industriaal and lightly rugged r c appliccations. It features up to 4 cores, t extendeed operating temperature support, s wide range power supply and ccustomizable connectivity options. Distrributed and supporteds by Eurotech, ESSF adds advvanced security, diagnosticcs, provisioning, remote access and full integratioon with Everryware Cloudd (EC) Euroteech’s IoT integgration platforrm. High Performancce Computer (HPC) As thee centerpiecee of the Euroteech HPC soluutions, the Auurora supercomputers are ddesigned to provide p tremeendous compuuting power in the most eneergy efficient way. They allow for consisstent energy savings thankss to the hot liquid l cooling and the intellligent power conversion, applied a to all the products of the Auroraa line. This newn water coooling technoology, lighter and more coompact, allowss higher packaging densitty and higherr effectivenesss in heat extrraction, maxim mizing efficiency and minim mizing infrastruuctural costs.. This advanceement is a Eurotech breaktthrough and we w were the first company too design a direect hot water cooled HPC.. The innovation proved itss relevance suuch that in 2013 our machiines led the toop two positioons of the Greeen 500 for coomputational ppower (Flops) related to eneergy consumpption (Watts). Aurora A superrcomputers arre solid rock reliable r machiines that are available in different d sizes and configurations. The A Aurora systems unit suits a variety v of needds in many fieelds of sciencee, business annd technology.. Aurorra Hive HPC systems s are optimized o to acccelerate workloads, offerinng performancce, energy efficiency and flexibility. The Aurora A Hive module m is the system buildinng block and provides com putation and control c functioonality acceleration and addditional functioonality of storaage and visualization, usingg sub-moduless in the same form factor. It uses low power processoors combined with w coprocessors, with all tthe componennts hot water cooled to maximize efficienncy at system and data center level. Aurorra Tygon v4 is designed to provide moodularity, scalability and fleexibility for anny type and size s of installation. The syystem can hold up to 18 nnodes, each of o them providding computaation or acceleeration functioonality. This architecture a deelivers extrem e performance and scalability together w with the most energy e efficieent and optimized system design. Like all products in the Aurora line it is hot water cooledd. This coupleed with powerr conversion optimization o inncrease data center c efficiency allowing PPUE levels as low as 1.05. This means energy e savingss of at least 500% compared to traditional systems. 18 Glob bal Compact – C Communication On Progress 20166-207 Aurorra G-Station and Cube are supercom mputers in a box. They are small annd compact, easily deployyable with noo need of com mplex infrastrructure and extensive HPC C knowledge. In addition, Aurora A “mini-clusters” are silent thanks to their liquid cooling, bearr no messy caabling and geenerate no heat in a room making them m perfect for an office envvironment. Thhey offer extrraordinary pow wer to process the heavieest computatioonal loads. 19 Glob bal Compact – C Communication On Progress 20166-207 SEC CTION: ANTI-COR RRUPTION N  Eurotech is firm in its staand against coorruption of alll forms. Againn referring to itts Code it is position is clear, “The “ Company prohibits fra raudulent pracctices and coonduct, corrupption or attem mpts to corrupt, faavoritism and, more in geneeral conduct against the law w and the ruless established in this Code.” Its business ethics sectio n of the Codde specifically outlines beehaviors whicch are prohibited and comprom mise the integrrity and statedd goals of the Company. C  Each Eurootech entity iss required to ffollow the codde and must provide traini ng to employyees to elaborate and clarify itss policy. For example, Euurotech Ltd haas an Anti-Coorruption policcy and carries out an annual audit a requestinng all employeees to confirm m they have reead and undeerstood this policy. There is alsso a Public Intterest Disclosuure policy detaailing the dutyy of all employyees to report wroongdoing whilsst protecting thheir rights. Eurotech Italy alsso equips all nnew employeees with its Code and a periodically holds meetiings and half day seminars to illustrate itts policies andd verify compliancce.  The code expands its policy on buusiness ethicss by includingg a section ddedicated to Public Administraation. It states, “relations w with Public Administration A are based oon the principples of correctnesss, transparenncy and co-opeeration as welll as on rigorous observancee of applicable legal requiremeents and regulations. They are such as not to jeopardize the Com mpany’s integgrity or reputation”. 20 Globbal Compact – C Communication On Progress 20166-207 RES SEARCH ACTIVITIIES One aarea where Euurotech’s commitment to suustainable devvelopment is best seen is in its research efforts. e The bbenefits of reseearch are not easily quantiffiable and are seldom in thee short term. TThis is a criticaal point for coompanies that must turn a profit p in order to continue operations. o Investing in ressearch is not always a possibble and as tecchnologies become obsolette at an increaasingly faster rate, some arggue that reseaarch is best left for academ mic institutionns and governnment agenciees. Eurotech rejects this iddea and has always a investted in research. Not even thhe economic ccrisis which beegan in 2008 and a continuess to be felt, hass been enouggh to sway Euurotech from its allegiance to research and a the academics. Listed aare just a few of the projeccts that Euroteech has lent itss talent and exxpertise to: DEE EP-ER is a coontinuation off the DEEP pproject, which began in 2011 and repreesented a Eurropean response to the Exxascale challeenge. It devveloped an innovative archhitecture for hheterogeneouss HPC system ms based on the t combinatioon of a standaard HPC cluster and a tightly connected H HPC Booster built of many core processsors. DEEP-E ER now evollves this archhitecture to address a two ssignificant Exascale computing challengges: highly scaalable and efficcient parallel I/O and system m resiliency. Arroowhead Projeect: Began in 2013 and adddresses efficieency and flexibbility at the gloobal scale by meansm of collaborative auttomation for five applicationn verticals. Thhat means prooduction (mannufacturing, prrocess, energgy), smart builddings and infrrastructures, eelectro-mobilityy and virtual market m of ene rgy. The Arrowwhead Frameework providees an architectture for buildinng IoT based Automation syystems. The aarchitecture feeatures a locaal cloud apprroach where real time auutomation, IT security, sysstem scalabiliity and enginneering simplicity are criticaal requiremennts. A local Arrrowhead Framework cloudd can providee improvements and guaraantees in the areas of real time data handling, daata and systeem security, automation system s engineeering, and sccalability of auutomation systtems when compared to a global g cloud. Conntrex It has beeen the rule thhat mission annd safety criticcal services ofo Systems haave been runnning on dedicaated and oftenn custom designs HW/SW pplatforms. In thhe near futuree such system ms will be acceessible, conneected with or executed e on devices d comprrising off-the-sshelf HW/SW components. Contrex will enablee energgy efficient andd cost ware design throughh analysis andd optimization of real-time, power, tempeerature and rreliability with regard to appplication dem mands at diffeerent criticality levels. To reinforce Eurropean leadership and induustrial competiveness the C Contrex approaach will be inteegrated into exxisting model based designn methods thaat can be custtomized for diffferent applicaation domains and target plaatforms. Contrrex will focus on the requirements deriveed from the auutomotive, aeronautics and telecommuniications domaain and evaluaate its effectivveness and drive d integratiion into existiing standardss for the desi gn and certiffication 21 Glob bal Compact – C Communication On Progress 20166-207 basedd on three induustrial demonsstrators. The eeconomic goaal is to improvee energy efficiiency by 20% and to reducce cost per sysstem by 30% due d to a moree efficient use of the computting platform. Agile will deliver a modular IoT gateway for enabling various typees of devicess (wearables, home appliaances, sensorrs and actuattors, etc.) to be connecteed with each other and too the interneet. The modularity will enaable the suppoort of various networking innterfaces and technologiess for communication with a wide range ofo devices andd the support oof different coonnection mecchanisms to thhe internet bassed on user nneeds and thee different usee cases. AGILLE will create an ecosystem m of IoT appliications that can c be shared between ussers and deveelopers leveraaging existing initiatives by key stakeholdders in this doomain. AGILE E users will bee able to instaall IoT applicaations that run on the gatew way and allow the managem ment of conneected devices the processinng of data, as w well as the communication with external sservices. 22 Glob bal Compact – C Communication On Progress 20166-207 OTH HER ACT TIVITIES AND A REC COGNITIO ONS Greeen Week, now w in its sixth edition, e is a cconference meeant to discuss important thhemes of the Green Econoomy. They foccus on sustainnable living annd through events, debate and a meetings provide a forrum for experrts and busineess leaders to discuss the cchallenges and solutions foor sustainabilitty. Among thee many t of the reggion’s most suustainable facctories scheduuled and Eurootech is proudd to be eventss, there is a tour one of the companies chosen thaanks to our effforts towards sustainable s deevelopment. 20166 IoT Evolutioon Product of o the Year A Award for our new software-defined IoT ggateway ReliaaGATE 20-255 from IoT Evoolution Magazzine and IoT E Evolution Worlld the leading magazine annd web site coovering IoT Teechnologies. In praise of Eurotech’s E inn ovative IoT gateway, Carl Ford, CEO off Crossfire Meedia, a co-publisher of IoT evolution, had this to say, “The solutionns selected forr the IoT Evol ution Productt of the Year Award reflectt the diverse range r of innovvation driving the ,machinee market todaay. It is my hoonor to congrratulate Eurotech for their innovative w work and superior contribuution to the rrapidly evolvinng IoT industtry.” Eurootech recogn nized as the In ndustrial IoT Trendsetter among Embeedded Technnology Suppliers in the MMarket Today. VDC’s Venddor Spotlight oon Eurotech highlights h the company’s poosition as a leeading global supplier of distributed d com mputing platforrms and soluttions for the Innternet of Thinngs (IoT). Acccording to VDDC, “more thann 20 Global 5005 companiess rely on Eurootech’s produccts and the coompany is a market m share leader in sevveral embedded hardware sectors. Throough its NanoPC business, which accounts for more than 98% of total revenuues, and inclludes the IoT T Software and Services business, Euurotech providdes embedded boards feaaturing a varieety of form faactors and prrocessor archhitectures to OEMs, O appliccation-ready subsystems orr platforms forr use within inntegrated systeems, and com mmercial devicces for suppoorting a broad array of applications”. Thee VDC Reseaarch Vendor Profiles cover iimportant playyers in the mmarket and are based on a continuouss analysis off emerging trrends, hot coompanies, andd new technoologies that provide techhnology exec utives with unique u research based innsights into critical technoology market trends. Eurottech wins mu ultiple awardss at IoT Evoluution Expo inncluding IoT Evolution E Busi ness Impact Award, A Best FFog/Edge Computing Soluttion and Bestt IoT Use Casse/Full Stack Implementatioon of the Yeaar. Red Hat noominated Eurootech for the IoT I Evolution Business Imppact award for the Eurotech IoT implemenntation with TTEB, a tramwaays operator inn Italy. The TE EB implementation uses Eurotech’s Everyyware Device Cloud includding Red Hat JBoss A-MQ as a messagge broker to faacilitate data delivery from the mobile devices d installed on the traams and to the t data cen ter. Best Fogg/Edge Compputing Solutionn was awardded for 23 Glob bal Compact – C Communication On Progress 20166-207 Euroteech Multi Service IoT Gatteways becauuse it is the best at bringging the technnology from simple analyttics to actionaable intelligencce and autommated servicess. Best IoT UseCase/Full Sttack Implemenntation of thee Year recognizes the comppany that besst exemplified the IoT Indusstry and moveed the industrry as a wholee forward in teerms of technoology, media aattention, scoope, and socieetal improvemeent. Eurotech offers custom mers a complete stack incluuding the Eveeryware Softwaare Frameworrk (ESF) on thhe hardware and a the Everyyware Cloud too easily conneect and enablee devices to deeliver actionabble data. 2015 IoT Evolutio on Smart Maachines Innoovation Awarrd honors prooducts, servicces, platformss, and appliccations that arre a part of thhe intelligent device markeet. Everyware Cloud is an innovative IoT T/M2M Integrration Platformm that simplifies device annd data manaagement by connecting c disstributed devices to enterpprise applications over secure and reliabble cloud, andd on-premisess, services. O Once devices are on field, tthe Everywaree Cloud allowss users to connnect, configurre and manage devices throoughout the liffecycle from ddeployment thhrough maintenance to retireement. “Peopple’s choice winner” in IoT Software and Tools category c Now w in its fifth yyear, the Interrnet of Things Awards honnors the yearr’s best produucts, organizations and ideas shaping thhe IoT. Show wcasing excellence in all areeas across the Internet of TThings since 2011, 2 the IoT Awards celebbrate the richnness of the em merging field and its practitioners. From m Do-It-Yourseelf projects annd pro-bono eengagements to the fortune 500, this contest embrraces the divversity of thee IoT landscaape, presentinng the year’ss best innovaations and innnovators. Everyware Softwaare framework, Eurotech’s device appliccation framework for M2M and IoT appliccations was seelected Peoplee’s choice winnner. 24 Glob bal Compact – CCommunication On Progress 20166-207 FUTTURE GO OALS Euroteech takes thee Global Com mpact and itss commitmennt to sustainability seriouslly. Our day to t day activitties are influennced and guidded by its prinnciples and moost important we have our eeye on the futture as we plaan and develoop new strateggies to face th e challenge of o sustainabilityy. Above all it will be our products that w will respond too the call to make daily li fe not only more m sustainable but simpller, safer andd more comfoortable. Our R&DR teams aroound the worldd are working to design new w products annd new technoologies that w will be ecofriendly and resppond to the cchallenges our growing planet faces. Innnovation will not be limitedd to our produuct catalog however, we willl update and improve our facilities f so thaat our impact on the local eenvironment is i minimal. Our travel policcies will also be b updated too make emplooyee transferss more efficieent and reducee our carbon footprint. f For example, the number of em mployees attennding events will be limitedd and the use of public transportation in m metropolitan areas a with heeavily traffic wiill be required. Euroteech is currently evaluating ana audit systeem that will cheeck our suppliers’ compliancce with international standaards so that all a along our chain of prodduction we can guarantee that t human riights as well as the enviroonment are prootected, especially in thosee areas where direct controlss are not alwaays practicablee. Euroteech will continnue to supporrt schools andd education annd maintains it commitmentt to host studeents at all levvels inside itss worldwide faacilities. Speccial emphasis will be placeed on placing female studeents in technical positions. Also, Eurotecch will increasse the numberr of women onn its Board of Directors in order to promoote equality. Research will remain a ppriority and are on-going projects p will ccontinue to receive r financcial support whhile new projects are explorred and funded. Formaation will continue to be a priority p for ourr employees and we are woorking to expa nd the opportunities availaable. Our HR managers m in all a facilities willl assess formaation options in i order to maake them convvenient and on-target to thee needs of botth the companny and the employee. 25 Glob bal Compact – C Communication On Progress 20166-207 CON NCLUSIO ON Beforee joining the UN U Global Com mpact Eurotecch had a clearr Vision and Mission. M Our eyyes were alreaady on the fuuture and how w to make it better througgh our produccts and technologies. It is our convictioon that human-machine intteraction together with macchine-to-machine interactionn will become constant andd more naturaal, even seconnd nature. Diggital technologgies will grow more and moore intertwinedd with everyday life, until thhey fade into the t backgrounnd and becom me basically invvisible. We see pervasive computers as a a means oof making objjects smarter and infrastruucture greeneer, and ultimaately improvee everyday life, making iit simpler, saafer and moore comfortabble. Further, social responsibility is ann integral partt of the way w we do busineess at Eurotech. We pursuue the objectives of growth, innovation and commeercial results,, while simultaneously baalancing qual ity of life, working w standaards and hum man rights. Thhis commitmeent is reflected in the princciples, policiess and managgement conduuct adopted by our companny, in order too promote creeativity, innovaation and fair business outcomes and hence to reinfoorce shareholdders' trust in ouur company. In adddition to steaddily reinforcingg structural caapital, Eurotecch Group strivees to support our employeees and develoop social rellationships, considering c thhis to be a core investm ment to ensuure the company's compeetitiveness, sttability, longevvity and fundam mental to susttainability. 26 Glob bal Compact – C Communication On Progress 20166-207 [this pagge intentionally left blank] 27 Glob bal Compact – C ommunication On Progress 20166-207
