SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 M AÎTRE CHOCOL ATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 18 45 2 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 LINDT & SPRÜ NGLI PORTR AIT As a global leader in the premium chocolate segment, Lindt & Sprüngli looks back on a long-standing tradition of over 170 years which takes its origins in Zurich. Production, Marketing 8  and Distribution 1 Kilchberg, CH 24 7 2 Induna Olona, IT 9 4 5 3 Luserna S. Giovanni, IT 6 4 Aachen, DE 10 1 5 Prague, CZ 2 6 Vienna, AT 11 3 7 Warsaw, PL 8 Stockholm, SE 18 9 London, GB 10 Paris, FR 13 11 Barcelona, ES 15 14 12 12 Stratham, USA 21 13 Toronto, CA 20 14 Kansas City, USA 23 19 15 San Leandro, USA 16 São Paulo, BR 17 Cape Town, ZA 18 Moscow, RU 19 Hong Kong, CN 20 Shanghai, CN 21 Tokyo, JP 16 22 Sydney, AU 17 22 Regional offices 23 Dubai, UAE 24 Dublin, IRL As a global leader in the premium chocolate sector, Lindt & Sprüngli looks back on a long-standing tradition of 170 years which takes its origins in Zurich, Switzerland. Today, quality chocolate products by Lindt & Sprüngli are made at 12 own production sites in Europe and the USA. They are distributed by 24 subsidiary companies and branch offices, in more than 350 own stores, and also via a comprehensive network of more than 100 independent distributors around the globe. With over 13,000 employees, the Lindt & Sprüngli Group reported sales worth CHF 3.9 billion in 2016. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 3 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 TABLE OF CONTENT –4– K E Y AC H I E V E M E N T S –5– I N T E RV I E W W I T H T H E C E O –7 – SUSTA I NA BI L I T Y A PPROAC H – 11 – SUSTA I NA BLY S OU RC E D – 22 – SUSTA I NA BLY PRODUC E D – 32 – SUSTA I NA BLY C ONSU M E D – 37 – OU T L O OK – 38 – SUSTA I NA BI L I T Y G OV E R NA NC E – 39 – A BOU T T H IS R E P ORT L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 4 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 K EY ACHIEVEMENTS 2016 Lindt & Sprüngli Promise: “All products leaving our factories live up to our commitment to sustainable behavior along the value chain.” SUS TA I NA BLY S OU RC E D 56,941 Cocoa farmers participating in our Lindt & Sprüngli 97% 57% Cocoa beans sourced in Cocoa beans sourced in 2016 Farming Programs in Ghana, Ecuador, and Madagascar. 2016 were traceable. were traceable and verified. SUS TA I NA BLY PRODUC E D SUS TA I NA BLY C ONSU M E D –20 % – 50% 115,000 CO2 emissions per ton produced Water consumption per ton Consumer contacts recorded and handled. since 2008 excl. Russell Stover. produced since 2008 excl. Russell Stover. –16% – 89% 3.9 billion CHF Energy consumption per ton Lost-time accidents rate per Group sales in 2016 (+ 6.8 % growth). produced since 2008 excl. 100,000 working hours since 2008 Russell Stover. excl. Russell Stover. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 INTERVIEW WITH THE CEO Driving sustainability along the value chain is an investment in our future viability. What does sustainability mean to Lindt & Sprüngli? high costs which cannot be passed on to the consumers. NevertheSustainability is an integral part of our business model and is inteless, our investments in this field strengthen our brand, and congrated into our global business framework. Our goal is to actively sumers recognize our efforts to offer chocolate produced with foster sustainable development and increase our positive impacts ethically sourced raw materials. in all relevant areas. We structure our sustainability topics into the three major areas sourced, produced, and consumed. Within this What does Lindt & Sprüngli focus on and what are your goals structure, we implement the ten principles of the United Nations as the new CEO in this area? Global Compact, an initiative that Lindt & Sprüngli continues to We focus on sustainability issues that are important for our business be comitted to. and our stakeholders – the so-called “material issues” as defined in our sustainability strategy. Within those “material issues”, rawWhy is sustainable business important for you? material sustainability – specifically cocoa – is the most important. Dr Dieter Weisskopf, Group CEO I see sustainability as key asset for our future growth. Sustainable I have personally been the driver behind sustainable cocoa sourcbehavior of our company, our management and our employees sets ing for more than ten years at Lindt & Sprüngli. It is therefore conthe base for our long-term success. Such an approach has to involve sequential that also as CEO, my focus and dedication continues to all our stakeholders and is indispensable in order to satisfy our be on this area. Further, we will increase the level and quality of consumers’ demand for high-quality chocolate sourced and procommunication to consumers about our achievements in sustainduced with high ethical and environmental standards. ability in general, and in cocoa sourcing specifically. Sustainability and profitability – does that really work? What were the key achievements in 2016 with regards to the It all depends on the time perspective. With our history of 170 Lindt & Sprüngli sustainability strategy in sourcing? years, we think long-term. We clearly want to continue growing I am very proud that we achieved our goal of having our entire sales and increasing profits over the next 170 years and longer. cocoa bean supply chain from Ghana not only traceable, but also In the long run, the impact of sustainability initiatives on business externally verified. The Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program Ghana results yields in most cases a good return. Examples are our efforts started in 2008. It is satisfying to see the positive results of to reduce energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions, water our long-term vision to consistently working on best solutions consumption, and waste. In some areas, calculating an expected together with our implementation partner on the ground. With return is not that simple. Sustainable cocoa, for instance, comes at more than 50,000 farmers participating, the Lindt & Sprüngli L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 Farming Program is probably the largest sustainable cocoa What are the long-term sustainability challenges of How do you push sustainability forward? What do you program in Ghana – even though we are sometimes critiLindt & Sprüngli? want to reach in the coming years? cized for not joining any of the known certification schemes A major long-term challenge is climate change, impacting Farming Program activities, water, energy and carbon or labels in the past. When I see the motivation and inour globe in all aspects of life and specifically the producdioxide emission reduction programs, quality control inicreased ownership of the farmers in our program and the ers of our agricultural raw materials, irrespective of the tiatives along the whole supply chain, etc. will continue to progress in yield, I am more convinced than ever, that we country of origin of the products. In this respect, our trainbe in our focus and will be further developed. Being able are on the right track with our Lindt & Sprüngli Farming ings in the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program include this to look at the whole supply chain – from selecting the bean Program to improve the livelihood of farmers and families. topic and foster farmers’ abilities to cope with effects of to the finished product – will be a big advantage to set the Overall, we were able to almost double the volume of climate change on their farms. Examples include soil ferright priorities. cocoa beans sourced from our Lindt & Sprüngli Farming tility management training, the distribution of shade trees I will continue specifically to reach our 2020 ambition Program from Ghana, Ecuador, and Madagascar. or alternative income generation activities. where we aim for a fully traceable and verified cocoa supAnother achievement in the area of sourcing was Tackling climate change at a broader scope – for examply chain. that we managed to source palm oil as RSPO certified ple in form of an internalization of CO2 emissions along In line with our continuous improvement approach, segregated for all Lindt, Caffarel, Hofbauer and Küfferle the value chain – is a highly challenging task. The issue is I generally want to motivate all employees to incorporate products. that contrary to other investments, such extensive emission sustainability into their daily business. Many little steps reduction is very costly but has no mid-/long-term tangiinto the same direction have the power to ultimately Where could Lindt & Sprüngli have made more ble benefit. Lindt & Sprüngli therefore needs to make sure change things to the better. progress in 2016 in the area of sourcing? to have the consumers on board, willing to be part of the There are always areas we could do more, and as a rather transformation towards sustainable development, contribimpatient person, I often think, things should go faster. uting to costs. But at the same time I am aware that we need a long breath in the area of raw-material sourcing. A specific area needHow is sustainability communicated? ing more investment in time and funds in the future is As premium chocolate maker, sustainability is something Dr Dieter Weisskopf traceable & verified cocoa butter. Due to our high quality self-evident and expected by our consumers. Our approach Group CEO specifications for cocoa butter and the lack of buyers of was so far to only communicate our achievements and not sustainable cocoa powder, establishing a traceable supply generally about sustainability. In order to make sure our chain becomes a highly complex and expensive endeavor consumers understand our approach and are willing to not only Lindt & Sprüngli but also our competitors are support that, we have started to continuously increase the challenged with. It took us several years to develop innocommunication, especially on cocoa sustainability. Since vative solutions together with our suppliers. I am happy we have chosen to develop our own Lindt & Sprüngli Farmwe could initiate three major pilot projects for 2017 with ing Program, and not using a certification label scheme, different partners, allowing us to track results to decide more detailed explanation is required. We will continue to whether and how to scale up in the next years. make additional efforts in this area, without losing our farmer-centered approach. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH All products leaving our factories live up to our commitment to sustainable behavior along the value chain. The Lindt & Sprüngli Promise is the company’s pledge that SOURCED PILL ARS OF OUR BUSINESS MODEL all products leaving the factories live up to the commitment to sustainable behavior along the value chain. To ensure a sustainable supply of key resources, Lindt Lindt & Sprüngli is committed to manage sustainability & Sprüngli is committed to long-term partnerships with impacts emerging from its operations along the entire valsuppliers and traceability of raw materials. It is the key to Global Presence ue chain. We follow a continuous progress approach, where sustainable procurement and an important step in improvMarketing Excellence we want to improve our performance step by step. With ing the working and environmental conditions at suppliers. Trade Relationship this in mind, we continuously strive to advance our conTechnology tribution to a sustainable future, with a focus on the most PRODUCED material issues along the value chain. Progress along a set of key performance indicators is continuously monitored. Lindt & Sprüngli premium products require high-quality Quality Innovation Sustainability In our materiality analysis we identified 28 most relevant raw and packaging materials, dedicated employees and issues along the Lindt & Sprüngli value chain – sourcing, respect for the environment. Therefore, we strive not One of our main pillars of the business model is sustainproduction, and consumption. Lindt & Sprüngli continuonly as an employer but also as a member of society for ability. Our vision is not just to make the finest products; ously increases its efforts and activities with a focus on ecologically, ethically, and socially responsible corporate it is to match our high quality standards with equally high these material issues. behavior. ethical and sustainability standards in every aspect of our business. Therefore, it is our promise that all products leavCONSUMED ing our factories live up to our commitment to sustainable behavior along the value chain. Lindt & Sprüngli has a responsibility to the customers The significance Lindt & Sprüngli attaches to responsiand consumers. Strict quality controls ensure that our ble behavior is reflected in different policies and our susproducts meet our high standards – from raw materials to tainability strategy, which define the way Lindt & Sprüngli the consumer. is doing business. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 8 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A P P R OAC H TAK ING INTO ACCOU NT STAK EHOLDERS’ CONCER NS A ND INTER ESTS We want our sustainability approach to be relevant and credible. Lindt & Sprüngli is committed to providing the different stakeholders with a transparent and detailed overview of the company. Our stakeholders shall have full confidence that their interests are considered. Stakeholder Group Lindt & Sprüngli Engagement Stakeholder Group Lindt & Sprüngli Engagement Consumers Consumer satisfaction is key for Lindt & Sprüngli. Consumer service specialists of the Universities / Along the whole value chain, Lindt & Sprüngli works with different universities and reLindt & Sprüngli Group register and handle each inquiry, compliment, and complaint Research search institutions. This can happen through the support of existing research facilities and carefully. Consumers also have the opportunity to directly get in touch with our employees Institutions projects, by developing new projects for applied science, or by giving more information in the growing number of Lindt and Ghirardelli Retail Shops, and with the Lindt Master about the companies’ activities for students writing a thesis about a research question that Chocolatiers at numerous promotional and sponsoring events. Lindt & Sprüngli additionally is of our interest. engages on various social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter. These new comRetail / DistribuCustomers of semi-finished Lindt & Sprüngli chocolate products, as well as retailers, munication platforms allow direct interaction and listening in real time to our consumers’ tors / Customers distributors, and other B-to-B customers of finished products, ensure that our products needs, questions, and remarks. are accessible to consumers all year round. They all have their channel-specific customer Employees Employees are our biggest asset. We foster a culture of feedback where open and honest services representatives in the respective subsidiaries, which professionally take care of dialogue is valued and career opportunities are visible for all employees. Our annual Taltheir needs. Lindt & Sprüngli brands are also present at trade fairs and other events to make ent Management dialogues help to identify, assess, and develop the professional compepartners familiar with our latest creations. tencies and performance of our employees. An employee survey is conducted throughout Governments Lindt & Sprüngli does not conduct active lobbying at the governmental level, but its the entire Group every three to four years. subsidiaries are members of several local industry associations. Governmental institutions Investors Investors and analysts are informed about our half-year and annual results and other relbecome, however, more and more important as advisory and supporting partners of evant business-related information. Interactions take place at the annual general meeting sustainability projects. and during smaller events like financial analyst conferences and calls, as well as roadMedia We proactively inform the media on relevant issues to ensure a thoughtful and correct shows and individual meetings. image and perception of Lindt & Sprüngli. Our communication with media is honest, Civil Society The Sustainability Manager is the main contact point for civil society organizations and fact-based, and transparent within the bounds of commercial confidentiality. Engagements Organizations NGOs, and engages with them individually on a continuous basis to listen to their ideas include report and media release on half-year and annual results, press releases on all and NGOs and concerns, share sustainability activities of Lindt & Sprüngli, ask for feedback, and to other business-relevant matters, media events, annual general meetings, field trips, and evaluate the potential for partnerships. responses to media inquiries. Farmers and Constant high-quality supply of raw materials and packaging material, reliable partners Suppliers for transport and logistics, machinery development, delivery and maintenance, as well as service providers for a wide range of support are crucial for our business. Mainly Lindt & Sprüngli procurement staff, but also other employees are regularly in touch with our supply chain partners in order to mutually optimize further development. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A P P R OAC H SUSTA INA BILIT Y STR ATEGY Our sustainability strategy is based on the material issues and includes commit­ments and strategic goals, main activities, indicators for progress measurement, and clear responsibilities for each issue. This Sustainability Report provides an overview of our measures and achievements in 2016 with regards to most of our goals and commitments. SUSTAINABLY SOURCED SUSTAINABLY PRODUCED Material issues Our commitments and strategic goals Read more Material issues Our commitments and strategic goals Read more Secured supply We develop and maintain long-term contractual relationships pp. 12–18 Climate change We reduce our CO2 emissions by reducing energy use, pp. 23–24, 31 of raw materials with suppliers for all critical raw materials to secure long-term and greenhouse gas increasing our share of renewable energy use, and optimizing supply of high quality. emissions transportation and logistics. Farmer education Farmers delivering to us are capable of applying good pp. 12–18 Water and wastewater We reduce fresh-water use and wastewater within our pp. 24, 31 and capacity building agricultural, social, environmental, and business practices operations. in the management of their farm. Environmental We reduce packaging size and use where possible recyclable Agricultural Our supply of raw materials fosters agricultural development pp. 12–18 impact of packaging materials, while maintaining a balance between gift-giving development in origin countries. material premium character of packaging and quality aspects of product protection. Biodiversity The cultivation of the raw materials we source does not harm pp. 12–18 and soil fertility long-term suitability of land for agricultural use. Waste and recycling We reduce waste and increase the recycling rate of waste pp. 24–25 Investments in We know about specific rural infrastructure needs in origins pp. 12–18 within our operations. rural infrastructure of our raw materials, and link / enable the target groups to Work culture We maintain an open work culture where respect, trust, p. 25 get / develop access to rural infrastructure. and fair play characterize our working relationships. Diversity of We contribute to the diversity of cocoa varieties. p. 17 We foster teamwork and facilitate communication and p. 25 cocoa varieties understanding across all disciplines, business segments, Core labor Core labor standards are respected within our supply chain. pp. 11–21 and geographies to create a company of people who standards support each other for mutual success. Climate change We reduce the carbon footprint in our supply chain. pp. 11–21 We encourage, recognize, and reward individual innovation, p. 25 and greenhouse personal initiative, and leadership of people throughout the gas emissions organization. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 10 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A P P R OAC H SUSTAINABLY PRODUCED SUSTAINABLY CONSUMED Material issues Our commitments and strategic goals Read more Material issues Our commitments and strategic goals Read more Employee satisfaction We offer an attractive working environment and maintain or pp. 25–26 Product quality We adhere to superior measures to ensure product quality. p. 33 and retention increase employee engagement, satisfaction, and employee Product safety We adhere to superior measures to ensure product safety. p. 33 retention. Consumer and customer Customer and consumer satisfaction is the main goal of all our p. 34 Employee development We ensure that all key positions are staffed with qualified and pp. 26–27 satisfaction activities. and training motivated employees and that talented employees are developed internally to fill these positions. Consumer complaints, inquiries, and compliments are handled p. 34 on time and individually. Work-life balance We support our employees in finding and maintaining a healthy p. 26 Genetically modified Lindt, Caffarell, Küfferle, Hofbauer branded products are p. 33 work-life balance. We therefore strive to find the right balance organisms (GMO) non GM. between working on efficiency / productivity and offering the employees support to cope with the increasing work Product information We apply high standards to consumer information. p. 34 requirements. At the same time we give employees increasing and labeling We apply correct labeling on our products. p. 34 empowerment to coordinate their private life and work in their preferred way whenever possible. Marketing Children are not our main target group in marketing and p. 34 and advertising practices advertising practices. Occupational We offer a healthy and safe working place. p. 28 health and safety Our vision is zero lost-time accidents. Social security Our compensation, remuneration, benefits, or social security and compensation schemes meet or exceed law requirements. Diversity We offer equal opportunities and foster diversity in p. 27 and equal opportunity employment, development, and advancement for those qualified. We are not discriminating in hiring and employment on the grounds of gender, age, religion, political opinion, union affiliation, disability, national or social origin, sexual orientation, ethnicity or color, or any other relevant characteristic protected under the applicable law. Local We foster local development around our production, marketing, development and distribution sites. Corruption and antiWe are not participating in any corrupt or anti-competitive p. 28 competitive behavior behavior. Philanthropy We want others to benefit from our successful pp. 29, 31 business and make in-kind, financial, and time contributions to good causes. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 11 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 SUSTAINABLY SOURCED Sustainability starts for Lindt & Sprüngli with the procurement of raw and packaging material. To guarantee the sustainable and longterm supply of essential resources, Lindt & Sprüngli is committed to building long-term partnerships with suppliers and working towards full traceability of raw materials. In 2016, we mainly worked on progress in the following areas: — We revised the ▶ Lindt & Sprüngli Supplier Code of Conduct and started with the implementation of the revised version. The revision strengthened environmental topics and introduced the request for a due diligence process. The latter requires our suppliers to take responsibility for their own suppliers, subcontractors, and agents and/or farms by identifying potential breaches to the Code, thus cascading responsible production practices down the supply chain. — We worked on the improvement of existing and the L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 12 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D development of new programs for sustainable cocoa In line with our ▶ Verification Guidance Document, the last sourcing. Our cocoa bean supply chain in Ghana is now step does not only include internal performance monitoring not only traceable, but also fully verified. The Lindt visits to all farmers participating in the Program, but also a & Sprüngli Farming Program for fine-flavor cocoa beans yearly third-party verification assessment of the entire Proin Ecuador has been scaled up and a new Program was gram. For this purpose, Lindt & Sprüngli collaborates with established for fine-flavor cocoa beans in Madagascar. Hazelnuts from Turkey > see p. 17), or global certification ▶ The Forest Trust (TFT) as external assessment partner Further, we launched Programs for the sourcing of susschemes (e. g. RSPO for Palm Oil > see p. 18). We continusince 2015. In 2016, we became an official member of TFT. tainable cocoa butter. ously evaluate opportunities for implementing Farming At least once a year, TFT visits and evaluates the — In 2016, Lindt & Sprüngli integrated more key suppliers Programs for other origins and ingredients. Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Programs for cocoa beans in Ghain the Supplier Sustainable Practice Program. The Prona, Ecuador, and Madagascar and communicates our proggram currently covers more than 90% of our purchasing The Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program consists of four steps: ress on ▶ TFT’s Transparency Hub platform. expenditure in decorative packaging which is mainly Step 1: Traceability and farmer organization Lindt & Sprüngli highly values the work of TFT as an sourced from Asian-based suppliers. – Register and organize farmers alternative to certification/compliance audits. TFT’s recom– Gather baseline data about farms, farmers, and communities mendations are meaningful, useful, smart, and holistic and to assess their needs LINDT & SPRÜNGLI FARMING PROGRAM aim at a continuous progress approach. We are convinced – Establish traceability systems up to our factory doors For our key raw materials, we have committed to develop that this partnership truly enables us to transform our cocoa and maintain long-term relationships with our suppliers. Step 2: Training and knowledge transfer bean supply chain to foster sustainable development. The cornerstone of Lindt & Sprüngli’s sustainable raw-ma– Train farmers in professional business, agricultural, social, terial sourcing strategy is the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Proand ecological farming practices COCOA gram. The Program’s aim is to trace ingredients back to their – Improve farmer’s harvest and consequently their income origin and support farmers according to their specific needs. – Train local field staff that implements the Program on the ground We work towards a fully traceable and verified We capacitate and support the farmers to apply good agricocoa supply chain by 2020. Step 3: Farmer investments and community development cultural, social, environmental, and business practices in the – Support farmers, e. g. management of their farms. These measures have a positive Provide access to cocoa seedlings and farming equipment Lindt & Sprüngli sources consumer cocoa beans from Ghaimpact on the agricultural development in origin countries. – Support communities, e. g. na and the very high share of fine-flavor cocoa beans from They help to safeguard the long-term suitability of land for Provide access to clean drinking water, school refurbishment Latin America and the Caribbean (mainly Ecuador), Madagricultural use and foster access to rural infrastructure. agascar, and Papua New Guinea. All beans are processed We are following the ultimate goal of growing as a comStep 4: Verification and continuous progress in-house to cocoa liquor. Additionally, Lindt & Sprüngli – Monitor performance and measure continuous progress pany along with the farmers in our chocolate-manufacturing sources cocoa butter, cocoa powder and in the case of Rus– Perform assessments by independent external organizations supply chain by building long-term partnerships. The Prosell Stover also chocolate from third-party suppliers. – Implement corrective actions and recommendations gram is farmer-centered, aiming at Lindt & Sprüngli being To obtain high-quality cocoa beans, Lindt & Sprüngli the preferred buyer for the farmers. Currently, the Program – Assure effectiveness of the Program needs to know where they come from and who produces focuses on cocoa beans from Ghana, Ecuador, and Madathem. Cocoa is often grown in countries with difficult living gascar, as well as cocoa butter. Any other engagement for and working conditions. Small cultivation areas, low prosustainable raw material sourcing is either based on the ductivity, a lack of rural infrastructure, institutional and framework of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program (e. g. governmental challenges, as well as high input and transL I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 13 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D portation costs challenge the incomes of cocoa farming Traceability and verification of all cocoa beans Step 2: Training and knowledge transfer households. To tackle these challenges, Lindt & Sprüngli, % of cocoa beans % of cocoa beans sourced All farmers in the Program were trained on good agricultogether with the company’s supply chain partners, implesourced traceable* traceable and verified tural, social, and environmental practices along the ments the ▶ Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program. 97 ▶ Certification Capacity Enhancement Curriculum – a uni91 89 Our continuous work on an organized and traceable co82 form training curriculum developed by the private sector, 75 coa bean supply chain in Ghana has proven to be a good standard initiatives, and development organizations. The basis for verifying the cocoa bean supply within a reasonable 57 training contents, topics, and methods are constantly imtimeframe. We are proud to have achieved our goal to have 32 proved to keep the interest of the farmers in the trainings our entire cocoa bean supply chain in Ghana not only trace13 and quality of the trainings high. Novelties and achieveable, but also fully verified by the start of the 2016/2017 0 0 ments in 2016 included: cocoa season. Together with the scaling up of the Farming 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 — 207 local farmer trainers have been newly employed, Program in Ecuador, we were able to increase the share of * F or 2016 deliveries, Ghana and partly Ecuador and Madagascar were replacing the lead farmers that were giving the trainings traceable and externally verified cocoa beans by 25 pp to a the origins with the Lindt & Sprüngli traceability system in place. Cobeforehand. The farmer trainers – which we also call coa beans from other origins relate to certificates of origin that confirm total share of 57% of all cocoa beans sourced. We invested where the cocoa beans originate from. However, these cocoa beans “Champion Farmers” – are well trained, and receive more than USD 14 million in the traceability and verification do not have a Lindt & Sprüngli traceability system in place. a bike in order to easily travel between the villages they of the cocoa supply chain, the support of farmers, their liveare responsible for. The farmer trainers also assess the lihood, and communities since 2008. In 2016, the major projects and achievements along the farmers’ adoption of good agricultural practices and four steps of the Program were: provide individual coaching for the cocoa farmers. Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program in Ghana — The participatory training approach on integrated soil In 2008, we started the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program Step 1: Traceability and farmer organization fertility management was scaled up. 73 demonstration in Ghana, with a focus on traceability and community deIn 2016, additional farmers joined the Program to keep up sites are established, and used as best practice examples velopment. Over the years, the Program evolved substanwith our increasing demand for cocoa beans. 52,757 farmwhere farmers learn about soil sampling, as well as the tially. Now all farmers from Ghana delivering their cocoa ers from 43 districts (cocoa regions) are now registered in different ways of soil management. 5,122 soil analyses beans to us are fully covered by all four steps of the Farmthe Program, and organized in a total of 1,421 farmer have been completed, and soil community action plans ing Program. groups (one per village/society). In order to foster an innow already cover 739 farmer groups. IDH – Sustainable Trade Initiative supports our Farmcreased collaboration among farmer groups and enable — Regarding child labor we continued community sensiing Program in Ghana with co-funding and knowledge to them to jointly get access to products and services, farmer tization and awareness-raising activities (▶ see text box scale up core interventions (farmer organization, training groups have been assorted in loose associations. on Action Plan against Child Labor in Ghana). services, seedling nurseries, demonstration plots) and proThe traceability system has been enriched with a more — In collaboration with GIZ, the federally owned German totype new innovations (entrepreneurial farm shops, farmdetailed tool, enabling us to track delivery volumes back International Cooperation, the Farmer Business School er business schools and coaching, nutrition and crop to the farmer and not only to the farmer group. Also, farmcurriculum was introduced (▶ see text box on Farmer diversification and farm development plans) to realize ers have received so-called “Farmer Pass Books”, which Business Schools in collaboration with GIZ). green and inclusive growth at scale. allow them to keep track of their volume sold. In line with our strategy of continuous improvement, we will continue to review and improve the promotion of knowledge and skills for farmers and field staff involved in the Program. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 14 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D Step 3: Farmer investments and community development With a 97 % recovery rate, we consider this model as Farmer Business Schools in collaboration with GIZ To give the farmers better access to necessary products and successful, and will continue to place the needs and Our Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program implementation services for their farms, we continued and improved the requirements of farmers at the center. partner in Ghana partnered with ▶ GIZ-Sustainable Smallfollowing activities in 2016: — To further improve the livelihoods of the farmers, the holder Agri-Business Program / Cocoa-Food Link Program* to — We started the piloting phase of the inclusive business Program started working on income diversification improve the income of cocoa smallholders and to lower their dependency from income from cocoa production in model for community-based farm shops. These farm (▶ see text box on Farmer Business Schools in collaboraa sustainable way. As a first step within this collaboration, shops do not only offer products and services for cocoa tion with GIZ). Program field staff was trained at Bunso Cocoa College of farms, but also other types of agricultural activities In terms of community development, the Program continGhana Cocoa Board – on Farmer Business School and alwithin the communities and household needs. Offering ued to heavily focus on access to clean drinking water as ternative livelihoods for cocoa farmers to diversify their inthe products in the villages enables the farmers to save the essential base for a healthy life. An additional 14 borecome (train-the-trainer). This enabled the field staff to transtravel time and money. In 2016, 250 selected entrepreholes were constructed during the cocoa season 2015/2016, fer knowledge to farmers in trainings. So far, 4,704 farmers (32% women) participating in our Program completed neurs were trained on basic business skills, marketing which brings us to a total of 151 boreholes and wells conthe one-week training course, where they learned how to and entrepreneurship. Twenty of these were supported structed over the years. Yet, still not all communities have calculate costs, sales, or return on investments, the benefits with an initial investment to operate ten pilot farm access to clean drinking water, which is why we will conof professional organization and how to access financial shops (two entrepreneurs per shop). tinue to work on this goal. services. Farmers were also trained on how to improve — In addition to the Ghanaian Governments’ free distriWhile we have to acknowledge that the Program will their family’s nutrition as well as how to take decisions on the diversification of their production, including additional bution of improved cocoa seedlings, 64 seedling nursnever be able to fund all community needs, we are looking income generation activities (most important during lean eries were established and managed by the farmers in into additional investments in the refurbishment of pricocoa season). Many participants already started establishour Program during the cocoa season 2015/2016. mary schools, since the lack of adequate teaching facilities ing additional activities, such as snail rearing, corn, cassa271,776 seedlings germinated (80% survival rate), and is one of the main risks for child labor. Further, we hope va, cocoyam, or chili farming. Another positive outcome 244 hectares were replanted with new hybrid varieties that the saving and loan groups, as well as the additional of the Farmer Business School training is that some farmer groups took the initiative to form saving and loan groups. of seedlings. In addition, 299,450 shade trees were disincome generating activities of the farmer groups offer We will closely follow this development and offer support tributed to encourage farmers to maintain the recomopportunities to motivate the farming communities to fosto make sure these groups develop successfully. mended shade levels on their farms. As the plantain ter investments themselves. * The Sustainable Smallholder Agri-Business Program (SSAB) is commissioned by the Federal Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Development of Germany sucker sites established in the previous year continue (BMZ). The European Union co-finances the Cocoa-Food Link Program (CFLP), an to enjoy great popularity amongst the farmers, this ProStep 4: Verification and continuous progress action plan of the intra-ACP New Commodities Program since end 2014 in Nigeria, Cameroon, Ghana, Côte d’Ivoire, and Togo. CFLP is implemented through SSAB. gram element was continued. Currently, 297 plantain The new questionnaires, developed in 2015 together with Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD) Nigeria equally co-finances SSAB program. SSAB and CFLP are implemented by the federally sucker propagation sites are established, producing ▶ COSA, Committee on Sustainability Assessments for interowned German International Cooperation (GIZ). The objective is to help 364,000 West and Central African smallholders mainly in cocoa production zones of Nige174,080 shoots in the 2015/2016 cocoa season. nal performance monitoring, were implemented and rolled ria, Cameroon, Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, and Togo to increase sustainably their income — As part of the in-kind farmer incentive, farmers reout to all farmers in our Program. We will analyze the results and food supply from diversified production. ceived (depending on the volume delivered) necessary properly, make adjustments where necessary, and use the farming equipment such as Wellington boots, cutlasses results for the continuous improvement of our Program. and overalls. The Forest Trust conducted the External Verification — The input-on-credit program continued to be offered Assessment. The recommendations for improvement from to the farmers. The number of farmers using this service last year’s assessment were taken into account, and help us doubled compared to last year to over 6,000 farmers. to constantly evolve and innovate further. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 15 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program in Ecuador Step 3: Farmer investments and community development Action plan against child labor in Ghana In 2014 we expanded our Lindt & Sprüngli Farming ProMany fine-flavor cocoa trees in Ecuador are very old Based on new knowledge gained from the latest ▶ Tulane gram to Ecuador – our most important fine-flavor cocoa (40–50 years), and new investments usually go into nonReport on child labor in West African cocoa growing areas, origin – and scaled it up since 2015. The overall aim is to fine-flavor cocoa trees(CCN-51), which are then more as well as the ▶ Labor Market Research Study prepared develop a traceable cocoa supply chain with a stable basis professionally managed, and as a consequence, yield more. by the International Cocoa Initiative, we further improved our activities in the fight against child labor. Our main of fine-flavor cocoa farmers. In 2016, our major projects To ensure the future availability of fine-flavor cocoa, we measures included: and achievements along the four steps of the Program were: need to motivate farmers to professionalize their farms — Training the entire field staff (> 250) on child labor, eswith fine-flavor cocoa. We do this by supporting research pecially on the Ghana Hazardous Child Labor Activity Step 1: Traceability and farmer organization in improving the yield and disease resistance of fine-flavor Framework for the cocoa sector; The interest to join the relatively new Program is increascocoa trees (> see chapter Cocoa Diversity), and by offering — Sensitizing communities and raising awareness on child labor situations (e. g. in farmer trainings, increasing the ing. The Program now includes a total of 3,486 farmers. a comprehensive support package for the farmers in our visibility of the topic in the communities); The traceability system enables us to know how much each Program. This does not only include the trainings on farm — Creating child labor committees; farmer contributed to the cocoa bean deliveries. The data rehabilitation and good agricultural practices, but also: — Requiring all field staff to visit at least five farms a week gathered about the farmers, their farms, and their commu— Distributing high-yielding and disease resistant fineunannounced, with a focus on farms/farmers with highnities was expanded, and now gives us a good sense of the flavor cocoa seedlings from the ▶ Ecuadorian National er prevalence of child labor risks (e. g larger distance to primary school, larger farm size); current state of the farms, the farmers’ situation and needs. Institute for Agricultural Research (INIAP) or INIAP— Remediating cases identified and conducting follow-up certified nurseries to farmers; visits – this is also done with farmers in the commuStep 2: Training and knowledge transfer — Teaching farmer groups on how to establish their own nities that are not part of our Program, or when child Additional efforts made on strengthening the farmers nurseries and provide them with the necessary conlabor is detected off the cocoa farm. Remediation groups bore fruit, which enabled us to offer more groupstruction material; and activities may include: discussions with, and sensitizabased trainings instead of individual coaching. Trainings — Following up on the development of newly planted trees tion of parents; access to labor services; support for the refurbishment of primary schools; additional incomeare offered in classroom sessions, field days and – still necand giving advice to farmers. This is crucial to maintain generating activities; training on managing inputs and essary – individual coaching on good agricultural, social, a high survival rate of the trees. labor more efficiently; environmental, and business practices is provided. For In order to receive new seedlings, farmers need to prepare — As a last resort, farmers not willing to follow the Ghana farmers that are not able to join the trainings, we offer at least one hectare of land to be planted with the new seedHazardous Child Labor Activity Framework are excludshorter “refresher trainings”. lings. So far, 78 hectares have been prepared, with an estied from our Program. In addition to the work conducted in the field, the ▶ Lindt The farmers particularly enjoy the practical trainings on mate of more than 150,000 seedlings ready to be planted Cocoa Foundation started co-funding a second research demonstration farms, whereby they access expert knowlfrom December 2016-February 2017. As part of the in-kind project of the ▶ International Cocoa Initiative (ICI). The edge, for example on farm rehabilitation, including graftfarmer incentives, farmers and farmer groups received (deproject’s objective is to further develop ICI’s Protective ing, or composting. In the trainings we put special emphapending on the volume delivered) necessary inputs and Cocoa Community Framework to identify which indicators sis on the importance and future of fine-flavor cocoa, as farming equipment such as chain saws for pruning. are strongly associated with child labor, and to develop a trackable, measurable scoring system. This will enable well as the consistent separation of fine-flavor and nonstakeholders to monitor and track progress on reducing the fine-flavor cocoa. Farmers also appreciate business trainStep 4: Verification and continuous progress child labor risk in a cost-effective manner. ings, where they learn how to track costs, revenues, and The internal monitoring system has been streamlined to profits. gather more performance-oriented progress data. All farmers have been visited at least once during a monitoring process. This data, together with the recommendations from L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 16 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D Farmer facts Through our Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program, relevant key data about the farmers participating Step 2: Training and knowledge transfer in our Program is collected. A snapshot with data currently available: Training material was developed, taking into account the specific situation and context of the cocoa farmers in MadGHANA ECUADOR agascar. The modules include: — Program introduction; — Purchasing process and supply chain; — Harvesting and bean quality; — Fermentation and warehousing; — Farm management; — Good environmental practices; — Nutrition security; — Good social practices; — Special workshops (e. g. gender and youth aspects) and — Nursery management. A training structure was established, and field staff em46 years 603 kg/ha 54 years 285 kg/ha Average age of farmers Average age of farmers ployed to deliver the training on the ground. Moreover, Average productivity Average productivity a calendar with key messages from the training curriculum 1.57 ha 31% 4.75 ha 16% for each month was distributed to all farmers in the Average hectares women in Program Average amount of women in Program Program. of cocoa plant hectares cocoa 942 kg/year 1,314 kg/year Step 3: Farmer investments and community development Average amount of dry cocoa Average amount of dry cocoa As this was the first year of the Program and needs of the beans produced per farmer beans produced per farmer farmers and their communities were not yet well known, an extensive needs assessment was conducted. Based therethe external assessments conducted by The Forest Trust, enables for the Program from scratch. The Program contains the on, farmer investments and community development acus to continually work on the improvement of the Program. following activities: tivities started in the harvesting season 2016/2017. The focus is on access to clean drinking water and sanitation, Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program in Madagascar Step 1: Traceability and farmer organization cocoa seedling nurseries, as well as cocoa bean dryers. ImMadagascar is the home to some of the finest cocoa beans A total of 698 farmers have been registered in the Program portant farming tools, such as cutlasses, boots, or baskets and another important fine-flavor cocoa origin for Lindt delivering their cocoa beans through our supply chain. The will be distributed as in-kind farming premiums (based on & Sprüngli. In the Sambirano valley in the northwest of the farmers are organized in groups around so-called “collecthe volume delivered). country, we started with the establishment of a Lindt teurs” (small, community-based suppliers), and baseline & Sprüngli Farming Program during the 2015/2016 cocoa data about the farmers and their farms have been gathered. season. Sustainable cocoa projects in Madagascar are very We also established a traceability system that enables us to rare, and a lot of tools and the knowledge for the regional know how much each farmer contributed to each of the context were missing. We therefore developed many things cocoa bean deliveries. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 17 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D Step 4: Verification and continuous progress Diversity of cocoa varieties such as child labor on hazelnut farms and poor working Based on Lindt & Sprüngli’s Verification Guidance Docuconditions of migrant workers. ment and the content delivered through the farmer trainWe contribute to the diversity Since 2014, Lindt & Sprüngli works with key hazelnut ings, an internal performance-monitoring questionnaire of cocoa varieties. suppliers that have implemented sustainable hazelnut prowas developed, and monitoring visits to the farms were grams in Turkey. Comparable to the Farming Program conducted. The Forest Trust externally assessed the ProThe company has a major interest in a rich variety of cocoa framework, our suppliers established traceability first, gram and gave recommendations for improvement. beans and high availability of fine-flavor beans. Lindt trained farmers, supported them with specific measures As not all farms could be visited during the internal & Sprüngli therefore supports efforts to preserve the diversifor improvement, and monitored progress internally. In monitoring process, the beans from the 2015/2016 season ty of cocoa varieties in Latin America – the fine-flavor bean’s addition, farm visits by independent assessors verified that are not considered to qualify for the verified share menorigin – and fosters the research and development of new the knowledge gained in trainings was implemented and tioned in the table on > p. 13. productive and disease-resistant fine-flavor cocoa varieties. the required standards are met. In 2016, we continued our partnership with the Tropical For the 2016 harvest, taking place in August/September, Other cocoa bean origins and cocoa products Agricultural Research and Higher Education Center we further strengthened our hazelnut policy. The miniIn line with our commitment to work towards a fully trace(CATIE). Lindt & Sprüngli’s financial support helps ▶ CATmum share of whole hazelnuts that need to be sourced able and verified cocoa supply chain by 2020, we continue IE’s Cacao Genetic Improvement Program to maintain an from Italy, Oregon (USA), or from a sustainable hazelnut working on establishing Farming Programs in our smaller in-house quality laboratory, making sure newly developed program in Turkey was increased from 50% to 75%. cocoa bean origins. productive and disease-resistant fine-flavor cocoa varieties Also in 2017, Lindt & Sprüngli will continue to work We further work on establishing strategies for traceable/ meet the quality requirements of the chocolate industry. with Turkish hazelnut suppliers to support them in segregated, sustainable, and verified cocoa butter, cocoa We further renewed our partnership with the ▶ Cocoa extending and refining their programs. powder, and chocolate under our Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Research Center of the University of the West Indies in TrinProgram criteria. idad, which holds the largest cocoa collection in the world. In 2016, progress was achieved on cocoa butter. It is our The funds provided by Lindt & Sprüngli cover the costs for goal to buy cocoa butter that is physically made with beans the establishment and maintenance of a model cocoa farm, from sustainability programs (no mass balance). This obusing global best practices and outreach mechanisms. The Sustainable hazelnuts jective turns out to be more challenging to reach than angoal is to support the efforts in propagating high-yielding % of whole hazelnuts sourced from % of Turkish hazelnuts ticipated, since the high-quality specifications we require and disease-resistant fine-flavor cocoa trees. Italy, Oregon (USA), or a sustainable sourced from sustainability hazelnut program in Turkey programs for cocoa butter are very difficult to meet with specified origins and a stable farmer basis. Nevertheless, we were HAZELNUTS successful in a first pilot conducted in 2016. We will there61 71 fore extend the pilot to three sustainable cocoa butter proOur commitment: core labor standards are 60 grams in 2017, covering around 10% of our demand. Jointrespected within our supply chain. 44 ly with our suppliers, we continuously work on finding 14 13 solutions, allowing us to consistently increase the volume Turkey’s Black Sea region produces up to 80% of the and streive to achieve the goal of sourcing all cocoa prodglobal hazelnut harvest. In Turkey, there have been issues 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 ucts sustainably. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 18 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D PALM OIL PACKAGING MATERIAL FOUR STEPS IN THE LINDT & SPRÜNGLI We aim to purchase 100% certified Our commitment is that core SUPPLIER SUSTAINABLE PRACTICE PROGRAM sustainable palm oil according to the RSPO labor standards are respected within our 1 2 3 4 certification models. supply chain. Sign Lindt & Sprüngli Conduct Develop If necessary, Supplier external on-site corrective supplier Code of Conduct assessment action plan support For our plain chocolate, we use only pure cocoa butter as Packaging is a very important and sensitive part of the vegetable fat. Only for some fillings, palm and palm kernel production chain at Lindt & Sprüngli. Apart from being oil is used among other vegetable fats. appealing to the consumer and detailing the contents, Our demand only accounts for around 0.005% of globpackaging needs to fulfill its essential function of protectSupplier Sustainable Practice Program al palm oil / palm kernel harvest. We are committed to the ing the delicate chocolate. When sourcing our packaging Number of external on-site Number of suppliers supported in procurement of sustainable palm oil according to the materials, we often source from suppliers located close to assessments (initial and implementing corrective actions follow-up) (off/on-site) RSPO certification models. our production sites in Switzerland, the EU, and the USA. As a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm This helps to avoid long transportation routes and high 20 23 18 Oil (RSPO), already in 2011 we purchased exclusively emission levels. 1 3 0 crude palm oil as well as palm kernel oil according to the However, many of our more decorative seasonal and 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 RSPO book and claim trading system. In 2015, we reached promotional packaging items, such as tin boxes or plush certification of all production plants according to the toys, are sourced from manufacturers in Asia, where we RSPO segregation model, except for Ghirardelli and Ruscan access a highly specialized market for such products. We focus on the development of our key suppliers. Sustainsell Stover. Ghirardelli has already switched some products To make sure that also our Asian suppliers comply with ability performance information gathered during the on-site to the segregation model and received an RSPO mass balthe ▶ Lindt & Sprüngli Supplier Code of Conduct regarding assessments is used as a baseline for improvement. The supance certification for the remaining. Russell Stover will issues such as the prohibition of forced labor and child pliers are rated through a methodology assessing complistart using RSPO mass balance palm kernel oil during labor or the freedom of association, Lindt & Sprüngli monance as well as transparency and engagement. Identified 2017. itors and improves responsible production practices shortcomings as well as the supplier rating of each assessTo summarize, from 2016, all Lindt, Caffarel, Hofbauthrough the Supplier Sustainable Practice Program (SSPP). ment are discussed among the Lindt & Sprüngli purchasers er and Küfferle products, and part of Ghirardelli products This Program is based on a progress-oriented approach: and the suppliers. When making purchasing decisions, we contained the RSPO-certified sustainable palm oil physiAssessment and reassessment visits are combined with consider the suppliers’ sustainability performance. This procally in their fillings. Our efforts in this area have paidoff support engagements. During these, sustainability experts cess allows us to integrate the suppliers’ compliance into our and we score highest in the ▶ WWF’s Palm Oil Buyers help the suppliers to improve identified non-compliances packaging supply chain management, improving the perScorecard 2016. through onand off-site support. Progress on the producformance of our supplier portfolio over time. tion practices is driven through close collaboration of our In 2016, Lindt & Sprüngli integrated more key suppliers buyers with the suppliers and production sites. in the Supplier Sustainable Practice Program. The Program currently covers more than 90% of our purchasing expenL I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 19 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D diture in decorative packaging. 18 initial supplier assessments were performed, and three suppliers were supported in the implementation of improvements, focusing primarily on health and safety management. All supported suppliers were able to implement significant progress on the identified non-compliances in areas such as documented procedures, first aid training, or emergency signalization. In spite of our efforts and achievements in this area, there are still some challenges in Asia, such as health and safety requirmenets, the reduction of working hours, as well as the implementation of transparent management systems. One supplier relationship was terminated this year because the producers were not willing or able to fully remediate non-compliances identified. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 20 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D MEET OUR EMPLOYEES The following employees are part of more than 13,000 individuals at Lindt & Sprüngli, who make sure that all products leaving our factories live up to our commitment to sustainable behavior along our value chain. MARTIN HUG ELLEN SCHAUDRA CHRISTOPHE TATHIEU L ARS RUNDE G R O U P C F O, G R O U P M A NA G E M E N T, H E A D O F P U R C HA S I N G , P U R C HA S I N G M A NA G E R , C O R P O R AT E P R O C U R E M E N T M A NA G E R , L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I I N T E R NAT I O NA L L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I S W I T Z E R L A N D L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I F R A N C E L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I I N T E R NAT I O NA L Taking on responsibility for corporate The purchasing team is responsible to source A company like Lindt & Sprüngli has a In 2016, the Board of Lindt & Sprüngli sustainability after Dr Weisskopf became not only packaging and indirects, but first multitude of suppliers. It is not always easy to approved a revised version of the Supplier CEO has been a great honor for me. I look and foremost the various raw materials we establish long-term relationships with all of Code of Conduct. The revised version forward to working with our sustainability need to produce our premium chocolate. them. But this is crucial to develop the supplioutlines even stronger our commitment to executive team to move this important Of course, this includes cocoa – but for er’s goods according to our standards. Over adhere to international standards throughout business obligation forward. We will example also cocoa butter, coconut oil and the past years, we have reduced the number of our entire supply chain. We have further continue keeping our promise that the milk, of which we buy always in a high different suppliers and intensified the relationstrengthened our Supplier Sustainable products leaving our factories live up quality. Sustainability is consistently included ship with them. In the beginning, this was not Practive Program in order to support our to our commitment to sustainable behavior into our purchasing decisions. That way easy. We had to decide which suppliers had the suppliers in fulfilling the commitment. along the value chain. We will continue we ensure the long-term supply of raw most potential. We choose our suppliers very focusing on sustainable sourcing, producmaterials because suppliers recognize us carefully. After a field visit to Madagascar, I tion, and consumption as measures as a responsible and reliable customer that understood their needs and challenges better. of our performance. looks beyond the rim of the teacup. Today, we have intensified our relationship with the farmers and look forward to improve the high quality of our raw materials even further. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 21 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D CASE STUDIES – SOURCED LINDT & SPRÜNGLI GROUP LINDT & SPRÜNGLI GROUP LINDT & SPRÜNGLI SWITZERL AND Photo credit: World Cocoa Foundation COCOA RESILIENCE TO CLIMATE CHANGE ECUADOR EARTHQUAKE RELIEF SUSTAINABLE COCONUT We are committed to addressing the threat that climate change On April 16, 2016, a strong earthquake hit Ecuador, killing Coconut oil is another vegetable fat used in certain fillings of poses to cocoa sustainability and to the many livelihoods that and injuring many people and damaging infrastructure our chocolate products. Since 2015, Lindt & Sprüngli Switzerthe sector involves. Therefore, Lindt & Sprüngli supports the heavily. The disaster also affected almost 500 fine-flavor land sources coconut oil exclusively from one supplier who World Cocoa Foundation’s four-year new collaboration prococoa farmers participating in our Farming Program. The established a sustainability program for coconut oil from the gram on climate change. The program is designed to support Lindt & Sprüngli subsidiaries Switzerland, Italy, USA, GhirarSolomon Islands, a country consisting of a large number of farmers in adapting to changing weather patterns. The prodelli and International, their employees, and the Lindt Cocoa islands in Oceania. Regular on-site sustainability assessments gram will work for instance on research and development of Foundation quickly gathered a total amount of USD 110,000. track progress and identify potential for improvement, as for heatand drought-tolerant planting material, improved farmThanks to the traceable cocoa bean supply chain and our loexample the efficiency of the collection systems or price transing practices, and new agroforestry models. Lindt & Sprüngcal implementation partner, we were able to deliver very tarparency. The program is expected to improve the living conli understands an investment in climate-smart cocoa as being geted and direct support to cocoa farmers and their commuditions of the smallholder farmers by increasing their procritical to ensuring greater sustainability in the cocoa sector nities. One of the farmers in Flavio Alfaro noted: “This gift ductivity and income. and to maintain cocoa supply. helps us to rebuild our lives. I am happy that the Program is not just helping us to grow our cocoa farms, but also cares about our personal lives.” L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 22 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 SUSTAINABLY PRODUCED The most important assets in order to produce our premium chocolate products are our employees. Therefore, responsible behavior towards our employees, but also towards the environment, and the communities we live and work in is part of our corporate culture. Apart from high-quality materials and state-of-the art machines, Lindt & Sprüngli requires dedicated employees and respect for the environment. In terms of the environment, Lindt & Sprüngli is working continuously on reducing the use of valuable energy and water. Special attention is paid to the constant reduction of greenhouse gas emissions through local programs at production sites and by optimizing transport routes of ingredients and end products. For our employees, we want to ensure a safe work environment and that they are satisfied with their jobs. Global programs for health and safety, local programs for personal development as well as regular global employee surveys L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 23 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 S U S TA I N A B LY P R O D U C E D build the basis for continuous improvement. Our ▶ Group higher than it was in 2008, but decreased by 1.1% between Energy use Policies define our global requirements, while the different 2015 and 2016. Greenhouse gases excluding Russell Stover Our goal: – 2% average annual rate of reduction subsidiaries are responsible for the implementation of endecreased by 20% per ton produced since 2008. Again, the Absolute energy use Energy use per ton of vironmental measures or employee activities. consolidated intensity is also higher with Russell Stover in 1,000 MWh chocolate produced 2008 = 100% In the areas of sustainable production, the following included and the reduction is also 1.1% compared to the elements can be highlighted in 2016: previous year. 4942 4862 1001 1002 992 861 — We had a 14% reduction of the lost-time accidents figure. Regarding our energy and emissions targets, we 861 841 That means the severity of the accidents, due to the roachieved our 2% reduction target on average for the 3291 2721 344 1 3441 bust risks reduction process put in place, has significantLindt & Sprüngli production companies excluding Russell ly reduced. Our vision continues to have a zero lost-time Stover. Looking at the development of the consolidated accidents working space. figures, we can only compare 2015 and 2016. The reduc— Due to its success in the previous year, the leadership tions were less than 2%, thus not yet declining at the rate program International Lindt & Sprüngli Academy was we aim for. The production sites of Russell Stover still have 2008 2014 2015 2016 2008 2014 2015 2016 held for the second time in 2016 with 25 talents partica lot of potential for energy savings. We will intensify our 1 excluding Russell Stover 2 including Russell Stover, index adjusted to 2015 = 100% ipating. Focus of the program was the strengthening of efforts and we expect energy intensity to improve in the Note: figures cover only Lindt & Sprüngli production companies. their management, technical, and leadership skills. coming years so that we reach our target of a 2% average annual rate of reduction. Corsicana plant. This reduced cooling loss from the ENERGY USE AND GREENHOUSE We have started to assess the environmental figures of conditioned spaces. We also installed motion sensors GAS EMISSIONS Russell Stover in depth in 2016. Some areas for potential on various lighting throughout the facility to automatimprovement have been identified already. For example ically turn the lights off when the space is unoccupied. Our commitment is to reduce our CO2 emisvery low temperatures within the warehouses and a spe— New air compressors with variable speed drive in the sions by reducing energy use, increasing our cific cooking process of filling masses led to high energy Abilene plant were also built-in. share of renewable energy use, and optimizing demand. Also, we set up a new structure to measure the transportation and logistics. energy used. This enables us to target high energy conSome of our plants use certifications to improve their apsumption in a more focused way. proach to environmental management and energy efficienChocolate production requires energy at various producBesides the analysis, Russell Stover has already invested cy. Both production sites in Italy, as well as the production tion steps such as heating, cooling, and transport. These in different energy saving projects in 2016: site in France are certified according to ISO 14001 (enviprocesses cause greenhouse gas emissions. Lindt & Sprüng— New LED lighting in the Kansas City offices led to ronmental management), while Lindt & Sprüngli Germany li is committed to reduce energy consumption and greena saving of around 200 MWh/year. is certified according to ISO 51001 (energy efficiency). house gas emissions per ton produced by an average of — New evaporative condensers (cooling towers) for the In 2016 we have also seen progress on our commitment 2% over the coming years. In addition, we are committed refrigeration systems at four different locations. All of to increase our share of renewable energy use. Concerning to increase our share of renewable energy. them are equipped with variable speed drives on the electricity, the share of renewable electricity used at our Since 2008, Lindt & Sprüngli’s production companies cut fans to reduce power usage and improve the efficiency production companies rose from 38% in 2015 to 41% in down energy consumption per ton produced by 16%, excludof the cooling system. 2016 excluding Russell Stover. Taking Russell Stover into ing Russell Stover. Due to the acquisition of Russell Stover, — We installed three high-speed warehouse doors beaccount, the consolidated share of renewable electricity the consolidated energy intensity of Lindt & Sprüngli is now tween conditioned and non-conditioned rooms in the was 33% in 2016. Lindt & Sprüngli Germany and Caffarel L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 24 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 S U S TA I N A B LY P R O D U C E D CO2 emissions WATER AND WASTEWATER a next step, we are currently analyzing water-saving potenOur goal: – 2% average annual rate of reduction per ton produced tials also at Russell Stover. Absolute CO2 emissions CO2 emissions per ton of Our commitment is to reduce fresh-water use in 1,000 tons chocolate produced and wastewater within our operations. WASTE AND RECYCLING 2008 = 100% 1302 1282 1001 1002 992 We use water as a fluid for heat exchange throughout the Our commitment is to reduce waste and 841 process, for the washing of molds, hygienic requirements increase the recycling rate of waste within 821 801 such as hand washing, and for sanitary facilities. our operations. 711 611 741 731 Lindt & Sprüngli is committed to reduce the water consumption per ton produced by an average of 2% over the The amount of waste is a measure for the efficiency of our coming years. processes. Lindt & Sprüngli is committed to reducing waste In recent years, Lindt & Sprüngli production companies for environmental reasons, but also for economic reasons. 2008 2014 2015 2016 2008 2014 2015 2016 reduced their water consumption significantly. Since 2008, Reusing, reducing, and recycling of materials saves pur1 excluding Russell Stover Lindt & Sprüngli’s production companies cut down water chasing and logistics costs. In addition, it is our responsi2 including Russell Stover, index adjusted to 2015 = 100%. Emission factors for Russell Stover are based on estimates consumption by 50% per ton produced. We achieved bility to handle hazardous waste carefully. of the US Energy Information Administration. this by eliminating open systems, installing closed-loop There are various sources of waste at Lindt & Sprüngli. Note: figures cover only Lindt & Sprüngli production companies. systems, and optimizing cold and hot water circuits. Lindt In addition to packaging materials, our production pro& Sprüngli continuously improves its environmental imcesses lead to chocolate waste. During the production of are buying even 100% from renewable sources explicitly pact whenever we modernize parts of the operations. As chocolate, temperature, and timing have to match perfect(certified supplier mix). ly at all times. Regarding heat, Caffarel also has increased its share of Since 2013, our companies work with the “Lindt Water consumption renewable energy. The factory is now connected to the disOur goal: – 2 % average annual rate of reduction per ton produced & Sprüngli Production Way” (LPW). It is a process that trict heating of a new local biomass power plant. Heat promotes continuous improvement and operational excelAbsolute water consumption Water consumption per ton of generation from biomass is considered to be CO2-neutral in 1,000m3 chocolate produced lence during the production. The LPW embraces all prosince CO2 released by biomass combustion is offset by the 2008 = 100% cesses and functions in factories and involves employees equivalent amount absorbed in the biomass growth. Hence, 1002 from blue collars to management. It comprises different 7912 7862 1001 992 the total amount of CO2 saved through Caffarel’s new heat areas with the goal to identify and eliminate losses and to supply will be around 800 tons/year. achieve sustainable results. The area that addressing waste 5061 4291 611 is called “focused improvement”. Various measures have 541 501 been carried out as part of addressing this topic in 2016. 3761 3781 2008 2014 2015 2016 2008 2014 2015 2016 1 excluding Russell Stover 2 including Russell Stover, Index adjusted to 2015 = 100% Note: figures cover only Lindt & Sprüngli production companies. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 25 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 S U S TA I N A B LY P R O D U C E D An example for such a measure is the “kaizen team” that WORK CULTURE the candidate assessment. The recruiter uses the Lindt was launched around chocolate waste reduction in the & Sprüngli Competence Model which builds on the ten Kilchberg plant, Switzerland. It was composed of people Our commitment: we maintain an open work illlustrated criteria during the process. These ten criteria from the R&D, production, and maintenance departments. culture where respect, trust, and fair play measure the candidates’ skills and abilities based on their Their first priority was a tablet molding line. A step-by-step characterize our working relationships. We professional competencies, relevant experience, qualificaapproach called “defects reduction route” aimed at reducfoster teamwork and facilitate communication tions, and the specific work-related requirements of the ing the chocolate waste to a minimum. First, an in-depth and understanding across all disciplines, busijob. A standardized questionnaire implements these criteanalysis was conducted. Secondly, the team prioritized ria in all subsidiaries, so that recruiters and line managers ness segments, and geographies to create actions to be put in place. The main action was to stanapply them during interviews sessions. dardize the speed and temperature of components of the a company of people who support each other Additional to the two Group-wide policies Credo and molding line and train the operators accordingly. Lastly, for mutual success. We encourage, recognize, Business Code of Conduct, our subsidiaries implemented the team controlled the results: chocolate waste decreased and reward individual innovation, personal additional local policies such as anti-harassment and equal significantly. It took them twelve weeks to complete the initiative, and leadership of people throughout opportunities. On top of that, online and onsite trainings project without the need for additional investments. the organization. were conducted locally. Content of these trainings included the fields of “Respectful Workplace” for managers, ehtics, ethical conduct, and treatment of employees. Lindt & Sprüngli Competence Model Our ▶ CREDO and ▶ Business Code of Conduct set the In our 2016 employee survey, we asked for feedback basis for our work culture of respect, trust, and fair play. about our Credo and Business Code of Conduct. It received Lindt & Sprüngli is committed to ensuring that all direcan average overall rating of 78 points (from 100 points) Leads by example tors, officers, members of management, supervisors, and indicating that by and large, the principles of our Credo Thinks Delights customers and operates employees demonstrate a level of professionalism that and the regulations of the Business Code of Conduct are strategically reflects the company’s commitment to our core values being understood. anchored in the company’s Credo: premium quality, Fosters innovation Collaborates commitment and qualification, consumer and customer EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION AND RETENTION Shares effectively passion orientation, environmental and social responsibility and long-term profitability. The principles outlined in the BusiOur commitment is to offer an attractive Embraces Develops ness Code of Conduct provide firm, uncompromising working environment and maintain or increase self and change others standards that all employees are expected to model in their our already high employee engagement, Communidealings with colleagues, customers, suppliers, and the satisfaction, and retention. Drives for results cates general community. effectively To ensure coherent application, the Credo and Business Code of Conduct are available on our intranet, distributed Employee satisfaction and engagement is crucial to to employees by means of the local Employee Handbooks Lindt & Sprüngli’s long-term success. Lindt & Sprüngli and explained at onboarding days for new employees. secures its future viability by attracting and retaining Already in the recruitment process the core values the best employees. This in turn helps us to reduce costs of the Credo and Business Code of Conduct are part of from employee turnover. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 26 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 S U S TA I N A B LY P R O D U C E D Employer award for Lindt & Sprüngli Italy of the company goals. We identified major strengths in the EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING In 2016, Lindt & Sprüngli Italy was rated for 2nd place area of quality orientation, participation, and attractiveof The Randstad Award, the largest employer branding ness. On the other hand, potential for improvements was Our commitment is to ensure that all key independent research in the world. The survey involved identified in the area of personal development and working positions are staffed with qualified and motivated 4,000 actual and potential employees between 18 and climate. In 2017, we will take a deep dive into the results employees and that talented employees are 65 years. They were asked to rate a sample of the 100 and derive improvement measures. largest employers in the regions Lombardy, Piedmont, developed internally to fill these positions. Liguria, Sardinia. Lindt & Sprüngli Italy was rated first for Company Climate and Work Life Balance; second and WORK-LIFE BAL ANCE third positions for the other elements such as Competitive In a rapidly changing world, Lindt & Sprüngli needs the Salary & Benefit, Career Development, Training, Solid Our commitment is to maintain a healthy employees with the best qualifications to ensure competiManagement Team. tiveness. In order to attract and retain high-performing work-life balance and offer our employees support to cope with the increasing work employees, Lindt & Sprüngli aims to put emphasis on manrequirements. aging talent and developing employees. Major projects and Our regular employee surveys build the basis for continuachievements in 2016 were: ous improvement. In the past years we have worked on the — Talent management: we further developed and enfollowing key issues that were identified in the employee The boundary between work and leisure blurs increasingly hanced our Talent Management process including survey of 2012: fair remuneration, regular and consistent and finding the right work-life balance becomes more imannual Talent Management dialogues, yearly perforcommunication, and information about questions conportant. This topic was addressed locally by different inimance assessments & goal setting and a succession plancerning the company. Also in 2016, our subsidiaries contiatives. A special highlight this year in this area was reportning process. This allows leaders to align talent and tinued to work on these issues and implemented their reed by our subsidiary in France. They signed a charter for build appropriate development plans that match the spective action plans with necessary measures and a better balance between professional and personal life for employee’s needs with the demands of our business. initiatives. Examples for follow-up initiatives were: the employees, which was presented by the Executive Com— Employee development: we further focused on individ— Implementing local training activities mittee at the national sales convention. It states that the ual development plans by applying our 70-20-10 model: — Establishing onboarding programs work environment needs to facilitate a good work-life bal70% on-the-job experiences, 20% feedback and relation— Providing global leadership trainings for senior manance and that new technology should make work more ship, 10% formal individual training programs. As agement members efficient without compromising private life. regards individual training programs, we offer, for ex— Implementing a reward and recognition program ample: — Hosting local town hall meetings for communication — International Traineeships purposes. — Support of continued education and training — Life-long learning for continued employability In September 2016, Lindt & Sprüngli once more conduct— Increase in employee productivity ed the global employee survey with a high participation — Promoting individual skills rate of 87%. Overall, the results pointed towards a high — Dual vocational system job satisfaction, a strong sense of identification and com— Leadership trainings mitment towards Lindt & Sprüngli and a strong feeling, — International exchanges that the employee’s work contributes to the achievement — Coaching and mentoring programs. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 27 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 S U S TA I N A B LY P R O D U C E D In 2016, we extended our International Traineeship ProDIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Age split gram in Operations to our subsidiaries in the United States. in % 2015 2016 We furthermore started an International Traineeship ProOur commitment is to offer equal opportunities <30 26.8 29.1 gram to the area of finance. and foster diversity in employment, develop30–39 22.9 21.6 — International Lindt & Sprüngli Academy: we continued ment, and advancement for those qualified. 40–49 23.1 21.5 50–59 21.3 21.1 developing the senior management program, in coopWe are not discriminating in hiring and 60+ 5.9 6.8 eration with the ▶ International Institute for Manageemployment on the grounds of gender, age, ment Development (IMD). religion, political opinion, union affiliation, disability, national or social origin, sexual In 2017, Lindt & Sprüngli will further invest in the InterFreedom of association and collective bargaining orientation, ethnicity or color, or any other national Lindt & Sprüngli Academy as well as in local edat Lindt & Sprüngli ucational programs. relevant characteristic protected under the Regular consultation and engagement with our employees applicable law. and their representatives helps ensuring timely discussion Lindt & Sprüngli Switzerland participated in the national of labor or management expectations as well as negoSwiss “Future Day” 2016 We are convinced that all people should be treated fairly tiating and implementing operational changes. Respect and do not tolerate discrimination. It is therefore our polfor the rights of employees to form and join trade unions and to bargain collectively is therefore self-evident for icy and practice to provide equal employment to individLindt & Sprüngli. uals (employees and applicants). We foster and support diversity also in gender. Around 61% of our employees are Lindt & Sprüngli organizes an annual meeting – the Europewomen. Furthermore, we foster a diverse age split where an Works Council – where workers’ representatives from all the younger and older generation work well together and Lindt & Sprüngli European Union subsidiaries and Switzerland are given the opportunity to exchange their opinions enrich each other. and meet with Group Management. The management of Lindt & Sprüngli International AG and the European Works Council meet usually once a year for a two-day meeting in Zurich. The agenda and to-be-sent documents are agreed between the chair of the European Works Council and In the framework of the Swiss “Future Day”, Lindt & Sprüngli the management. In 2016, the information and consultaSwitzerland invited around 30 employees’ children to tion referred mainly to the areas health & safety, training, get to know their parents’ workplace. During the day, economic and financial developments, investments, and they were able to see and feel what it is like to work for sustainability. Lindt & Sprüngli as a major player in the chocolate industry. They experienced the variety of professions the chocCurrently, Lindt & Sprüngli workers are collectively orgaolate industry offers. This initiative fosters the sense and nized in Austria, France, Germany, Italy, Switzerland, and commitment towards Lindt & Sprüngli for the employees the USA (Ghirardelli). and their families, but also demonstrates our responsibility towards our local communities. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 28 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 S U S TA I N A B LY P R O D U C E D OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Furthermore, in 2016, we focused on our behavioral-based CORRUPTION AND ANTI-COMPETITIVE safety observation system. We strongly believe that an BEHAVIOR Our commitment is to offer a healthy and essential element of managing risks is the creation of an safe working place. Our vision is zero lost-time environment with effectively implemented working Our commitment is to not participate in any accidents. procedures. Therefore we need competent and well-moticorrupt or anti-competitive behavior. vated employees. We organized workshops and impleThe improvement of safety at the workplace is a top priormented improvement actions to drive safety by discipline Lindt & Sprüngli commits to the principle of free compeity for Lindt & Sprüngli. A healthy and safe work environand to raise our employees’ involvement. In so doing, our tition and to strictly comply with all applicable domestic ment is a major driver of employee satisfaction and motiemployees can contribute to a real safety culture in everyand international antitrust and competition laws. Further, vation. At the same time, workplace hazards lead to losses. day activities. Lindt & Sprüngli condemns any form of bribery and corBy reducing workplace hazards we reduce absenteeism ruption. Continually monitoring corruption risks helps to associated with lost time and resulting costs. In regular protect our brand and reputation and, as a result, to provide Lost-time accidents rate per 100,000 working hours intervals, we conduct employee safety trainings to raise Our vision: zero lost-time accidents enhanced value to customers, shareholders, and other awareness and to strengthen the corporate safety culture. stakeholders. Number of lost-time accidents/ 2008 = 100% Since 2008, Lindt & Sprüngli production companies 100,000 working hours We are committed to ensuring that our employees reduced the number of lost-time accidents rate per 100,000 2.651 1001 demonstrate a level of professionalism that reflects the working hours by 89%. The progress we made during these company’s commitment to our core values anchored in the years continued in 2016. The integration of Russell Stover ▶ CREDO and Business Code of Conduct specifying our is also quickly proceeding. Its safety key performance inexpectations towards our employees. Given latest developdicators are in line with the ones of the Group. ments in legislative and best-practice procedures, the Among others, the Lindt & Sprüngli Production Way 0.441 181 Board of Directors enacted in 2016 an updated version of 0.301 0.281 0.302 131 111 includes one pillar dedicated to safety which is the frameN/A 2 N/A 2 N/A 2 the Business Code of Conduct to outline even more our work we use to coordinate our safety activities and prac2008 2014 2015 2016 2008 2014 2015 2016 commitment to adhere to the Lindt & Sprüngli core values tices. We use it to coordinate and disseminate our man1 excluding Russell Stover and international standards. The new Business Code of agement approach to all functions of our companies. The 2 including Russell Stover Conduct shall be regarded as a set of principle rules remission of the pillar is to set a strong preventive safety Note: figures cover only Lindt & Sprüngli production companies. flecting a common behavior understanding, applicable in culture, being proactive rather than reactive. To this end, all jurisdictions. The main changes in this area included a we assess hazards and risks for individual job activities. Other projects in some subsidiaries continued to be the strengthening of both the provisions on insider trading This approach provides the identification, prioritization, development of health prevention plans such as a health and on competition law, a new provision on bribery and and documentation of hazards and risks, and enables the check-up and employee assistance programs through corruption and a practical guidance for the employees in appropriate application of individual measures, as well. a third-party organization, where employees receive confieach paragraph. The Business Code of Conduct is being The target is to eliminate the hazards or to mitigate the dential counseling sessions at no cost. implemented locally in all subsidiaries in eleven different identified risks. In 2016, we further refined the safety pillar languages. by adding a set of problem-solving tools to provide a consistent analysis of the accidents occurred. This is the key to avoid recurring events. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 29 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 S U S TA I N A B LY P R O D U C E D PHIL ANTHROPY We want others to benefit from our successful business and make in-kind, financial, and time contributions to good causes. Lindt & Sprüngli understands the company as a corporate citizen and aims at overcoming today’s challenges in society. Our financial, in-kind, and time donations for communities contribute to local development around our Group. Lindt & Sprüngli subsidiaries make numerous donations to organizations, associations, and social schemes. An example for our in-kind donations is our work with Tischlein deck dich, a Swiss organization that distributes food for people in need. Lindt & Sprüngli Switzerland has been donating surplus products to Tischlein deck dich for more than ten years. In 2016, the volume donated added up to more than 2,200 kg. Although chocolate can last for up to 15 months, Lindt & Sprüngli Switzerland does not donate products whose minimum shelf life has already been exceeded. Lindt & Sprüngli further established the two charitable foundations, the ▶ Lindt Cocoa Foundation and the ▶ Lindt Chocolate Competence Foundation. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 30 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 S U S TA I N A B LY P R O D U C E D MEET OUR EMPLOYEES The following employees are part of more than 13,000 individuals at Lindt & Sprüngli, who make sure that all products leaving our factories live up to our commitment to sustainable behavior along our value chain. GUIDO STEINER JENNY L AWRENCE PATRIZIA PIROT TA SAMUEL BERNEGGER V P O P E R AT I O N S , G R O U P M A NA G E M E N T HR DIRECTOR R&D FOOD SAFET Y DIRECTOR V I C E P R E S I D E N T O P E R AT I O N S L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I I N T E R NAT I O NA L L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I U K L I N D T & SP RÜ N G L I I T G H I R A R D E L L I C H O C O L AT E C O M PA N Y In our operations we follow the Lindt Lindt & Sprüngli is a decentralized company. Lindt & Sprüngli has always strived to be The production of chocolate requires energy & Sprüngli Production Way, our approach This gives us a lot of freedom to serve the a good corporate citizen. Since we develmainly for heating and cooling. In addition, to continuously reduce all kind of losses. specific needs of the UK employees. We are oped our sustainability strategy in 2013, we water is needed which is especially short in Amongst others, it includes pillars like a dynamic team of around 300 inspiring have done so in a more coordinated and California. Hence, our environmental safety, quality, and education. In health and people. I am passionate about fostering a goal-oriented way. However, when Ecuador management serves a double bottom-line: safety we are very proud of the great culture that makes Lindt & Sprüngli UK a was struck by the earthquake in the past the environmental and the financial returns. progress towards our vision of zero lostgreat place to work alongside this amazing year, we wanted to help the almost 500 This motivates our employees to look for time accidents. In many other areas too, we team. This also includes recruiting and affected farmers of the Lindt & Sprüngli new ways to reduce the energy and water are focused on reducing losses of all kinds maintaining the best talents for lasting Framing Program quickly. Within weeks we consumption of our processes. Because the by involving more and more employees in success. In addition to being talented, they coordinated relief measures and collected ones working in production every day know the program, and we expect major improvemust be a good fit for our values respect, funds among the divisions. It is good to best where improvements can be made. ments in the coming years. It is great to see excellence, recognition, teamwork, and know that our company and its employees the increasing number of employees in our continuous improvement. It makes me really take care of the farmers. I believe this companies working hard to improve our proud to see our people living up to these is a good way of direct support that arrives operations every day. values every day. where it matters. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 31 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 S U S TA I N A B LY P R O D U C E D CASE STUDIES – PRODUCED LINDT & SPRÜNGLI FRANCE LINDT & SPRÜNGLI GERMANY RUSSELL STOVER SAVINGS THROUGH HOT WATER RECOVERY RAISING AWARENESS FOR HEALTHY DONATION OF CHOCOL ATE-FILLED In 2016, Lindt & Sprüngli France installed an underground AND SUSTAINBLE FOOD VALENTINE’S DAY HEART BOXES buffer tank to collect and reuse hot water. A preliminary analLindt & Sprüngli Germany has developed a range of activities In 2016, Russell Stover donated 130,000 chocolate-filled ysis showed that wastewater was going to sewage at an average that aim at promoting both the well-being and motivation of ­Valentine’s Day heart boxes to the Kansas City community on temperature of 50 °C, while the plant was also using around employees; a highly relevant success factor for the company. Valentine’s Day. The receiving regional food bank Harvesters 36,000 m3 of municipal water that had to be heated up to 60 °C. In 2016, Lindt & Sprüngli Germany focused on raising awareprovides food and related household products to more than The new underground tank now serves as a heat exchanger: ness for healthy and sustainable food. By providing changing 620 not-for-profit agencies including emergency food panit heats up the municipal water and cools the wastewater for motto weeks, the canteen ensured variety in the menu. The tries, community kitchens, homeless shelters, children’s sewage. Thereby, Lindt & Sprüngli France will be able to save canteen started to offer vegan food for instance. While the homes, and others. Andreas Pfluger, the President and CEO EUR 38,000 per year and 200 tons CO2e. employees were rather skeptic at the beginning, the feedback of Russell Stover, said he believes everyone deserves a treat after one week was so positive that the Lindt & Sprüngli every now and again, especially around the holidays. Germany canteen decided to continue offering menus such as vegan Bolognese in the future. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 32 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 SUSTAINABLY CONSUMED Lindt & Sprüngli is a recognized leader in the market for premium-quality chocolate. Strict quality controls ensure that our products meet the high standards that we require. Lindt & Sprüngli has a responsibility towards the consumers. We apply high standards to food safety, correct labeling, and consumer orientation to ensure our quality standards are met from the raw materials to the finished product. Only once the company is convinced that a finished product lives up to our high standards and is in impeccable condition, it leaves the factory. Lindt & Sprüngli will continue its efforts in re-search and development, packaging and logistics – in cooperation with our trade partners – to safeguard this quality all the way to the homes of our consumers. All measures in place are continuously reviewed and improved and allow our consumers to enjoy the products with a high degree of trust. To earn this trust now and in the future, we mainly worked on the following two areas in 2016: — We further optimized our quality control mechanisms. As a result, Lindt & Sprüngli manufacturing units passed independent food safety and quality management audits again with high marks. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 33 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 S U S TA I N A B LY C O N S U M E D — We responded to more than 115,000 consumer contacts All manufacturing units are subject to unannounced audits Chocolates is working towards a standardized Food Safepersonally and made sure that the consumer feedbacks on an annual basis by AIB International. This independent ty Management System with the goal to be FSSC-22000are fed into our internal processes. This ensured conorganization has a long-standing reputation for elevating certified by the end of 2019. sumer satisfaction through direct contacts and products the food safety in the industry through its standards. that address consumer needs. Lindt & Sprüngli completed the AIB audits in 2016 with high marks, indicating that all food safety at the individPRODUCT QUALITY AND SAFETY ual production sites is on a high level, regularly surveyed and controlled. In addition to the AIB Audits, food safety We are commited to adhering to superior management systems and quality management systems ­measures to ensure product quality and safety. are implemented at manufacturing units. Russell Stover Cadmium levels in Lindt & Sprüngli chocolate As producer of some of the world’s finest chocolates, we Cadmium occurs naturally in soil. The cocoa plant absorbs cadmium from the soil – just like other plants, such as do not want to compromise on quality or food safety. Certified management systems for quality vegetables and cereals. Therefore, trace amounts of cadThrough the ▶ Lindt & Sprüngli Promise, we have commitand food safety mium may be found in our products. However, those trace ted ourselves to sustainable behavior along the value chain. ISO 22000 or amounts are found in quantities acceptable for human Lindt & Sprüngli production sites ISO 9000 FSSC 22000 Therefore we do not only carefully select the most premiconsumption. Testing the cadmium content of cocoa beans Lindt & Sprüngli Austria um ingredients from world-renowned growing regions, is an integral part of the quality control in our sourcing Lindt & Sprüngli France process. The cocoa mass produced from the cocoa beans we also process and finish them with perfection. Lindt & Sprüngli Germany and used in our products is also regularly tested for The company has appropriate internal and external Lindt & Sprüngli Italy cadmium. Limit values for cadmium content are defined quality control mechanisms in place. This quality control Lindt & Sprüngli Switzerland in our product specifications and their strict observance is includes stringent testing processes, conducted on differLindt & Sprüngli USA checked on a regular basis. ent levels from raw materials to the finished product. BeCaffarel Lindt & Sprüngli conforms to all relevant requirements and fore shipping a product, we need to be convinced that the Ghirardelli recommendations that are available, such as those of the product lives up to our high standards and is in impecRussell Stover ▶ Codex Alimentarius. cable condition. During distribution, we make sure our products reach the consumer in the same condition. Therefore, a careful evaluation of the distribution channels Extensive quality control in transportation Lindt & Sprüngli position on GMO that sell Lindt & Sprüngli products and store them is an The Lindt Quality Guidelines specify temperature and important part of our quality control system. With regards to genetically modified food, Lindt & Sprüngli humidity requirements for our products during storage and is not involved in any research or development and does There is an entire quality management network engaged transportation. A strict temperature monitoring process is in not use ingredients that have been genetically modified or place from our factories to the final distribution warehouse in assuring the excellence of Lindt & Sprüngli products derived from genetically modified organisms, as long as within our Intercompany Network. Humidity control is in along the value chain. The production process is divided non-modified materials are available. All LINDT, Caffarel, place for all warehouses and for special sea freight trade into several levels, each of which has mandatory quality Küfferle and Hofbauer products are non GM. Appropriate lines crossing the equator. The Guidelines apply to all our standards the product must fulfill in order to pass on to tests regularly monitor these products to ensure compliowned or rented warehouses and to our representatives’ ance with pertinent EU and Swiss regulations. the next level. Chocolate products exceeding specified inand dealers’ warehouses of finished goods. ternal company limits are consequently rejected. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 34 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 S U S TA I N A B LY C O N S U M E D CUSTOMER AND CONSUMER SATISFACTION by using the feedback form that is included in our praline A healthy diet is crucial to each consumer’s health. We packaging. Lastly, we are in a daily contact with our conrecommend that chocolate should be eaten and enjoyed Customer and consumer satisfaction is the main sumers by over 60 social media channels answering inquifor indulgence, in resasonable amonts. Nutritional values goal of all our activities. Consumer complaints, ries personally and processing their feedback. of all Lindt & Sprüngli products are labeled on the packaginquiries, and com­pliments are handled on time In 2016, our consumer service specialists recorded and ing in accordance to national and international laws. We and individually. handled more than 115,000 consumer contacts within the increased transparency further by publishing information Group-wide system. We also introduced a new manageabout ingredients and nutritional values online. Customer and consumer satisfaction is key to our business ment process to ensure a highly professional and efficient In order to increase our communication about our sussuccess, today and tomorrow. To ensure that we meet our consumer service. The resulting improvements will reduce tainability efforts to consumers, we already integrate since customers’ expectations, we continuously analyze their the average handling time so that consumers have an even 2015 an icon for the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program needs and their expectations, and implement the corremore responsive point of contact. on the back of our packaging. As a next step, we incorposponding findings in our premium products. Thereby we The overall satisfaction with our brands and products rated in 2016 the ▶ Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program into ensure customer satisfaction and future success of is measured constantly with more than 16,000 consumers our multi-channel communication on what makes Lindt Lindt & Sprüngli. in 16 countries every year. Our scores on chocolate qualichocolate so exceptional, the Lindt Difference. To find out about our consumers’ expectations, we test ty and taste experience are excellent. Lindt & Sprüngli is committed to be transparent about the taste and quality of our products with consumers on the products and their origins. Through various channels, an international base. In 2016, more than 15,000 consumCONSUMER INFORMATION interested consumers can find out easily where our ingreers tested our new and existing products. Their feedback dients come from and how we integrate sustainability in helped us delivering a constant flow of new and inspiring We are commited to apply high our business. products with the guaranteed Lindt & Sprüngli quality. standards to consumer information. In addition, we monitored and tracked the emergence of new consumer trends and possible issues in relation to Consumers purchase chocolate according to their individour products globally. Information on food, chocolate and ual desires and needs. Decisional elements for choosin the sustainability related trends were shared with our subsidproduct could be for example the percentage of cocoa iaries. All Lindt & Sprüngli subsidiaries consider these or the ingredients list specifying also allergens. Transparglobal trends in addition to their local trends when develent communication is therefore highly relevant for Lindt oping new products. & Sprüngli and its consumers. Additionally, we are in touch with our consumers on Lindt & Sprüngli is aware of its responsibility to ensure a daily basis through our own retail network. Our sales also minor concentrations of potential allergens such as people in around 370 Lindt & Sprüngli owned shops conhazelnuts or almonds, are clearly communicated to the tinuously identify their needs and expectations. Since 2015, consumer via the ingredient list or allergen information. we also collect the feedback of our sales people of our own Lindt & Sprüngli informs consumers by printing a clear retail network via an online form. The central consumer warning on all products that may contain traces of specifservice department analyzes changes and makes sure the ic allergens. In addition, we follow strict policies to avoid knowledge is used to satisfy consumer needs even better. unwanted contamination of products. For example, we Moreover, consumers can contact us directly, for example follow a peanuts-free environment at our premises. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 35 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 S U S TA I N A B LY C O N S U M E D MEET OUR EMPLOYEES The following employees are part of more than 13,000 individuals at Lindt & Sprüngli, who make sure that all products leaving our factories live up to our commitment to sustainable behavior along our value chain. ROLF FALLEGGER OLIVER WOODBURN ROBERT ROCCO GABY GILGENBACH M A R K E T I N G & S A L E S , G R O U P M A NA G E M E N T D I R E C T O R R E TA I L M A R K E T I N G C O N S U M E R S E RV I C E M A NA G E R DIRECTOR R&D/QM L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I I N T E R NAT I O NA L L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I C A NA DA L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I U S A L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I G E R M A N Y Lindt & Sprüngli delights its consumers In our Lindt branded shops we have the At Lindt & Sprüngli, we care deeply about Developing and producing chocolate is with all its premium chocolate products. wonderful opportunity to present consumthe relationships we build with our consuma wonderful thing. However, it is much With our products, the consumers can ers with our extensive product range and ers. Every consumer has the possibility to harder than one might think. Chocolate experience the incomparable, unique taste generate a memorable shopping experience interact with us directly, and through is very temperature-sensitive, which is and fine melting texture. However, today’s for them. Furthermore we can tell them all various contact channels of their choice. a challenge during the different stages of consumers are rightfully expecting not just about our Lindt Difference which describes This is why we know what consumers think the supply chain. It also needs to be a superior chocolate experience but also in five steps why our products are so about our products, how they enjoy them, impeccable and therefore food safety is a sustainably produced product that can be unique. One of the key points is the quality and where they see room for improvement. one of our big topics. We continuously consumed with a good conscience. Thereand sustainability of the cocoa beans. My team makes sure that each consumer improve our processes and we check the fore, we communicate to our consumers contact is personal, timely, and soluquality of the products during the whole about all of the sustainability efforts which tion-oriented. We also collect the consumer production chain. In my daily job I devote ensure that all products leaving our feedback and forward it internally to a lot of my time to find even better ways to factories live up to our commitment to improve consumer satisfaction continuousuphold our high level of product safety. sustainable behavior along the value chain. ly. It’s refreshing to be in touch with so many chocolate lovers each day! L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 36 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 S U S TA I N A B LY C O N S U M E D CASE STUDIES – CONSUMED CAFFAREL GHIRARDELLI LINDT & SPRÜNGLI GROUP ENSURING PRODUCT SAFETY NON GENETICALLY MODIFIED PRODUCTS ELIMINATING MINERAL OIL RESIDUES Due to its appearance and recycling aspect, glass packaging While all Lindt, Caffarel, Küfferle, and Hofbauer branded Mineral oil residues may occur almost everywhere in the enis very popular. However, it poses a significant food safety products are already fully non GM, it is Ghirardelli’s objective vironment and may therefore get into food in a variety of risk since glass containers are one of the most challenging to make all remaining Ghirardelli recipes non GMO by 2018. ways. While Lindt & Sprüngli fully complies with the strict types of packaging to inspect. The primary contaminant is As of today, Ghirardelli products such as milk chocolate, local food laws, it takes this issue very seriously and has iniglass, the same material and density as the packaging itself. semi-sweet chocolate, dark chocolate, baking powder, white tiated an action plan to achieve the greatest possible reduction In order to improve product safety of Caffarel’s glass-packchocolate, and white baking chips already qualify as non GM. of even the slightest mineral oil residues. As part of this iniaged spread cream, the production line was relocated and an Now Ghirardelli is working on making the remaining tiative Lindt & Sprüngli is examining the entire supply chain X-ray system installed capable of detecting not only glassGhirardelli products non GM. from the harvest through to the sale of finished products so in-glass contaminants but also contaminants such as metal, as to identify potential sources of mineral oil traces and immineral stone, high-density plastic, and rubber compounds. plement necessary measures. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 37 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 OUTLOOK SUSTAINABLY SOURCED SUSTAINABLY PRODUCED SUSTAINABLY CONSUMED With regards to raw materials, we will focus on expanding In 2017, we will continue with the integration of Russell In 2017, we will work towards making the remaining our Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program – both in terms of Stover. Our focus will be the launch of additional enerGhirardelli and Russell Stover products non GM. We will intensifying the existing Programs as well as expanding gy-saving projects. We will also establish a structured way also continue to extend the use of palm oil certified acthem geographically. In 2017, we aim at strengthening the to exchange the energy-saving projects, realized and cording to the RSPO segregation model in all Group comfarmer groups in Ghana to foster ownership and working planned, within our engineering managers network. It is panies. on innovative solutions providing access to agricultural our goal to learn from the experiences made within the We will implement corrective actions whenever they products and services. In Ecuador and Madagascar, we aim Lindt & Sprüngli Group, to exchange best practices and to contribute to keeping consumer complaints at lowest levat increasing the number of farmers participating in the consider the environmental impact of projects carried out. els. Our ongoing assurance will continue and, if indicated, Program and at improving the services delivered. ConThe consistency of our actions will be ensured by our Lindt specific quality and food safety programs will be extended cerning cocoa butter, we will continue to closely follow the & Sprüngli Production Way program. It structures all our along the supply chain. projects in place, and work on solutions for their expanprocesses and ensures that we minimize any kind of losses In terms of improved communication, we are launching sion. In Turkey, we strive to increase our share of hazelnuts in our operations. Concerning employee’s safety, we will a new microsite about the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Prostemming from Sustainability Programs. further develop and invest in behavioral processes, as a key gram that is addressing all relevant stakeholders. The new Concerning our packaging material, Lindt & Sprüngli to succeed. site is very interactive and consumer-friendly. will integrate additional key suppliers into the Supplier Regarding our employees, our priorities are to further Sustainable Practice Program and increase the support develop our Senior Management Leadership program at activities for suppliers assessed in 2016. It is the goal of IMD, extend the International Traineeship Program as well Lindt & Sprüngli to systematically develop the sustainable and to work on relevant action points / measures from the production practices of all key packaging suppliers in Asia global employee survey. in the coming years. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 38 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 SUSTAINABILITY GOVER NANCE The significance Lindt & Sprüngli attaches to responsible corporate behavior is reflected in the way it is dealt with: at the top management level and monitored by a Board of Directors’ committee. The Sustainability Committee of the Board consists of three LINDT & SPRÜNGLI SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE members of the Board of Directors. It is responsible for the development and adaption of all globally valid corporate policies in this area, and monitors compliance with legal Lindt & Sprüngli Group aspects. The committee has advisory as well as preparatory competences and meets as often as business requires, at least once a year. Sustainability Committee of the Board The Group Management ensures the implementation of the strategic decisions taken in the Sustainability Committee of the Board. Sustainability Management coordinates all sustainability activities within Lindt & Sprüngli and supports the Sustainability Executive Team, comprisSustainability Executive Team ing HR, Marketing, Legal, Quality, Research & Development / Quality Assurance, Operations, as well as Corporate Group Management Communications departments, in implementing activities. The Sustainability Executive Team meets every two to three months and reaches out to Lindt & Sprüngli subsidSustainability Management iaries to ensure implementation is in line with guidelines from Lindt & Sprüngli International. Each Lindt & Sprüngli Group company has one sustainability representative to ensure consistent communication channels between the HR Marketing Legal R&D / QA Operations Corp. Comm. Group and the respective subsidiary. In addition, each subsidiary has appointed one responsible for health and safety and one for environmental management. Subsidiaries L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 39 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 016 ABOUT THIS R EPORT This Sustainability Report is Lindt & Sprüngli’s seventh UN Global Compact Communication on Progress. It takes into account the UN Global Compact’s ten principles as well as the six UN Global Compact Food and Agriculture Business Principles. The Communication on Progress is being published UN Global Compact Principles Relevant Company Guidelines Report References to provide stakeholders with information about Lindt 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally Credo pp. 7, 11–21, 28 & Sprüngli goals, measures, and progress. It relates to the proclaimed human rights Lindt & Sprüngli Promise 2. Make sure there is no complicity in human rights abuses Business Code of Conduct period from January 1 to December 31, 2016; the effective Health & Safety Policy date for all facts and figures is December 31, 2016. Except Supplier Code of Conduct where otherwise stated, all facts and figures cover the 3. Uphold the freedom of association and recognition Credo pp. 7, 11–21, 27 Lindt & Sprüngli brands Lindt, Ghirardelli, Russell Stover, of the right to collective bargaining Lindt & Sprüngli Promise Whitman’s, Pangburn’s, Caffarel, Hofbauer, and Küfferle. 4. E limination of all forms of forced and compulsory lLabor Business Code of Conduct Where not otherwise stated, the facts and figures cover all 5. Effective abolition of child labor Health & Safety Policy 6. Elimination of discrimination in respect to employment Supplier Code of Conduct production, distribution, and marketing sites, as well as and occupation regional Lindt & Sprüngli offices. 7. S upport precautionary approach to environmental challenges Credo pp. 17, 23–25 The Communication on Progress has been developed 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Lindt & Sprüngli Promise with due regard to materiality of the issues and stakeholdresponsibility Environmental Policy er expectations. The reporting principles of the Global Re9. Development and diffusion of environmentally Supplier Code of Conduct Friendly technologies porting Initiative (GRI) G4 were considered for the development of this report. 10. Work against corruption in all its forms, Business Code of Conduct p. 28 including extortion and bribery Supplier Code of Conduct Publication: April 2017 Global Compact Food and Agriculture Business Principles Report References Aim for food security, health, and nutrition pp. 11–18 The expectations expressed in this annual report are based Be environmentally responsible pp. 11–18 on assumptions. The actual results may vary from these. Ensure economic viability and share value pp. 11–31 The Sustainability Report is published in English and GerRespect human rights, create decent work, and help communities to thrive pp. 11–31 man, whereas the English version is binding. Encourage good governance and accountability pp. 9–10, 28, 38 Promote access and transfer of knowledge, skills, and technology pp. 11–18 L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 CHOCOLADEFABRIKEN LINDT & SPRÜNGLI AG Seestrasse 204 CH-8802 Kilchberg Switzerland www.lindt-spruengli.com/sustainability L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845
