A better future for all Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting 2020 Pearson is the world’s learning company. Our 2020 Sustainability Plan is designed to create Our Sustainability Plan long-term value for our business, our stakeholders, and our world. This report shows the steps we have taken to advance our plan in 2016. Leading from the top 04 Supporting the UN 08 Integrating with our business 11 Consulting our stakeholders 14 Reporting on our material issues 18 Sustainable 1 Development 2 Goals 3 The three pillars of our 2020 Sustainability Plan Be a trusted partner 20 Reach more learners 46 Shape the future of learning 64 Deliver high-quality products and services Improve access to and affordability of products Leverage technology for equitable and services learning outcomes Respect human rights Collaborate to reach underserved learners Build skills that foster employability and Develop our people and communities inclusive economic growth Protect our natural environment Promote education for sustainable development Build a sustainable supply chain Contribute to global research, dialogue, Ensure strong governance and collective action on quality education About our reporting 78 Awards and recognition 79 Progress on 2016 targets 81 Targets for 2017 and beyond 84 Material issues 87 01 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting What does sustainability mean for the world’s learning company? We believe that quality education can create a more inclusive global society and economy. It helps to improve lives, expand economic opportunities, and build tolerance and understanding. For Pearson, sustainability means using our core strengths as a learning company to help spread the benefits of quality education far and wide, while strengthening our business and upholding the highest standards of responsible business conduct. Our opportunity As we transition from being a print-led to a digital-first business, we have an enormous opportunity to: Operate responsibly, create effective products, respect human rights, support people and communities, reduce our impact on the planet, build a sustainable supply chain, and ensure strong governance; Reach more learners by improving access to quality education for learners from all backgrounds; and Play a leading role in ensuring education prepares learners for the challenges and opportunities of the 21st century and creates more inclusive societies. Maximizing our impact To maximize our impact, we are supporting the UN Sustainable Development Goals and collaborating with partners to support global efforts to solve our world’s biggest challenges. 02 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Sustainability highlights in 2016 Integrating sustainability Recognition Launched our 2020 Sustainability Plan Corporate Knights – World’s Dow Jones Sustainability 100 Most Sustainable Index – Silver Class 1 Be a trusted partner 2 Reach more learners 3 Shape the future of learning Companies (3rd year) (5th year) 1 st Published our first Princ 80 Stra London T +44 WC2R F +44 (0)20 701 330 Hud New USA T +1 (0)20 York son Stre 212 390 nd, , NY ipal offi 7010 10013 7100 ces 0RL, 0 200 6060 et, UK 0 sustai pearso nabilit n.com y@pea rson.c om Pear son Susta inabi lity repo rt 2015 Tran sform our im Pearson in pact g Sustaina bility repo rt 2015 FTSE4Good Human Rights blog.p earson (since inception) Campaign – Corporate @pear .com Global Reporting Pearson son Registe plc red num ber 537 23 (Eng land ) Equality Index (4th year) Initiative (GRI) sustainability report Pillar 1: Fostered employee Be a trusted partner learning and advancement Reduced our environmental impact Launched Pearson U, including Cut our absolute carbon footprint Technology Academy, to by 13.7% year-on-year Showed that our support our employees and p35-36 our digital transformation products can help p31 underserved learners Demonstrated how Pearson’s Supported pay equality MyLab & Mastering and Bug Club Set a target to publish gender have been effective for students pay details for our UK businesses from disadvantaged backgrounds by 2018 and extend our or who need extra help reporting on gender pay to cover p13; p23; p50 our global operations by 2020 p32 Committed to inclusive content Supported global entrepreneurship Set a target to roll out new Ranked as the #2 company on Kiva, with the Global Content Principles by second highest number of loans and most new 2020 to ensure content is users. We have made $1.3m in loans to 31,000+ appropriate, effective, and Kiva borrowers in 78 countries, with 40% relevant for all learners, for of Pearson employees participating globally the 21st century and beyond p34 p25 03 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Pillar 2: Reach more learners Supported people Fostered Empowered girls with disabilities innovation and women Set a target to ensure that Launched the Tomorrow’s Reached 120,000+ girls in secondary by 2020, 100% of our digital Markets Incubator to benefit school through our Camfed portfolio will be fully accessible low-income communities, with partnership in East Africa and awarded to people with disabilities 167 teams applying 567 BTEC qualifications to mentors p52-53 p55 p57-58 Advanced emergency education Fought illiteracy Pledged to extend our Every Doubled our Project Child Learning partnership with Literacy network to Save the Children focused on 90 partners developing innovative solutions p61 for delivering education in emergencies and conflictaffected settings p59-60 Pillar 3: Advanced collective action for education Shape the future of learning Represented the private sector on the multi-stakeholder Global Partnership for Education for the 4th year p77 Supported innovation Partnered for in education adaptive learning Contributed to World Economic Launched partnership with Forum research on innovation IBM Watson to develop a in education virtual, personal tutor to p77 improve education access and outcomes p67 Promoted the UN Sustainable Development Goals CEO John Fallon served as a commissioner on the Business & Sustainable Development Commission p77 04 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Chief executive’s introduction “When we launched our 2020 Sustainability Plan last year, we committed to integrate social and environmental issues more deeply into every aspect of the company.” When we launched our 2020 Sustainability I am proud of the progress we have made in This report outlines many accomplishments Plan last year, we committed to integrate 2016. We expanded our presence in online from last year. However, there is much more social and environmental issues more learning, launched an incubator to develop we need to do. We’ll continue to work deeply into every aspect of the company. products for underserved markets, and towards delivering on our Sustainability Plan This will not only make our business more invested in digital platforms and services by setting more ambitious targets and resilient and more sustainable, but also that are shaping the future of learning. reporting on our progress to achieve them. help us make a greater contribution to We were recognized as one of the World’s As a founding signatory to the United some of the most intractable issues in 100 Most Sustainable Companies for the Nations Global Compact, we remain education today. third year and have again been included committed to embedding its ten principles, in the Dow Jones Sustainability and spanning human rights, labor, the While 2016 was a challenging year for FTSE4Good Indices. environment, and anti-corruption, into Pearson, we’re investing more than ever our strategies and operations, and are before to build a more digital, sustainable Our transition to digital is making our supporting the UN Sustainable business that helps people make progress in business more efficient and more effective. Development Goals. their lives through learning. With 330 million1 It’s allowing us to simplify our operations and children in school but not learning and supply chain, reduce our costs, and shrink We believe that expanding access to quality 197 million people out of work2, we have our environmental footprint. Technology education is the best way to tackle inequality an opportunity and a responsibility to help will also play a key part in our efforts to and to build a more tolerant and connected more people obtain the skills they need expand access and improve affordability world. That shared belief across our to get good jobs and build better lives. for learners from all backgrounds. organization is what drives us every day to build a more sustainable business. John Fallon Chief executive officer, Pearson Our Sustainability Plan is aligned with our strategy More effective teaching and CONTENT ASSESSMENT personalized learning at scale 1 The International Commission on Financing Global Powered by services and technology Education Opportunity, The Learning Generation, September 2016. 2 International Labour Organization (ILO), World Employment Social Outlook 2016, January 2016. 05 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting A better future for all “Our Sustainability Plan is fundamental to Pearson’s mission to help people make progress in their lives through learning.” 2016 was an important year for While there is more work to be done, we we make about how we develop and sell our sustainability at Pearson. With the launch have made good progress. We identified products, which markets are important to of our 2020 Sustainability Plan, we took a ways for our products and services to us, who we do business with, and how we significant step forward in our journey to expand opportunities for underserved empower our employees and our customers. embed sustainability into every aspect of learners. We conducted a review to our business, creating value for our learners, understand how we can empower girls We will also undertake a human rights shareholders, and society more widely. and women both inside and outside of review and develop strategies to address our company. And our programs and risks and opportunities for learners, Amid all of the uncertainty in our world, partnerships advanced new approaches employees, and business partners across education remains a powerful force for to address some of the biggest our value chain. We will continue to drive bringing people together. Our Sustainability education challenges. innovation through our Tomorrow’s Markets Plan is fundamental to Pearson’s mission Incubator and our global partnerships, to help people make progress in their lives We also began to work with Pearson’s and we will identify new opportunities for through learning. It supports our business leaders and partners to set new goals and Pearson to advance education and skills by helping us earn the trust of our targets to take our plan forward. There are for sustainable development. stakeholders, reach new markets, and several new targets highlighted throughout stay on the cutting-edge of the changing the report, including commitments to make The possibilities are enormous, and education landscape. As a result, we can all of our digital products accessible for I am confident that by advancing our help to grow our company while also people with disabilities, disclose gender pay Sustainability Plan, we can drive positive making a positive impact on our world. data across our global operations, and roll change in our business and in the world. out new global content principles. Setting This report shows how we have put our more targets to deliver on our plan will be plan into action by focusing on the issues a major focus going forward. most important to our business and our stakeholders, and by taking steps to support Next year, we will continue on our journey Amanda Gardiner VP, Sustainability & social the UN Sustainable Development Goals. to integrate sustainability – through the way innovation, Pearson we conduct our business and the decisions 06 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION Every Child Learning Supporting education for children affected by conflict “Visiting Jordan reinforced for Through our Every Child Learning partnership with Save the me how we – as an education Children, we are working to deliver high-quality education to Syrian refugees and vulnerable children in Jordan. Our partnership company – can and should involves raising awareness of the need for education in help to empower the millions emergencies, providing financial support for Save the Children’s work, and innovating new solutions that are designed to address of children affected by conflict. the unique needs of children affected by conflict. Our resources and expertise, our ability to build awareness and advocacy, and ultimately, our brand, give us a unique £1.7m+ £3.4m role to play in scaling the work we’re doing with Save the Children. By understanding invested in R&D of new education committed in 2016, doubling our where we have the most impact, we can solutions, supporting two initial investment and extending help keep every child learning.” Save the Children Learning Centers, the partnership from 2017-2019 and joint advocacy Kate James Chief corporate affairs and global marketing officer, Pearson Read more about Every Child Learning on p59-60. 07 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION Revel Professor Catherine Medrano works with low-income students “I was so proud of “Growing up in a large Mexican-American family in the Central my students! I knew Valley of California, I saw the importance of education in allowing for opportunities and social mobility, but I also saw issues of they could do it! educational inequality. This fuels my desire to work in education The semester prior to using Revel, my and bring access and opportunity to non-traditional college students’ average exam score was 68%. students who may be low-income, first-generation, and suffering After using Revel, their average exam from other obstacles that make educational attainment difficult.” scores increased to 83%!” When Prof. Medrano began using Pearson’s Revel, a digital learning Catherine Medrano Associate professor, tool with interactive media and assessments, she saw a significant College of the Sequoias and Fresno improvement to her students’ test scores. City College +15% After using Revel, Prof. Medrano’s students’ average exam scores increased by 15%. 08 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Supporting the UN Sustainable Development Goals Our 2020 Sustainability Plan is designed to support our business and global efforts to address some of the world’s biggest challenges: lack of access to education, growing inequality, high youth unemployment, unprecedented migration and conflict, market disruption caused by technology and artificial intelligence, and pressure on our natural resources. The good news is that the world has agreed For Pearson, operating responsibly is an on a plan to put us on a more sustainable important first step in supporting the SDGs. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS path and ensure that no one is left behind. Beyond that, we have identified three SDGs We have identified three goals where In 2015, UN Member States set out the 2030 where we believe we have an opportunity we can have the most impact Agenda for Sustainable Development, to make the biggest impact through our including its 17 Sustainable Development business practices, products and services, Goals (SDGs), and the Paris Agreement to programs, and partnerships. The SDGs tackle climate change. we focus on are closely aligned with the issues we have identified as material to 4 We have an opportunity and responsibility our business (see p18 and p87-89 in the full 17 to play our part in delivering these landmark report) for more on our material issues). goals agreements. By supporting the SDGs, we will help create a better world in which F  or more information on how our work contributes to the SDGs, see p90-98. our business can grow and we can more 10 8 effectively achieve our mission to help people improve their lives through learning. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all Why it is significant to us How we support SDG 4 The education goal and targets are directly aligned with Pearson’s mission, 103m capabilities, and public commitment to youth worldwide lack basic expand access to quality education and literacy skills, and more than improve progress for more learners. 60% of them are women.1 Education is a basic human right and a driver of economic and social progress, underpinning the achievement of all 17 goals. We enable learners at all stages to have access to a quality education through 330m our portfolio of products and services. primary and secondary school students are 263m in school but children, adolescents, and not learning.2 youth are out of school.3 1 United Nations, Sustainable Development Goals – SDG4. 2 The International Commission on Financing Global Education Opportunity, The Learning Generation, September 2016. 3 United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), Leaving no one behind: How far on the way to universal primary and secondary education?, July 2016. 09 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment, and decent work for all Why it is significant to us How we support SDG 8 We deliver products and services that 197m 600m ensure learners acquire the knowledge and capabilities they need for employment people are unemployed globally.2 jobs will be needed between 2016 and empowerment, working in close and 2030 to employ young people collaboration with governments, educators, 767m entering the workforce.1 employers, and others around the world. people are estimated to have been We also aim to provide our own employees living below the international poverty with a healthy, fulfilling, and inclusive line of $1.90 per person per day.3 workplace that recognizes their contributions and provides opportunities for advancement (see p30-34), and we ask our suppliers to do the same (see p37-38). Respecting labor rights within our business and our supply chain is emphasized in our code of conduct (see p40) and in line with our commitment to international standards for human rights and labor (see p26). 1 United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Human Development Report 2016, March 2017. 2 International Labour Organization (ILO), World Employment Social Outlook 2016, January 2016. 3 The World Bank, Tackling Inequality, 2016. Reduce inequality within and among countries Why it is significant to us How we support SDG 10 We strive to develop inclusive products Since 1980, income inequality has risen and ways of learning that are compatible sharply in most developed economies.4 with every learner’s needs. By helping learners progress and prepare to enter the Eight men own the same workforce, we reduce inequality and equip wealth as the 3.6 billion people more people with the 21st century skills they need to get good jobs, improve their who make up the poorest half of humanity.5 lives, and provide for their families (see p68). In our interactions with employees, suppliers, customers, and communities, we promote equal opportunities for all – innovating where possible to address the specific needs of marginalized and vulnerable groups. 4 Harvard Business Review, Corporations in the Age of Inequality, March 2017. 5 Oxfam International, An economy for the 99%, January 2017. 10 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Our business We serve the needs of millions of students and teachers around the world by combining leading content and assessment with the promise of advanced, adaptive learning technologies and predictive insights. Through our digital transformation and 2020 Sustainability Plan, we are working to ensure our products and services help to expand access to high-quality education and improve results for learners from all backgrounds. What we offer Content Revel Bug Club We work closely with teachers and An interactive learning environment A dynamic phonics that enables students to read, reading program students to develop high-quality practice, and study in one teaching children to course materials and digital tools that continuous experience. read through an online improve access to education and reading world, print learning outcomes. 274,361 Revel books, and comics. registrations in 2016 Sales £2,200m/$2,926m* (48%) Assessment UK qualifications Pearson VUE We help educators evaluate academic Pearson is the UK’s largest Helps individuals prepare awarding body, offering both for their next educational or progress and instruction, and learners academic and vocational career opportunity through demonstrate the knowledge and skills qualifications. credentials that verify the they need to advance their education skills and learning they need. and get better jobs. 5.43m GCSE/A level papers marked in 2016 14.9m summative tests 1.01m BTEC registrations delivered through a network of 8,000+ test centers Sales £1,334m/$1,774m* (30%) Services Online program Virtual schools We partner with universities on three management Connections Academy is an accredited, online education continents to design, develop, and We collaborate with colleges program offering students manage courses and programs and and universities to extend everything they need to help improve recruiting, retention, the reach of their degree reach their full potential. and academic progress. programs by scaling online. 72,958 full-time equivalent 45+ global partnerships students in 2016 Sales £1,088m/$1,447m* (22%) * Pearson plc reports in £. For this report, we have converted our figures from £ into $, using the average £/$ rate prevailing in 2016, which was 1.33. Learning stages Our products and services help learners across all stages of the School Higher education Professional education journey. Children and youth in primary Youth and young adults Adult learners and and secondary education. in tertiary education. professionals in continuing education. 11 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Our strategy & sustainability plan Our business model and 2020 Sustainability Plan support each other to advance a set of economic, social, and environmental objectives that create value for stakeholders by growing our business and contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals. Strategic alignment Strategic growth drivers 2020 Sustainability Plan 1 Develop digital products and services Be a trusted partner 2 Build our market presence Reach more learners 3 Deliver measurable outcomes Shape the future of learning Our impacts Economic Social Environmental Revenue and earnings High-quality education Global GHG emissions Jobs and income Accessible and affordable learning Forest conservation Investor returns Employability and 21st century skills  ustainable production S Inclusive economic growth  abor practices and working L and consumption conditions Diversity and equality Social inclusion and peace Read more about our business model in our Annual report 2016, p12-13. 12 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Where we operate We operate in 70 countries providing educational products and services to institutions, governments, professional bodies, and individual learners. Our key markets include: North America Core markets Growth markets Our largest market includes all Our international business in established Our growth markets in emerging and 50 US states and Canada. and mature education markets, including developing economies, with investment the UK, Australia, and Italy. priorities in Brazil, China, India, and South Africa. Sales £2,981m/$3,965m* Sales £803m/$1,068m* Sales £768m/$1,021m* Employees 16,841 Employees 5,664 Employees 9,868 * Pearson plc reports in £. For this report, we have converted our figures from £ into $, using the average £/$ rate prevailing in 2016, which was 1.33. 13 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION Bug Club Helping disadvantaged students Designed to engage today’s young learners who are used to reading and playing online, Bug Club brings together more than 350 books for different reading levels, in print and online, with supplementary games and quizzes that make reading fun. Bug Club is used in more than 5,000 primary schools in the UK by learners from ages 4-11. Our research found that Bug Club had a significant positive impact on learners’ reading progress in schools with a high proportion of disadvantaged learners, defined as those who qualify for free school meals or other financial support from the UK government. 14 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Consulting our stakeholders Many different people inside and outside of Pearson have a stake in our business. Everyone from students and teachers to investors and employees are impacted by the actions we take. Governments & other education Learners agenda-setters We are committed to listening to our We worked with a leading sustainability stakeholders and responding to their needs. organization to identify and prioritize our Teachers & We believe their perspectives offer valuable key stakeholders, and we continue to strive Suppliers educators insights for improving our business, to find the most effective channels for implementing our Sustainability Plan, and interacting with each of these groups. Media meeting our goal to help provide access to We participate in a number of multiShareholders high-quality education to learners from stakeholder initiatives that provide valuable & investors all backgrounds. opportunities to engage and collaborate Business with stakeholders across sectors (see p72). partners Employees Customers International, non‑governmental & non-profit organizations Customers Our business depends on building strong, long-lasting relationships with a variety of customers, including governments, educational institutions, and individual teachers and learners. Our customers expect the best from our products – that they achieve their intended learning outcomes and deliver reliable, engaging, and seamless interactive experiences. We use a wide range of methods to gather feedback from customers, including face-to-face interviews, surveys, usability testing, and efficacy research. 15 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting “It’s so difficult in Learners my district to find employment. Our learners are in school, higher I had no qualifications beyond education, vocational training, and my high school certificate and continuing professional education. no prospect of getting any They come from different nationalities either. When I heard about and backgrounds. They all learn in the Learner Guide Program different ways. To understand and I jumped at the chance.” address their needs, we interact with students in a variety of formal and Zuhura Camfed alumna and informal ways. For example, we seek learner guide, Tanzania input on product development from  earn more about our L our Pearson Student Ambassadors partnership with Camfed to and Student Insiders. empower African women and girls through education on p57-58. “Quick Start absolutely prepared me for college coursework. Without the Transitions Lab, I would have shied away from college and gone back to construction. Earning a place on the Dean’s List made me more determined than ever to achieve my goals.” Student Southeast Community College in Lincoln, NE, US using Pearson’s MyLab L  earn more about our work to help learners build skills that foster employability and inclusive economic growth on p68. 16 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Teachers “The Global Learning Programme & educators provides a wider context for improving standards in core subjects. Our products and services help teachers to be more effective. We value Children become passionate and input from educators who are working engaged, and you, as a teacher, with students of all abilities and at all stages in the learning journey. We rediscover that spark that drove seek to understand what they need you to become a teacher in to help learners make progress, which interventions work best, and how we the first place.” can develop new products or refine Teacher Global Learning existing ones to keep up with a Programme school changing industry.  ind out more about F the Global Learning Programme on p72-73. Governments International, Media & other education non‑governmental, & agenda-setters non-profit organizations Governments are setting education We listen carefully to the insights of The media and journalists play an important policy and agendas around the world. organizations working to improve education role in analyzing and reporting on business We engage with national and local for vulnerable and marginalized groups. and corporate behavior, education, and governments, representative groups, and In addition to maintaining bilateral sustainability. They also help us to raise other education influencers to understand relationships with key organizations, we awareness about our business, share our needs and develop relevant and effective participate in a number of multi-stakeholder stories, and engage other stakeholders. solutions in the markets where we operate. initiatives that aim to strengthen global We work to help the media understand education systems. These relationships who we are as a company and how we allow us to share experiences, capabilities, are working to improve lives through and perspectives; respond quickly to learning and advance the Sustainable opportunities and criticisms; and help shape Development Goals. the global education debate (see p77). 17 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Shareholders Suppliers Business partners & investors Our business is supported by thousands We are accountable and report quarterly We work with a variety of commercial of suppliers, from paper producers and to our shareholders, which include partners, ranging from large technology printers to digital device manufacturers institutional and retail investors in the UK, companies to education start-ups. Our and software developers. We believe that US, and many other countries. Investors business partnerships strive to leverage working with suppliers who share our increasingly seek better information and and make the most of each organization’s commitments to international standards more reliable data about how companies unique resources and capabilities. for human rights and environmental are addressing sustainability. We are F  or example, see p67 for more about stewardship strengthens our supply chain working to meet these needs by providing our partnership with IBM Watson. and reduces our business costs and risks. more relevant information and key performance indicators (KPIs). We respond L  earn more about our work to build to requests for environmental, social, and a sustainable supply chain on p37. governance information from investors and raters, including the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) and FTSE4Good. Additional information about engaging shareholders can be found in our Annual Report. “It’s wonderful how Employees Pearson invests in us as the employee and trusts us All employees have a voice. We seek to and our ideas to take this create a work environment that is both safe and welcoming and encourages company forward!” innovation and risk-taking. We prioritize Employee participant diversity and inclusion (see p32) and Pearson’s Tomorrow’s programs to engage, develop, and listen to Markets Incubator our employees (see p30-31). Employees are encouraged to have an open dialogue and challenge leadership through small group discussions and virtual town halls with senior leaders, our annual employee engagement survey, webinars, and a regular call hosted by our chief executive. Our employees also exchange ideas, expertise, and information through our online collaboration tool, Neo. L  earn more about Tomorrow’s Markets Incubator on p55. 18 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Reporting on our material issues With our 2020 Sustainability Plan and approach to reporting, we focus on the issues that matter most to our business, our learners, and all of our stakeholders (see p14-17 for more about our stakeholders). We undertook a comprehensive Security, health, and safety Education industry materiality assessment in 2015, following Ensuring the safety and security of all best practice outlined by the international Access employees, learners, and suppliers reporting standard, the Global Reporting (including through policies and practice, Ensuring equitable access to our products Initiative (GRI). training, monitoring, and disclosure). for all learners, including those with disabilities and special needs. Based on consultation and an analysis of Corporate governance the areas that are most important to our Affordability Establishing a framework and set of stakeholders, we identified a shortlist of Offering products and services that are processes promoting ethical conduct, 19 issues that are most relevant to the affordable to different income groups. transparency, and accountability to our sustainability of our business. Through stakeholders. further consultation with senior leaders 21st century skills at Pearson, we narrowed these down to Societal issues Providing products and services that equip nine issues we believe are most material learners with the skills and competencies – at this time. Economic empowerment such as creativity, entrepreneurship, and Education is an important source of critical thinking – needed for success in the To determine materiality, we took economic growth. Providing a quality 21st century. into account: education helps increase learners’ earning The degree of influence and immediacy of potential, allowing them to improve their Environmental issues opportunity we have to tackle the issues; standard of living, and providing an GHG emissions and climate change The risk posed to our business, considering economic value that extends to future what steps we are already taking to address generations. Managing and mitigating our greenhouse the issues; and gas and climate emissions throughout our value chain. The relative impact of the issues on maintaining or building our reputation and business success. Materiality matrix Following the 2015 process, we made minor HIGH Economic Learner adjustments to our material issues in 2016 empowerment expectations Data privacy and security to reflect input from our stakeholders. Competitiveness Academic quality We continuously evaluate the relevance of digital products Progression High-stakes testing of our material issues and we refresh our analysis when appropriate. 21st century skills Our material issues are broken into four Access Security, health, categories: and safety Stakeholder concern Girls and women’s Literacy empowerment Affordability Corporate functions and equality Education for sustainable Corporate Competitiveness of digital products development  obbying and public L governance policy The potential impact on the business and GHG emissions and climate change learners if digital products are not perceived Digital infrastructure to be, or experienced as, leading in applicability, convenience, price, or other elements of overall competitiveness and Disruptive distribution models functionality. Nine material issues in our sustainability plan and reporting Data privacy and security Degree of control Ensuring personal information about our High Medium Low customers and learners is kept safe and LOW secure, with appropriate systems and LOW Business impact HIGH procedures in place to prevent privacy breaches and information loss. 19 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION The Parent Toolkit Engaging families The Parent Toolkit is a free resource to help parents In response to parent feedback and usage data, we navigate a student’s educational journey from collaborated with NBC News to continuously evolve pre-kindergarten through high school and beyond. the toolkit in order to make it more accessible to The Webby Award-winning website and application families, teachers, and learners of all backgrounds is available in both English and Spanish, and takes a and academic levels. For example, when we learned “whole child” development approach, with content that parents with lower literacy levels were not able to that spans academics, health and wellness, social read the Parent Toolkit content, we created a video and emotional development, and college and series to bring some of the written content to life career preparation. in both English and Spanish. We launched a website redesign in the spring of 2017 that makes the Parent Sponsored by Pearson and produced by NBC News, Toolkit more accessible from mobile devices. the Parent Toolkit was created in response to the needs of parents. During a series of focus groups with Visit the Parent Toolkit at: www.parenttoolkit.com different demographic audiences around the country, parents voiced a desire to help their children progress in school, but emphasized confusion over changes in educational policy and curriculum. 40% increase in unique visitors from 2015 to 2016 60.2m in potential reach through campaigns, Twitter chats, and an NBC news special 20 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Be a trusted partner “Our ambition is to develop world-class products that leverage technology and enable educators globally. We are transitioning from a company that sells inputs to one that delivers outcomes for our customers. Our efficacy and research programs measure and improve outcomes for every one of our products so that more learners learn more.” Amar Kumar SVP, Efficacy & research, Pearson 21 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Our commitments: Deliver high-quality Protect our natural 1 products and services 4 environment Respect Build a sustainable 2 human rights 5 supply chain Develop our people Ensure strong 3 and communities 6 governance We are one small part of a much bigger We strive to meet our stakeholders’ world. We collaborate with teachers, expectations by operating responsibly, parents, governments, non‑governmental ethically, and transparently in everything organizations, and many others to help we do. We put our values into practice in people make progress in their lives how we develop and deliver our products through learning. and services, how we treat people, and how we protect our natural resources. Our business strategy depends on partnerships and trust at every level. The best solutions come from working together, listening to different perspectives, and leveraging one another’s strengths. 22 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Deliver high-quality Partner with teachers and students products and services We know that teachers make the biggest difference in improving students’ success and learning. Our product and marketing teams travel to college campuses and An important part of being a trusted partner is schools around the world to meet with making sure that our products and services help teachers and understand how we can help them achieve their goals. Through learners and teachers – by being relevant, easy-to-use, digital offerings such as Revel and MyLab effective, appropriate, and safe. To ensure we deliver & Mastering, we aim to help educators reach every student in a way that adapts high-quality products and services, we engage with to their individual needs. thousands of educators and students during product Similarly, our experts work closely with development, testing, and feedback. We are in daily teachers and faculties to research, contact with more educators than any other design, and deliver high-quality and fair assessments. Pearson understands that commercial organization in the world. concerns around the role of assessments are varied and real. We believe that quality As we become a digital-first company, we are working assessments are useful to the learning experience, but they are just one measure of to address the opportunities and challenges that the knowledge and skills that learners need. come with embracing new technologies, for example They do not, and will never, completely define the sum total of what a good by simplifying and streamlining our technology to education should provide. improve customer experience and reliability. Developing Revel with input from teachers and students By listening to faculty and students, Pearson developed Revel, an online learning environment that includes written narrative, media, and assessment. The digital product takes the place of a traditional textbook and enables students to read, practice, and study in one continuous experience. To develop Revel, we worked with more than 23,000 educators and students over the course of several years, and all of Revel’s key aspects were guided by interactions and testing with our customers. 23 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Assessments help teachers and educational As a result, we took the following actions In 2016, we formed a cross-functional leaders make informed decisions about by the year’s end: coalition of senior leaders to define a how well their curriculum and instructional  ransparently and proactively alerted T common company-wide framework for practices are working, and what needs to customers to any technology problems incorporating customer feedback into our improve. For parents, tests can help them as soon as they arose; processes, with clear accountability and make informed decisions about their child’s governance structures. E  stablished processes to mobilize and education. And for policymakers, testing quickly resolve any significant incidents; We have also undertaken work to can help gauge the effectiveness of public schools and how well they are serving the Implemented more robust monitoring streamline Pearson’s web properties into needs of their students. to identify potential technology issues one pearson.com. The initiative will upgrade before customers are impacted; our global web presence and e-commerce capability to support the discovery and Strengthen our digital S trengthened the internal review and sign-off processes that happen before sales of products and services. It will create infrastructure products are released; and a user-centered, globally consistent – yet localized – web experience for Pearson’s We are focused on operating as one Introduced new features for our major customers and learners wherever they are. company with one streamlined technology MyLab & Mastering and Revel and infrastructure platform for our products other products. In 2017, we will: and our operations. Through standard,  aunch the Global Customer Experience L Through May 2017 we have reduced global processes, we will make our products Measurement Program, tracking NPS and major incidents by 48% compared and services more resilient and affordable, how we are delivering against our Customer to the same time last year. Increased and our business more efficient as Experience Principles; and stability and product improvement employees work together more effectively. initiatives have reduced the frequency Integrate the company-wide framework Some key elements of our digital of customer incidents, and we achieved established in 2016 into our core strategy include: positive, improved Net Promoter Scores business units. (see below) for our MyLab & Mastering C  reating a global architecture that sets and Revel products. the blueprint for how we design, build, Focus on efficacy and and operate our products and services, ensuring everything works together; Going forward, we will continue to invest in learner outcomes infrastructure and security improvements M  aking our products more stable to minimize service disruptions. We are committed to selling products that and reliable; deliver value for our customers. To make sure our products and services deliver Implementing comprehensive security Improve customer learning outcomes, we conduct in-depth controls and metrics to ensure the privacy and security of learners’ and customers’ experiences efficacy research on individual products. data (see p26-27 for more); and Our business depends on building We refer to “efficacy” as a set of principles C  ontinuously improving our operational strong, long-lasting relationships with our and practices that are rooted in product and product release processes. customers. We are working to ensure every development and the way we interact with interaction a customer has with a Pearson our customers. These include defining We faced challenges in early 2016, product, website, salesperson, or service intended learner outcomes, using research particularly in our North American market, agent is engaging, seamless, and positive. and analytics to design and improve where a handful of unplanned system products, and measuring the impact slowdowns and application failures We use a variety of methods to gather of those products. impacted the customer experience we feedback from customers, including aim to provide. Since then we focused face-to-face interviews, surveys, product We are committed to transparently sharing on making significant improvements. testing, and efficacy research. To better the results of our impact measurement understand our customers’ experiences, efforts with our stakeholders to enable we measured the Net Promoter Score (NPS) our customers to make more informed across the business in 2016. Through the purchasing decisions. NPS feedback system, customers rate us on various interactions across touchpoints Read more about how we share our efficacy work on p75-76. and products. Pearson proactively follows up on feedback and uses it to identify continuous opportunities for improvement. The measure itself is an index score of how likely a customer is to recommend Pearson, ranging from -100 to +100. 24 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Improving reading outcomes in South Africa with Vuma In 2016 we conducted a number of efficacy all of their subjects in English beginning in Grade In another study, our research found that studies to assess the learning outcomes of our 4. As a result, English as an additional language learners in classrooms using Vuma significantly new South African reading instruction program has become a more formal part of the curriculum outperformed learners in classrooms where Vuma. The program will be available in five in Grade 1. The need for a good English reading Vuma was not used. We received very positive local languages and our initial studies focused instruction program for young learners is clear. feedback from teachers, including that Vuma’s on English. The results show strong indications stories and characters engage learners and Working with a local non-profit partner, we of the positive role that Vuma can play in that the series helps learners to read better. undertook efficacy research to look at the impact addressing reading challenges. of using Vuma, together with a Pearson Literacy is a major challenge in South Africa. employee volunteer program. The research While considerable resources have been found that learners achieved better results when allocated to providing quality education in using Vuma and participating in weekly sessions schools, South Africa still performs below most where Pearson volunteers read Vuma books with other African countries in comparable reading small groups. Finding a volunteer model, which is tests. English is a particular challenge because both sustainable in the corporate environment even though most learners are not native and has a positive impact on learning, is English speakers, they are expected to learn potentially powerful for employee engagement. Learn more at: https://schools.pearson.co.za/products-and-services/books-for-schools/vuma/ Efficacy reports in 2016 12 Connections Academy Bug Club Revel W  all Street English efficacy reports published AimswebPlus G  ED Testing Service  TI and Pearson Institute of C N  AME Sistema Higher Education MyFoundationsLab MasteringChemistry WISC-V MyLab Math Read our efficacy reports online at efficacy.pearson.com 25 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Deliver relevant, To help prevent these types of situations, we took steps to re-evaluate our processes We collaborate with industry partners to maintain a current database of all chemicals appropriate, and and best practices from across our business that are used to make our products and inclusive content with the goal to develop a common set of values-based editorial principles for global classify them according to relevant safety legislation. For more information, visit: Learners trust and depend on Pearson to implementation. bookchainproject.com/home. provide course materials that are not only relevant but also appropriate and inclusive. The principles will apply to all of Pearson’s In 2016, we: We create our products with children and content and will help product development youth in mind and think specifically about teams to deal with difficult editorial issues, F  ocused on monitoring and addressing the culture, background, and age of the meet client expectations, and produce relevant regulations and industry trends learners that will access our content. distinctive and challenging content aligned to (including US Consumer Product Safety the highest ethical and editorial standards. Commission (CPSC), ASTM toy standard Our processes include editorial reviews activities and updates, and EU General and councils, internal and external peer NEW TARGET Product Safety Directive, UK TSI, EN 71 reviews, and external commissioning. By 2020, we will establish and roll out Part 1, 2, 3); and We also conduct testing with teachers, Global Content Principles to ensure  epresented Pearson at the PIPS R pupils, and independent academic experts. Pearson content is appropriate, effective, (Publishing Industry Product Safety) Forum, Where necessary, we enable parental and relevant for all learners, for the 21st a bookchain project, in UK, where trade controls for relevant digital products. Century and beyond. and academic publishers in the UK come together to share best practices and keep Despite our best efforts, we sometimes abreast of legislative and chemical updates. make mistakes. In 2016, for example, Ensure product safety We continued to work with core suppliers inappropriate content was found in one on adding vendors to the PIPS database. of our textbooks in South Africa. We have Pearson takes measures to ensure the worked closely with teachers from the safety of our users. Our products for Going forward, we will: local communities who highlighted this young children are age-appropriate M  aintain our ongoing target of zero product problem to amend the language, ensuring and properly labeled with relevant safety incidents or recalls; and the updated content met with their approval choking‑hazard warnings. and the approval of relevant government P  rovide training on vendors in the entities. Read more at: www.pearson.com/ Our product safety manual sets out PIPS database. corporate/getthefacts.html. procedural and legislative requirements for product testing, development, and labeling, and is regularly updated to reflect any new developments. We carry out risk assessments based on learners’ age, product use, and materials, and use third parties to test and certify compliance with product safety standards. 26 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Respect human rights Recent events have drawn internal and external attention to the importance of human rights to our business and relationships with key stakeholders. During Respecting the human rights and dignity of all people 2017, we will undertake a human rights review to better understand, prioritize, is the only way for our society and business to prosper. and address the human rights risks within Our approach to human rights is guided by international our sphere of influence and inform the development of our human rights strategy standards for universal human rights, good labor and a new human rights policy. practices, and decent working conditions. We work to Education is a human right, and we are ensure the privacy, security, and health and safety of taking steps to improve access to education. everyone our business impacts. As part of the human rights review, we seek to identify even more ways to support quality education and the positive impacts We have a corporate responsibility We respect the right of our employees to it can bring about. For example, we aim to respect human rights, and we are freedom of association and representation to determine how our products, services, committed to follow the Universal through trade unions, works councils, or and sustainability initiatives can expand Declaration of Human Rights, the any other appropriate forum wherever economic opportunities for vulnerable International Labour Organization’s local laws allow. Pearson employees are groups and at the same time grow new declarations on fundamental principles participants in trade unions across the markets for our business. and rights at work, and the UN Guiding group. Representation takes many forms. NEW TARGET Principles on Business and Human Rights. For example, in the UK we launched an As a founding signatory to the UN Global Employee Engagement Forum providing Conduct a human rights assessment and Compact, we are committed to its human employees and senior executives regular implement a new human rights policy rights and labor principles, and we are opportunities to discuss the strategic by 2018. a member of the Global Compact’s UK development of the company. We work to Local Network. prevent discriminatory, illegal, or inhumane labor practices, including child labor, forced labor, slavery, and human trafficking. We Respect the right to are committed to using our influence with privacy and ensure our suppliers to improve standards for their employees. Read more about supporting data security our suppliers on p37-38. We strive to protect the rights, freedoms, and dignity of all of the people who entrust us with their personal information, including learners, customers, and employees. We recognize our responsibility to keep their personal information safe and secure. Keeping important information private and secure is a matter of trust and reflects our values of decency and accountability. We have robust protocols to inform all stakeholders about how the company collects and uses their data. We have annual training for all employees on information security and data privacy. As part of this training, employees read and sign a new Acceptable Use Policy. All Pearson employees who deal with US student information are required to take additional training on protecting educational data. 27 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Pearson’s chief information security officer We developed our vendor management Safeguarding has been identified as a oversees the information security program, processes and expanded our use of privacy principal risk under our enterprise risk and our chief privacy officer manages our impact assessments to encompass vendors management system and is subject to data privacy program. Both are accountable and new programs; regular reporting to the audit committee, to the executive leadership team. The We developed targeted training and policies a board-level committee. security and privacy frameworks are linked for particular business areas and teams to to ensure a holistic approach and provide In 2017, we will: address their key risks; and aligned guidance on product and technology C  ontinue to embed our governance We established a set of product privacy development processes, policies, training, processes; requirements, which have been implemented and vendor management.  omplement our existing training for all C into the product development process to support privacy by design. employees with targeted workshops for Our risk management process is based on senior leaders and communications leads recognized international standards (ISO 31000) for assessing and ranking data Safeguard and on their roles and responsibilities in incident management; and privacy and information security risks. We protect learners A  dopt a global policy and supporting regularly test and evaluate our data security procedures and controls through internal We are committed to safeguarding and procedures on sexual harassment in adult and third-party reviews. protecting learners wherever we operate learning centers operated by Pearson. schools, training and learning centers, and We comply with relevant legislation and teaching facilities. Our primary concerns contractual requirements and monitor focus on ensuring children’s safety and regulatory changes to assess their impact providing safe, age-appropriate learning on our processes and programs. To help environments for all in both physical and inform our approach, we are members of virtual classroom settings. the International Association of Privacy Professionals, Software & Information Industry Association, Future of Privacy Forum, and Centre for Information Policy Safegaurding priorities in 2016 Leadership in Europe.  trengthen S A  ddress D  eliver training Our internal audit team regularly safeguarding safeguarding risks that helps foster reviews our data privacy and security governance in our direct delivery an understanding programs. In 2016, they suggested further processes businesses and positive culture improvements to our privacy program around safeguarding to meet the increased obligations under the European General Data Protection We established a global We carry out risk assessments We implemented an online Regulation (GDPR). We plan to implement safeguarding committee of in all our majority-owned training module and are senior leaders to review direct delivery businesses working to overcome these during 2017 before the GDPR goes business challenges, progress, outside of China, where the technological barriers that into effect from May 2018. and performance data. We focus on adult learning limit adoption. We are also also commissioned an reduces risk. In 2016, we continuing to work with In 2016, we made significant improvements external review of our implemented improvements Pearson Schools India to to our data privacy and information approach to safeguarding at Pearson Schools India, develop and model a security processes: and reported its findings conducted risk assessments program for improving our and recommendations to on the Pearson Affordable safeguarding practices. We instituted an in-depth privacy and the Pearson executive team. Learning Fund portfolio of security assessment of our key products businesses (see p55-56 for to ensure their functionality is updated for more on PALF), and began current requirements, and developed plans engaging our businesses to mitigate identified areas of risk; in China. We established a detailed GDPR plan to ensure we are focused on the various activities required to adapt our program to meet the changes due to come into effect “Safeguarding is a priority issue for Pearson. As chair in May 2018; of the safeguarding committee, my responsibility is to champion and challenge our businesses to continuously improve practice.” Bob Whelan President, Pearson assessments 28 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Improve health The global risk management team develops, maintains, and supports our H&S policy, In 2017, we plan to update our strategy and refine our policy and standards to reflect and safety and the board’s audit committee oversees our evolving business, risk, and desire for H&S performance. We consider printing and continuous improvement. Our people work in many different facilities warehousing to be our high-risk activities. around the world, including schools, Going forward, we will: colleges, test centers, offices, data centers, Our H&S audit program is essential for call centers, print sites, and warehouses. Publish a 2018-20 H&S strategy to ensuring we are actively identifying hazards, recognize our H&S maturity and reach Simply put, we cannot be a sustainable regulatory compliance concerns, and company and a trusted partner unless beyond compliance; non-conformance with the policy. A global we ensure the safety and wellbeing of our  ublish and communicate a revised, fullyP network of nearly 200 “H&S coordinators” people, our learners, and all who come endorsed H&S policy and standards; work to ensure the H&S management system into contact with our operations. is implemented in their business locations.  ontinue the implementation of our global C H&S assurance program. Establish more We are working to firmly establish, and Pearson Management Services, the robust global processes for injury, illness, continuously improve, an effective health company in the UK that manages our and other incident reporting to enable more and safety (H&S) management system head office, is certified against BS (OHSAS) effective and transparent reporting; across our business. We have made good 18001, an internationally recognized H&S D  evelop targets and metrics consistent progress, but recognize more needs to management standard. In June 2016, with GRI standards (see p78 for more about be done, especially given the continuing Pearson secured the Royal Society for the GRI); and evolution of our company. Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) Silver E  stablish regular senior management Award for H&S performance for our global reviews in relevant businesses and operations, which followed a Bronze Award geographies to ensure awareness of and in 2015. accountability for H&S performance. Health & safety by the numbers 150+ audits In the past three years, we conducted more than 150 audits and implemented over 700 improvement actions. 81% 81% of open action items from H&S audits open as of 1 January 2016 were successfully resolved, exceeding our 70% target. As further evidence of our H&S systems In addition, global implementation of our H&S Total incident rates, including very minor and continuing to take hold, 42% of audits resulted standards improved by 36% in 2016, exceeding near-miss, continued to trend down, partially in “satisfactory” opinions (the highest rating our 30% target, and 81% of open action items due to the outsourcing of some higher risk possible) in 2016, compared with 16% in 2015 from H&S audits open as of 1 January 2016 were warehouse locations, as well as continued focus when the program and implementation was successfully resolved, exceeding our 70% target. on injury prevention in direct delivery locations in its infancy. We also saw significant decreases and sites with large employee populations. in audits that resulted in “needs significant The number of injuries and work-related illness improvement” opinions. cases moved up slightly over 2015. There were no work-related fatalities. 29 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Ensure corporate security As a global company, international travel and business resilience plays an important role in how we do business. We have improved our risk and “I feel a strong sense of We live in an increasingly complex world threat monitoring in partnership with our responsibility towards with new and emerging security challenges travel management provider, Anvil, which has launched an improved security platform. employees and everyone that – geopolitical threats, terrorism, crime, and natural disasters, for example. We have also hired additional staff to analyze, works on behalf of Pearson. collate, and report developing risks. My team works to do everything in our power to Unfortunately, high-profile security incidents are occurring on a daily basis and act as a keep people safe from global threats. I’m proud To minimize risks for our business travelers, harsh reminder of an ever-present threat. to work at Pearson because I believe education our Travel ASSIST app provides live updates has the power to prevent so many of our world’s and advice in the event of a security Pearson has a responsibility to help biggest challenges.” situation. minimize and manage these risks, and our goal is zero harm. Adrian Firth Director of corporate security In 2017, we will release an eLearning traveler & business resilience, Pearson training module on Pearson U. As part of our global efforts to strengthen policies and procedures, and increase our level of preparedness, the corporate security lead and business continuity team were brought together. This team provides security and resilience solutions, designed to protect our people and assets while supporting business growth. Engaging students in health & safety in India In 2016, Pearson’s global risk management The captains are part of inspection, risk When the global risk team engaged with these team worked closely with Pearson Schools India assessment, fire safety management, audit, and students during a 2016 round of H&S audits, to make health, safety, and safeguarding a committee activities. They help communicate they displayed an impressive range of cornerstone of its operations. As part of the important H&S issues to other students knowledge, understanding, and enthusiasm strategy, a number of student health, safety, through a wide variety of campaigns, including when providing induction briefings to the and safeguarding captains and vice captains posters with slogans like “No Safety – Know audit team. were appointed. They agreed to a set of Pain. Know Safety – No Pain” and “H&S is as responsibilities and are now considered an simple as ABC – Always Be Careful”. They also important part of the school H&S team. lead targeted assemblies, hand washing workshops and traffic safety events. 30 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Develop our people Create a strong culture Our values define who we are and how we and communities behave as a company and as employees. Our values and behaviors are guided and reinforced by our code of conduct. We make sure everyone is aware of the code We will only succeed if our employees have and include it in the onboarding process for all new employees. See p40 for more opportunities to develop grow, and stay engaged. on the code. In 2016, we focused on navigating our business Navigate our business transformation, listening to our employees, creating transformation new employee learning programs, and supporting We undertook a difficult restructuring a more diverse and inclusive workplace. process in 2016 as part of our ongoing efforts to navigate considerable changes We maintained our commitment to investing in local both within and outside our business. The restructuring reduced the total communities and offered opportunities for our Pearson employee base by around 10%. employees to volunteer and give. Our leaders explained the industry trends and business reasons behind the decisions that were made, and maintained regular communication with affected About our employees teams. Pearson provided consultation and support for colleagues leaving the company, including access to an external career management and talent organization 32,719 to help employees transition into new external roles. total average number of employees in 2016 Encourage listening, Employees by region engagement, and North America 16,841 collaboration Core 5,664 Growth 9,868 Learning, listening, and collaborating are Other 346 vital to empowering our people, navigating challenging times, and supporting our transition to a digital business. We encourage employees to share their views with management and one another through a Employee gender diversity variety of channels, including our internal online forum, Neo. We also hold regular Male 40% dialogue events with our executives both Female 60% in person and via global webcasts. We launched Discovery Day events in 2016 to help employees better connect with our products and services and enhance the understanding of business changes 30% 32% across the company. We also extended our LinkedIn Elevate partnership, which engages Board positions held by women Senior leadership positions employees in sharing insightful content held by women* about education. * two reporting lines from the chief executive 31 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Our values and behaviors Employee engagement Brave Imaginative employee dialogue Show determination and courage A  ssess complex issues from events with in the face of obstacles and multiple angles and addresses setbacks problems that don’t have clear executives O  ffer ideas or opinions solutions or outcomes without fear of criticism  ffer creative ideas and O or professional risk innovative solutions to solve Discovery Day problems and address events Set high standards for own and others’ performance opportunities T  akes a broad perspective to identify opportunities executive webcasts and solutions to employees Employee engagement survey Decent Accountable Be honest, transparent, and straightforward when T  ake ownership of own work and drive to successful completion 62% Our employees:  re inspired by our purpose A working with others and closure of employees responded to the  eel a strong sense of accomplishment F B  uild trusting relationships with Identify and involve others 2016 Engagement  ant to better understand our strategy W a broad range of people inside to accomplish individual and outside Pearson and group outcomes Survey  ant clearer and more career growth W and development  ook for and includes diverse L Follow through on commitments viewpoints and talents of others  eed executives to foster trust through N their communications Empower people through In 2016, we took steps to re-energize our learning culture with the implementation candidates for open roles and updated our performance management framework. learning and development of a new learning portal, Pearson U, including a Technology Academy, which Going forward, we will: Learning is as important to us internally as provides structured skills assessment,  ocus on gender diversity in succession F it is externally. Our talent strategy focuses development activities, and transparent planning to improve our pipeline of on creating a positive personal growth information on career progression. We emerging leaders, emphasizing highexperience across the employee lifecycle. also developed a Learning Volunteers potential minority groups and employee We focus on: community comprising employees who peer-to-peer mentoring; test and trial learning collateral, shared  nderpin our digital transformation by U Empowering and enabling our people to materials, and ideas. These programs are scoping skill needs and gaps for future actively manage their own development and aligned with our performance management talent at specific locations; careers by providing opportunities and tools process and help to equip managers with to grow and stretch in a healthy, inclusive  etain and develop our talent by increasing R tools that support their teams to develop workplace; and internal mobility; the skills needed in a changing business Providing our business with forward-thinking, environment.  elp employees learn and grow by H agile, and engaged employees, who are understanding their own capability gaps able to do their best work to deliver on our We focused on our current employees and developing key skills through Pearson U business strategy, by encouraging innovation by applying a common set of leadership and other learning opportunities; and and risk-taking. competencies to develop and grow a Improve employee relations by leveraging pipeline of leaders who are ready to take insights from our annual employee on new challenges. As part of this effort, we engagement surveys. launched a new talent database to identify 32 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Foster an inclusive and In 2017, we will: NEW TARGET L  aunch a new ERG to promote collaboration diverse workplace across generations; and We will publish gender pay details for our UK businesses by 2018 and extend our We believe we are at our best when we  ost our fourth annual Global Inclusion H reporting to cover our global operations harness the unique skills, perspectives, and Week to offer learning opportunities for by 2020. This gender pay data will inform backgrounds of every employee to foster employees across the globe. how we develop our pay and career innovation and create the most effective progression strategies. solutions for learners around the world. We are committed to provide equal We are committed to ensuring that diversity opportunity for all genders in our talent and inclusion are embedded in everything and pay practices, to ensure our employees we do. We foster a work environment that is reach the maximum of their potential, are inclusive as well as diverse, where we reflect rewarded fairly based on performance, our customers and learners, and where our and have the flexibility to pursue a positive people can be themselves. work-life balance. Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) is a business strategy. Our global D&I program aims to Diversity & inclusion in 2016: build trust with some of our most important stakeholders – employees, learners, and the communities we serve. Though we still have 1 1,200+ work to do, we are taking steps to recruit, single global D&I team employees attended D&I promote, and retain diverse employees. was created. learning sessions. In 2016, women made up 32% of our senior leadership team, including the two levels of managers reporting to the chief executive. 30 12.1m Our executive management team included D&I Advocates mobilized across US, the UK, people were reached through two women during 2016, and our board India, and Canada to lead initiatives to our #DiscussDiversity Twitter was 30% female. We have also embedded embed D&I across all lines of business. chat series. unconscious bias and gender intelligence 25 4th practices in our annual talent review process. events and panels were held For the 4th straight year, we received during our Global D&I Week. a perfect score in the Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index. Employee resource groups Our employee resource groups (ERGs) play a key role in advancing diversity Our global ERGs: “The Veterans’ ERG is an and inclusion across our business. ERGs P  earsonABLE for colleagues with disabilities and their advocates integral component in are grassroots, employee-driven groups P  earson Bold for colleagues of black unlocking the full potential that organize around shared interests and provide platforms for professional and/or African ancestry of the veteran workforce. Pearson Latino Network networking and development, Pearson Parents This ERG provides a unifying addressing business challenges, and celebrating diversity.  earson Spectrum for LGBT colleagues P environment to realize the unique and allies skills and spirit of this community.” Pearson Veterans Wilfred Sa-onoy 5,000 Women in Learning & Leadership (WILL) Manager, technology shared services, employees worldwide global business operations participate in our global ERGs 33 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Support our people in and our commitment to advance the and out of the workplace Sustainable Development Goals. “I had a great experience We are committed to offering benefit We have a global network of over 200 social volunteering at Career programs that make our employees’ lives impact champions that lead our efforts to partner with local non-profits and enable Collaborative. easier, simpler, and more rewarding. Our volunteering and giving opportunities in the US, We spent the morning conducting practice programs vary globally and include benefits Canada, the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Australia, interviews with people who were such as health insurance, disability coverage, Italy, Sri Lanka, and other countries. underemployed but eager to find full-time jobs... retirement savings matching, employee The work of Career Collaborative really stock purchase options, commuter benefits, Volunteering resonates with Pearson’s commitment to tuition reimbursement, and programs that All global employees can use up to three employability and upward mobility.” support wellbeing and work-life balance. Helping our employees outside of the paid volunteer days a year for charitable Bill Triant VP, Strategic partnerships and office leads to higher levels of employee work. We also offer company-organized investments, North America, Pearson engagement and productivity at work and volunteering opportunities with non‑profits improves individual wellbeing. that align with our company’s mission. More than 75% of employee volunteering hours Looking ahead, we are working to establish in 2016 were dedicated to education-related an integrated benefits strategy that can be non-profit organizations and causes. applied globally, with the flexibility to be customized to fit local business practices, market trends, and rules. Employee volunteering in Brazil Our global strategy will be designed to:  rovide the flexibility that enables P In Brazil, our social impact champion team introduced the NGO Cidadão employees to customize benefits offerings Pró‑Mundo to Pearson Brazil employees and invited them to become to their own needs and circumstances; Volunteachers (voluntary teachers) one Saturday per month. CPM promotes O  ffer “personalized” online communications equal opportunities and social integration through English teaching to nearly as an alternative to “one-size-fits-all” mass 1,500 low-income students. communications; and P  rovide a simple, efficient and user-friendly “Being a volunteacher has “We could see that, despite employee experience, with an emphasis on websites, tools, and materials that are easybeen an amazing experience! their fear of speaking in a to-find and informative. It’s priceless to see the students’ feedback about different language, our work. It takes just a few hours a month to the students are very excited and committed to Invest in our global and prepare a class and teach the students. I would the classes. It was rewarding to help them recommend it to all my colleagues!” local communities realize the talent they have and help them face Thierre Alves Sales representative, English their fears.” Educational opportunities and outcomes Language Teaching, Pearson are closely linked to the prosperity of local Luisa Modesto Publishing administrator, communities and global development. Pearson In 2016, we directed 1.2% of our pre-tax profits to community activities, maintaining our ongoing commitment to invest at least 1% annually. We are an active member of the London Benchmarking Group, a global standard for measuring corporate community investment, which allows us to track and report on our in kind and cash contributions to community causes (see http://www.lbg-online.net/ for more information). As part of our commitment, we provide employees with a variety of opportunities for volunteering and giving. These programs also help to engage, attract, and retain people who are passionate about our mission to improve lives through learning 34 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting “I made an impACT” Giving Going forward, we will: We launched the “I made an impACT” Through our giving programs, employees Increase volunteering hours by over 40% campaign in 2016 to spotlight those have the chance to get involved in specific to reach more than 20,000 volunteer hours employees who are demonstrating charitable partnerships. We also organize during 2017. To help meet this goal, we our values and culture through their fundraisers to help employees provide relief held our first-ever national North America volunteering and giving activity, reminding to victims of natural disasters and support volunteer day, with a view to building to a colleagues that social impact lies at the other important causes. global Pearson service day by 2020. heart of our business and mission. Grow our involvement and participation in We offer matching programs for charitable skills-based volunteering opportunities; and donations for all UK and US employees 35.5% and a payroll giving program in the UK. Improve how we measure and understand the links between participation in our Employee volunteer hours increased by In the UK, we partner with Charities Aid Foundation and its “Give as you Earn” programs and employee engagement, 35.5% as a result of the campaign. retention, and development. scheme. Pearson matches tax-deductible donations by employees – up to £600 per 58.5% annum. In 2016, we had over 265 employees participate in the program, and we matched NEW TARGET 58.8% of employees actively used our Increase volunteering hours by over 40% over £60,000 in donations to organizations, internal social impact platform. to reach more than 20,000 volunteer including WWF UK, Cancer Research UK, hours during 2017. Friends of the Earth Trust, Oxfam, British 200+ Heart Foundation, and more. Over 200 stories were submitted Local publishing facilities also donate by employees, earning them each books domestically as appropriate. These an impACT badge and points on our donations are coordinated locally, as we internal platform. no longer manage the process centrally for legal reasons. Partnering with Kiva to support global entrepreneurship $1.3m 40% in loans 40% of our employees participated. In May 2015, we launched a three-year partnership with Kiva, the world’s first online lending platform with a mission to connect people through lending to alleviate poverty. 31,000+ 25%+ Kiva borrowers Over 25% of our loans support education by In 2016, Pearson employees made $1.3m giving disadvantaged students the opportunity in loans to over 31,000 Kiva borrowers in to attend a vocational training program, 78 countries. 78 university, or other higher education institution. countries 2nd highest Of all companies on the Kiva platform, we have second highest number of loans and most new users. Donate See our impact to date at: https://www.kiva.org/team/pearson 35 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Protect our natural Advance our climate neutral strategy environment Our commitment to climate neutrality is driven by the goal to reduce our carbon footprint and to play our part to help mitigate climate change. Two flagship The earth’s resources are vital for learning, jobs, people, targets guide our climate strategy: 1) 50% and businesses everywhere. We recognize our duty absolute reduction in the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions of our global operations to contribute to a healthy and sustainable planet that by 2020; and 2) 50% absolute reduction enables human progress and sustainable development. in energy use in our buildings by 2020. See p36 for more about these targets. We also value the benefits that responsible environmental stewardship brings to our business Our climate strategy is built on three key areas: Measure, Reduce, Offset. by reducing costs and managing risks.  e have an established, independently W verified process to measure the climate Pearson’s long track record of investing We collect and map data on the country footprint of our buildings and business in green initiatives focuses on taking of origin of the paper we purchase in travel; action to address the big, interconnected order to ensure we do not contribute  e have a number of initiatives to reduce W environmental challenges of climate to deforestation and illegal logging. We the GHG emissions from our buildings and change and deforestation. Through our retained Chain-of-Custody accreditation business travel; and climate neutral strategy, we continue by the Forest Stewardship Council in the to shrink our footprint and save money UK and supported the WWF Save Forests We offset any emissions we have not by conserving energy, only purchasing campaign. been able to reduce or avoid each year electricity from renewable energy sources. by supporting a range of forest-based By 2016, we achieved a cumulative Our climate vision is shared by others in conservation projects. reduction of 40% in our global climate the world of education and many of the emissions against our 2009 baseline. institutions we serve are environmental leaders both in thought and practice. Priority environmental focus areas Priority introduced in 2015 Progress in 2016 Suppliers Investigate whether our third-party data centers Presented to global procurement; work to start in 2017 can be supplied by clean energy Carbon Look beyond direct emissions to capture impacts Introduced bookcarbon – an initiative that allows footprinting across the digital and physical value chain us to calculate our physical impact from forest to distribution center Mapped our first education product – Bug Club Low-carbon Continue to invest in energy efficiency and renewable Maintained record of purchasing all our electricity from economy energy in order to remain carbon neutral renewable sources and our commitment to energy efficiency investment is ongoing “Mindprint” Establish targets, key initiatives, and/or partnerships Started to take stock of product portfolio and met key to create products and services that enable learning partners such as the US Green Building Council, which and skills development linked to specific we are working with to develop course materials (see p74) sustainability challenges Circular Close the loop on products and services Piloting a new textbook rental model, which means economy by 2020 (zero waste to landfill) that textbooks can be re-used, reducing waste 36 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Measuring our carbon footprint In 2016, we saw: “Forests are vital for people and wildlife – we We began measuring and reporting on the carbon footprints of our products and need them, and they need us to act. Pearson is a longstanding member of the WWF UK Forest 13.7% services in 2015. This year, we completed & Trade Network and is a corporate signatory absolute reduction in our climate footprint a product footprint for Bug Club. to the Save Forests campaign.” to 126,385 metric tons of CO2e and lowered WWF UK our energy spend by £3.5m; and Reducing energy use and advancing renewables We support a range of projects that save To save energy and protect our climate, we or absorb a metric ton of carbon for each metric ton that we emit, including: 77,579 have introduced energy-efficient building metric tons of CO2e avoided by purchasing design, invested in alternatives to business renewable energy and offset the remaining C  hildren’s Tropical Forests UK: We continued travel, and committed to using renewable 48,807 metric tons. our commitment to our primary offset energy to meet our global electricity needs. partner in 2016 by agreeing to purchase Factors behind this performance include: We have also embraced LEED, the green and protect rainforests in Colombia, adding buildings standard in the US. We currently to our existing commitment to protect  ur accelerating investment in digital O have four buildings certified under the rainforests in both Colombia and Costa Rica; content and related transition away from LEED standard, which together account for A  lgoma Highlands Conservancy in North physical infrastructure for distributing over 800,000 square feet of space. We have America: We provide the anchor funding books, which have been sold or outsourced; established an internal team of certified for this biologically rich and diverse  ew technology that allows for more N LEED assessors and started working to conservation area covering close to flexible work and reduces our employees’ secure our fifth LEED certification in 2016. 50,000 acres in Ontario, Canada. Algoma commuting and business travel; Highlands protects a wide variety of plants We recognize the key role that renewable O  ur Green Fund for stimulating investment and animal species that are iconic to the energy plays in mitigating climate change and innovation, including our portfolio Canadian wilderness, including moose, and have purchased 100% renewable of renewable energy generation projects bear, timber wolves, otters, woodpeckers, electricity since 2012. We have also invested across six Pearson buildings; and and loons; and in renewable energy generation at six sites  ther progress in continuing operational O W  oodland Trust in the UK: We support and have 2.6 kilowatts of wind and solar efficiencies; including changes in the size Woodland Carbon, the first scheme to assets installed. of our business. meet the UK’s voluntary standard for woodland creation projects, which capture Offsetting our impacts through More environmental data, including information and store carbon from the atmosphere on waste and water, can be found in our annual forest conservation in an effort to mitigate climate change. environmental review at https://www.pearson.com/ corporate/sustainability/reporting-policies.html. We are addressing the links between the environmental challenges of climate Since 2009, our climate neutral program change and deforestation by offsetting our has helped to protect over 1,450 hectares carbon emissions through forest-based of forest. conservation projects. Global climate targets Supporting renewable electricity Baseline year 2015 2016 Progress to date During the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 21) in Paris in 210,306 MT 146,493 126,385 -40% September 2015, Pearson signed up to CO2e MT CO2e MT CO2e -50% RE100, joining the then 50 companies that are helping to build the market To reduce our absolute GHG emissions for renewable electricity. by 50% by the end of 2020 using 2009 as the base year. 285,590 243,614 201,040 -30% MWh MWh MWh -50% To reduce energy use in our buildings on an absolute basis by 50% by the end of 2020 using 2013 as the base year. For more information, visit www.there100.org. 37 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Manage, measure, and report environmental Build a sustainable information Pearson first introduced its environmental supply chain policy in 1992, and we were the second organization ever to be certified against Pearson is a major purchaser of paper for books, and we the Carbon Trust Standard. We use a have contracts with printers as well as with distributors and global online data collection system for utilities, waste, water, and business travel. shippers that bring our products to market. Our reporting system has been reviewed by Deloitte. See p44-45 for our data. Our business is changing, and the working conditions, and environmental External reporting and assurance shift to digital products and services is stewardship. Our contracts require our rapidly reshaping our supply chain and suppliers to avoid any involvement in In addition to this report and our environmental footprint. At the same forced labor or human trafficking; annual environmental review, we also time, our traditional paper-based respect diversity; meet our minimum publicly disclose our performance on products still account for our most working age requirements; and comply carbon management, water, and forest significant supply chain impacts. with all applicable employment laws management to the Carbon Disclosure and regulations. Project (CDP). Doing business with partners who share our commitments to human rights and We recognize the importance of working Our 2016 environmental data has been the environment strengthens our supply with industry partners to improve verified by the specialist consultant, chain and reduces costs and risks. Our sustainability in our supply chain. We are Corporate Citizenship. The assurance relationships with suppliers are guided a founding member and sit on the steering statement (available at: https://www. by our commitments to international group of Bookchain, a collaboration pearson.com/corporate/sustainability/ standards, including the UN Global between publishers to enhance industry reporting-policies/reports-benchmarks. Compact principles, and our business standards related to labor and human html) covers the methodology, data partner code of conduct, which forms rights, product safety (see p25), and collection, and accuracy of data reported. an integral part of our contracts with paper sourcing. key suppliers. These contracts include our commitments to universal human rights, good labor practices, decent 38 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Manage our supply chain Print supply chain We continue to be concerned that the release of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) We rely on third-party suppliers Paper supply for textbooks and present in inks and solvents is managed for printing our textbooks and printed courseware effectively and reduced. We encourage our course materials. printers and operating companies to monitor The shift to digital and other business We have a single global policy and reduction targets for VOCs. changes, including the sale of the Financial approach for managing risk in our print Times Group, have greatly reduced our supply chain that covers supplier risk Distribution and shipping direct paper purchases, from an average assessments and visits, third-party audits, We outsource road distribution and of about 300,000 metric tons each year and remediation of compliance issues. shipping to third-party carriers and work to around 50,000 metric tons in 2016 – Our print production departments visit with suppliers to consolidate shipments equivalent to more than 5 million trees. suppliers around the world to assess to maximize container loads. Nevertheless, paper production is still compliance with our standards and directly linked to a number of important ensure suppliers address issues with nonOther developments environmental issues, including climate compliance. These visits provide a valuable In 2016, we established a single integrated change, deforestation, and illegal logging. opportunity to reinforce our commitments procurement team for all areas of The loss of natural forest cover is one of to eliminating all forms of child, forced purchasing outside of the manufacturing the biggest global sources of greenhouse and compulsory labor, and promoting supply chain. We also created a working gases. Innovations in fiber testing have environmental stewardship. We also group to develop a new global process to made it easier to identify and prevent intend for them to help improve suppliers’ assess, manage, and mitigate risk across illegal logging by linking book papers to business practices. the supply chain. Specific areas include tree species, a process we use as part of labor standards, health and safety, product We require suppliers rated mediumrating our paper risk. accessibility, and data security. and high‑risk over a threshold spend of In addition to reducing our purchases $100,000 to undertake an independent We introduced a common contract template of paper, we have taken the following third-party audit before they are approved for franchise agreements governing our measures to help address these issues: as a supplier and to agree to regular review responsibilities on health and safety, labor audits as an existing supplier. We have standards, anti-bribery and corruption, Retained Chain-of-Custody accreditation also developed a remediation process for safeguarding, and the environment. We will from the Forest Stewardship Council in suppliers that do not meet our standards. review implementation of this process in 2017. the UK, which enables Pearson products In 2016, we expanded the scope of our to carry the Forest Stewardship Council independent audit program to include We also published our first modern slavery logo; and medium-risk print suppliers. statement as our response to the UK’s  oubled the relative volume of paper D Modern Slavery Act, available at: purchases carrying the highest We maintain a printer register to monitor www.pearson.com/corporate/aboutsustainability rating (Forest Stewardship the environmental performance of pearson/our-position-on/modern-dayCouncil or equivalent certified) to suppliers that includes over 90% of our slavery.html. This legislation requires around 45% of the total compared with printers by value. companies to specify the steps they have 2014 levels. taken to ensure their business and supply We survey our global printers every two chains are slavery free. years to assess their: U  se of a recognized environmental management system; and M  easurement and reduction policies for water, ink, solvents, alcohol, energy, and waste. 39 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Ensure strong In 2017, the committee will continue to oversee Pearson’s progress in embedding sustainability and social impact into our governance strategy and business model, including implementation of our Sustainability Plan, target setting, and reporting. Strong governance is the foundation of our commitment Responsible business leadership to sustainability. Our board and senior executives, council (RBLC) The RBLC is an internal governance governance structures, and internal systems all play group of senior executives from across key roles in advancing and embedding sustainability, the business. Led by the chief corporate affairs and global marketing officer, the responsibility, and ethics across our business. RBLC meets in line with the RRC to provide guidance and input on sustainability strategy and activities. Our chief executive and our board are ultimately accountable for everything Manage sustainability Key activities in 2016 included advising on: we do as a company, and the board’s Reputation and responsibility reputation and responsibility committee committee (RRC) Sustainability strategy and reporting; provides important oversight of our The RRC is a formal committee of the Global standards and policies; Sustainability Plan. Our responsible board providing ongoing oversight and R  isks and opportunities related to the business leadership council, comprising scrutiny across all of our responsible efficacy agenda; senior executives from across the business activities, including business, helps to integrate sustainability Values and culture; and communication strategies and policies throughout the company. See diagram and processes related to reputational Initiatives including Project Literacy on p40. issues and people. and Every Child Learning. The board is deeply engaged in developing Key activities overseen by the committee In 2017, the committee plans to discuss and measuring the company’s long-term in 2016 included: issues including sustainability goals strategy, performance, and value. In 2016, and targets, access to education and the board oversaw a strategic review of O  verview of reputational risk approach reputation management, as well as social Pearson’s business portfolio, leading to in growth and US markets; impact programming. our decision to simplify the business, including a reduction in our exposure to Safeguarding deep dive; large-scale direct delivery businesses. Impact of US presidential election; Manage risk  020 Sustainability Plan and 2 Pearson has a structured enterprise In keeping with best practice, we sustainability reporting; continuously assess and refresh the board risk management (ERM) framework E fficacy and research – spotlight that aligns with international standards. to ensure we maintain an appropriate on 2018 external efficacy reporting; The framework and supporting process balance and diversity of skills and experience. Our chief executive and E fficacy growth and impact goals; guide the identification and effective chief financial officer are both members management of risks to meet our strategic M odern Slavery Act – implications of the board. See p30 and p32 for more and operational objectives. and statement; information about gender diversity on C onsideration of ethical issues in the wider The board oversees our ERM program our board and executive management. context of reputational risk identification; and the audit committee reviews risk More details about governance at Pearson S  ocial innovation and impact venturing identification, assessment, and mitigation can be found on our website and in our strategy, including Tomorrow’s Markets status at least twice a year. Pearson Annual Report. Incubator for employee intrapreneurs; executives are accountable for risks P earson Affordable Learning Fund review; relevant to their respective areas of responsibility. Project Literacy campaigns; P  roduct accessibility deep dive; and We consistently applied the risk E  nvironmental strategy update. framework to identify, monitor, and review our most significant and emerging risks. In addition to monitoring enterprise risks, we focused our efforts in 2016 on improving how we embed risk management across the wider organization and implementing best practices. 40 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting approval, revision, promotion, and Sustainability governance at Pearson retirement of global corporate policies across Pearson. The framework covers policies that are: applicable company-wide Board of directors to most or all employees across various geographies, businesses, functions, and Board committees roles; are either legally or legislatively required or aspirational; and support our good corporate citizenship. Audit Nomination Remuneration Reputation & committee committee committee responsibility committee By the end of 2016 the group had approved a framework as well as established a global policy oversight committee that would Pearson Executive Management (PEM) provide governance in conjunction with the Chief executive Compliance Council. Chief financial officer President global product Chief education advisor President North America In 2017, we will: Chief technology and operations officer President core markets  ommunicate and promote the Global C Chief corporate affairs and marketing officer President growth markets Policy Framework (GPF); Chief human resources officer President Pearson assessments Chief legal officer P  rovide guidelines to the businesses for approving policies; Hold workshops with groups wanting to create or revise global policies; Human resources Legal S  upport the launch and implementation of new global policies as well as support recently launched ones; and Chief corporate affairs and Flow of information Corporate global marketing officer E  stablish schedule for reviewing or revising Operations affairs & global policies. marketing Responsible business leadership council The GPF and the oversight committee will become key tools for compliance and risk Sustainability & social innovation team mitigation across Pearson. Efficacy & research Product Audit & Follow our code of conduct compliance The code of conduct sets out global standards for our day-to-day work and is Operational responsibility leaders supported by a suite of global policies and principles that are publicly available on our website. We developed a new training course in 2016 to reinforce key elements Global operations across Pearson of the code. Employees provided strong positive feedback and highlighted new Our most material risks are reported as A case study illustrating how our risk insights and learnings from the course. principal risks in Pearson’s Annual Report. governance and assessment approach We define these material risks as those supported business decision making and In 2017, we will: which have a higher probability and created value in 2016 is provided on page 45 Revise and update the code of conduct and significant impact on strategy, reputation, of our 2016 Annual Report at: www.pearson. a related training course; or operations, or a financial impact greater com/corporate/ar2016.html. Roll out a certification for all employees; and than £50 million. Introduce a “code of conduct and raising The principal risks that relate to the material Manage global policies concerns” awareness campaign following issues in Pearson’s 2020 Sustainability the certification process. In February 2016, Pearson’s compliance Plan include products and services, testing council approved the formation of a failure, political and regulatory risk, data working group to improve global policy privacy, information security, customer management. The charge was to create digital experience, and safety and corporate a framework for global policies that security. A table mapping our material issues established a systematic process and with principal risks can be found on p89. governance structure for the development, 41 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Raise concerns We continued our core commitment to training in 2016 by delivering ABC training Disclose our approach We operate a free, confidential telephone to numerous employees, including a to taxation helpline and website for anyone who wants significant number of our sales organization All companies have a responsibility to to raise a concern, and we have a clear and senior leaders. maintain and strengthen public trust in non-retaliation policy in place to encourage We also began to conduct third party due the corporate tax system, and companies honesty and openness. Cases that pose diligence on our “high-risk” third parties, should take steps to help improve public significant risks to our business are reported a project which was expanded in 2017 understanding and awareness of their to the Pearson audit committee. to additional third parties. position and payment of tax as well as to In 2016, 107 concerns (119 in 2015) were support international tax reforms. raised and investigated. Sixty-four concerns In 2017, we will continue to: Pearson has already disclosed tax principles (60%) related to human resources matters P  rovide training and raise awareness of our see https://www.pearson.com/corporate/ and 43 concerns (40%) related to financial revised anti-bribery and corruption policy sustainability/reporting-policies/policies. irregularities or violations of our policies for higher risk countries and activities; html, which include our commitments: – none were classed in our highest risk C  onduct ABC risk assessments of our category. We took appropriate steps to T  o comply with the laws and regulations businesses around the world; and resolve these issues, mainly through of the countries in which we operate; employee training, policy improvements, F  urther establish an ABC third-party due diligence program.  o pay tax according to where value is T or disciplinary action. In 2016, there were 20 created through the normal course of terminations and separations of employees commercial activity; and as a result of these investigations. Engage with public policy  o have an open working relationship T Government officials around the world with tax authorities and consult on the Implement an antimake daily policy decisions that have a direct interpretation of tax law as situations arise. bribery and corruption impact on education and our business, The board has delegated responsibility and our government relations teams are program responsible for tracking how political and for the oversight and monitoring of tax legislative trends might affect us. The teams strategy and risk to the audit committee. As part of our commitment to conducting develop and maintain relationships with key The tax department reports to the chief business fairly, honestly, and lawfully, we government representatives, associations, financial officer and formally reports at have a zero-tolerance policy towards bribery membership organizations, and third-party least annually to the audit committee. and corruption of any kind. This includes institutions to ensure that we have a voice Tax updates also form part of monthly compliance with all applicable anti-bribery in policy discussions. These relationships briefings to members of the board and corruption laws, including the US ensure that we are able to work in partnership provided by the chief financial officer. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act 2010, as well as local ethics and on shared agenda items; that our company is well-positioned and represented; and that Pearson paid corporation taxes of bribery laws. We aim to work and partner £45 million in 2016 compared with only with those who share this commitment. our work is fairly and accurately conveyed in global legislative deliberations. £232 million in 2015. 2015 taxes paid included £103 million of tax payable Over the past several years, Pearson has In all our engagements with government, on business disposals. In addition to steadily committed greater resources to we act in accordance with multi‑national, corporation tax, we also collect and pay strengthening and improving our global national, state, and local laws and a range of employee and sales taxes. compliance office and our anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) program. In 2016, regulations, and are guided by our corporate values and code of conduct. In 2017, we plan to review, refresh, and we introduced the greatest overhaul of our disclose our tax principles, and explore global ABC program since its introduction In 2016, Pearson did not make any corporate contributions to political parties, candidates expanding disclosure through a standalone in 2011. We launched a new ABC policy – global tax report covering tax strategy, providing clearer, more helpful guidance for public office, election campaigns, or political action committees. principles, and approach. and instruction on how to identify and avoid bribery and corruption. During 2016, we contributed to policy We also established a new network of discussions on issues including intellectual local compliance officers in our geographies property, the Sustainable Development and businesses to advise and guide Goals, refugee education, education and business partners on conducting business technology, teacher development, and fairly, honestly, and lawfully and establish improving learning outcomes. For more appropriate internal controls. We introduced information on how we engage in the global and rolled out to many of our geographies dialogue on education, see p75-77. Public and businesses a new system and tool policy activities are overseen by the board’s automating the request and approval reputation and responsibility committee. process for gifts and hospitality. 42 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Pillar 1 performance data Governance and ethics 2014 2015 2016 Total number of concerns raised & investigated 112 119 107 Human resources matters 75 (67%) 77 (65%) 61 (57%) Financial irregularities or violations of our policies 37 (33%) 42 (35%) 46 (43%) Terminations & separations 4 26 20 Labor practices and decent work 2014 2015 2016 Our employees Total average for the year 40,876 37,265 32,719 Turnover rate (US and UK only), total average for the year 23.5% 27% 26.27% Employee gender diversity Male 42% 41% 40% Female 58% 59% 60% Board positions held by women 1 30% 33% 30% Women in senior leadership2 35% 34% 32% Employees by geography North America 19,951 16,841 Core Markets (including Australia and Europe) 5,936 5,664 Growth Economies (including China, India, Brazil, and South Africa) 11,114 9,868 Other 264 346 Health & safety Percentage of H&S standards implemented across all locations3 36% 49% 67% Number of H&S audits4 49 53 45 Percentage closure of open action audit findings as of January 1 – 5 – 5 81% Number of improvement follow-up actions from audits implemented8 300 354 766 Number of injuries 7 288 103 156 Number of work-related illness cases8 305 147 124 Number of serious incidents9 44 30 37 Number of work-related fatalaties 0 0 0 Total incident rate per 100 employees10 1.56 1.36 1.01 Injury & illness rate per 100 employees11 0.67 0.24 0.38 Serious incident ratio12 5% 9% Workplace inspections reported –13 990 2287 1 30% of our board members are female, a higher percentage than the 25% target set by 8 Includes musculoskeletal disorders, work-related stress, and other illness cases related Lord Davies in 2015. We are a founding member of the 30% Club and also participate in to work. its cross-company mentoring programme which helps the development of talented mid9 Internal metric defined as any work-related injury or illness resulting in more than 3 days career women. away from work. 2 Two reporting lines from the chief executive. 10 Rate of all incidents (including minor) per 100 employees. 3 Primary metric for implementation of our H&S management system. 11 Rate of injuries/illness related to work, not including minor/first aid incidents. 4 Audits conducted by Global Risk Management staff to provide assurance of local compliance 12 New internal metric designed to measure prevention of serious incidents and active with H&S law and policy. reporting of minor incidents. 5 New metric created in 2016, tracking closure of audit follow-up actions from previous audits 13 Capture of worksite inspection data initiated in 2015. 6 As of Jan 1, 2017. 7 Total injuries requiring medical treatment or lost time due to injury. Does not include minor/ first aid cases. 43 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Labor practices and decent work continued 2014 2015 2016 Employee training Total hours by all employees 146,587 144,561 Average hours per year per employee 3.49 4.07 Employee benefits – all numbers US only Health and wellness benefits Percentage of employees participating in Pearson medical programs 84% 83% Average percentage of health insurance costs for employees paid by Pearson 80% 80% Average percentage of health insurance costs for employees, spouses, and dependants 80% 80% paid by Pearson Financial benefits Percentage of eligible employees participating in Pearson's 401(k) Plan 92% 91% Percentage of employees participating in the Employee Stock Purchase Plan 25% 22% Work/life balance and lifestyle programs Number of employees using commuter benefits 1,007 692 Number of employees using Pearson's Employee Assistance Plan 486 452 Number of interactions with Pearson's lifestyle programs 12,231 14,169 Society 2014 2015 2016 Community investment Community investment in GBP (£m)1 14.4 10.7 6.8 Community investment as % of pre-tax profits 1 2% 1.5% 1.2% Kiva Partnership Lending $600k $1.3m Number of employees participating 10,400 13,600 Percentage of employees participating 26% 40% Volunteering Employee volunteer hours 10,390 14,085 1 This data has been independently assured against London Benchmarking Group Principles. Managing key safeguarding issues KPI 2016 outturn vs target To manage safeguarding risk, our risk assessment process identifies opportunities Complete 70% of 85% were completed to strengthen practice. actions identified We are working to extend the reach of the training program in our direct delivery Complete 75% Reached 85% businesses, which includes 4,000 employees. of training of the target 44 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Environment1 2014 2015 2016 Greenhouse gas (GHG) (carbon dioxide equivalent) emissions overview (metric tons CO2e) Scope 1 Gas, fleet and refrigerant loss 25,027 22,343 19,093 Scope 2 Electricity 104,715 88,381 77,579 Scope 3 Other 1,724 1,044 1,359 Business travel 22,740 26,255 22,708 Electricity transmission 8,204 8,345 5,647 Total scope 3 32,668 35,644 29,714 Total 162,410 146,368 126,386 Total GHG/FTE metric tons (CO2e/FTE) 3.97 3.93 3.86 GHG emissions from Pearson businesses (metric tonsCO2e) US 94,348 79,872 64,590 UK 21,599 20,251 17,167 China 19,960 17,655 18,478 Rest of the World 26,503 28,715 26,150 Total 162,410 146,492 126,385 Percent decrease from year to year (for Scope 1 to 3) 14% 10% 13.7% Renewable energy (kW) Total solar 2,570 2,575 2,475 Total wind 95 95 95 Total 2,665 2,670 2,570 Environmental reporting measures (Units) Net internal area of reporting offices (m2) 1,393,954 1,208,954 858,237 Energy consumption measure (Units MWh/year) % electricity from renewable sources 100% 100% 100% Total electricity consumption from renewable sources only 186,356 162,916 154,910 Total gas consumption 57,144 48,760 45,855 Total fuel oil consumption 114 3,500 276 Total energy consumption 243,614 215,176 201,041 MWh/employee 6.0 5.8 6.1 1 All environmental data has been independently assured (except data for legal compliance and renewable energy). For more information see p78. 45 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Environment continued1 2014 2015 2016 Business travel measure Air passenger (km) 193,259,356 207,822,988 163,722,174 Rail passenger (km) 937,647 4,374,643 7,496,013 Road (distance) (MWh/year) 6,356,549 1,447,092 64,318,474 Road (fuel use) (litres) 5,312,226 4,894,843 0 Road (derived energy) (MWh) 43,899 45,071 Total GHG emissions from business travel (metric tons/CO2e) 22,740 26,255 22,708 Paper Paper used (MT) 152,181 132,551 43,027 Waste Total waste to landfill (MT) 2,005 1,112 1,249 Total waste to landfill (MT/FTE) 49 30 38 Water Total water consumption (m3) 1,474,077 1,014,268 526,297 Total water consumption (m3/FTE) 36 27 16 Legal compliance Reported environmental prosecutions nil nil nil 1 All environmental data has been independently assured (except data for legal compliance and renewable energy). For more information see p78. GHG emissions from Pearson businesses (metric tons CO2e) 2016 US £64,590m Percent decrease UK £17,167m from year to year China £18,478m (for Scope 1 to 3) Rest of the World £26,150m 13.7% Total £162,410m Climate neutrality 2016 GHG reduction for period 2009 to 2016 £83,921m Purchase of green electricity £77,579m Offsets £48,807m 46 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Reach more learners “I am getting better in Arabic and in Math, I did not know what 10+10 was, now I know that 10+10=20 and I can list all the alphabet. I do not skip a day at the center, but I have to go back to school soon to finish grade three and then finish school.” Rasha* A Syrian refugee who attends a learning center in Jordan that is part of the Every Child Learning partnership. * Name changed to protect identity See p59-60 for more about Rasha and Pearson’s Every Child Learning partnership with Save the Children. 47 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Our commitments: Improve access to and affordability Collaborate to reach 1 of products and services 2 underserved learners We believe everyone has the right to a New technologies can play a key role in high‑quality education. We are committed bringing education and opportunities to more to expanding access to education and people in more places. Through partnerships making learning more affordable for involving non‑governmental organizations, people everywhere. teachers, education experts, governments, and others, we are also tackling some of We want our products and services to help the biggest education challenges related to more learners make progress – regardless gender inequality, conflicts and emergencies, of their income level, the way they learn, and illiteracy. or their background. Reaching more learners helps us to grow our business and supports our commitment to quality education for all, decent jobs, and equality in line with the Sustainable Development Goals. 48 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Improve access to and affordability of products and services The demand for accessible, affordable, and effective education is greater than ever. Meanwhile the costs of learning continue to rise, governments find it harder than ever to deliver high-quality education to all, and nearly half of employers struggle to find the qualified candidates they need. Digital technology is changing where and how learning Technology also offers the potential to takes place and making learning easier and more make learning more accessible, flexible, effective. We are taking steps to better understand and personal, and affordable for those who need it the most. Increasing our digital respond to dramatic changes in learning and education reach is necessary to reach more learners around the world, as well as the unique needs of the globally, and is therefore a key element of our business strategy. diverse set of learners that we serve. Online and mobile learning solutions – Helping improve access to quality education for a broader such as virtual schools, online classes, and adaptive learning products – allow students spectrum of learners, including those from disadvantaged to access courses and learning resources backgrounds, also contributes to stimulating innovation, wherever they are and in ways that better suit their lifestyles, responsibilities, and developing new markets, and strengthening our career needs. This can greatly benefit performance. The potential to change our world and learners who live far from schools, require flexibility in their studies, or simply learn business for the better is clear. differently. Expand access We are taking steps to tackle some of these barriers and ensure our products Around the world, many people are and services can better meet the needs being left out or left behind by today’s of underserved learners. For example, education systems or lack access to we strive to improve product accessibility adequate learning and job opportunities. for people with disabilities (see p52-53); Barriers to access may include geographic, develop new products to reach lowcultural, or socioeconomic obstacles, or income learners (see p55); and partner personal constraints, such as the need to with non-profit and other organizations balance education with work and family to extend our reach to vulnerable Responsibilities. communities (see p56-63). 49 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Higher education Our digital products also contribute to Our higher education business helps colleges and universities expand access expanding access to college courses and online degree programs. For example, 65% products like Pearson Revel help students of all jobs in the US economy to education and opportunities for more learn in smaller, bite-sized chunks and will require post secondary learners by developing and supporting a education and training beyond wide variety of online education programs. shorter time periods, so they are able to high school by 2020.1 We collaborate with partner institutions to carve out a few minutes from their busy develop new programs and approaches to days or make use of transition times like reaching prospective students and guiding them through enrollment. In many cases, commuting when they would not otherwise be able to study. 1/2 About half of post-secondary we provide ongoing student support and Personalized, adaptive solutions can help students in the US need retention services, from registration to students who are behind catch up and remedial-level instruction graduation. We also support faculty by when entering college.2 stay on track to complete their degree. helping to design online course curricula Our MyLab & Mastering online homework, and providing specialized training to create tutorial, and assessment products adjust and deliver successful online courses. to the level and needs of individual learners 40% We have partnered with 40+ institutions and help them better absorb course of students in four-year public in the US and launched partnerships in material, understand difficult concepts, universities do not complete markets such as Australia and the UK. keep pace in their courses, and achieve their courses on time, and many In 2016, our individual course enrollments their goals. of these do not complete their degree at all.3 for online programs reached almost Instructors are using MyLab to help address 315,000 – up from over 265,000 in 2015. some key educational challenges for learners, institutions, and society. Close “We’re able to help students in zip codes with to half of post-secondary students in the no access to best-in-class learning.” US enter higher education unprepared Dan Viele Dean, School of Adult and Online for college-level courses. Many students Education, Maryville University in St. Louis do not complete their degree on time or Maryville University partners with Pearson at all. At Laredo Community College in to deliver online degree programs to nearly South Texas, educators used Pearson’s 3,000 students across the US. MyFoundationsLab to develop a bootcamp that improved college readiness and enabled students to bypass developmental education courses and substantially reduce their tuition costs. Returning to school through online learning “Life keeps going, Inspired by the bravery he witnessed on September 11th, Shadi enlisted in the United and ways to get States Navy and became a hospital corpsman. After his enlistment, he returned to school, an education are which he balances with his family life, and appreciates the flexibility and ease of the changing. online learning components of his coursework, including use of Pearson’s Revel. I am a 37-year-old husband, father of special needs children, employee, and student. While I love to learn, juggling and balancing these roles leave few realistic options for me to continue my education. The ability to take classes now, and interact with them online during the little time I have for myself has been very therapeutic.” 1 Georgetown University, Recovery: Job Growth and Education Requirements through 2020, June 2013. Shadi Rum Student at 2 McKinsey & Company, Why US education is ready for investment, August 2015. Saint Petersburg College 3 National Center for Education Statistics, US Graduation Rate, September 2016. 50 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Improving performance and saving money with MyFoundationsLab Laredo Community College in South Texas is a proud Hispanic Serving Institution with a student population that is over 95% Hispanic. The school serves a total of 9,000 students each year through a variety of affordable academic programs, technical and vocational programs, non-credit community interest courses, and adult education courses. Dean Marissa Longoria and her team of instructors designed an intensive, week-long boot camp that adopted a version of Pearson’s MyFoundationsLab customized to meet the needs of English language learners and objectives covered in the Texas Success Initiative Assessment (TSIA). The successful bootcamp helped students significantly improve their TSIA scores and college readiness, bypass one or more developmental education courses, and save an average $1,242 tuition (in-district) per student. “We want to engage students Parents care deeply about the cost/time savings realized when students are able to and their families from the bypass developmental courses. Students are very beginning, receptive as well, but we find that students don’t fully understand the benefits until they to share information and strategies that will complete the program and receive concrete help students make a successful transition to proof of the course(s) they tested out of.” higher education. Marissa Longoria Dean, Laredo Community College Pearson study on adult learners Pearson recently surveyed more than 1,500 adult learners to understand why they returned When Lia Machado graduated from high school in 2009, she wanted to go straight to college to 40% to school and what barriers they have faced pursue a degree. But her status as a Colombian More than 40% of college along the way. political refugee meant that dream had to be put students were over the age For the majority of adult learners, flexibility on hold. Combining online with on-campus of 25 in 2014 in the US1. in how they take classes is key to their success. classes allows Lia to continue working as she Over two-thirds of adult learners enrolled and goes to school, making enough money to pay working toward a degree today are using her rent and other expenses. Eventually, Lia online-only programs or some combination became an American citizen and will finish her of online and in-person classes. associate’s degree in marketing from Georgia State Perimeter College in December. “I always wanted to go to college and I couldn’t before, but the drive to earn a degree never wore off.” 1 National Centre for Education Statistics, Lia Machado Adult learner Back to School Statistics. 51 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Primary and secondary education Our Bug Club reading and phonics program We have focused on topics like dyslexia, We are helping more students progress in is used in more than 5,000 primary schools attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder primary and secondary education and earn in the UK by learners from ages 4-11. Bug (ADHD), and dementia, and we have degrees that enable them to continue their Club brings together over 350 books from recently formed partnerships with education and get better jobs. We are also different reading levels in print and online, Dybuster Calcularis, a mathematics learning showing how our products and services can with supplementary games and quizzes software tool, and Rehacom, a digital help improve progress for students who that make reading fun. cognitive intervention tool for people with thrive in different learning environments, brain injuries. Our research found that Bug Club had need more support, or come from a significant positive impact on learners’ We translate and adapt our assessment disadvantaged backgrounds. readingprogress in schools with a high tools to meet the cultural and language Pearson’s Connections Academy is a tuitionproportion of disadvantaged learners, needs of different populations. For example, free, fully‑accredited online public school defined as those who qualify for free school we are publishing the latest edition of the for students in grades K-12. The program meals or other financial support from the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children offers an inclusive, collaborative learning UK government. across the US, Canada, Australia, Benelux, experience that meets the unique needs of France, Germany, Scandinavia, Spain, and By helping disadvantaged students, we the UK. learners with a wide variety of backgrounds have an opportunity to make a difference and abilities. In addition to advanced in the lives of low-income learners and learners, some Connections Academy better serve our customers. Identifying difficulties students need extra help, have health issues, have been bullied, or feel out of place Clinical assessment Gabriella is 8 years old. She loves school in classroom settings. Our clinical division provides assessments and learning about new things. However, and solutions for professionals working in class she finds it really hard to pay “Linae started kindergarten at the local with people facing barriers such as learning, attention and her learning is suffering bricks-and-mortar school, and within two developmental, neurological, and mental as a result. Through assessment, weeks we enrolled her in Connections Academy. health difficulties whether in school or in her difficulties can be defined and a As a result of a revision to her bricks-andthe workplace. Through assessments, we classroom management program could mortar school’s health policy, influenced by hope to help identify people facing these be put in place so she can concentrate H1N1, Linae would have missed as much school challenges, so that they can gain access to better and progress in learning. as she attended. Connections Academy allows the tools they need to succeed. Linae to achieve her potential without having to choose between her education and her health.” Connections Academy parent Expanding opportunities through the GED program The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) reports that over 30 million adults between the ages of 16 and 65 did not have at least a high school diploma or GED credential as of 2012. The GED program aims to give adults without a high school diploma another chance to go to college or get a good job with higher wages – and to produce better long-term outcomes. The GED program leads in innovative test development, promotes partnerships across education and labor, and champions the voice of adult learners. “When I applied for a job, they would look over me because I was 19 without a GED. I [saw] the importance of a high school diploma, and how you get overlooked without it.” Recent GED graduate 52 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Enhance accessibility for Our efforts are guided by widely adopted international standards such as the Web Supporting learners with disabilities people with disabilities Content Accessibility Guidelines of the World Wide Web Consortium. We are in the Fully accessible digital learning products We are committed to the goal that all process of integrating these standards into provide more effective experiences for learners with disabilities and special needs all of our platforms, products, and services. all learners. Examples include: can access and benefit from our products. Digital technology is making educational Intuitive navigation; Our Accessibility Guidelines combine courseware and assessment materials our own standards, which have been Image descriptions that offer increasingly available in a wide variety of developed over many years to support the more context; formats. However, just because a product wide variety of learners’ needs across our is digital does not mean students with S earchable video transcripts for portfolio of courseware and services, with disabilities automatically benefit. Digital studying; and a core set of well-established international products can be made with varying levels C ontent that appears and operates standards. We update and improve our of accessibility, and users with disabilities in predictable ways. guidelines as technology, user needs, often face obstacles to reliable access. and standards evolve. We are working to ensure that all of our To meet the shift to digital in our markets, new digital products will be designed, coded, we reorganized our central accessibility and produced to meet or exceed accepted team in 2016 and embedded support and technical standards for accessibility, as compliance for standards, processes, and well as our own internal accessibility quality assurance into our global product guidelines. As part of this initiative, we organization. The team supports the will account for accessibility at each step accessibility experts already driving work of product development, testing, marketing, within our core businesses. and distribution. Developing the Accessible Equation Editor As we began to tackle the long-standing problem of access to math for blind students, With the Accessible Equation Editor, students using electronic braille devices will be able to How it works our team met Edgar Lozano and Su Park. Both of interact with math on a computer in the same way these students are computer science majors Math problems are as sighted students. and Pearson interns – and just happen to be presented to students on totally blind. a computer screen 1 When Sam Dooley, the developer of Pearson’s “Accessibility is made by through a web browser. Accessible Equation Editor, visited classrooms to inform his work, he met Su who explained that people...who tackle challenges “getting access to high-quality braille materials and endeavor to fix them is one of the most challenging obstacles faced by blind students, especially for in ways no one has ever mathematical content.” tried before.” These are quickly translated 2 Even in 2017, most blind students are producing into corresponding braille Su Park Pearson intern and blind student their math on manual braille writers. Since their codes on the keys of a sighted teachers do not typically read braille, specialized keyboard. their braille has to be translated and returned to their teachers for feedback – a process that can take days. By the time they get feedback, the class has moved on to other concepts. 3 When Edgar was in high school, he addressed this obstacle by teaching himself a technical programming language so that he could read his own work and provide a timely printed copy to his sighted teachers. While Edgar is clearly The keyboard has braille gifted, the majority of students, blind or sighted, pins that are raised and would not be able to do what he did to lowered as directed by the learn math. system’s software. 53 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Across our broad range of products and Our results: Going forward, we will: services, no one size fits all. We are working A  cross-functional accessibility team put L  aunch a global accessibility policy in 2017 with key user groups within each core together an accessibility investment plan for that will enable us to deliver on our goal to product area on issues like usability and our higher education business that received reach more learners by including users with suitability for purpose. broad support from our leadership; disabilities; We continued our outreach to accessibility W  e secured funding to integrate Establish a UK accessibility committee; advocacy groups in 2016 and were active in accessibility into our major platforms in W  ork with our growth markets to support accessibility events such as the International higher education as well as a commitment their capacity to develop accessible Technology and Persons with Disabilities for accessibility to be a core requirement products that fit the needs of users; and Conference and the National Federation of of all products development going forward;  nrich our marketing, communication, and E the Blind Annual Convention. We received W  e established a global accessibility customer support around accessibility so positive feedback on our Accessible steering committee comprising our learners have a better understanding of the Equation Editor (see p52) as well as our accessibility leads from across our core capabilities of our products and services as ongoing efforts around user interface product areas, as well as experts from our well as avenues to get information and help (UI) and user experience (UX) testing for legal, marketing, operations, and corporate as needed. disabled populations. affairs function; and W  e presented at numerous events and NEW TARGET conferences to showcase our challenges Make 100% of our digital portfolio and progress regarding accessibility. accessible for people with disabilities around the world by 2020. 54 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Improve affordability to them on the first day of class. In the US, For print textbooks, the rental pilot program university costs are at an all-time high and will offer 50 popular titles at savings of up to While often small in relation to overall growing and approximately 30% of students 60%, available for fall 2017 classes through higher education costs, the cost of course can not afford to purchase textbooks or many of the same retailers currently renting materials can have a significant impact course materials for their classes. Total US our books. We hope this will help students on students’ ability to prepare for and student debt hit a record $1.31 trillion last save time and money by getting highsuccessfully complete courses. Courseware year, the 18th consecutive year Americans’ quality course materials without spending costs can also make up a larger share of education debt rose, according to the hours searching the internet or campus expenses in cases where tuition and other Federal Reserve Bank of New York. bookstores for the best price. costs are subsidized by governments or special programs. Our DDA model enables institutions to NEW TARGET deliver high-quality digital course materials, Enable 3 million students to access more We endeavor to ensure that our product including eBooks, MyLab & Mastering, and affordable digital course materials from costs do not interfere with access to highRevel, at savings of up to 75%. With access the first day of class by 2019. quality education. We regularly review our to course materials from day one, students product prices to assess affordability, and have more time to prepare for class, keep While we believe these are important steps continue to evolve our efforts to account up with their assignments, and achieve to making education more affordable, we for different customer income levels and their academic goals. Educators also gain realize there is much more work to be done. market types in our pricing. valuable insights into students’ learning We continue to evaluate alternative pricing activity through access to data that enables methods and business models to reduce Digital products also contribute to making them to continuously track and assess the cost of our products and services. We education more affordable. As we are students’ progress. also recognize the need to consider and transition to a platform-based approach contribute to bigger affordability issues to develop our products, we are creating We currently work with more than 190 in education that go well beyond our internal efficiencies that will lead to lower colleges and universities of all sizes to existing products and services. We are prices for customers and learners. implement DDA programs. addressing some of these issues through our Tomorrow’s Markets Incubator initiative In the US, we are working to make higher We are also reducing prices on our e-book (p55) and the Pearson Affordable Learning education courseware more affordable rentals and have announced a new rental Fund (see below). through a rental model and our Digital pilot program for print textbooks. Students Direct Access (DDA) program. Through DDA, will save up to 80% on more than 2,000 students access all of their course materials e-book titles and will still be able to rent through an online platform that is available them through trusted online retailers. Improving outcomes with MyMathLab DDA Cleveland State University uses Pearson’s MyMathLab for homework and exam “Digital direct access enables preparation. In the past, students experienced all students to access difficulty accessing the course materials as they waited for financial aid to arrive and also found MyMathLab on day one. the cost of the print textbook, in addition to the We can address potential issues with student online access, prohibitive. familiarity with the program right away by DDA with MyLabsPlus offered a solution to requiring them to do introductory exercises on both challenges, and following the adoption of the first day of class.” DDA, a Pearson study found that:  verall student pass rates in all courses have O Jason Stone Course coordinator at Cleveland increased 4%; State University P  ass rates in developmental mathematics have increased nearly 8%; and  tudents, faculty, and administrators have S benefited from immediate, more streamlined, and more cost-effective student access to course materials. 55 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting “The Incubator is giving us the unique opportunity to determine how to serve low-income markets while generating revenue for Pearson.” Participant in Tomorrow’s Markets Incubator Tomorrow’s Markets Incubator The response from employees has far  efine the model and launch a second call R Today, many of our products and services exceeded expectations. A total of 167 for new venture ideas to incubate; and do not reach the more than 4 billion, teams submitted an original short idea,  apture our learnings and share them with C low-income and emerging middle-class and around half were invited to submit a the broader community of public, private, consumers across the globe – a rapidly more detailed funding application. Out of and non-profit sector practitioners. growing market segment estimated to be 74 funding applications, 17 global teams worth more than $5 trillion. were selected to receive funding and Pearson Affordable Learning Fund coaching to further explore their ideas. (PALF) We launched the Tomorrow’s Markets These ideas represent a diverse, exciting To help reach low-income learners that lack Incubator in 2016, with the goal portfolio of digital and blended learning access to high-quality education options, of developing new products and services, solutions. They span a variety of focus we launched the PALF in 2012. as well as overall business models, to bring high-quality education to learners in areas, including workforce training for prison inmates in the US; language learning PALF is focused on making significant low‑income and underserved communities. minority equity investments in fast-growing for refugees in Germany; and math skills development for low-income students in companies that deliver low-cost, high-quality Through an initial £1.2 million investment, South Africa. education products and services. In addition the Incubator provides an innovation to funding, Pearson brings expertise in platform that enables Pearson employees Going forward, we will: education, efficacy, management, and to develop and test their ideas for new business models to enable and accelerate products and business models, while also S  elect and fund four to five teams to the success of our portfolio companies. helping them build and broaden their advance from the “Explore” to “Validate” capabilities. In addition to seed funding, phase of our product lifecycle process; The conditions for our continued investment participating employees receive coaching Invest in and guide these teams through include demonstrating an improvement from external thought leaders and access the “Validate” phase, with the ultimate goal in learning outcomes, and generating to trained researchers who specialize in of creating successful pilots in market; financial returns. PALF so far has invested venture creation for low-income markets. in innovative education start-ups in South S ocialize the venture innovation approach with business partners and integrate Africa, Nigeria, Ghana, India, Indonesia, and learning from the ventures into Pearson’s the Philippines. strategy for new markets; 56 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Some of our stakeholders have expressed concern about low-cost private schools in parts of Africa and Asia, and in 2016 a global Collaborate to reach federation of teachers unions criticized legal proceedings between Bridge International Academies (BIA) and a Kenyan teachers underserved learners union. PALF is not an investor in BIA. While Pearson is an investor in Learn Capital, a We are committed to bringing high-quality education and Silicon Valley venture fund that is a minority learning opportunities to vulnerable and underserved investor in BIA, we are not a voting member of the BIA board, nor are we involved in daylearners. We want everyone – from women and girls to to-day management of BIA. migrants and refugees – to have access to the education We continue to strongly support the human and opportunities they deserve. right to education and the free government provision of education for every child across the world. However, 61 million1 children No single organization, or sector, can tackle the global still do not have access to school or basic education challenges alone. We rely on the expertise, primary education and many more are not learning enough in school. The challenge is insights and support of others to help make learning more complex and global, and we believe in the accessible and affordable. We partner with international need to look at all opportunities to improve access and the quality of education. Low-fee non-governmental organizations, governments, and local private schools can serve as one approach organizations to expand access to high-quality education to improving access and quality. and learning around the world. PALF achievements in 2016 Reached over 450,000 learners Empower girls and women in 7 countries in 2016 Girls’ and women’s empowerment is one Our approach to women’s empowerment of the most powerful drivers of equitable spans partnerships that help women and Demonstrated efficacy through growth and development. It helps lift girls overcome barriers to education and third-party executed assessments families and communities out of poverty, employment (see our work with Camfed for several portfolio companies creates jobs and income, and increases on p57-58) to internal efforts to develop, demand for products and services. support, and advance female employees Average revenue growth of 140% in $ at Pearson (see Diversity & Inclusion on across the portfolio in 2016 Pearson products and services are used p32). by millions of girls and women every day around the world, providing a unique Secured follow-on investments for opportunity and responsibility for us to further growth for several portfolio help them thrive. companies Partnered with government education systems in Liberia, South The impact of educating girls and women Africa, India, and the Philippines An extra year of primary If women participated in the school boosts girls’ future economy at the level of men, wages by 10-20%, and an it would add $28 trillion, or extra year of secondary 26%, to annual global GDP school increases them by in 2025.2 15-25%.3 An educated woman will 1 UNESCO, Reducing global poverty through universal primary re-invest 90% of her overall and secondary education, June 2017. 2 McKinsey Global Institute, How advancing women’s equality income back into her smaller can add $12 trillion to global growth, September 2015. and healthier family.4 3 UNICEF: https://www.unicef.org/media/media_58417.html. 4 Harvard Business Review, Banking on Women and Girls: Key to Global Poverty Alleviation, March 2011. 57 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting The Camfed Learner Guide Program Empowering women and girls in Africa Pearson has partnered* with Camfed on a project supported by the UK Department for International Development (DFID) and the relevant national Ministries of Education to help girls from lowincome communities in Zimbabwe and Tanzania stay in school, learn, and develop key skills for life and work. 120,000+ 60,744 secondary school children reached by vulnerable girls enrolled in Learner Guides with weekly sessions secondary school* in 2016 Over 400,000 £581,250 girls and boys in 1,172 rural secondary schools empowered to improve their contributed to Camfed over 2016 and educational experience and 2017 to enable Camfed to extend the learning outcomes Learner Guide program 3,696 young women trained as Learner Guides working in 1,172 secondary schools * between 2013 and 2017 across Tanzania and Zimbabwe Read more on p58. “It’s so difficult in my district to find employment. I had no qualifications beyond my high school certificate and no prospect of getting any either. When I heard about the Learner Guide Program I jumped at the chance.” Zuhara Camfed alumna and Learner Guide, Tanzania 58 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting In 2016, a cross-functional steering committee at Pearson undertook a sixSince 2013, Pearson has partnered with international non-governmental 567 month review of how we empower girls organization Camfed on a project supported BTEC certifications and women across our value chain. by DFID and the relevant national Ministries awarded in 2016 We considered risks and opportunities in of Education to help girls from low-income our workplace, marketplace, and supply communities in Zimbabwe and Tanzania chain; social investments and philanthropy; stay in school, learn, and develop key skills Going forward, we will: and public policy and advocacy activities. for life and work. C  ertify 5,000 Learner Guides with BTEC The review included consulting stakeholders, qualifications by end of 2019; and assessing current practices, benchmarking, Developing unique resources and the and identifying barriers to girls’ and women’s Learner Guide Program E  nable Camfed to extend the Learner education and employability. We ultimately As part of the project, young women can Guide program in Tanzania in 2017 by: developed a set of strategic priorities train to become mentors, or “Learner  Supporting an additional 6,400 children to increase women’s empowerment by Guides.” Learner Guides deliver a curriculum in 80 schools; promoting access to high-quality education, called “My Better World,” working with  Training 236 young women as skills and training, and decent employment. vulnerable children in rural schools. Learner Guides in four rural districts We co-created the My Better World life of Tanzania; Priorities identified include: skills curriculum with Camfed and young  Distributing 32,000 books to 80 schools  esearch and promote the benefits of R people in rural Africa to ensure it is relevant, in rural Tanzania; and equal access to high-quality education gender-sensitive, and effective at improving and training that leads to decent work students’ future employability prospects. Enabling  Learner Guides to reach over for girls and women among learners, 10,800 additional children on a weekly teachers, employers, and policy makers – Creating a BTEC qualification for basis with targeted life skills sessions. ultimately contributing to greater women’s Learner Guides empowerment; In 2014, we committed to develop a BTEC qualification for 5,000 Learner Guides to Improve education D  eepen our commitment to gender equality in our workplace; recognize and certify their achievements. for people affected by In growth markets with substantial gender This qualification is designed to help more girls enter formal higher education, teacher emergencies inequalities, seek to ensure products and training, and the workforce by improving Millions of people around the world services are developed with the needs of their employability potential (see p70 for have been displaced by conflict and girl and women learners in mind; and more about BTEC). emergencies, with disastrous consequences for education. The Syrian crisis alone has  ork with partners to create a policy W During 2016, Pearson teams worked on forced 2.8 million1 children out of school. environment that supports girls and women developing this new BTEC qualification to We support efforts to ensure that the in their lifelong journey of personal and meet the needs of Camfed’s Learner Guides. next generation has access to education professional development. Camfed was approved as an accredited and learning that is critical for getting BTEC Center in April 2016, and BTEC training jobs, improving lives, and building stable, Our partnership with Camfed has been delivered to the Camfed offices in inclusive economies. to support girls and women in the UK, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, and Ghana. East Africa At the end of 2016, we awarded the first In rural East Africa, poverty forces many 567 Learner Guides in Zimbabwe their BTEC children to leave school. Their parents qualifications and Pearson’s BTEC team is cannot afford the fees, supplies, food, continuing to work with Camfed to award uniforms, or transport needed for their the remaining ones. children’s education. Instead, these children often end up having to work and earn money to support their families. This story is repeated around the world. 1 Nguyen, Katie, Syria conflict keeps 2.8 million children out of school, Reuters, September 2014. 59 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Every Child Learning Supporting education for children affected by conflict Like most Syrian refugee families, Rasha’s family had to leave their home back in Aleppo’s suburbs and travel for two days to reach the Jordanian borders. After living in Za’atari Refugee Camp for almost two months, Rasha’s father was able to move them to Hay Nazzal area in Amman. Through our Every Child Learning partnership with Save the Children, we are working to deliver high-quality education to Syrian refugees and vulnerable children in Jordan. Our partnership involves raising awareness of education in emergencies, providing financial support for Save the Children’s work, and innovating new solutions that are designed to address the unique needs of children affected by conflict. £1.7m+ £3.4m invested in R&D of new education committed in 2016, doubling our solutions, supporting two Save the initial investment and extending Children Learning Centers, and the partnership from 2017-2019. joint advocacy. “We stayed in Jordan for a year and I did not go to school because our situation was bad. My dad signed me up at this center two months ago.” Rasha* attends one of the Every Child Learning Centers in Jordan. * Name has been changed to protect identity. 60 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Our Every Child Learning partnership with Save the Children Through our Every Child Learning partnership with Save the Children, we are working to deliver high-quality education to Syrian refugees and vulnerable children in Jordan. Our collaboration aims to raise awareness of the importance of education in emergencies, provide financial support for Save the Children’s work, and design innovative new education solutions that address the unique needs of children affected by conflict. In September 2016, we committed to extending Every Child Learning for another three years, doubling our initial investment of £1.7m to £3.4m. Supporting immediate needs in Jordan through education centers With an initial donation, we helped Save the Children set up two education centers in Amman, Jordan that have provided early childhood care, development, and In 2015, we carried out research on Advocating for improving education in psychosocial support services for hundreds the ground in Jordan with a team of emergencies and conflict of children (age 5-13) and their parents. ethnographers and local researchers who A key element of our partnership is raising The centers provide both a safe space for worked with Syrian and Jordanian families awareness of education in emergencies children and a place where their parents can to understand their children’s educational with our employees and the public. In 2016, learn about positive discipline practices and challenges and how they use technology we made a £100,000 donation to kick-start feel a sense of community in a new country. and educational materials. Informed by The Sunday Times’ Christmas Appeal in The hope is that this work will enable these these findings, our researchers, Save the the UK, which then raised over £1 million children to integrate into Jordan’s formal Children, Pearson curriculum experts, and for Save the Children’s Children in War education system. learning and user experience (UX) designers Appeal from other major donors and the worked together in 2016 to develop the pilot general public. We also partnered with Save Investing in innovative education blended learning project aimed at improving the Children at the World Humanitarian solutions learning outcomes, retention rates, and the Summit to draw attention to this issue with The cornerstone of our partnership is overall learning environment for Syrian and political leaders and influencers from the researching and developing new education Jordanian children. international community. solutions, drawing on the expertise and Ultimately, the aim is to scale our solutions assets of both organizations. We invested to other conflict-affected countries with over £1 million towards this goal in 2015 and similar education challenges. We will be able 2016, including with our work to develop to draw on the insights we have gathered an initial pilot project set to launch in Q3 about this unique population – for example, of 2017. the need for providing accelerated learning opportunities, better equipping teachers, helping to reduce violence in schools, and improving psychosocial support. We will also monitor and evaluate the efficacy of the pilot to develop a proof-of-concept model that can be adapted and integrated into the national education system in Jordan, in collaboration with the Ministry of Education and other actors. 61 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Partner to address Key activities and accomplishments W  e continued supporting 10 partnerships to expand evidence-based literacy programs, for 2016 education challenges enrich the body of knowledge on literacy, W  e more than doubled the size of the and develop innovative approaches to Project Literacy Project Literacy network to over 90 closing the literacy gap. Project Literacy is Pearson’s flagship social partner organizations and held workshops throughout the year to foster peer-to-peer W  e co-developed two new cross-sector impact campaign. The initiative has one partnerships to support vulnerable and overarching ambition: to make significant learning and collaboration. marginalized communities through 1) an and sustainable advances in the fight W  e launched Project Literacy to the general adult literacy pilot in the US with university, against illiteracy by 2030 so that all people public with the Alphabet of Illiteracy. private-sector, and non-profit partners – regardless of geography, language, race, This award-winning campaign challenged and 2) a multi-project collaboration in class, or gender – have the opportunity consumers to view literacy through a India and South Africa with non-profit, to fulfill their potential through the power different lens by connecting literacy to other government, and multilateral partners. of words. major global development challenges. In 2017, we plan to deepen and expand P  earson, on behalf of Project Literacy, was Partnerships are essential to achieving Project Literacy through an intensified focus invited to join UNESCO’s Global Alliance this ambition. Project Literacy convenes on consumer marketing and innovation for Literacy to develop an implementation partners across business, civil society, while securing the long-term sustainability strategy on literacy in line with the and government with a broad range of of the campaign through strategic Sustainable Development Goals. experience and expertise, from economists partnerships. and healthcare practitioners to gender activists and teachers. We have teamed up with more than 90 partners to date, Raising awareness and mobilizing action through Project Literacy including Room to Read, Doctors of the World, The Hunger Project, Microsoft, The Unreasonable Group, and UNESCO. Together, we are working to raise awareness $8.7m and mobilize action; advance best practices; contributed in funding for solutions, with a primary and innovate for new solutions. focus on the US, UK, Brazil, and India 20,000 volunteer referrals to adults, parents, and partners, doubling the partner organizations children are estimated to size of our community benefit through 12 since last year programmatic partnerships 2.25bn are estimated over the lifetime of the program people reached through broadcast, print, and online media in 2015 individual advocates media stories generated 62 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Project Literacy Lab Pearson and The Unreasonable Group are supporting entrepreneurship to close the global literacy gap. The Unreasonable Group works with entrepreneurs to address challenges such as poverty and social injustice, providing world-class mentors, funders, and partners to help grow their impact. Our partnership with Unreasonable provides an accelerator in key markets that supports rapid-growth enterprises. The first accelerator program featured 16 companies across 32 countries, reaching a total of 11 million people worldwide. These ventures have raised a total of $68.5 million in funding, and 80% have seen increased or equal results in their impact performance since the accelerator launched. Australian Indigenous Literacy With funding from Pearson, employees Pearson volunteers are facilitating, project Foundation partnership in Australia have partnered with the ILF managing, and contributing expertise to and Penguin Random House UK to develop project, including through a field visit to Illiteracy is a major challenge for Indigenous and pilot “The Early Literacy Project”. Warburton. The app is being made in-house Australians in remote parts of the country. The project aims to develop an app-based by a Penguin Random House digital team. The Australian Indigenous Literacy digital product that will help develop literacy Foundation (ILF) has found that “indigenous The pilot launched in May 2017 and and IT skills for Indigenous Australian children living in remote locations are being outcomes will be evaluated going forward. students age 5 and younger. The app is outperformed by non-Indigenous children” The project is designed to be scalable and being produced specifically for an early and that their school attendance rates are could potentially be expanded to more childhood center in the remote Western as low as 14%. Between 2008 and 2014, remote communities in the future. Australian community of Warburton and the proportion of Indigenous Australian leverages existing ILF materials. Because students at or above the National Minimum ILF’s research has proven that children Standards in reading and numeracy learn to read best in the language spoken at has shown no statistically significant home, the app incorporates the Indigenous improvement nationally. first language, Ngaayatjarra, along with interactive content and audio. 63 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting America’s Promise: GradNation Through these grants, America’s Promise In addition, our online GradNation In 2015, we started a three-year Alliance has helped convene 15 mayors in Activation Community provides a hub collaboration with America’s Promise Arizona to focus on improving graduation for sharing strategies and successful Alliance that aims to increase the US high rates. One program, called Steps to practices, asking questions, and facilitating school graduation rate to 90%. Our $3 Success, began in Tucson, Arizona to bring conversations. Its 283 members from million investment in the GradNation disconnected youth back into school 206 organizations and 38 states plus the State Activation Initiative will help more through high-touch outreach. Counselors or District of Columbia are working to increase learners to prosper by encouraging states other caring adults knock on the students’ statewide graduation rates. to collaborate, replicate each other’s best doors, in some cases with basketball stars from the University of Arizona, and In 2017, we are enriching our efforts with the practices, and develop successful models encourage them to return to school. In release of a research report, “I Came Here that all states can implement. Tucson, the mayor has also been actively to Learn,” which takes a deep look at how To launch this initiative, we awarded three involved. As of January 2017, the program students whose first language is not English $200,000 grants to state-level organizations reached 135 disconnected youth with the can best be successful in their learning. with innovative – and different – approaches help of 111 volunteers, including Pearson to increase US graduation rates. The awards employees. Our grant has increased the went to initiatives in Arizona, Massachusetts, state’s capacity to replicate this program and Minnesota that facilitate cross-sector through training and support. collaboration, leverage state assets, communicate progress and best practice, “Despite gains in the national graduation rate, and develop programs that can be replicated nearly all states are graduating significantly and scaled. lower percentages of students from low-income families, students of color, and students with disabilities. We see an opportunity – through these grants – to support collaborative models at the state level that can unify communities and produce real results.” John Gomperts President & CEO, America’s Promise 64 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Shape the future of learning “Our goal is to build a global platform ecosystem and set of operational processes that will transform how we deliver content and services to customers and learners, and how our company works.” Albert Hitchcock Chief technology and operations officer, Pearson 65 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Our commitments: Leverage technology for equitable Promote education for 1 learning outcomes 3 sustainable development Build skills that foster employability and Contribute to global research, dialogue, 2 inclusive economic growth 4 and collective action on quality education The pace of change in education is faster We contribute to a growing body of research than ever before. We aspire to shape a future and participate in multi-stakeholder fora so where learning creates more inclusive and that we can pool our insights with others to equitable societies and economies. help global education systems better serve the next generation of students. We will do this by ensuring our learners are equipped with the skills and capabilities they need to build careers and communities, navigate uncertainty, address the world’s biggest sustainable development challenges, and thrive in the 21st century and beyond. Cutting-edge technology, insights, and partnerships will help us deliver on our aspiration. 66 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Leverage technology Adaptive learning can improve outcomes related to everything from basic literacy and numeracy to job skills. Digital learning for equitable learning can help us to equip and re-equip learners with the skills and knowledge required outcomes for success in a changing economy. For example, our work to improve employability (see p68) and prepare learners for careers in specific sectors (see p70) will be vastly improved through new technologies. The global digital revolution is changing how students learn and the way our business operates. It has pushed As we continue to integrate new technologies and capabilities into our us to integrate technology into all aspects of our business, products and services, we will work closely from products and services to internal operations. to ensure we are meeting the needs of learners and educators as effectively as possible. We have a unique opportunity to make a mark on the future of education using technology to create Drive change with data and insights The speed with which we can gain and deliver content in new ways, improve the learning meaningful insight from data is rapidly experience, and help all learners progress to new levels. increasing. Our data and analytics platforms help instructors better understand and track students’ performance so they can Ensure the digital Transform products and content take action early to address any issues and help students be more successful. This transition helps create We are transforming the way we create, manage, and deliver content by building approach to personalized learning is integral a better future for all a global technology platform that will to our goal to reach more learners and unite our products and courseware, and empower educators to help students reach Today, Pearson’s product portfolio their full potential. improve how we bring our digital learning includes blended and fully digital solutions, products to markets. The platform allows and we offer courseware that can adapt to product teams across Pearson to deliver the ways our customers want to use them. new, innovative learning experiences on a global scale. As we look towards the future, we are determined to use technology to help grow Technology presents us with exciting our ability to deliver learning solutions that opportunities to make learning more will help an even wider group of learners effective, personalized, and adaptive. – including many of those who are still Products will improve learning by tailoring underserved – achieve better outcomes content to meet the individual needs of than they do today. students in real time as they study and prepare for class. Over time, this can help us to better target learners of all levels and abilities. 67 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Leveraging data with learning analytics services Building on our industry-leading MyLab & students. Over time, we will work together with Mastering courseware products, we are our customers to analyze and improve the developing customizable dashboards and effectiveness of these early warnings and analytics for critical courses to help instructors proactive interventions. and advisors identify and support struggling Identify at-risk students Reach actionable C  ustomize while there is still time to data via one-click dashboards to see support them to a access from your only what they want successful course learning management and so that only conclusion system or Pearson appropriate warnings courseware are triggered at each institution Inform and improve Enable timely, Optimize courseware course designs to personalized usage so instructors facilitate the early interventions that benefit from embedded identification of deliver the right level tools demonstrated to struggling students of encouragement improve the student and/or support experience Creating a virtual tutor for millions of students Pearson and IBM are joining forces to create For example, a student studying for a biology a virtual tutor that will transform learning and course can ask Watson questions about teaching for millions of college students and difficult topics or problems. Acting as a digital professors around the world. The new global tutor, Watson can assess the student’s education partnership relies on the power responses and guide them with hints, of IBM’s Watson – a cutting-edge artificial feedback, and explanations. It will help intelligence technology. identify common misconceptions and work with the student at their own pace until they Now in a pilot phase, the project combines master the topic. Instructors will also get IBM’s cognitive capabilities with Pearson’s digital valuable insights about how well students learning products to give college students a more are learning, allowing them to better manage immersive learning experience and an easy way their courses and flag up students who need to get help and insights on demand. All they’ll additional help. have to do is ask questions just like they would with another student or professor. “Our partnership will use the power of Watson to help students stay engaged and deepen their learning, complete their degree, and be better equipped for their careers.” Tim Bozik President global product, Pearson 68 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Build skills that foster career skills that they need to fill. The CSP also includes assessments to help students understand their level of GRIT; tools to help employability and inclusive them demonstrate their skills on LinkedIn; labor market intelligence; and a special economic growth research-based program of Personal and Social Capabilities (see below) that enables students to demonstrate the essential career-related knowledge and skills they are gaining with credentials and badges. Education drives social mobility, helping more people play a part in society and enter into the job market so they Importantly, the instruments used in the CSP, the Conley Readiness Index and GRIT™ can build better lives for themselves and their families. Gauge, do not attempt to exclude students Good jobs and careers transform individual lives, bring from college and career tracks. Rather, they help students identify necessary steps for stability to communities, and help economies flourish. academic growth and career readiness, enabling all to succeed by equipping them We focus on developing products and services that foster with clear, personalized plans for acquiring the skills and knowledge they need. the knowledge, skills, and values that learners will need in The Personal and Social Capabilities life and to secure jobs – one of our key efforts to advance framework provides clear definitions UN Sustainable Development Goal 8 on economic growth of the professional skills that students identify through the CSP. It was informed and decent jobs and Goal 10 on reducing inequality. by dozens of frameworks from educational and career organizations and institutions, and teams across Pearson have worked Foster 21st century skills communication, leadership, collaboration, and critical thinking. We help learners together to conduct research based on We are facing a global skills gap. Some with the skills they need to enter specific academic literature, as well as surveys and 290 million young people are out of work, careers – whether through delivering focus groups with faculty, administrators, while at the same time, almost 40% of vocational training, providing industryand employers. employers tell us they cannot fill their focused qualifications and assessments, or Going forward, we will: vacancies. Learners starting primary teaching skills such as science, technology, school this year will graduate into a job engineering, and math (STEM), or English.  row users of the Career Success Program G market very different from what we see We also aim to help students strengthen steadily with the goal of reaching 100,000 today. To understand the skills needed the digital, financial, and entrepreneurial students by 2020: and for the 21st century, we strive to listen skills they will need in the 21st century. to employers and help educators respond  o-publish a series of rigorously researched C and developed White Papers with the to their needs. Career Success Program Partnership for 21st Century Skills, which Pearson’s Career Success Program (CSP) will lay out research supporting the practical To better prepare students for life aims to meet the needs of both colleges value of the skills, illustrate how these skills and for professional environments, and employers by providing a digital suite have been successfully taught, and provide Pearson has focused on carefully and of assessments, learning modules, and guidance on how teachers might structure systematically guiding students toward tools that help students identify career and assess how students develop them. their career aspirations and equipping goals and the gaps in their academic and them with crucial workplace skills, like Pearson Personal and Social Capabilities Framework Productivity Traditional competencies competencies skills, knowledge, and enable individuals attributes that make to secure and individuals productive make progress in Core academic Occupational Personal & social Career knowledge in the workspace employment competencies competencies capabilities & transition skills 69 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Lone Star College-Tomball Infusing GRIT into curriculum To counteract declining enrollments and unsatisfactory academic performance, Lone Star College-Tomball (LSC-T) adopted a strategic focus around equipping students with Growth, Resilience, Instinct, and Tenacity (GRIT) to better prepare students to pursue their academic, career, and life aspirations. GRIT is a component of the Career Success Program that LSC-T determined was critical to explore further. All students were invited to take Pearson’s GRIT Gauge at the start and end of a semester. A randomly selected group participated in courses where the faculty purposely incorporated GRIT into curricula. Students in the GRIT program, compared with students in the control (no GRIT); courses had higher rates of successful course completion based on initial data. At the same time, individual educators reported improvements in engagement, persistence, and achievement. “My students quickly came to see the value of GRIT. They began to engage and perform at a significantly higher level than I had seen before. I was frankly wowed by the results. I had the best retention ever for an online class.” Faculty member LSC-T “GRIT helped me understand how to perform tasks and how to manage my time effectively and become a much better college student considering it is my first time back in school since I graduated in 2008.” Student LSC-T 70 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Prepare students for careers in specific sectors 14m Pearson and STEM tests delivered each year Pearson’s BTECs are qualifications that 5,000+ provide specialist, work-related learning across a range of sectors, in nearly 40 subjects at three different levels. test centers 9m In the US, jobs in STEM are expected to Delivering the knowledge, skills, and increase to more than 9 million by 2022.1 understanding students need to prepare for their chosen career, BTECs can support 180 progression to higher or further education countries or into employment. Pearson also offers apprenticeships across a wide range of career paths. 450 1/3 global clients By the time students reach fourth grade, 1/3 of boys and girls have lost interest in science.2 Pearson VUE helps individuals prepare for their next educational or career opportunity Science, technology, engineering, Pearson has a number of products that support through credentials that verify the skills and math (STEM) education education: and learning required for a specific job or In the US, jobs in STEM are expected to digits is a digital learning tool that combines educational program. increase to more than 9 million by 2022. a comprehensive math curriculum, best We seek to provide resources that help practices in teaching, and technology so Pearson VUE serves test owners and test increase achievement in STEM preparing teachers can deliver personalized instruction takers in nearly every industry, including: students – including women and minorities effectively and save valuable time.  cademia and A Information – for STEM-related careers. Project STEM focuses on integrating admissions technology (IT) STEM into teachers’ current elementary  inancial and F Military Experiential learning increases students’ or middle grades science program related services Transport interest in STEM by engaging them in curricula through hands-on, real-world, Government activities to solve real-world problems. project-based activities. US licensing and We are embarking on a strategic partnership Healthcare global regulatory Interactive Science teaches, practices, and with littleBits, an award-winning startup applies the key skills of inquiry on a daily In the UK, Pearson VUE administered 67,000 that has developed electronic building basis for both teachers and students while tests on behalf of the Construction Industry blocks which empower students to create providing extensions to project-based Training Board – all of which included major inventions. Pearson’s new Elevate Science learning designed to enrich and components on both health & safety and program will feature exclusive littleBits enhance learning. the environment. projects, augmenting instruction by allowing students to apply science and engineering 1 US Bureau of Labor Statistics, STEM 101: Intro to tomorrow’s jobs, 2014. concepts. This partnership supports the 2 Murphy, Tom, “STEM Education--It’s Elementary,” US News market’s growing interest in the “Maker and World Report, 2011. Movement”, which integrates the engineering design process into science education. Partnering with Microsoft to pioneer “mixed reality” learning Pearson is collaborating with Microsoft to explore how “mixed reality” – a combination of virtual and augmented reality – can solve challenges in areas of learning, ranging from online tutoring and nursing education to engineering and construction training. With Microsoft HoloLens, the world’s first self-contained holographic computer, Pearson is developing and piloting mixed reality content at colleges, universities, and secondary schools in the US and around the world. For example, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center in Lubbock and San Diego State University are both part of a Pearson pilot. Pearson will use Microsoft’s holographic video capture capability, filming actors to simulate patients with various health concerns and then transferring that video into holograms for the student nurses to experience in a clinical setting. When student nurses participate in the simulations using HoloLens, they will have a real world experience diagnosing patients, building the confidence and competence that they will need in their careers. 71 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Providing job training through Pearson IndiaCan Over the next decade, India’s working-age population is projected to expand by a Pearson IndiaCan, a fully-owned subsidiary of Pearson, is on track to become the largest “No one in my village staggering 120 million. India also has the provider of vocational education and training and family ever thought world’s youngest population, and by 2020 the programs in India. average age in the country will be approximately I had the potential of Through IndiaCan, we provide young, unemployed 29. It is critical that these young people get good jobs. youth from rural and marginalized communities earning a salary and Indian government studies have found that with relevant skills so that they can secure full-time employment upon graduation. The government supporting my family 75% of jobs in the country’s high-growth pays for the course fees, and industry partners through a financial crisis. industries – for example, automobiles, logistics, assist with curriculum development. Local and tourism, entertainment, and healthcare – regional NGOs reach out to communities and Today I am a role model in my village and require sector-specific skills. At the same time, garner support for the program. all local girls come and consult with me.” the World Bank has estimated only 6-10% of In addition to helping young people find Kabita Participant in IndiaCan’s program the Indian workforce has received any form of employment, the training programs have in Odisha vocational training. According to the Institute of also helped them to build self-esteem and Advanced Management and Research, confidence, transforming them into agents of between 249 and 290 million people in India change who are taking steps to break the cycle need to be trained by 2022. of poverty for their families and communities. 102,000+ 17,000+ youth trained through 210+ centers in youth trained in 2016 15 states of Indiasince inception in 2008 60,000+ 55 youth linked to employment training centers across 7 states in 2016 English Going forward, all new English products  lobally, we are considering special needs G As demand for English language learning will be aligned to and underpinned by the in our English materials. One example is continues to grow, an estimated 2 billion Global Scale of English, which measures skill our media-rich English language course people will be learning English worldwide levels in English reading, writing, listening, “Today!”, which has a workbook created by 2020. A number of factors are driving and speaking. The Global Scale of English specifically for mixed ability classes, and this growth in learners. There is increased supports personalization, efficacy, and assessment materials that provide for demand from governments and parents pedagogy in blended and virtual courseware special educational needs. Throughout who are looking to introduce English as a and assessment products. In 2016, we the product, there is a particular focus on foreign language in earlier stages of school launched the Pearson Global Scale of helping teachers to support learners with education. Many universities are now English Teacher Toolkit. This comprehensive dyslexia and dyspraxia. offering subject-area courses in English, in online tool supports teachers in applying the Global Scale of English and is designed In 2017 and beyond, with an increased addition to teaching English as a subject in to save teachers time by quickly signposting investment in technology, Pearson will its own right, and competence in English what learning objectives, grammar, and deliver a suite of products to meet the needs continues to offer people better career vocabulary students should be learning of the next generation of English language opportunities and progression. at each Global Scale of English level. learners and increase our reach. We will also English language learning represents an continue to grow our English Assessment important part of our company’s portfolio. We also develop English products portfolio to assist more learners in To improve the English language skills of our intended to reach underserved learners. demonstrating progress and proving learners, we offer differentiated products Examples include: their language capabilities. with sound pedagogy and demonstrable In the US, we are developing English progression. Our English products are language products for adults, including supported by technology that helps learners migrants and learners from lower of all ages and levels of proficiency advance socioeconomic backgrounds, which are their English language skills. designed to help them balance learning with busy work schedules and prepare them for future education or career opportunities. 72 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Promote education for UN-backed initiatives to engage students on the Sustainable sustainable development Development Goals At the end of 2016, Pearson joined forces with the UN-supported Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME) Today’s learners will be the architects of tomorrow’s world. on a new platform to engage the next generation of business leaders as the world It is imperative that we foster a generation of informed global embarks on implementing the Sustainable citizens who understand global issues such as poverty, Development Goals. inequality, and climate change, and think about their role PRME’s mission is to inspire and champion in making society more sustainable. A better understanding responsible management education, research, and thought leadership globally. of these issues can drive lifestyle and career choices that Over 650 higher education institutions from impact future generations to come. 85 countries have become signatories to the six Principles for Responsible Management Education with the initiative. There is rising demand from educators for the integration of PRME has identified a number of sustainable development topics into content, courses, and opportunities to empower students to curricula. By integrating sustainability-related content into support and advance the Sustainable Development Goals by proactively our products, we can explore new market opportunities identifying, analyzing, and sharing the while making a direct contribution to Sustainable achievements of companies’ activities related to the goals. Development Goal 4.7 (to promote sustainable development education) and inspiring the next generation to create the We are also a founding partner of Project Everyone, which aims to communicate world they want. the Sustainable Development Goals with everyone around the world, to help ensure they are met. Sustainable development in our products and services Tomorrow’s leaders will need to As part of a wider suite of qualifications understand the connection between on sustainability skills, a BTEC in societal issues and value creation, to Environmental Sustainability has been adapt rapidly to global challenges, and to offered since September 2011. This offers collaborate with people and colleagues learners aged 16 to 19 clear progression Global Learning Programme around the world. We have a role to play pathways into employment or into higher, We are helping to integrate sustainable in preparing students with the skills they specialist, and professional courses development into schools in England need for future careers. focused on sustainability. through the Global Learning Programme (GLP). The GLP helps children aged 8 to 14 1 Environmental Defense Fund, Now Hiring: The Growth Green jobs now collectively represent of America’s Clean Energy & Sustainability Jobs, 2017. make sense of the world they live in and 4-4.5 million jobs in the US, up from understand their role in a global society by 3.4 million in 2011.1 Pearson is already teaching them to critically examine global a market leader in the higher education issues, such as poverty, sustainability, and environmental science textbook market development. It focuses on equipping with a 40% share. We offer Mastering students with the knowledge, skills, and Environmental Science, a collection values to make a positive contribution of online homework, tutorials, and to a globalized world. The GLP is funded assessment tools. Around 29,000 students by the UK government and delivered by are registered for the product. a consortium of partner organizations, led by Pearson. 73 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting “The GLP provides a wider context for improving standards in core subjects. Children become passionate and engaged, and you, as a teacher, rediscover that spark that drove you to become a teacher in the first place.” Teacher Global Learning Programme school The GLP focuses on building teacher conference in the spring, where case studies Research and data gathered over the life confidence in teaching students about from several schools (see below) were of the GLP so far demonstrate positive global issues. Through a continuing showcased. As awareness of the Sustainable impacts on teachers’ and school leaders’ professional development model of delivery, Development Goals increases in schools understanding of the value of global teachers in lead schools, “expert centers”, across the UK, the GLP has produced a learning and how it makes pupils more are supported to share best practices with summary of some of the many resources and able to navigate complex global issues. schools in their network, and all registered opportunities currently available to schools. schools also receive funding for additional relevant training. In 2016, the GLP reached 6,000 schools across the whole of England, in a wide The GLP co-facilitated and presented range of contexts, both rural and urban. on education about the Sustainable Over half (54%) of the schools that Development Goals at the first UK completed a survey at the beginning of the Stakeholders for Sustainable Development GLP said that they had not actively engaged in global learning before. Global Learning at St Mary’s C of E Primary School, Folkestone, England St Mary’s C of E Primary school has been pupils came up with potential solutions. For gender equality, and the Sri Lankan teachers actively involved in the GLP as an expert center example, they designed plastic machines or filters continued to incorporate the Sustainable The staff and pupils at St Mary’s were inspired to clear plastic from the sea and clean dirty water. Development Goals into their curriculum. by the international adoption of the Sustainable A Year 6 teacher said, “The lessons on the Global Through the GLP, St Mary’s also shares its Development Goals. They decided to focus on Goals led to a stronger understanding of world global learning experiences with its partner helping students understand what the goals issues and some unexpected solutions from the schools in England. meant and devise creative ideas for solving pupils.” some of the key global challenges. St Mary’s is linked to Seethadevi Girls’ School in They began by discussing which of the Kandy, Sri Lanka, and a teacher from Sri Lanka Sustainable Development Goals they felt were observed the lessons when she visited St Mary’s. most important. Quality education, clean water, When St Mary’s teachers visited the school in Sri climate action, gender equality, life below Lanka a month later, they taught a lesson on the water, and life on land were prioritized, and the Sustainable Development Goals with a class of more than 50 girls. There was strong engagement around quality education and 74 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Pearson and Everglades University prepare learners for careers in green building In June 2016, Pearson announced a new partnership with Everglades University to develop an Introduction to Sustainability digital course. With a customized curriculum, including US Green Building Council (USGBC) aligned content, the course is designed to put students on the path to high-demand careers in green energy and building design. Through a combination of online and hands-on learning, the course improves students’ preparation for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certifications in growing fields such as construction management; alternative and renewable energy management; environmental policy and management; land and energy management; and crisis and disaster management. Upon completion of the course, students earn certificates that can be featured in the form of digital badges and added to their résumés, demonstrating their education in and commitment to sustainability. The course was initially offered in March 2016 and is a required course for undergraduate students in all degree programs. Ultimately, this partnership will benefit thousands of students, dozens of university staff and faculty members, and the community at large surrounding Everglades University’s four geographic locations throughout the state of Florida. “Through our partnership with the USGBC and Pearson, we are improving the quality of our course offerings and student learning outcomes, thereby further educating, training, and certifying the future leaders in these growing fields.” Kristi Mollis President and chief executive officer, Everglades University 75 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Contribute to global Spread the word about our efficacy research research, dialogue, Our approach to product design, development, and improvement is firmly and collective action rooted in the concept of efficacy – the extent to which our products and services make a measurable improvement to people’s on quality education lives through learning. Through our efficacy agenda, we are rigorously examining what works in education, in order to better serve our current and future learners As a global learning company, we have a responsibility and and contribute towards meeting the ambitious Sustainable Development Goals. capability to play an active role in helping shape and inform the global debate around education and learning. Our focus on efficacy aims to ensure that our products and services are designed with the latest educational research in mind and We are undertaking research on the effectiveness of our continuously improved using cutting-edge products, and we are working together with experts to analytics. We measure the extent to which our products and services are delivering explore key education topics where our business has their defined outcomes (see p23-24), and expertise. We want to share these findings widely in hopes we publish the results of these studies online as “efficacy reports” for anyone that they will help educators everywhere. and everyone to access. In the interest of openness and transparency, we have We are active participants in multi-stakeholder, collective committed to having our efficacy reports externally audited in 2018. action initiatives that aim to strengthen global education systems, explore the role of the private sector in global Our efficacy agenda will contribute to shaping the future of education by positively education and development, and advance the Sustainable influencing the global education system. Development Goals. By publishing our efficacy reports, we hope that our competitors will follow suit and transparently publish their own results. With greater insight into the outcomes of competing products, our customers will be able to make more informed decisions and have greater confidence in the outcomes Pearson efficacy growth and impact goals that our products help learners to achieve. By 2025… 2016 was also our first year of tracking our progress towards our Efficacy Growth and We will help 10 million primary We will help improve the Impact Goals. You can read more about our and secondary learners access highEnglish language skills of external reports on p23-24 and view our quality education annually. 75 million learners annually. published reports on our website. We will help 2 million We will help 25 million learners post‑secondary learners access transition into the workforce after high-quality education annually. higher or further education annually. We will help increase the literacy and/or numeracy levels of 50 million We will help 20 million learners annually. learners improve their career prospects annually. We will help 50 million learners gain the knowledge and skills required for study and employment annually. Find out more at efficacy.pearson.com 76 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Evaluating the impact of education innovation projects Understanding the future of jobs In 2016, we worked with one of Mexico’s leading universities, Tecnologico By 2030, the average age in the US and the UK will be higher. Emerging de Monterrey (TdM), to develop an evaluation framework to assess the technologies like the Internet of Things or 3D printing may have impact of educational innovation projects. The collaboration was unique revolutionized supply chains and manufacturing, and more of us are for Pearson in Mexico because it focused on education services, rather predicted to live and work in cities. Trends such as these have than content, and leveraged our expertise in efficacy and research. implications for the jobs, and skills, that will be in demand in 2030. A global Pearson team created a framework, validated it with Pearson is working with Nesta and Michael Osborne of the Oxford stakeholders, built an IT platform to support it, and trained TdM staff Martin School to generate quantified predictions of this future, and to use it. The project helped TdM to make well-informed and evidencethen to explore the implications for learning. based decisions to evaluate more than 400 projects that were underway at 32 TdM campuses.  earn more at: www.pearson.com/corporate/about-pearson/what-we-do/ L innovation/future-jobs.html Sharing our insights through Open Ideas Our Open Ideas series looks to surface the best ideas in education and explore the biggest unanswered questions, no matter where they come from. We work with some of the best minds in education – from teachers and technologists to researchers and big thinkers – to bring their ideas and insights on education’s big questions to a wider audience. Learn more at: www.pearson.com/corporate/about-pearson/what-we-do/innovation/open-ideas-at-pearson.html 77 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Engage with multi-stakeholder groups and governments to shape best practices and policies Pearson is active in helping shape and The private sector’s role  N Global Compact (participant) U inform the global debate around education in global education and We are signatories to the Ten Principles and learning. We maintain bilateral of the UN Global Compact, the UN’s development relationships with key organizations and main initiative for engaging responsible participate in multi-stakeholder forums businesses. We have committed to operate and partnerships that aim to strengthen responsibly, take action in support of UN global education systems, explore the goals, such as the Sustainable Development role of the private sector in global Goals, and report on our progress.  orld Economic Forum (member) W education, and advance the Sustainable This report represents our UN Global The Forum engages the foremost Development Goals. This allows us to Compact Communication on Progress political, business, and other leaders share our experiences, capabilities, and (COP). See p78 and 90-98 for more of society to shape global, regional, insights, learn from others, and respond information. and industry agendas. quickly to opportunities and criticisms. We also make sure that we actively listen Raising awareness of and advancing to other organizations working to improve the Sustainable Development education around the world, especially for Goals agenda underserved and marginalized groups.  lobal Business Coalition for Education G Helping to strengthen (founding member) education systems The coalition brings the business community together to accelerate progress Business & Sustainable Development in delivering quality education for all of the Commission (commissioner) world’s children and youth. In 2016, the Commission investigated how the private sector could realize significant  lobal Partnership for Education G long-term economic rewards and help to (board member) achieve the Sustainable Development Goals The partnership brings together over 50 by 2030 that informed the launch of the developing countries, donor governments, Better Business Better World report. We have international organizations, the private  usiness Fights Poverty (sponsor) B been involved since 2015 in initial agendasector, teachers, and civil society groups BfP is the largest global network of setting meetings, and John Fallon, our CEO, to support developing countries with their professionals passionate about fighting is a commissioner helping to guide the education sector plans through financial poverty through business. We sponsor Commission’s work. assistance and technical expertise. the Education Zone, highlighting news and information about business in education, and sponsor research and events on related issues in collaboration with other BfP partners. We are also supporting four of their new “challenges” which aim to identify and address specific, strategic questions about how to harness and scale the positive impact of business on people or the planet. Recent publications we supported New Vision for Better Business, Embedding Education: Fostering Better World Embedding the the SDGs into BETTER BUSINESS Industry Agenda New Vision for Education: Social and Emotional Sustainable Development business Fostering Social BETTER WORLD Goals into Business and Emotional Learning Learning through The report of the Business & Sustainable Development Commission through Technology Technology Prepared in collaboration with The Boston Consulting Group January 2017 March 2016 Download at: http://community. businessfightspoverty. Download at: Download at: org/profiles/blogs/ http://www3.weforum.org/ http://report. businesscommission. richard-gilbert-mattdocs/WEF_New_Vision_for_ org/uploads/BetterBizin association with gitsham-and-ashridgeEducation.pdf BetterWorld_170215_012417.pdf centre-embedding-the New Vision for Education.indd 1 04.03.16 13:57 78 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting About our reporting This section provides more information about several reporting and related topics, Assurance including assurance, external recognition, Our environmental data (p35-36 and p44certifications, targets, and material issues. 45), and our data on community investment (p33 and p43) were assured by independent It also shows how we have applied relevant external assurance providers Corporate international reporting standards and Citizenship. Statements are available for frameworks, including the Global Reporting download at: Initiative (GRI) guidelines, UN Global Compact https://www.pearson.com/sustainability. (UNGC) Ten Principles, UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and the UNGC/ We recognize the importance of assurance UNICEF/Save the Children Children’s Rights for building credibility and driving L  earn more about sustainability at Pearson and read this report online at: www.pearson.com/ and Business Principles (CRBP). performance. As in previous years, we will sustainability. aim to address the recommendations made Our 2016 Sustainability Report covers data for improvement, and to report on our from 1 January to 31 December 2016, and it progress in next year’s environment report. was released on 12 July 2017. Contact us Our reporting framework This report has been prepared by Pearson’s sustainability and social innovation team in This report has been developed in consultation with other key departments accordance with the GRI G4 Core guidelines, within Pearson. We welcome your thoughts including the media sector supplement. and feedback. Please email sustainability@ A list of material issues and their relevance pearson.com with any questions or to GRI G4 is on p87-89 and our GRI table is comments. on p90. Visit https://www.pearson.com/ Read more about GRI G4 at globalreporting.org. sustainability to view this report online, along with our environment and other key Pearson’s 2016 Annual Report includes a reporting policies and downloads. summary of the issues covered in this report and, as required by 2013 amendments to the UK Companies Act, comprises a separate strategic report with disclosures on human rights, gender diversity, and greenhouse gas emissions. Pearson was a founding signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2000, and considers its ten principles in our reporting process. Our report serves as our Communication on Progress and outlines our contribution to the SDGs (see p90). Read more about the UN Global Compact at unglobalcompact.org. 79 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Awards and recognition Sustainability Corporate Knights Pearson has been included in a ranking of the Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World for a third year. Pearson was ranked 33rd. The 2017 list is drawn from over 4,000 companies with a market capitalization in excess of $2 billion. The assessment covers social impact, environmental performance, and corporate governance. DJSI World Index Pearson has been included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for over a decade. We currently hold the Silver Class. Only 10% of global listed companies are included in the World index based on their sustainability leadership. Our company score for 2016 was 76 (up from 75 in 2015) compared to 77 for the industry leader. FTSE4Good Pearson has been included in the FTSE4Good indices since their inception in 2000. Business in the Community Pearson has participated in BITC’s Corporate Responsibility Index benchmark every year since its launch. In 2016, our CR Index Score and Performance Star Rating were as follows: CR Index Score: 94% (2015: 94%) CR Index Star Rating: 3.5 2016 was the final year of the CR Index. Employees ISO18001 Pearson Management Services, the company in the UK that manages our head office, is certified against ISO 18001, the international health and safety management standard. The Royal Society for the In 2016, Pearson secured the RoSPA Silver Award for health and safety performance for our global operations. Prevention of Accidents Human Rights Campaign Pearson received a perfect score in HRC’s Corporate Equality Index for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) workplace equality in the US for four consecutive years, making our company a designated Best Place to Work for LGBT colleagues. Dave Thomas Foundation Named as one of the 100 Best Adoption Friendly Workplaces in the US by the Dave Thomas Foundation for Adoption. 80 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Awards and recognitions continued Stonewall Participated in the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index, and members of the Stonewall Diversity Champions program. DIVERSITY CHAMPION WorldatWork Awarded the WorldatWork Work Life Seal of Distinction, which recognizes employers who demonstrate leadership in creating a culture that supports employees at work and at home. Environment Carbon Trust Standard Pearson retains global certification against the Carbon Trust Standard. We were the second organization ever to secure the Carbon Trust Standard globally, which recognizes leadership in measuring, managing, and reducing yearon-year carbon emissions. Leadership in Energy and Pearson’s buildings in in the US — Centennial, CO, Cedar Rapids, IA, Hoboken, NJ, and our building at 330 Hudson Environmental Design Street, NY hold LEED Gold Certification. Together, these four LEED-certified buildings represent over 800,000 square feet of space. ISO14001 Pearson businesses in the UK and Australia are certified against ISO 14001, the international environmental management standard. ISO50001 Pearson in the UK is certified against ISO 50001, the international energy management standard. CDP Carbon Pearson voluntarily discloses data and information on carbon management to the Carbon Disclosure Project. Pearson was rated in the B performance band in 2016 as taking coordinated action on climate change issues. CDP Forests Pearson voluntarily discloses data and information on forest management to CDP. Pearson was rated in the B performance band in 2016 as having assessed the risks related to deforestation and is measuring and managing the impacts. CDP Water Pearson voluntarily discloses data and information on water management to the CDP. Pearson was rated in the C performance band in 2016 as being aware of water issues and for providing a comprehensive disclosure on water issues. We do not consider water risk as material for Pearson. 81 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Progress on 2016 targets Area of focus 2016 Target Status Reference Managing sustainability Sustainability strategy Continue to embed our five-year Sustainability Plan, This report shows progress across each including by: of these areas. Refining our strategy, Setting measurable targets and KPIs; Improving how we capture and analyze data; Formalizing our stakeholder engagement processes; I ncreasing employee engagement with our sustainability activities; and Increasing transparency in our reporting. Awards and Maintain or improve how we are viewed in external p79-80 recognition benchmarks of sustainability and corporate responsibility practice. Pillar 1: Be a trusted partner Ethical conduct Provide training and raise awareness of our revised antip41 bribery and corruption policy for higher risk countries and activities. Human rights Develop an overarching human rights policy. See p26 about the human rights review, which will lead to a new policy. Review and report against the UN Global Compact/UNICEF/ See p90-98 reporting against the CRBP. Save the Children Children’s Rights and Business Principles (CRBP). Prepare to publish in 2017 our first statement in response View our Modern Slavery Act statement to the UK’s Modern Slavery Act. at: https://www.pearson.com/ corporate/about-pearson/our-positionon/modern-day-slavery.html Safeguarding and Strengthen safeguarding governance processes, address p27; p43 protecting learners safeguarding risks, and increase training in our direct delivery business. Product safety Maintain zero incidents of product recalls or enforcement p25 notices by regulatory bodies. Data privacy and Begin implementing our two-year data privacy and p26-27 information security information security improvement program. Supply chain Continue to embed social and environmental risk p37-38 management into our procurement practices. Complete the process of introducing a common contract p37-38 template for all our franchise partners. Customer experience Extend our insight gathering practices and develop a p23 cross‑Pearson framework for incorporating customer feedback into our processes, with clear accountability and governance structures. Key: Achieved Ongoing Not achieved 82 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Progress on 2016 targets continued Area of focus 2016 Target Status Reference People data and Continue to roll out our HR portal, MyHR, and Fusion HR We are still in the process of rolling out analytics system by country. new HR systems. Conduct our annual employee engagement survey, and See p31 for our employee engagement commit to action plans as appropriate. survey. Talent management Review and update our performance assessment practices p31 and development based on employee and management feedback, launch Role of Manager program, and improve learning offerings. Equality, diversity, and Create a single global diversity and inclusion team to join up p32 inclusion diversity and inclusion programs around the world. Expand Pearson’s employee resource groups. p32 Embed diversity and inclusion programs in talent p31-32 management cycle. Health and safety Continue to execute our three-year strategy to fully integrate p28; p42 our health and safety program into our global business. Corporate security Strengthen corporate security policies, procedures, p29 and standards. Establish a robust threat monitoring and risk assessment p29 process. Develop an eLearning travel safety module. p29 Wellbeing Complete and review our wellbeing pilot in the UK. This was put on hold due to changes in the company and will be revisited in 2017. Community Maintain our total community investment at 1% or more p33; p43 investment of operating profit. Giving Reach $1m in Kiva loans. p34 Volunteering Launch a global campaign to increase volunteering activity. p34 Carbon footprint Pilot total carbon footprint reporting. p35 Greenhouse gas To reduce our absolute GHG emissions by 50% by the end p35-37 emissions of 2020 using 2009 as the base year. Travel emissions Maintain air travel average (passenger km per employee) p45 at the same level. Target 450 hybrid vehicles for the Pearson fleet in 2016. We have 409 hybrid vehicles, and the overall fleet size is down 5%. Green energy Maintain our commitment to purchase green electricity p35-36; p44 in 2016. Facilities Reduce energy use in our buildings on an absolute basis p35-36; p44 by 50% by the end of 2020 using 2009 as the base year. Develop a global facilities management handbook. On hold in light of changes to the company structure. Key: Achieved Ongoing Not achieved 83 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Progress on 2016 targets continued Area of focus 2016 Target Status Reference Paper Continue our drive for independently verified certification p38; p45 for the papers we use. Waste Maintain our reuse/recycle rate for all unsold books in excess Our reuse/recycle rate is 98.6% of 95%. Water Using 2014 as our new base year, our stretch target is to p45. We reduced water use 42% per reduce absolute water use across the company by 30% per square meter in 2016 based on our square meter of occupied space by the end of 2018. 2014 baseline. Environmental Review green team strategy in 2017. employee engagement Pillar 2: Reach more learners Accessibility Establish a high-level executive committee to oversee our p52-53 accessibility activities. Set measurable targets and objectives for the accessibility of p52-53 our products. Increase internal awareness of accessibility issues and p52-53 requirements. Empowering girls Complete our review of Pearson activities related to girls and p58 and women women, with the goal of informing a more strategic approach to empowering girls and women around the world, and begin to implement some of the recommendations. Pillar 3: Shape the future of learning Efficacy Collect evidence and publish efficacy reports on a wider p23-24; p75-76 range of products. Deepen the relationship between our efficacy framework p23-24; p75-76 and other internal processes including product improvement, acquisitions, and strategic planning. Lead a global conversation about the impact of our efficacy p23-24; p75-76 work, demonstrating how effective education products and services deliver enhanced learner outcomes. 21st century research Support research and dialogue on 21st century skills and p68-76 competencies. Research publications Release papers on critical topics such as adaptive learning, p75-76 artificial intelligence in education, and building efficacy into learning technologies. Participate in a global Maintain leadership and participation in multi-stakeholder p77 conversation initiatives and partnerships that promote quality education and lifelong learning. Key: Achieved Ongoing Not achieved 84 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Targets for 2017 and beyond Area of focus Target Managing sustainability Sustainability strategy Continue to embed our five-year Sustainability Plan, including by: Refining our strategy; Setting measurable targets and KPIs; Improving how we capture and analyze data; Formalizing our stakeholder engagement processes; Increasing employee engagement with our sustainability activities; and Increasing transparency in our reporting. Awards and recognition Maintain or improve how we are viewed in external benchmarks of sustainability and corporate responsibility practice. Pillar 1: Be a trusted partner Deliver high-quality products and services Digital infrastructure Continuously improve the availability, reliability, and security of our products. Invest in infrastructure and security improvements to minimize service disruptions. Customer experience Launch the Global Customer Experience Measurement Program, tracking NPS and how we are delivering against our Customer Experience Principles. Integrate the company-wide framework established in 2016 into our core business units. Deliver relevant, Establish and roll out Global Content Principles by 2020 to ensure Pearson content is appropriate, effective, and appropriate, and inclusive relevant for all learners, for the 21st century and beyond. content Product safety Maintain our ongoing target of zero product safety incidents or recalls. Provide training on vendors in the PIPS database. Respect human rights Human rights Undertake human rights review and develop a human rights policy. Safeguarding Continue to embed our governance processes. Complement our existing training for all employees with targeted workshops for senior leaders and communications leads on their roles and responsibilities in incident management. Adopt a global policy and supporting procedures on sexual harassment in adult learning centers operated by Pearson. Health & safety Publish a 2018-20 H&S strategy to recognize our H&S maturity and reach beyond compliance. Publish and communicate a revised, fully-endorsed H&S policy and standards. Continue the implementation of our global H&S assurance program. Establish more robust global processes for injury, illness, and other incident reporting to enable more effective and transparent reporting. Develop targets and metrics consistent with GRI. Establish regular senior management reviews in relevant businesses and geographies to ensure awareness of and accountability for H&S performance. 85 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Targets for 2017 and beyond continued Area of focus Target Corporate security Release an eLearning traveler training module on Pearson U. Develop our people and communities Learning and Focus on gender diversity in succession planning to improve our pipeline of emerging leaders, emphasizing highdevelopment potential minority groups and employee peer-to-peer mentoring. Scope skill needs and gaps for future talent at specific locations to support digital transformation. Retain and develop our talent by increasing internal mobility, helping employees understand their capability gaps, and developing key skills through Pearson U and other learning opportunities. Improve employee relations by leveraging insights from our annual employee engagement surveys. Diversity and inclusion Publish gender pay details for our UK business by 2018 and extend our reporting on gender pay to cover our global operations by 2020. Launch a new employee resource group (ERG) to promote collaboration across generations. Host our fourth annual Global Inclusion Week to offer learning opportunities for employees across the globe. Volunteering & giving Increase volunteering hours by over 40% to reach more than 20,000 volunteer hours during 2017. Grow our involvement and participation in skills-based volunteering opportunities. Improve how we measure and understand the links between participation in our programs and employee engagement, retention, and development. Protect our natural environment GHG emissions Achieve 50% absolute reduction in the GHG emissions of our global operations by 2020. Energy Achieve 50% absolute reduction in energy use in our buildings by 2020. Green supply chain Investigate whether our third-party data centers can be supplied by clean energy by 2018. Carbon footprinting Look beyond direct emissions to capture impacts across the digital and physical value chain. Low-carbon economy Continue to invest in energy efficiency and renewable energy in order to remain carbon neutral. Build a sustainable supply chain Supply chain Introduce new approach to supplier risk due diligence, incorporating a review of a range of sustainability and human rights issues. Ensure strong governance Code of Conduct Revise and update the Pearson code of conduct, and a related training course, and roll out a certification for all employees. Introduce a “code of conduct and raising concerns” awareness campaign following our certification process. Anti-bribery & corruption Provide training and raise awareness of our revised anti-bribery and corruption policy for higher risk countries and activities. Conduct anti-bribery and corruption risk assessments of our businesses around the world. Further establish an anti-bribery and corruption third-party due diligence program. 86 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Targets for 2017 and beyond continued Area of focus Target Tax Review, refresh and disclose our tax principles. Explore expanding disclosure through a standalone global tax report covering tax strategy, principles and approach. Pillar 2: Reach more learners Improve access and affordability of products and services Accessibility Make 100% of our digital portfolio accessible for people with disabilities around the world by 2020. Launch a global accessibility policy in 2017 that will enable us to deliver on our goal to reach more learners by including users with disabilities. Establish a UK accessibility committee. Work with our growth markets to support their capacity to develop accessible products that fit the needs of users. Enrich our marketing, communication, and customer support around accessibility so learners have a better understanding of the capabilities of our products and services as well as avenues to get information and help as needed. Affordability Enable 3 million students to access more affordable digital course materials from the first day of class by 2019. Affordability Through Tomorrow’s Market Incubator, we will: S elect and fund up to five teams to advance from the “Explore” to “Validate” phase in our product lifecycle; I nvest in and guide these teams through the “Validate” phase, with the ultimate goal of creating successful pilots in market; S ocialize the venture innovation approach with business partners and integrate learning from the ventures into Pearson’s strategy for new markets; Refine the model and launch a second call for new venture ideas to incubate; and C apture our learnings and share them with the broader community of public, private and non-profit sector practitioners. Collaborate to reach Certify 5,000 women with BTEC qualifications through our partnership with Camfed by the end of 2019. underserved learners Enable Camfed to extend the Learner Guide program in Tanzania in 2017 by: S upporting an additional 6,400 children in 80 schools; T raining 236 young women as Learner Guides in four rural districts of Tanzania; D istributing 32,000 books to 80 schools in rural Tanzania; and E nabling Learner Guides to reach over 10,800 additional children on a weekly basis with targeted life skills sessions. Pillar 3: Shape the future of learning Employability Grow users of the Career Success Program steadily to reach 100,000 students by 2020. Efficacy Report publicly and transparently on the impacts of our products on outcomes for learners. Have efficacy reports externally audited by 2018. Research papers Support external research on topics including refugee education, innovation in education, role of business in sustainable development, and employability. Engage with multiMaintain leadership and participation in multi-stakeholder initiatives and partnerships that promote quality education stakeholder groups and lifelong learning. 87 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Material issues We applied the Global Reporting Initiative G4 principles to help define the content of our report. The GRI G4 reporting framework considers material issues in the context of their impact within and outside the business and also the ability of an organization to directly or indirectly affect the material issue identified. The following table provides further detail on how we define our material sustainability issues, where the impact of these issues occurs (inside or outside the organization, or both), and the key stakeholders impacted by the issues. Description of material issue Boundary Key stakeholders Relevant GRI G4 aspects Data privacy and information security Ensuring personal information about Impact occurs primarily outside Pearson – Employees Customer privacy our customers and learners is kept failure to protect privacy and security of Learners safe and secure, with appropriate data could significantly affect our learners Customers systems and procedures in place to and customers. prevent privacy breaches and Business partners information loss. Suppliers International, nongovernmental, and non-profit organizations Governments and other education agenda-setters Regulators Competitiveness of digital products The potential impact on the business Impact occurs primarily within Pearson as Employees Content creation and learners if digital products are not this affects the company’s economic Learners perceived to be, or experienced as, performance. However, stakeholders Customers leading in applicability, convenience, outside the organization, including price, or other elements of overall learners, customers, and suppliers, could Suppliers competitiveness and functionality. indirectly be affected through the lack of Business partners supply of products. Shareholders and investors Security, health, and safety Ensuring the safety and security of all Impact occurs both within and outside Employees Occupational employees, learners, and suppliers Pearson. Our ability to retain and attract Suppliers health and safety (including through policies and the best people, maintain supply chain Training and Learners practice, training, monitoring, and effectiveness, and protect our reputation education disclosure). could be affected if we fail in these areas. Customers Governments Regulators Corporate governance Establishing a framework and set of The impact occurs both within and All our stakeholders Anti-corruption processes promoting ethical conduct, outside our business since the way we transparency, and accountability to conduct our business affects all our our stakeholders. stakeholders – those who work for us, do business with us, and use our products and services. Economic empowerment Education is an important source of Impact occurs primarily outside the Learners Indirect economic economic growth. Providing a quality company, both on the lives of learners Customers impacts education helps increase learners’ who are able to improve their standard of Diversity and Governments and other education earning potential, allowing them to living, and on the prosperity of equal opportunity agenda-setters improve their standard of living, and communities and countries. providing an economic value that International, non-governmental, extends to future generations. and non-profit organizations 88 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Material issues continued Description of material issue Boundary Key stakeholders Relevant GRI G4 aspects Accessibility Ensuring equitable access to our Impact occurs primarily outside Pearson. Learners Content products for all learners, including Customers dissemination those with disabilities and special International, non-governmental, needs. and non-profit organizations Affordability Offering products and services that Impact occurs primarily outside the Learners Content creation are affordable for several income company. The transition to more digital Customers groups. products and services makes education Governments opportunities more affordable for many learners. International, non-governmental, and non-profit organizations 21st century skills Providing products and services that Impact occurs primarily outside the Learners Media literacy equip learners with the skills and company. We want to help learners gain Customers competencies – such as creativity, the skills they need for success in life and Governments and education entrepreneurship, and critical thinking work through our products and services. agenda-setters – needed for success in the 21st century. International, non-governmental, and non-profit organizations GHG emissions and climate change Managing and mitigating our Impact occurs both within the business All our stakeholders Energy greenhouse gas and climate emissions and outside through our employee Emissions throughout our value chain. activities and in our supply chain. Our Transport primary areas of impact are business travel and energy consumption in our Supplier offices. environmental assessment 89 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Material issues continued Key to material issues HIGH Economic Learner Data privacy empowerment expectations N  ine material issues and security Competitiveness Academic quality in our sustainability plan and reporting of digital products Progression High-stakes testing Corporate functions Societal issues Education industry 21st Century skills Accessibility Environmental issues Security, health and safety Stakeholder concern Degree of control Girls and women’s Literacy empowerment Affordability High Medium Low and equality Corporate Climate change education  obbying and public L governance policy GHG emissions and climate change Digital infrastructure Disruptive distribution models LOW LOW Business impact HIGH Alignment of material issues to principal and other Pearson risks Sustainability report 2015 Annual report 2016 Material issues Principal risk Group risk Business area risk monitoring Disruptive distribution models Products and YES Global Product North America services Core Social, Environmental Competitiveness of digital products Products and Growth and Ethical (SEE) services Affordability Products and services Learner expectations Products and services Academic quality Products and services High-stakes testing Testing failure YES A ssessment Core Lobbying and public policy Political and YES Core North America regulatory risk Growth A ssessment Data privacy and security Data privacy and YES Core A ssessment Legal information Growth Global Product Tech & Ops security North America Digital infrastructure Customer digital YES North America Global Product Tech & Ops experience Security, health, and safety Safety and YES Core HR A ssessment * corporate security Growth SEE Accessibility – – A ssessment * Legal* SEE GHG emissions and climate change – – SEE As part of our risk management process, Group risks are tracked across all business areas, geographies, and functions. See p47 in Pearson’s Annual Report. * Emerging risk 90 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting GRI/UNGC/SDGs/CRBP index General standard disclosures Reference Indicator Description Coverage SR 2016 AR 2016 Notes / Omissions UNGC SDGs CRBP Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior p4-5 Statement of decision-maker of the organization commitment to about the relevance of the ten principles sustainability to the organization from chief executive and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, p10-12; p18; p22 (material issues & 1-10 4, 8, 10 1, 2, 3, 4, and opportunities p42-45; p87-89 other Pearson risks); 5, 7 p44-55 (risk sections) Organizational profile G4-3 Name of the organization p1 p1 G4-4 Primary brands, products, p10-12 p2-3 and services G4-5 Location of organization’s p128 headquarters G4-6 Number of countries where the p12 p2; p38-43; p188-189 organization operates and names of countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form p107; p173 G4-8 Markets served p12 p135-139; p188-189 G4-9 Scale of reporting organization p10-12; p42-43 p122-125; p137-138; p143-145 G4-10 Employee makeup p10-12; p42-43 p25 (gender diversity); We report the total number of p141 (employees employees by region and gender. by region) G4-11 Percentage of employees p26 Pearson employees are covered by collective participants in trade unions across bargaining agreements the group. Representation takes many forms. For example, in the UK we launched an Employee Engagement Forum providing employees and senior executives regular opportunities to discuss the strategic development of the company. G4-12 Description of the organization’s p37-38 p23 supply chain G4-13 Significant changes during the p35, p139 reporting period regarding size, structure, ownership, or supply chain G4-14 Precautionary approach or p35-37 p22; p44-55 Pearson has carried out a robust 7 6, 7, 13, 7 principle addressed by the assessment of the principal risks 14, 15 organization facing the company. We have also analyzed our environmental impacts and taken precautionary action by reducing our greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental impacts. G4-15 Externally developed economic, p8-9, p26, p36, environmental, and social charters, p37, p76 principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or to which it endorses G4-16 Memberships of associations p76 This section provides a list of 17 10 (such as industry associations) sustainability and education and national and international associations. advocacy organizations Key: Full Partial None SR 2016 = Sustainability report 2016 AR 2016 = Annual report and accounts 2016 91 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting GRI/UNGC/SDGs/CRBP index General standard disclosures continued Reference Indicator Description Coverage SR 2016 AR 2016 Notes / Omissions UNGC SDGs CRBP Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Entities in consolidated p135; p122-125 financial statements G4-18 Process for defining the report p18; p87-89 p21-22 content and Aspect Boundaries G4-19 Material Aspects p18; p87-89 p21-22 G4-20 Internal Aspect Boundary p87-89 G4-21 External Aspect Boundary p87-89 G4-22 Effect of restatement information No effect G4-23 Report significant changes in the No changes Scope and Aspect Boundaries Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List of stakeholders engaged p14-17; p72; p77 p80-81 G4-25 Basis for identifying stakeholders p14-17; p18; p77; We plan to continue our focus to engage p87-89 to engage with our stakeholders in the future. G4-26 Approach to stakeholder p14-17; p77; engagement p87-89 G4-27 Key topics of concern raised p14-17; p18; p77; by stakeholders p87-89 Report profile G4-28 Reporting period p78 G4-29 Date of most recent report p78 G4-30 Reporting cycle p78 G4-31 Contact point for questions p78 G4-32 “In accordance with” option p78 G4-33 External assurance for report p78 Our environmental data and data on community investment were assured by independent external assurance providers. Key: Full Partial None SR 2016 = Sustainability report 2016 AR 2016 = Annual report and accounts 2016 92 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting GRI/UNGC/SDGs/CRBP index General standard disclosures continued Reference Indicator Description Coverage SR 2016 AR 2016 Notes / Omissions UNGC SDGs CRBP Governance G4-34 Governance structure p39-40 p58-59; p63; p56-112 G4-38 Composition of the highest p32; p39-40 p60-62 governance body and its committees G4-39 Whether the Chair of the highest p60-62 governance body is also an executive officer G4-42 Highest governance body’s and p39-40 p78-79 senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental, and social impacts. G4-48 Highest committee or position that p39-40 p78-79 formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. Ethics and integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, p31; p40; p77 p24 Company policies are posted 1-10 and standards on the sustainability section of our website (https://www.pearson. com/corporate/sustainability/ reporting-and-policy-downloads/ policies.html). G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms p41; p42 p24 for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. Key: Full Partial None SR 2016 = Sustainability report 2016 AR 2016 = Annual report and accounts 2016 93 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting GRI/UNGC/SDGs/CRBP index Specific standard disclosures The specific standard disclosures are organized by Pearson’s material topics, and within topics, by GRI aspects Reference Indicator Description Coverage SR 2016 AR 2016 Notes / Omissions UNGC SDGs CRBP Economic performance DMA Economic performance p1; p4-5; p8; p11; p18 p12-13 EC1 Direct economic value generated p10-12 inside front cover-p3; 1 1, 8, 10 and distributed p30-37; p122-125 EC2 Financial implications and other p35-38 p22, p25 7, 8, 9 6, 7, 13, 7 risks and opportunities for the 14, 15 organization's activities due to climate change EC7 Development and impact of p 23; p26; p33-34; p14-15 4, 8, 10 infrastructure investments and p46-63; p66-67 services supported EC8 Significant indirect economic p46-63; p65-77 4, 8, 10 impacts, including the extent of impacts (i.e. economic development, availability for products and services for those with low incomes, enhancing skills and knowledge) Environmental – energy DMA Energy p35-37 See Pearson environment review 7, 8, 9 7, 13 7 at: https://www.pearson.com/ corporate/sustainability/reportingpolicies/reports-benchmarks.html EN3 Energy consumption within the p35-37; p44-45 See Pearson environment review 7, 8, 9 7, 13 7 organization at: https://www.pearson.com/ corporate/sustainability/reportingpolicies/reports-benchmarks.html EN6 Reduction of energy consumption p35-37; p44-45 See Pearson environment review 7, 8, 9 7, 13 7 at: https://www.pearson.com/ corporate/sustainability/reportingpolicies/reports-benchmarks.html Environmental – emissions DMA Emissions p35-37; p44-45 See Pearson environment review 7, 8, 9 7, 13, 14, 7 at: https://www.pearson.com/ 15 corporate/sustainability/reportingpolicies/reports-benchmarks.html EN15 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) p35-37; p44-45 p25 See Pearson environment review 7, 8, 9 7, 13, 14, 7 at: https://www.pearson.com/ 15 corporate/sustainability/reportingpolicies/reports-benchmarks.html EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions p35-37; p44-45 p25 See Pearson environment review 7, 8, 9 7, 13, 14, 7 (Scope 2) at: https://www.pearson.com/ 15 corporate/sustainability/reportingpolicies/reports-benchmarks.html EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions p35-37; p44-45 p25 See Pearson environment review 7, 8, 9 7, 13, 14, 7 (Scope 3) at: https://www.pearson.com/ 15 corporate/sustainability/reportingpolicies/reports-benchmarks.html EN18 GHG emissions intensity p35-37; p44-45 p25 See Pearson environment review 7, 8, 9 7, 13, 14, 7 at: https://www.pearson.com/ 15 corporate/sustainability/reportingpolicies/reports-benchmarks.html EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions p35-37; p44-45 p25 See Pearson environment review 7, 8, 9 7, 13, 14, 7 at: https://www.pearson.com/ 15 corporate/sustainability/reportingpolicies/reports-benchmarks.html Key: Full Partial None SR 2016 = Sustainability report 2016 AR 2016 = Annual report and accounts 2016 94 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting GRI/UNGC/SDGs/CRBP index Specific standard disclosures continued Reference Indicator Description Coverage SR 2016 AR 2016 Notes / Omissions UNGC SDGs CRBP Environmental – products and services DMA Products and services p35-37 7, 8, 9 7, 13, 14, 7 15 EN27 Extent of impact mitigation p35 A priority area going forward is 7, 8, 9 7, 13, 14, 7 of environmental impacts looking beyond direct emissions to 15 of products and services capture impacts across the digital and physical value chain. In 2016, we introduced book carbon – an initiative that allows us to calculate our physical impact from forest to distribution center, and mapped the impact of our first product Environmental – transport DMA Transport p35-37 7, 8, 9 7, 13, 14, 7 15 EN30 Significant environmental impacts p35-37; p44-45 p25 We do not yet disclose product 7, 8, 9 7, 13, 14, 7 relating to transporting products distribution data. 15 and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Environmental – supplier environmental assessment DMA Supplier environmental p37-38 7, 8, 9 7, 13, 14, 7 assessment 15 EN32 Percentage of new p37-38 We assess new supplier 7, 8, 9 6, 7, 13, 7 suppliers screened using relationships based on external 14, 15 environmental criteria and internal environmental standards, including our commitment to the UN Global Compact principles and business partner code of conduct, which forms an integral part of our contracts with key suppliers. EN33 Significant actual and potential p37-38 No significant issues were brought negative environmental impacts in to our attention. the supply chain and actions taken Labor practices and decent work – employment DMA Employment p9; p17; p26-29; p30p23-24 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 8, 10 3 34 LA1 Total number and rates of new p42 We report on turnover on the US 6 5, 8, 10 3 employee hires and employee and UK. We are implementing a turnover by age group, gender, new HR platform that is expected to and region enhance our ability to analyze and report on employee data. LA2 Benefits provided to full-time p33; p43 We currently report on the US only 8, 10 3 employees that are not provided to and plan to include additional temporary or part-time employees, country data next year. by significant locations of operation Labor practices and decent work – occupational health and safety DMA Occupational health and safety p26-29 p23-24 We are enhancing our tracking 1, 2 8, 10 3 system to support rigor and transparency in our reporting. LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, p26-29; p42 We do not report this information 1, 2 8, 10 3 occupational diseases, lost days, by region or gender. and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Key: Full Partial None SR 2016 = Sustainability report 2016 AR 2016 = Annual report and accounts 2016 95 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting GRI/UNGC/SDGs/CRBP index Specific standard disclosures continued Reference Indicator Description Coverage SR 2016 AR 2016 Notes / Omissions UNGC SDGs CRBP Labor practices and decent work – training and education DMA Training and education p31 p23-24 1 4, 8, 10 LA9 Average hours of training per year p43 We report average hours of 4, 8, 10 per employee by gender, and by training per year per employee. employee category LA10 Programs for skills management p30-31 p23-24 4, 8, 10 and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA11 Percentage of employees receiving p31 All full-time employees receive 4, 8, 10 regular performance and career performance reviews. development, by gender and by employee category Labor practices and decent work – diversity and equal opportunity DMA Diversity and equal opportunity p31-32 p24 1, 2, 5, 6 8, 10 LA12 Composition of governance bodies p32; p42 p24-25 We report on gender but not other 1, 2, 5, 6 8, 10 and breakdown of employees per indicators of diversity. employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Human rights – investment G4-DMA Human rights investment p26; p37-38 1, 2 8 HR1 Total number and percentage of p26; p37-38 We do not report a number or 1, 2 8 3 significant investment agreements percentage but plan to for 2017. and contracts that include human Our business partner code of rights screening conduct forms an integral part of our contracts with key suppliers. HR2 Total hours of employee training on p27; p40-41 p24; p46 We provided training on the code 1, 2, 10 8, 16 3 human rights polices or procedures of conduct, data privacy, concerning aspects of human safeguarding, D&I, and antirights that are relevant to corruption but have not reported the number of hours. operations, including the percentage of employees trained Human rights – freedom of association and collective bargaining G4-DMA Freedom of association and p26; p37 collective bargaining HR4 Operations and suppliers p26; p37 We do not report on specific 3 8 3 identified in which the right to operations or suppliers. We have exercise freedom of association committed to international and collective bargaining may standards for human rights that apply to our operations and supply be violated or at significant risk, chain, including the UN Global and measures taken to support Compact principles. Our business these rights partner code of conduct forms an integral part of contracts with key suppliers, and we have a process for indentifying and addressing potential issues at mediumand high-risk suppliers. Key: Full Partial None SR 2016 = Sustainability report 2016 AR 2016 = Annual report and accounts 2016 96 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting GRI/UNGC/SDGs/CRBP index Specific standard disclosures continued Reference Indicator Description Coverage SR 2016 AR 2016 Notes / Omissions UNGC SDGs CRBP Human rights – child labor DMA Child labor p26; p37 HR5 Operations and suppliers p26; p37 We do not report on specific 5 8 2, 3 identified as having significant operations or suppliers. We have risk of child labor committed to international standards for human rights that apply to our operations and supply chain, including the UN Global Compact principles. Our business partner code of conduct forms an integral part of contracts with key suppliers, and we have a process for indentifying and addressing potential issues at mediumand high-risk suppliers. Human rights – forced labor DMA Forced labor p26; p37 HR6 Operations and suppliers p26; p37 We do not report on specific 4 8 3 identified as having significant operations or suppliers. We have risk of incidents of forced or committed to international compulsory labor standards for human rights that apply to our operations and supply chain, including the UN Global Compact principles. Our business partner code of conduct forms an integral part of contracts with key suppliers, and we have a process for indentifying and addressing potential issues at mediumand high-risk suppliers. Human rights – supplier human rights assessment DMA Supplier human rights assessment p26; p37-38 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 8 2, 3 HR9 Total number and percentage of p26; p37-38 100% of mediumand high-risk operations that have been subject direct manufacturing suppliers to human rights assessments or are assessed. impact assessments HR10 Percentage of new suppliers p26; p37-38 We do not report a number or 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 2, 3 that were screened using human percentage screened. Our rights criteria relationships with suppliers are guided by our commitments to international standards, including the UN Global Compact principles, and our business partner code of conduct, which forms an integral part of our contracts with key suppliers. These contracts include our commitments to universal human rights, good labor practices and decent working conditions, and environmental stewardship. We have a process for indentifying and addressing potential issues at mediumand high-risk suppliers. Society – local communities DMA Local communities p33-34; p47-63 1, 4, 8, 10 SO1 Percentage of operations with p33-34; p47-63 We do not report a percentage. We 1, 4, 8, 10 implemented local community engage communities through core engagement, impact assessments, business efforts to expand access and development programs and affordability and through employee volunteering and giving. Key: Full Partial None SR 2016 = Sustainability report 2016 AR 2016 = Annual report and accounts 2016 97 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting GRI/UNGC/SDGs/CRBP index Specific standard disclosures continued Reference Indicator Description Coverage SR 2016 AR 2016 Notes / Omissions UNGC SDGs CRBP Society – anti-corruption DMA Anti-corruption p40-41 p24; p54 10 16 SO3 Total number and percentage p41 p24; p54 We conduct due diligence on 10 16 or operations assessed for risks high‑risk and other third parties. related to corruption and the significant risks identified SO4 Communications and training p41 p24; p54 10 16 on anti-corruption policies and procedures Society – public policy DMA Public policy p41 SO6 Total value of political contributions p41 by country and beneficiary Society – supplier assessment for impacts on society DMA Supplier assessment for impacts p37-38 1-10 13, 14 on society SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that p37-38 We do not report a percentage. 1-10 13, 14 were screened using criteria for Our relationships with suppliers impacts on society are guided by our commitments to international standards, including the UN Global Compact principles, and our business partner code of conduct, which forms an integral part of our contracts with key suppliers. These contracts include our commitments to universal human rights, good labor practices and decent working conditions, and environmental stewardship. Customer health and safety DMA Customer health and safety p25; p26-27 1, 2 1, 4, 5 PR1 Percentage of significant product p25; p27 We carry out risk assessments in all 1, 2 1, 4, 5 and service categories for which our majority-owned direct delivery health and safety impacts are businesses outside of China. assessed for improvement PR2 Total number of incidents of nonp25; p26-27 1, 2 1, 4, 5 compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and service labeling DMA Product and service labeling p25 1, 2 1, 4, 5 PR4 Total number of incidents of nonp25 1, 2 1, 4, 5 compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling and outcomes PR5 Results of surveys measuring p23 customer satisfaction Customer privacy DMA Customer privacy p26-27 p53; p71 1, 2 1, 4, 5 PR8 Total number of substantiated p26-27 p53; p71 We do not report a number of 1, 2 1, 4, 5 complaints regarding breaches substantiated complaints but of customer privacy and losses have a process in place to address of customer data the risk. Key: Full Partial None SR 2016 = Sustainability report 2016 AR 2016 = Annual report and accounts 2016 98 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting GRI/UNGC/SDGs/CRBP index Specific standard disclosures continued Reference Indicator Description Coverage SR 2016 AR 2016 Notes / Omissions UNGC SDGs CRBP Content creation DMA Content creation p23-24; p25; p47-63; 1 4, 10 5 p72-74 M2 Methodology for assessing and p23-24; p25; p47-63; By 2020, we will establish and 1 4, 10 5 monitoring adherence to content p72-74 roll out Global Content Principles creation values to ensure Pearson content is appropriate, effective, and relevant for all learners, for the 21st century and beyond. M3 Actions taken to improve p23-24; p25; p47-63; 1 4, 10 5 adherence to content creation p72-74 value, and results obtained DMA Content dissemination p25; p47-63; p72-74 p26; p79 1 4, 10 5 M4 Actions taken to improve p25; p47-63; p72-74 p26; p79 1 4, 10 5, 9 performance in relation to content dissemination issues (accessibility and protection of vulnerable audiences and informed decisionmaking) and results obtained Audience interaction DMA Audience interaction p14-17; p22-23; 10 p47-63; p72; p77 M6 Methods to interact with audience p14-17; p22-23; 10 and results p47-63; p72; p77 Key: Full Partial None SR 2016 = Sustainability report 2016 AR 2016 = Annual report and accounts 2016 Pearson Sustainability report 2016 Introduction Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Shape the future of learning About our reporting Photography P6: Save the Children P7: http://www.pearsoned.com/degrees/issue-5/an-hour-with-catherine-medrano/ P13: Patrice Jones P14: Ben Ward P15 (top): Eliza Powell/Camfed P15 (bottom): Thinkstock P16: Thinkstock P17: Pearson/Lindsay France P19: Thinkstock P20: Alan Bennett P22: Allison Jones P24: Caroline McClelland P25: John Miller P26: Micaela Plachetko P29 (left): Abhishek Maji P29 (right): Cambridge Public School, Bangalore (Pearson Schools India) P33: Duval Guimarães P37: Sharon Bathily P46: Save the Children P50: Allison Jones P51: Patrice Jones P53: Juan Jose Pantino Vallejo P55: Pearson/Lindsay France P57: Eliza Powell/Camfed P59: Save the Children – Farah Hashem P62: The Unreasonable Institute P62: Alice McNamara Designed and Produced by Friend. www.friendstudio.com P63: AP Images Print: Pureprint Group, a Carbon Neutral company P64: Ben Ward P69: Bianca Vesteman This report has been printed on Edixion Challenger Offset which is FSC® certified and made from 100% Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) pulp. The mill and the printer are both certified to ISO 14001 Front cover photograph environmental management system and registered to EMAS the Martine Doucet eco management Audit Scheme. Principal offices www.pearson.com/sustainability 80 Strand @pearson London WC2R 0RL UK T +44 (0)20 7010 2000 F +44 (0)20 7010 6060 330 Hudson Street New York, NY 10013 USA T +1 212 390 7100 Pearson plc Registered number 53723 (England)
