Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction Table of Contents Corporate Mind Introduction Pg # Planet Aware Pg # Community Touch Pg # Overview 3 Responding to Climate Change 26 Supporting Education and 51 Knowledge Letter from the CEO 4 Minimizing Electricity Usage and 27 Emissions Community Wellness 57 Corporate Mind Pg # Conserving Natural Gas 28 Creativity and the Arts 62 Product Reach Conscious Leadership 8 Tracking and Reducing Impacts Economic Impact in Community 64 Corporate Purpose, Vision 29 8 from Product Distribution and Values Additional Information Pg # Minimizing Impacts from Corporate Governance 10 31 2017 Report Parameters 66 Business Travel Investments in the Future 10 Key Indicators 67 Planet Aware Preserving Natural Capital 32 Supply Chain Management 12 Minimizing Waste 32 GRI Index 68 Product Reach Pg # Conserving Water 34 Forensics and Paternity 15 Connecting with Customers Laboratories 35 Cover Art: original watercolor People Care without Paper by David Goodsell for Promega Government and Academic 17 Reducing Packaging 36 shows how bioluminescence Research Laboratories can reveal the invisible world People Care Pg # within a cell. An intricate encounter between Pharmaceutical and 18 complementary proteins transfers energy and Biotechnology Industries Work Environment 39 Community Touch generates glowing light—illustrated by the Applied Biotechnology and Promega Well-Being 43 vibrant blue and red colors. 18 Agriculture All chapter images also by David Goodsell, the Promega Wellness 43 Clinical and Molecular Scripps Research Institute. 20 Diagnostics Laboratories Promega Fitness 44 Quality Process and Product 21 Promega Benefits 47 Additional Info Investments for the Future 21 Promega Relaxation 48 Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 2 Introduction Overview Corporate Mind As we review and report on our practices and conservation for 2016, we are reminded that our Corporate Responsibility contributes to growth of people, preservation of the planet and profitability, cultivating sustainable potential for the long term. Product Reach We have made investments to establish the foundation for growth and sustainability. While our infrastructure and capabilities are fundamental to success, our most important investment is in our people. The contributions of each employee are critical to how we develop new technologies, build sustainable facilities, Planet Aware maximize operational efficiency, and support customers. Knowing this, we take active measures to create a transformational workplace of balance, purpose and reward, where each individual makes a difference. People Care We appreciate, that just like life itself, the notion of sustaining life for the long term is complex and interdependent. This report shares Promega philosophies, corporate mindset, product benefit, sustainability practices, work culture, and community outreach. For Promega, the Community Touch intersection of commitments to environmental sustainability, innovation, employee wellbeing and philanthropy enable the generation of meaning and purpose for the company, the customers we serve, and the communities in which we work. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 3 Additional Info Introduction Letter from the CEO Corporate Mind Since founding Promega forty years ago, we have envisioned it as an organization both profitable and transformational for its shareholders, employees, customers, communities and planet. In pursuing this vision with an eye to our 2078 centennial, we discovered that minding the bottom line and developing a corporate culture that calls forth human potential make each other stronger. By aligning our Maslowian values of trust, belonging and self-actualization with our focus on quality, innovation, and service all under an umbrella of life-giving architecture, we have produced steady growth, admirable profitability and an environment conducive to employee happiness. Product Reach As we grow the business, we continually strengthen the culture within. Predicated on decades of research and named the differentiating factor in a resilient culture with strong leadership, Emotional and Social Intelligence (ESI) is a core practice that we are proactively integrating into our Promega community. When ESI is at work in human relationships, people feel stronger, more capable and more alive. Emotionally intelligent leaders plant seeds of collaborative purpose, generate an optimistic view of the future, and motivate and inspire those around them to co-create it. Planet Aware Underlying ESI is mindfulness–the critical reagent without which the entire ESI reaction ceases. A quality of non-judgmental awareness gives us the ability to work with events organically and allows Promega to be with its people, problems and events in ways that keep our innovation and creativity, our relationality and precision alive and well. When our neural networks relax, we become present to the flow of events and engage with others as multidimensional and uniquely intelligent. These conditions make Promega a place to which people want to come. People Care ESI is, perhaps, a new name for our long-term stewardship of the environments and principles we entrust to those who succeed us. These principles will live through the many lives and hands that give Promega its energy and lift into the future. Promega has harnessed ESI to fulfill our purpose in the growing ecological landscape of businesses that care not just about profits but about people, planet and purpose for the next century and beyond. Community Touch To potential, purpose and a prosperous future, William A. Linton, Additional Info Chairman and CEO Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 4 Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info Corporate Mind 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Basement Membrane Introduction Corporate Mind Corporate Mind Product Reach “ Itfor  istherising above our in-the-moment feeling to do what needs to be done good of the whole. ” —Penny Patterson, Senior Director, Communications; Regarding emotional intelligence practices at Promega Planet Aware At Promega, our business is life science, but our lives are People Care fueled by curiosity and life-long learning. Promega Corporation provides innovative solutions and technical support to researchers, technicians and analysts in life sciences, industry and government. We offer over 3,500 products to enable scientists worldwide to advance knowledge in the fields of genomics, proteomics, cellular analysis, molecular diagnostics, Community Touch human identification, and applied biotechnology. Founded in 1978, the company is headquartered in Madison, WI, USA, with sales branches in 16 countries, over 50 global distributors, and manufacturing branches in San Luis Obispo and Sunnyvale, California, USA; Shanghai, China; and Seoul, South Korea. In 2016, revenue, headcount and building footprint continued to grow. Our revenue is approaching $400 million dollars (US); we have 1,440 full-time positions worldwide, and our global building Additional Info The Feynman Center cGMP manufacturing facility at Promega Corporation footprint is over 1.1 million square feet (100,000 square meters). in Madison, WI. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 6 Introduction Over 3,500 products 38 million US dollars invested in research & development 1,440 employees Corporate Mind 16 Sales branches in 1978 Founded in 1.1 million square feet of facilities countries Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Promega Community Touch Headquarters Promega Manufacturing Facilities Branch Office Distributor Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 7 Additional Info Introduction Conscious Leadership Corporate Mind At the heart of science is the understanding of the Vision Promega Corporation grows from a vision where interdependent, complex and dynamic nature of systems. success is measured in meaning generated for people and in This complexity is increasingly true in business environments relationships sustained by both value and purpose. With an as well. In rapidly changing and uncertain environments, eye toward a changing future, Promega continues to refine: our leadership must have the latent capacity of mind and • Our life sciences tools to accelerate discovery and make heart to flourish. We are actively and continuously possible increasingly innovative and practical developing an organizational environment Product Reach applications of advanced technology that fosters the formation of deep personal connections, creates trust in the • Our commitment to improving face of ambiguity to encourage human health conscientious and courageous • Our work environments, action, and supports the which support and perpetuate simultaneous use of intuition curiosity, self-awareness and Planet Aware and intelligence in developing community integration vision and outlook. Ultimately • Our capacity as a stable we also want to provide resource for the growth and space in which everyone transformation of the people has an opportunity for and communities we touch self-awareness, personal People Care transformation and In essence, Promega’s vision professional development. includes all of life and moves us to act on the knowledge that Corporate Purpose, Vision we are all interdependent. and Values Community Touch Purpose Promega exists on an evolutionary frontier where the values of science, business and human well-being intersect. Acknowledging these Promega uses an image of an animal cell to represent corporate interdependencies, Promega cultivates its environment to organization because the cell represents non-hierarchical, allow employees to flourish, develop deep and enduring interdependent structure. relationships with all constituencies and create intelligent life-science solutions. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 8 Additional Info Introduction Values Promega continues to evolve and reflect a set of living Respecting Human Rights As a member to the UN Corporate Mind values that include: Global Compact, Promega follows all regulations regarding • Contribution to the advancement of science for the employment and has zero tolerance for violations of human improvement of life in the world community rights. We are committed to upholding and advancing The Universal Declaration of Human Rights in how our business • Appreciation that we operate as an adaptable living develops productive relationships around the world to continue organism in which each element and human contribution working cooperatively among different customs and cultures. is a vital part of a whole, capable of responding to the Issues that we take very seriously include: emerging complexities of our time Product Reach • Protection of children from exploitation • Personal development through inner and outer exploration and practices of self-awareness • Protection of all workers from compulsory labor • Recognition that both work and home are places to cultivate • Payment of at least minimum wages wholeness and wholeheartedness through learning, • Safe working conditions offering the best of ourselves, integrating new insights Promega complies with all local workplace regulations and Planet Aware and developing inner and outer qualities that allow each ensures that our employees and community members are individual to be present and engaged treated with respect and dignity. We hold the same expectations • Recognition and reward of achievement through creativity, for our suppliers and look to align with organizations that risk taking, process improvements and innovation uphold international human rights and labor standards. • Adaptability and flexibility in the workplace Valuing Diversity As a global company, we People Care believe in and practice equal opportunity and affirmative action. We acknowledge and honor the fundamental value and dignity of all individuals. We pledge ourselves to creating and maintaining an environment that respects diverse traditions, heritages, experiences, and perspectives. With offices Community Touch in 16 culturally diverse locations, the organization benefits from the unique cultures and experiences of all employees. Women represent approximately 48% of employees worldwide and occupy 45% of management positions in the United States. Additional Info Promega Corporation grows from a vision where success is measured in meaning generated for people and in relationships sustained by both value and purpose. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 9 Introduction Corporate Governance Investments in the Future Corporate Mind Promega is governed by a Board of Directors, while daily Promega has long believed in the philosophy that to be truly operations are led by the Corporate Leadership Team sustainable, an organization must evolve as the world and and global Branch Managers. This diverse group brings customer needs change. The key to addressing this challenge wide-ranging expertise and unique country experience to is to have a long-term vision and strategy. As a result, we look management decisions. As the guiding force of the company, at human needs in an effort to anticipate our customers’ needs this group is responsible for setting company strategy and while providing an inspiring place for employees to work. We providing organizational oversight. continue to be committed to building a long-term sustainable Product Reach future through investments in innovation, people, products and services, facilities and infrastructure. Our focus on investing in the future continued in 2016 Planet Aware through scientific innovation, expansion of global facilities and advancing our technical and leadership capabilities. These investments helped in meeting customer needs and People Care generating continued value. Global General Managers gather in Madison, WI Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 10 Additional Info Introduction Research Growing investment in innovative research hub, Promega GmbH (the largest overseas Promega Corporate Mind resulted in 64 new patent filings in 2016, bringing our operation), and the European branch of Terso Solutions. It intellectual property library to over 300 granted patents and will also have a substantial instrument service space, staff nearly 240 pending patents. In addition, 15 new products amenities and capacity to host moderate scale meetings. were launched fulfilling customer needs by: The three level facility will be about 150,000 square feet, and will comply with or exceed the strenuous energy • Aiding development of antibody-based treatments performance and green building standards of German • Advancing food safety testing Building Codes. Promega Germany staff and the Global Product Reach • Improving methods for studying cellular changes Planning Team are using high environmental performance values in the design with a goal to make this new facility • Expediting inquiry in research and clinical labs a flagship green project representing Promega in Europe. • Optimizing test development in diagnostic labs Some key sustainable features of this building include a composite wood-concrete structure, a full green roof Branch Expansion Mindful focus on building a long-term with photovoltaic panels, optimized day-lighting with sustainable organization, along with continued investment automated exterior shading systems, HVAC systems that Planet Aware in infrastructure, will enable Promega to meet the rapidly leverage natural ventilation with active slab heating and changing needs of the scientific community. cooling using a geothermal heat pump as well as heat • Promega Germany (GmbH) is designing and building a recovery. The project will be breaking ground in June 2017 major new facility to house the European distribution and will be completed in early 2019. People Care Community Touch Additional Info Rendering of new facility for Promega GmbH Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 11 Introduction • A  new Promega UK facility has been in • R  enovation and expansion of labs and office spaces at Corporate Mind preliminary planning and will soon be entering Promega Biosciences, San Luis Obispo, began in 2016 detailed design phase. The two level facility and was completed in early 2017. As the organic chemistry will be about 18,000 square feet and will center of Promega, this expansion increases analytical comply with or exceed the strenuous energy performance and process development capabilities while improving and green building standards in the newest UK Green overall employee workspace and experience. Building Council Code. Promega UK staff and the Global Planning Team are planning to incorporate high Product Reach environmental performance values in the design of this new facility with the desire to make it a notable green project for the research park where it will be located. In addition, a training center consisting of a laboratory and lecture room will be incorporated into its design. This training center is intended in part for use with local schools and colleges for educating, inspiring and enthusing young Planet Aware people about life sciences. The project is on schedule for an early 2019 completion. Renovated labs at Promega Biosciences People Care Supply Chain Management Promega recognizes the effect and importance that suppliers have in the scope of our Corporate Responsibility, and forms partnerships with companies that have similar commitments. Community Touch Our Supplier Code of Conduct outlines our expectations relating to business ethics, labor, health and safety, and environmental responsibility. This document is communicated to new and existing suppliers to encourage collaboration in Drawing of the proposed new Promega UK facility these areas. A focus on sourcing from local suppliers also supports local communities and reduces environmental effects from shipping. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 12 Additional Info Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info Product Reach 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Red Blood Cell Introduction Product Reach Corporate Mind “ Promega’s creating discovery innovation driven by our scientific curiosity is focused on Product Reach tools that address the key challenges in the search for diagnostics and therapies to improve the quality of life. ” —Thomas Livelli, Vice President, Life Sciences Planet Aware The biotechnology era started when researchers discovered customers adopted Promega technology in reporter gene that they could freely access DNA and create predictable and cell viability assays as the gold standard in drug recombinant molecules. For Promega, that era started by candidate screening. Oncology, infection, inflammation, offering quality restriction enzymes that could cut DNA in neurodegenerative, and rare disease research segments People Care specific ways. That early work in enzyme production was each have examples of drugs developed using Promega the cornerstone to quality that now allows Promega to offer bioluminescent technologies in the discovery process. Current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) enzymes for In recent years this technology has greatly enhanced the use in clinical diagnostic assays. development of new biologic based drugs for cancer treatment. Promega cellular analysis products have become Building on internal transcription and translation capabilities, so successful that many pharmaceutical companies Community Touch Promega expanded the tools available to our customers now partner directly with Promega to create individually including: coupled transcription and translation systems, customized solutions for their unique needs. amplification systems (PCR), DNA sequencing, and other tools for genomics and cell biology research. Some of these Because of high-quality, reliable “tool kits” at their disposal, tools were applied to solve specific unmet needs in civil researchers have more freedom to focus on specific society including forensic human identification. questions at the forefront of scientific discovery or clinical practice. The end result is better science, using better tools, In addition to the fundamental in vitro tools and applications, for faster answers. Additional Info Promega pioneered the applied use of bioluminescence enabling high throughput live-cell analytics. Drug discovery Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 14 Introduction Customer Focus Corporate Mind Forensics and Paternity Laboratories Forensics and paternity laboratories deal with tremendous swabs, or cuttings of stained fabric prior to quantification caseloads and tight turnaround times. Dependable results, of human DNA. The streamlined protocol will enable crime throughput, and reliable product supply are critical in this labs to more efficiently and effectively address these difficult setting. These labs use limited, and often challenging samples samples. to develop law enforcement leads from crime scenes. Sexual Product Reach In addition, forensics and paternity labs help bring closure assault evidence kit backlogs and property crime samples to families whose loved ones are missing or lost in mass are some of the more challenging samples for labs to disasters, and even help exonerate those who have been process. Promega offers a menu of tools for forensic and wrongly convicted of a crime. Researchers and analysts need paternity labs for each step in the forensic workflow, from to know that they will get optimal and reliable results from the pre-processing and differential extraction to quantification, valuable and often irreplaceable samples. Launching soon, STR amplification, and analysis. The new Promega custom the Spectrum CE System will enable more efficient STR Planet Aware Casework Direct Kit is designed for rapid processing of analysis and enhanced workflow flexibility, built with input swabs from casework samples, cuttings of sexual assault from analysts throughout the field. More than ever before, labs will be able to receive more information from challenging sample types, save time with increased sample processing capacity, and experience the flexibility to add samples during runs. All of this will be available with the same high level of People Care service and support that customers have come to expect from Promega. Promega has worked with forensic and paternity laboratories for more than 30 years and supports their challenging workflow by providing products for efficient DNA extraction Community Touch through discriminating STR analysis. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 15 Additional Info Introduction Solving Challenging Human Identify Cases Corporate Mind Case One: Case Two: It can be agonizing for the families of crime victims when On October 23, 2016, three explorers unexpectedly stumbled investigations go cold, leaving no leads and the possibility upon bone remains in a dried-up salt lake, deep in the desert of closure elusive. That very scenario was playing out in in the Qinghai Province of China. Next to the remains rested China for the families of loved ones killed in three unrelated a knapsack, which contained a newspaper and several homicides from 2004, 2009 and 2010. In each case, there was personal letters. From these valuable clues, investigators Product Reach little concrete evidence, no suspects, and diminishing hope were able to piece together that the owner of the sack might that anyone would ever be convicted for the heinous crimes. have originally been from Bazhong, in the Sichuan Province, a distance of greater than 1000 kilometers. Then just last year, a DNA laboratory in the province of Qinghai made a startling discovery. After applying the Powerplex® Genetic analysts extracted DNA from bone remains and then 21 and Powerplex® Y23 Systems from Promega, analyses used the Promega Powerplex 21® system to analyze the DNA. of the DNA data in China’s National Database led to three This information matched to a potential DNA profile in their Planet Aware independent potential DNA matches. The advanced chemistry database and led to a potential identity – a missing person of these Powerplex® kits provided the data needed to link named Zhong Hua Li who had left home in 1960, never to be DNA evidence isolated from the three homicide cases from seen again. Investigators succeeded in tracking down Mr. Li’s years before. All three suspects were subsequently arrested wife, now 88 years of age, along with their two daughters. and sentenced, and the families of those victims obtained Using DNA extracted from blood samples from these living closure for which they had been waiting. relatives, a comparison to the DNA isolated from the bone People Care remains confirmed Mr. Li’s identity, even though he had died 55 years earlier. Finally this family found closure, and a longstanding investigation into the disappearance of this man was forever closed. Community Touch Additional Info Genetic analysts work together to determine the identity of bone remains using Powerplex®. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 16 Introduction Government and Academic Research Helping Scientists in the fields of Africa Laboratories Corporate Mind While Promega has received many requests for Basic researchers in academic laboratories or government donations over the years, one of the more interesting research centers are often early adopters of new technologies ones came from Virginia Riddle Pearson, elephant that are later incorporated into industrial settings. The ability scientist. She was conducting fieldwork tracking strains to miniaturize or automate such technologies is important of the herpes virus within elephant populations in because it allows these scientists to focus exclusively on, South Africa and Botswana. The nature of her work and streamline, their research processes. Promega continues required that she use a portable field lab (a tent) while Product Reach to develop improved technologies for routine DNA and RNA she collected and analyzed samples. These conditions isolation, analysis and amplification, and protein and cellular proved difficult in ensuring the quality of her samples biology that support researchers seeking to understand and she needed a polymerase that could be transported fundamental principles of biology. for several days at room temperature. Enter GoTaq® G2 Taq polymerase from Promega. This donation from Promega allowed Virginia to continue successfully Planet Aware conducting experiments and pursuing her work. In a thank you note, she wrote, “The sequence results using Promega’s GoTaq G2 are providing superior data, so critical for the future survival of elephants in the wild.” Virginia Pearson, elephant scientist and conservationist Ms. Pearson is currently working as People Care a visiting scientist at the Fox Chase Cancer Center and continues to work towards identifying the variety of herpesvirus strains native to the elephant population. She has been Community Touch comparing sequence results from saliva and blood samples she collected to test their efficiency as a pre-diagnostic tool for pathogenic herpesvirus treatment in the elephant population. Her current product of choice is GoTaq® G2 Hot Start Green Additional Info Master Mix, which she describes as “my workhorse!” Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 17 Introduction Pharmaceutical and Biotechnology Industries Applied Biotechnology and Agriculture Corporate Mind Scientists developing small molecule drugs within the Today, biotechnology tools once used solely by researchers pharmaceutical industry need reliable assays and reagents are used in applications to test food and water. Applications because they often screen up to hundreds of thousands of include tests for purity, bacteria and other elements to ensure compounds at a time. Screening requires assay technologies safe products and authenticate quality claims. that generate in vitro data predictive of in vivo results so that expensive failures such as “false positives” and off-target For plant and food analysis, we provide sample preparation effects are avoided. As small molecule drug discovery has tools that can be used to extract DNA for use in pathogen Product Reach moved toward phenotypic screening, there is a new challenge and GMO testing for nearly all food matrices. Promega identifying the specific target of the small molecule that DNA purification chemistry is considered to be a reference produces the desired phenotypic change. Once the protein standard in authenticity determination of meat products, and target of the small molecule is identified, scientists must be has been used by the European Union Reference Laboratory able to measure the drug’s activity, such as affinity and drugfor Animal Proteins in feeding stuffs (EURL) to develop a target residence time. The Promega NanoBRET™ Target Standard Operating Procedure for the extraction of DNA for downstream PCR-based detection methods for food testing. Planet Aware Engagement Assay enables measurement of compound binding at select target proteins in intact cells, in real time. In water and hygiene analysis, our ATP bioluminescence expertise is already very well adopted. Several groups have Scientists in the biopharma industry need the best analytical published methods using the BacTiter-Glo™ luminescent tools to functionally and structurally characterize large ATP-based assay for the assessment of water quality and molecule “biologic” therapeutics. Promega has a suite of bioluminescent, cell-based People Care reporter bioassays that are used in the discovery and development phases of biologics. Cancer immunotherapy has a bright future in the war on this pervasive class of diseases, and Promega has Community Touch a rapidly expanding portfolio of such bioassays. In addition, Promega has generated many proprietary enzymes used in the structural characterization of biologics by mass spectrometry. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 18 Additional Info Introduction biofilm formation. The Water-Glo™ luminescent ATP-based Ensuring Water Quality in Zurich Corporate Mind assay builds on this with new applications to detect microbes in seawater desalination, drinking water and other industrial Zurich, Switzerland, built at the confluence of the River process applications to reduce energy consumption and Limmat and Lake Zurich, is known for its excellent improve plant operational efficiency. The Water-Glo™ quality drinking water that flows from the city’s water luminescent ATP is in final development stages and currently taps, as well as from its 1,200 public fountains. Yet offered through the Promega Custom Assay Services water quality is something that must be examined to system. ensure quality and public health. For many years, the Product Reach Wasserversorgung Zurich (City of Zurich Water Utility) The tools Promega offers make microbial contamination monitored microbial contaminations of the water supply detection in crude oil and heavy fuels possible, thus reducing using traditional microbiologic methods that took days the use of bactericidal chemicals in those processes. The to report a result. Promega is the global leader in number and variety of projects is expanding significantly in creating tools to detect adenosine triphosphate (ATP) areas such as minerals, microtox, or dairy product testing, in living cells. ATP is an essential element in all living and continues to grow as the quality of Promega products cells and organisms, so even the slightest change in Planet Aware gains more and more visibility. ATP levels acts as an early warning system to help assess microbial load and the possible presence of dangerous pathogens in water. However, until recently, no one was able to provide a tool that could quickly analyze ATP levels in up to 96 samples containing a broad range of water-borne bacteria in less than 90 People Care minutes. In 2016, these techniques were implemented in a collaboration between Promega and the City of Zurich Water Utility using the new Water-Glo™ technology. ATP levels in complex mixtures of Community Touch naturally occurring bacteria are difficult to detect. The Water-Glo technology uses a novel lysis and detection reagent combination to reach levels of detection 10-100 times lower than similar methods. Typically, processing multiple samples of water has involved using multiple culture plates and extensive hands-on labor. Now the 96-well plate method facilitates water quality monitoring Additional Info An employee for the city of Zurich uses Water-Glo™ of hundreds of sampling points in Zurich’s water technology to ensure the highest quality drinking water for treatment plants and the distribution net. residents. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 19 Introduction Clinical and Molecular Diagnostics Laboratories Equipping Zika Researchers Corporate Mind Molecular diagnostic laboratories rely on access to highIn the beginning of 2014, Brazil was affected by quality, consistently performing products in their assays. several cases of fetal and newborn microcephaly, a Promega manufactures reagents under a rigorous quality congenital condition associated with incomplete brain program that contributes to robust and reliably performing development. In addition, the number of dengue and molecular assays. Products are manufactured to the highest chikungunya cases continued to increase at alarming quality standards through maintenance of ISO 9001 & ISO levels. Because the vectors of all three diseases are 13485 certification as well as enhanced capabilities for cGMP Product Reach the same, researchers asked if those microcephaly manufacturing. The Promega PCR Optimization Kit, cases were related to the vector. launched in 2016, allows customers to rapidly define their own unique PCR master mix for a variety of applications in Gubio Soares is a well-known Brazilian research or clinical use. This is just one example of how we virologist who had discovered the presence can provide flexible solutions with product customization of Zika Virus in Brazil, leading other options to meet clinical laboratory or IVD manufacturers’ researchers to report microcephaly linked Planet Aware needs. to Zika Virus. Many of these laboratories never had any experience with qPCR assays before the emergence of these diseases. Because of the support of Promega scientists and reagents, today they are performing these critical assays independently. People Care Brazilian virologist Gubio Soares Campos. (Photo by Christophe Simon/AFP/Getty Images) Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 20 Additional Info Introduction Quality Process and Product 64 products Corporate Mind The Promega campus in Madison, WI, USA, was first certified to international standards for quality management systems in 15 1998 and, along with Promega Biological Products, Shanghai, China, is currently certified to both the ISO 13485 and ISO launched 9001 standards. Certification to these standards ensures our customers that research products and medical devices new patent are developed, manufactured, tested and delivered to the applications Product Reach highest quality standards. Currently, 16 locations are certified 542 to meet the requirements of ISO 9001, ISO 13485 or both. Promega plays an essential part in ensuring compliance with applicable laws and regulations in the development and distribution of safe and effective products worldwide. We are committed to compliance with or exceeding the Planet Aware requirements of all applicable environmental, health, and issued patents safety laws and regulations. Investments for the Future To sustain contributions to scientific exploration and & pending applications People Care application, we will continue to invest in the development and discovery of new technologies. In 2016, over $38 million (US) was invested in research and development, and 64 new patent applications were filed. Promega has an extensive intellectual property portfolio because of sustained global Community Touch investment in research and development. We also work with academic institutions and other entities to license and develop promising technologies. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 21 Additional Info Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Employees work in a Feynman Center quality control lab at our Madison headquarters. Additional Info Promega continues to develop improved technologies for routine DNA and RNA isolation. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 22 Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info Planet Aware 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Nucleus Introduction Corporate Mind Planet Aware “ Bto ecause our most precious gift is our planet, there’s nothing more important Product Reach do than to protect it for us and the coming generations. Protecting means a daily engagement for everyone everywhere. If we do individually, we will be stronger and a more positive protector for our planet. Do it for all life! Protecting Earth is protecting life and everyone’s concern. ” Planet Aware —Nicolas Bardonnet, General Manager, Promega France Promega has a longstanding commitment to sustainability In 2016, our global distribution hub, the Kepler Center, saw its and continues to use it as a measure to evaluate operations first full year in operation. Our building footprint has increased People Care globally. We are conscious that our decisions today will by 84% since 2008 with over 90% of this growth in high energy influence the future of our business, our communities, and intensive laboratory, manufacturing and logistics spaces. Even our natural environment. Our long-term focus has resulted with this increase, we have been able to hold our carbon in investment in an infrastructure that will enable sustainable emissions constant relative to our building footprint. growth for many years to come. Environmental sustainability remains a core value for how Promega designs and builds We continue to work toward our environmental reduction Community Touch facilities, as evidenced by energy benchmarking completed goals in the areas of greenhouse gas emissions, electricity, last year. Data from the Lawrence Berkley National Laboratory natural gas, water, outgoing product distribution emissions, has shown that our facilities are in line with the best-in-class and waste. While our recent increase in building footprint has laboratories on energy efficiency. This can be attributed to challenged this goal, it also has enabled the incorporation of investments in facility operations, with the addition of several cutting edge approaches to resource conservation across new specialists trained in energy efficiency. Our Global Facilities and existing facilities. Our targets represent key sources of Planning Team places an emphasis on designing and building our environmental impacts, but our efforts are not limited to those areas. We recognize that there are opportunities in all Additional Info highly efficient facilities that are durable, flexible and timeless that will serve for many decades. aspects of our business, and we repeatedly evaluate how to reduce our affect on the environment at all operations globally. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 24 Introduction 90% Corporate Mind Lab ft2 Logistics ft2 Office ft2 Carbon Footprint Shadow increase in Product Reach energy intensive facilities 2008 2016 6% decrease in our carbon footprint as Planet Aware People Care Community Touch indexed to building footprint using sustainable design practices & state-of-the-art technologies Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 25 Additional Info Introduction Responding to Climate Change Global Progress Carbon Footprint CarbonToward Footprint Goal Corporate Mind Promega supports the move to limit anthropogenic 112 105 105 106 SCOPE 1 103 101 Tons of C02 Per Million in Revenue greenhouse gas emissions and actively tracks contributions 94 93 2020 Goal to climate change from all operations globally. We take into 83 SCOPE 2 account direct emissions from fuel combustion (scope 1), emissions from purchased electricity (scope 2), and indirect emissions from business travel, outgoing distribution, water Product Reach usage and paper usage (scope 3). Due to newly added SCOPE 3 facilities, meeting our 2020 carbon footprint target will be a challenge, yet Promega remains committed to reaching the goal. 2008 2016 14236MA Figure 1. Global Carbon footprint as indexed to revenue. This includes direct emissions from fuel combustion (scope 1), emissions from purchased electricity (scope 2), and indirect emissions from business travel, outgoing Planet Aware distribution, water usage and paper usage (scope 3). Promega supports the move to CarbonGlobal Carbon Footprint Footprint Composition Composition limit anthropogenic greenhouse People Care 19% 53% Electrical Usage gas emissions and actively tracks Natural Gas contributions to climate change 2% Air Travel from all operations globally. Auto Travel Community Touch Rail Travel 7% Water Paper 19% Distribution 14227MA Figure 2. Global carbon footprint composition. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 26 Additional Info Introduction Electricity Progress Towards Goal Minimizing Electricity Usage and Emissions Electricity Corporate Mind Emissions from energy account for over 70% of our gross 83.7 79.9 79.7 81.4 Thousand kWh per Million in Revenue carbon footprint. Efforts to offset impacts of electricity usage 77.0 2020 68.8 67.7 Goal include investing in energy efficiency, generating electricity 67.8 61.4 from rooftop solar panels and purchasing electricity from renewable sources. Additionally, we make a concerted effort to encourage every employee to minimize energy consumption on a daily basis. The additional energy usage Product Reach by the Kepler Center in 2016 caused consumption to increase by 2% as indexed to revenue in 2016. Notable efforts to conserve energy in the last year included: 2008 2016 14228MA • Participation in the Wisconsin Focus on Energy’s “On Figure 3. Global electricity usage as indexed to revenue. Demand Saving Pilot Program” allowed our facilities team to monitor energy usage in real-time. This information led Planet Aware to optimization of control setting and other changes that reduced usage of air handling units on the Promega Madison campus. • High energy efficient ultra-low temperature freezers for the global logistics headquarters, People Care the Kepler Center, in Madison, WI, use up to 45% less energy than previous freezers. • Installation of a more efficient process chiller in 2016 at the Rosalind Franklin Center in Madison, WI, enables more efficient cooling. Community Touch Additional Info High efficiency ultra-low temperature freezers at Kepler Center in Madison, WI, help minimize energy usage. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 27 Introduction Our use of renewable energy has increased by more than 18-fold to revenue as a result of investments to enhance the efficiency of Corporate Mind since 2008. Promega facilities that use 100% renewable energy existing facilities. Geothermal wells, solar water heaters, and heat sources include: capture technology in many facilities minimize heating requirements and related emissions. Recent initiatives to conserve natural gas • Promega Brazil in Sao Paulo usage include: • Promega Italia in Milan • Use of heat recovery systems on ultra-low temperature freezers • Promega Biotech Ibérica in Alcobendas, Spain to supplement heating for the Kepler Center. These systems • Promega Biotech AB in Stockholm, Sweden also eliminate the cooling demand of the facility and conserve Product Reach electricity. • Promega GmbH and Promega Euro Hub in Mannheim, Germany • Completion of an environmental audit at Promega France has encouraged our team to evaluate • The Aviation Operations building in Madison, WI, is our largest options for more efficient heating and better renewable energy producer with over 250 solar panels and insulation. Updates to this facility are in the geothermal wells for heating and cooling planning phase and should be completed in 2017. Planet Aware Also, The da Vinci facility in Madison, WI, although it does not use Direct air emissions are monitored from combustion of fuel 100% renewable energy sources, has 48 solar panels and extensive purchased for heating and emergency generators in North sky lighting. America. Promega emissions fall below the threshold levels set by local and federal organizations, and we continue to explore further enhancements. People Care Natural Gas Natural Gas Progress Toward Goal 3,822 3,389 3,444 3,392 3,139 Therms per Million in Revenue 2020 2,919 Goal 2,771 2,560 Community Touch 2,083 Use of photovoltaic panels at Promega contributes to minimizing environmental impacts from energy usage. Conserving Natural Gas 2008 2016 Natural gas is our largest source of direct air emissions and third 14229MA in overall emissions for Promega. Natural gas is used primarily at Additional Info Figure 4. Natural gas usage as indexed to revenue. manufacturing sites for heating and production-related processes. In the last year, our natural gas usage decreased by 2% as indexed Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 28 Introduction Global Distribution Emissions Tracking and Reducing Impacts from Product Global Distribution Emissions Distribution Corporate Mind 27 27 27 25 Tons of CO2 per Million in Revenue Promega invests significant effort to ensure that our products 23 23 get to customers quickly and safely. We are focused on 21 21 20 2020 Goal reducing air emissions from outgoing distribution by decreasing the size and weight of packaging materials and using efficient modes of transportation. As a result of this ongoing focus, we have seen emissions per revenue consistently decrease Product Reach and are now down 25% compared to 2008. To understand the indirect emissions from outgoing shipments, data were 2008 2016 collected from Promega-owned global distribution hubs on 14230MA weight, distance, and mode of transportation. Figure 5. Global distribution emissions as indexed to revenue. The Promega Euro Hub, our distribution center in Mannheim, Germany, is continually focused on optimizing packaging Planet Aware materials to minimize environmental impacts. In 2016, Euro smaller shipping boxes & Hub successfully used 20% less dry ice per shipment which resulted in less weight and carbon emissions. Several projects in North America and Europe resulted in the use of smaller optimized shipping boxes and packaging improvements that have reduced weight and the amount of dry ice used. packaging materials less dry ice People Care 25% reduction since 2008 Community Touch in distribution emissions/revenue Additional Info The 2016 Global Logistics Summit in Mannheim, Germany at our European logistics headquarters. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 29 Introduction Efficient Product Delivery with Our Helix On-Site In addition, Promega purchases carbon credits to offset the Stocking System Our state-of-the-art, on-site inventory Corporate Mind greenhouse gas emissions from energy use of the Helix® management system, Helix®, further reduces emissions System from shipment to distribution to stocking. In 2016, through precise consolidated restocking shipments. The Helix® offset 775 tons of emissions worldwide by supporting Helix® program uses RFID technology that tracks product use the following projects: in real time, and results in more efficient shipping practices. • Reforestation projects in Texas and Arkansas, USA This automated inventory management system ensures that customers have uninterrupted access to supplies while • Sichuan Household Biodigester Project in China Product Reach reducing the impact on our planet. Since 2010, the Helix has offset over 4,500 tons of carbon dioxide. To see more information and learn how to participate, please visit www.promega.com/helix Planet Aware Household biodigesters in China. People Care Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 30 Additional Info Business Travel Carbon Footprint Introduction Minimizing Impacts from Business Travel Business Travel Carbon Footprint Corporate Mind Travel is essential for supporting our customers and working 11 10 Tons of CO2 per Million in Revenue with collaborators. We are committed to minimizing impacts 10 10 9 9 9 9 from travel by using fuel-efficient vehicles and environmentally 8 sensitive modes of transportation. Business travel via air, automobile, and rail comprise approximately 10% of our current carbon footprint. In the last year we saw a 9% reduction in emission per revenue from business travel. Product Reach Efficient Travel For several years Promega has actively 2008 2016 sought out fuel-efficient vehicles for our usage. Promega 14231MA Benelux, Promega UK, Promega Italia, Promega AG in Figure 6. Emissions from business travel take into account air, automoSwitzerland and Promega KK in Japan have moved to a more bile, and rail travel at all global locations. efficient and ecologically sound fleet, leading to improved Planet Aware fuel efficiency of vehicles globally. In the United States, we have continued participation in the Emkay GoGreen fleet program which has enabled us to increase usage of highefficiency vehicles. In addition, this program plants trees to compensate for unavoidable greenhouse gas emissions. Since our enrollment in 2009, we have offset 2,850 tons People Care of CO2 exclusively through this effort. Our newest branch, Promega Biotech India, uses Metro Rail as the primary source of transportation to eliminate fuel usage and air emissions. We also encourage the use of electric vehicles by employees to minimize greenhouse gas Community Touch emission from transportation. We have installed electric vehicle charging stations across our Promega Madison campus, Promega Benelux, Promega BioSystems and Promega Biosciences in California. This covers two-thirds of our employees globally and we are looking to expand this at other locations. Additional Info Electric vehicle at Promega AG in Switzerland. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 31 Introduction Alternative Transportation Alternate transportation Preserving Natural Capital Corporate Mind programs have been implemented in a number of locations worldwide to reduce environmental impacts. Employees Minimizing Waste are encouraged to use public transportation, ridesharing To reduce waste generation, Promega locations globally or biking-to-work. All buildings at Promega Madison focus on improving recycling programs and increasing and Promega Biosciences in California offer bicycles for employee awareness of waste minimization practices. In employees to use, as well as resources to support cyclists, the past this has included piloting composting programs, including access to pumps and bike repair kits. Many identifying specific materials to be segregated for recycling Product Reach locations worldwide have similar programs in place. and encouraging reuse by providing permanent ware in cafeterias and kitchenettes. Employees embrace the mantra “Reduce, Reuse, Recycle” and have championed this effort. In 2016, we saw waste increase by 12% as indexed to revenue due to our newest facility, the Kepler Center. Recent efforts to reduce waste include: Planet Aware • In 2016, we began recycling nitrile gloves and protective garments through the RIGHTCYCLE program in select Madison facilities. This diverted nearly 2,000 pounds of Employees are encouraged to use waste from landfills. Because of its success, this program is alternative transnow being rolled out across all Promega Madison buildings portation such as and is being considered at other global facilities. People Care ridesharing or biking.  nvironmental problems are a growing concern, so cars that reduce CO2 “ Eemission Community Touch are more likely to impress people than a showy sports car. We live in Tokyo, without a car, and that is probably our most important contribution to saving the environment. —Masahiro Ueda, General Manager, Promega KK ” Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 32 Additional Info Introduction • A  n annual electronics recycling drive at our Promega Non-Hazardous Waste Corporate Mind Madison Earth Day celebration collected over 9,500 pounds 14 of materials from employees. 44 30 30 28 Cubic Feet per Million in Revenue 31 22 26 20 • P  romega has recycled more than 150,000 pipette tip boxes through a recycling program that diverts more than 5,000 557 486 501 539 508 489 513 485 632 pounds from landfills each year. Landfill/Recycling/Incineration 2020 Goal • A  composting program piloted by Promega BioSystems Product Reach in their Sunnyvale, California community, in addition to 568 528 535 501 434 469 443 514 588 expanded recycling, resulted in an 80% reduction in waste going to the landfill. 2008 2016 14232MA • In Europe, we arrange for recycling of all instrumentation Figure 7. Non-hazardous waste as indexed to revenue. and electronics at the end of life in compliance with the Planet Aware Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) directive and are looking to provide Global Hazardous Waste Hazardous Waste a similar program for instrument recycling in North America. 62 RECYCLED/TREATED/INCINERATED 65 Pounds of Waste Per Million in Revenue 49 Managing Hazardous and Infectious Wastes In the 42 138 167 63 People Care biotech industry, manufacturing processes can require work with potentially hazardous substances. We understand the responsibility that comes with the use of these materials, as 616 737 713 366 253 252 well as the obligation to reduce waste and ensure proper disposal. To further reduce emissions associated with hazardous waste, we have partnered with specialized handlers Community Touch 55 42 350 165 307 373 615 644 where over 90% of waste is treated for reuse as fuel or recycled 9 2009 2016 to minimize environmental impacts. 14233MA Figure 8. Hazardous wastes as indexed to revenue. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 33 Additional Info Introduction Conserving Water Corporate Mind Promega continually evaluates initiatives to conserve water in manufacturing, landscaping, and daily office tasks. In the last year, water usage decreased by 2% as indexed to revenue. Notable reductions were seen at Shanghai Promega and Promega France. Many global locations incorporate design features to conserve Product Reach and ensure proper disposal of water. Offices in Sydney, Australia, collect rain water for cleaning, toilets, and irrigation of plants. Similarly, the Madison-based global headquarters uses rainwater collection and rain gardens for natural filtration. Promega Biosciences in San Luis Obispo, California, has a long history of water conservation projects, from automatic and low flow faucets, to a custom water recirculating system for Planet Aware distilled water. Since 2009, gross water usage has decreased by over 50% at this facility despite a significant increase in headcount and manufacturing levels. Water toward Water usage progress Usagegoal People Care 106 Thousand Gallons Per Million in Revenue 90 88 2020 75 73 74 Goal 71 68 71 Community Touch 2008 2016 14234MA Figure 9. Water usage as indexed to revenue. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 34 Additional Info Rain gardens in the Prairie Swale at Promega Corporation in Madison, WI. Introduction Connecting with Customers without Paper Corporate Mind In 2008, Promega made significant efforts to transition away Expanded use of modern technologies and emerging media from printed catalogs, instruction manuals, print marketing, channels in recent years has enhanced communication with and a majority of other printed corporate communications. customers and has further reduced the need for printed The adoption of electronic communications allowed total materials. Since 2012, we have seen paper usage reduce paper usage to be reduced by 80%. by an additional 50% as indexed to revenue. When paper Paper Usage Progress Toward Goal is needed we use recycled paper and duplex printing to minimize paper consumption. Our commitment to reduce Product Reach Paper Usage paper and its impact include: 633 • Integrating the use of iPads and other tablets to better Reams per Million in Revenue serve customers while eliminating the use of printed resources. Field Application Specialists in North America, along with branches in Europe and Pacific Asia now regularly use tablets to avoid printing. Planet Aware 117 • Sending electronic copies of various documents to 108 97 71 53 75 customers who do not want a printed copy, which has 35 39 resulted in a savings of over 5,000 pieces of paper a month. 2008 2016 14235MA • Offering electronic invoices in our European branches Figure 10. Paper usage as indexed to revenue. to customers as a way to reduce unnecessary printing People Care and paper usage. Promega Benelux has illustrated great success of this initiative with over 75% of customers using e-invoicing in 2016. Community Touch “ Oa neproblem of the true tests of leadership is the ability to recognize and deal with before it becomes an emergency. Poor leadership deals with the emergency without recognizing the problem. ” —Han Willems, General Manager, Promega Benelux Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 35 Additional Info Introduction Reducing Packaging Corporate Mind Many Promega products are temperature sensitive, creating To reduce environmental impacts of packaging, Promega has: unique requirements in packaging that involve use of dry ice, gel ice, and foam coolers. We continually consider the impact of • S  witched to smaller shipping boxes to use less packaging packaging on the environment, and search for innovative ways material. to reduce packaging, use environmentally friendly materials, • I ncorporated new materials that provide better insulation and design for recycling or reuse. Environmental sustainability, and reduce dry ice needed. product protection and quality are all key priorities. Product Reach • I mplemented packaging designs that minimize air space that also reduce dry ice and weight of shipments. • C  hanged to unbleached shipping boxes that contain sustainably harvested materials. • U  sed biodegradable and recyclable air pouches that protect our products with fewer environmental impacts. Planet Aware The overall material usage of product packaging has not been quantified, and we are looking at ways to capture this. We regularly evaluate procedures and investigate potential improvements to reduce environmental impacts of packaging and product handling. People Care Community Touch Additional Info New Promega shipping boxes promote local recycling to reduce environmental impacts. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 36 Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info People Care2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Muscle Introduction Corporate Mind People Care believe that Promega provides the opportunity and space for each of us to “ Igrow Product Reach as individuals and professionals. Our culture is one that cares about our people – our greatest asset. ” Planet Aware —Gayle Paul, Director Human Resources Operations People Care Employee well-being at Promega continues to be one of where individual differences are respected. Promega aims our most valued objectives and we support the passion to be a healthy place to grow oneself, our business, and our and creativity employees bring to their work, their personal shared cultural spaces. interests, and also their community involvement. We strive to enrich the lives of those who work here and invest Community Touch heavily in supporting their well-being and growth. By allowing employees to develop strengths within their roles at Promega, we are able to support and nurture one another, and we ascribe our overall success to the dedication and commitment of our employees. Our 19 worldwide locations embrace the relationship between employee and company by providing support in ways that Additional Info meet individual needs in each region. Employees are given flexibility in how they work and can thrive in an environment Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 38 Introduction Work Environment Corporate Mind As a business based on creative output and employee loyalty and satisfaction, Promega pays considerable attention to environmental quality and stimulating experiences in the workplace. This is achieved by creating unique Product Reach workspaces that incorporate ample natural lighting, original and rotating art, high-quality furniture, third spaces to evolve thinking, space to exercise and meditate, and local healthy dining options. Planet Aware Employees are engaged in design of new space and the renovation of existing workspaces to improve functionality, ergonomics and foster group collaboration. This process considers all aspects of a space Considerable attention is placed on providing People Care from types and quality of lighting, sound levels, and air creative and unique workspaces. flow. Additionally, customizable office spaces for employees encourage creativity and collaboration. Architecture and design that “brings the outdoors in” encourages an appreciation of natural beauty. This was accomplished in the Feynman Center in Madison, WI, by incorporating native Community Touch plants and materials from the surrounding prairie, and a “We want to make workplaces that winter garden featuring 7,000 plantings of 40 species of native and tropical plants inhabiting a living wall, adding life people wish to come back to.” and warmth to the building. Locations globally incorporate —William A. Linton, President and CEO local resources, art, and culture to provide comfortable, functional and unique work environments. The priority is to create environments with an attention to detail that is Additional Info inspiring, flexible and aligned with the needs of employees. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 39 Introduction The Promega Culture A corporation’s values will guide c. Physical work environments, including design, Corporate Mind its culture, so those principles must be deliberately woven lighting, communication systems and access to into the fabric of the organization to be truly actualized. The information. psychology of the organization – the “cultural DNA” – provides d. Focus on the resources employees need to do a critical foundation through which company principles and their best work. operations are shaped. For Promega, these principles include: 1. T  he culture nurtures creativity, self-discovery and e. A financial structure that supports organizational individual growth, creating an environment where the goals and values for personal development. Product Reach unique contributions of each employee are embraced. Economic metrics provide guidance on sustainable business practices, but are not the 2. A  belief that both people and companies can self-actualize, only drivers for business decisions. and that growth at either level lifts the other into greater realization of its potential. f. Selection and support of employees who reflect 3. T  he underlying structures reinforce a culture where all our values entering the organization. constituencies (customers, employees, community and Planet Aware 4. T  he nature of the work is based on the premise that life shareholders) can find growth and transformation through: science research and related discoveries have been a. Organizational reporting that provides for easy and will continue to be important to society and human collaborative communication across and at all development. Our contribution to this field is to design levels of the organization. and supply products, systems and services that simplify this research and give more reliable and accurate results. b. Decision making that allows matrixed groups to People Care collectively determine next steps. Decision making Employee feedback from 2016 Climate Surveys and monthly is shared, not controlled, and the organization employee sessions indicated that their greatest satisfaction remains nimble because people in key nodes are comes from working with great people, having managers/ empowered to act, having considered all voices. leaders with high integrity and being a part of a great organization – employees are proud to say they work at Promega. The culture nurtures creativity, self-discovery and individual growth, Community Touch creating an environment where the unique contributions of each employee are embraced. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 40 Additional Info Introduction Cultivating Emotional & Social Intelligence (ESI) Corporate Mind To foster a supportive and dynamic work environment, problem-solving, compassion for self and others, and even Promega embraces the principles of emotional and social physical changes like reduced headaches and improved intelligence (ESI). ESI helps employee improve relationships, blood pressure. Most of all, it brings us together to share our better manage stress, and influence others for the greater practice and see ourselves in new ways. good. To introduce employees to the practice of mindfulness, This year, our ESI teachings grew to include an “ESI Bootcamp”, the ProMindful program is offered. This is comprised of an immersive experience designed to teach ESI skills and 15-minute community sessions including traditional silent and enrich the Promega culture of well-being. Participants took Product Reach guided meditation, mindful movement, sound meditation, and a deep dive into ESI through introspection, dialogue and monthly sessions for people new to mindfulness. Additionally, group process and awakened towards areas of potential through a 3-week ProMindful Parenting course, employees in themselves. Employees reported personal growth, new learned ESI-imbued parenting practices and had a forum to understandings about difficult life circumstances, enlivened share challenges and successes. These forums offer many relationships, greater happiness, and enthusiasm to share different tastes of mindfulness while cultivating self-awareness what they learned. and other-awareness, the building blocks for ESI. We have Planet Aware received much positive feedback, with employees sharing To embed these learnings, Promega employees also created stories of improved patience and communication skills, creative the ESI Core Principles, a set of six practical in-the-moment behaviors to guide and encourage ESI across the company. Many teams are taking up the challenge to develop ESI “micro-experiments” to test ways People Care they might contribute to a vibrant and healthy culture. Community Touch Additional Info Promega employees at the ESI Bootcamp. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 41 Introduction Inviting New Perspectives through ESI Corporate Mind “The foundation of the ESI program at Promega centers what potential it held for improving my health and peace of around 6 core principles – the first being “Check in with mind. After spending some time reflecting on myself and yourself.” As I began my training within this program, I gave looking inward I was able to collaborate with our corporate the least amount of consideration to this principle because Wellness leader to develop a plan for self-care that included I felt as though it was something I had already mastered. meditation (something I have never really believed in) which I Recently though, work challenges have had some negative now incorporate into my daily routine. Checking in with myself allowed me to better understand my limitations and gave Product Reach impacts on my life – including my health (high blood pressure and lack of sleep) and my ability to focus efforts in key areas. me context as to why I may be inclined to react negatively As a leader I have always set high performance standards towards myself when placed under stress in my role at work. for myself, and when I feel like I am not doing all I can it has While I undervalued this core principle in the beginning, I’ve quite a negative effect on my ability to achieve. As I began to truly begun to see how inviting a new perspective could give more consideration to “Check in with yourself,” I realized affect me so positively.” Planet Aware – Promega Leader People Care Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 42 Additional Info Introduction Promega Well-Being Corporate Mind Promega takes a multifaceted approach towards employee well-being, which when considered as a whole can positively impact our employees’ satisfaction and influence their ability to solve problems creatively. Wellness, fitness, benefits, and relaxation are the four pillars that make up our wellbeing program and each serve a unique purpose to ensure employees feel empowered to make healthy choices while Product Reach continuing to excel in the workplace. The Wellness Center at our Madison headquarters is the heart of employee well-being initiatives. Planet Aware Fitness Classes Wellness Fair Promega Wellness offered every week 15 Attendees 260 Employee Safety Employee health and safety is the highest priority. Environmental Health and Safety programs are committed to establishing, maintaining, and improving work environments for the safety and well-being of our employees People Care as well as the communities in which we operate. 748 Promega Wellness Center Promega offers our employees convenient, on-site health access at the Wellness Center “Know Your Numbers” located at our Madison, WI, headquarters. Wellness Health Assessments 1,540 consultations and counseling are available 5 days a week Community Touch with routine care services available which include: • Routine blood draws • Routine immunizations • Travel immunization consultations • Consultation for general health concerns Additional Info • Physical examinations Wellness Center Visits • Physical Therapy Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 43 Introduction Eating Well In an effort to continue to promote a culture of A Journey to Well-being Corporate Mind wellness, employees have access to fresh and local produce at our on-site community garden at the Madison Campus. “On my 39th birthday I decided to start a Thousands of pounds of produce are harvested annually Couch to 5k (C25K) program as I had never from the garden and in conjunction with over three dozen completed one before and wanted to tuck the local farms, healthy and organic menus are available across race under my belt before I turned 40. I had never the facility. Employees may also select their own plots within played a sport in my life, so my 9 week journey the community garden which they may use to exercise their to prepare for the race was an undertaking of dedication and perseverance. After completing Product Reach own green thumbs. my first race I was hooked and continued to train Promega Fitness and compete in races, working my way up to 10ks Promega seeks to encourage healthy lifestyles among and eventually half marathons. I received invaluable employees by providing a wealth of fitness options at our training advice from the Wellness Center staff headquarters and global branches. The Madison campus has and have utilized the physical therapy sessions multiple fitness facilities and offers both group exercise and on-site to help recover from a running-related Planet Aware yoga classes to employees. Most locations also reimburse injury to help get back in shape. The support and health club memberships and support for participation in knowledge I have received at the Wellness Center sports or competitive events like marathons or triathlons. was invaluable as I started and continue on my journey.” – Promega Employee People Care A Sense of Wellness at Work “I have now been employed at Promega for 3.5 years. I continue to be amazed at how wonderful the Promega people are from management on down. We work hard at Promega, but it is always a rewarding Community Touch experience and the appreciation shown for our efforts is beyond compare. I’ve worked at a number of different companies and this has been by far the best company I’ve ever worked at. Every day I thank my lucky stars for having the opportunity to work at Promega!” -Promega Employee Additional Info Promega employees participate in the Dances with Dirt 100K relay. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 44 Introduction Active Team Building Cultivating an environment of unity North American Branch Goes Surfing During the fall between coworkers, teams, and management is an important meeting in California, the North American sales team spent Corporate Mind component to life at Promega. Rapport built on trust and time away from the conference room to learn how to surf or understanding helps employees work together cohesively and hike the cliffs overlooking the ocean. address difficult situations with understanding and empathy for one another. Locations worldwide have found ways to make Promega AG Trek to Malta Our Swiss branch, these team building activities active in 2016: Promega AG team went on a treasure hunt on their 25th anniversary trip on the island of Gozo. They Promega Singapore Explores Langkawi used jeeps and hiked to discover the natural and Product Reach To celebrate their 10th anniversary, Promega cultural beauties of the island. Singapore went cycling and go-karting on a company retreat to Langkawi Island in Malaysia. North America Branch Goes Surfing Hiking at Promega Shanghai The team at Promega Shanghai spent the day team building by hiking Huangshan in China. This mountain is famous for its unique Planet Aware views–while most mountains are enjoyed by looking up at them, this one’s splendor is appreciated most by looking downward. Promega AG Trek to Malta People Care Promega Singapore Explores Langkawi Community Touch Additional Info Hiking at Promega Shanghai Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 45 Introduction Promega Biotech AB in Iceland In 2016, Korean Road Race for Ocean Conservation Corporate Mind our Swedish branch traveled to Iceland for their The branches of Promega Korea and Korea quarterly meeting and spent time hiking on glaciers Biosystems both participated in a 10K run which and enjoying the natural wonders of the country. aimed to bring awareness to ocean conservation. Promega KK Long Distance Relay In Japan, Ekiden is a Promega France Koh Lanta Training In 2016 Promega long distance relay which typically involves a team of runners France participated in a team building based off of the reality TV covering a distance of many kilometers over the show Survivor. Employees were split into teams and participated course of a few days. The Promega KK branch in challenges that ranged from balance Product Reach put together a team to participate in a charity endurance to eating a plate of dried worms. Ekiden road race in Tokyo in 2016. This unique program allowed coworkers to get to know each other in a unique context and to creatively problem solve! Promega Biotech AB in Iceland Planet Aware People Care Korean Road Race for Ocean Conservation Promega France Koh Lanta Training Promega KK Long Distance Relay Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 46 Additional Info Introduction Promega Benefits Corporate Mind Promega employees are offered comprehensive benefit and Manager Roundtable programs support managers. packages based on standards by country. These programs Customized training for departments is available, as well typically include medical, dental, and vision coverage as as organizational development services that include talent well as a competitive 401k plan and flexible spending management resources, personality/leadership assessments, accounts for healthcare. Shortand long-term disability coaching and consulting. Furthermore, individually-targeted insurance, life insurance, tuition assistance and paid time leadership development is available on site at work, or with off are also provided in an effort to ensure the well-being of external academic or training partners. These trainings have Product Reach our employees and their families. been done primarily in North America but are expanding to our international locations. Investment in Advancement and Education Beyond our broad offering of benefits, Promega aims to help employees Scientific Training The Scientific Training team designs, be their best selves at work by providing a wealth of accessible develops and implements product and sales trainings for training and advancement. We strive to provide opportunities employees around the globe, which are delivered for everyone to equip themselves with the knowledge and in live and virtual classrooms. While live courses Planet Aware skills they need to achieve success in their position. are available in Madison, WI, Lyon, France and Singapore, there are a multitude of additional Leadership Training Professional development courses opportunities that address the training needs of such as Coaching for Leaders, Management Essentials, employees globally. These facilities also incorporate video Leadership Forum, 7 Conversations for Exceptional Leaders conferencing equipment to allow scientists and trainers to participate from off-site locations. People Care Community Touch Employees in Singapore take time for training on new products like Spectrum. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 47 Additional Info Introduction English Classes for Employees Our branches in Korea, The term “fourth space” takes that premise a step further Corporate Mind Japan, and Germany offer employees English lessons to and was coined to describe a work culture energy oriented improve communication across the company and with around curiosity, possibility, and flexibility – toward the self, clientele as well. Our efforts are intended to employees, and the surrounding community. The intent help employees access the resources they behind fourth spaces is to encourage employees to think need to advance their career. creatively, and be reminded that no idea or suggestion is too out of the box to explore. United by Love of Music It is uncommon that employees Product Reach have the opportunity to cultivate their talents and hobbies in a workplace environment, but at Promega those who are musically-inclined have joined forces to create the band “Lead Generation.” In 2006 a core group of employees – ranging from scientists, marketers, IT specialists, and administrators – came together to share their interests and Planet Aware spend time making music. The group has expanded today to about 35 active participants and performs at functions like all-company meetings and employee recognition breakfasts. Says a Madison employee “Fostering an environment where collaboration and creativity are rewarded really helps to create A group of employees get together for English lessons. a sense of belonging, and creates a vibe of excitement that People Care you just don’t find everywhere. Plus how cool is it to tell Promega Relaxation people that you play in a band? At work?” An important aspect of sustaining work-life balance is the ability to find time for relaxation – be it time off for vacation, or the opportunity to meditate in one of Promega’s third spaces. The spaces to relax on our Madison campus are Community Touch plentiful and include access to saunas and a Hammam steam room, acupuncture, Reiki therapy, and subsidized massage therapy. Individually, our branches make many efforts to provide opportunities for relaxation such as weekly yoga classes at Promega GmbH and Promega Biosciences. Fourth Spaces at Promega The concept of “third spaces” at Promega was developed as an effort to help create work Additional Info environments and meeting spaces that encourage people to The Promega employee band, Lead Generation, jams out at an allthink creatively with the intent of helping employees thrive. company meeting. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 48 Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info Community Touch 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Cytoplasm Introduction Community Touch Corporate Mind Product Reach “ Astools  a global company we leverage our capabilities to provide knowledge and in science for community growth and development. We help individuals and communities achieve their aspirations to become global citizens who are responsible and want to make a difference. ” Planet Aware —Nicholas Ng General Manager, Promega Singapore People Care The symbiotic nature of organisms is inherent to biology. As a global company, this exchange takes many forms. Each Any longstanding interaction between two entities often location has the autonomy to focus on the unique needs of its means that each benefits from the other’s unique strengths, community thorough an integrative and authentic approach. and mutual advancement can only be achieved by working The goal is to always provide meaningful support at a local in harmony. This same sensibility guides Promega in its level around the world. To accomplish this we tap into the engagement and exchange with each local community within passions of our employees. By providing tools and resources Community Touch which Promega operates. The benefit we receive from the we hope employees feel empowered to get involved with unique strengths of our communities is invaluable to our causes that are close to their hearts. This can be achieved success. Our growth is interconnected with the prosperity through avenues such as paid time for volunteering, matching of our communities. In turn, as stewards of our communities, employee donations or collaborations with non-profits. we actively strive to cultivate, give back and foster inspiration that comes with a symbiotic community bond. To best leverage our unique strengths and benefit our particular communities, Promega focuses specifically on engagement and support in education, community wellness Additional Info and creativity. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 50 Introduction Supporting Education and Knowledge Corporate Mind Education brings growth, discovery and rich context for the cannot make the trip due to distance, cost or scheduling, an future. Over 20 years ago, Promega helped to establish and “on the road” program is growing that brings BTC Institute continues to significantly support two cornerstone educational teachers and lab activities directly to classrooms. A new organizations: The BioPharmaceutical Technology Center customized half-day option for the Institute’s Molecular Institute and Woods Hollow Children’s Center. In addition, Technology Basics for the Non-Scientist series of classes Promega locations globally support various initiatives focused has opened laboratory-based scientific experiences to more Product Reach on expanding knowledge. adults who do not have a scientific background. A partnership with Hannam University in Daejeon, Korea, has led to Hannam The BioPharmaceutical Technology Center Institute students traveling to the BTC Institute to take advanced Founded in 1993, the BioPharmaceutical Technology Center courses. Annually, the BTC Institute also hosts the International Institute (BTC Institute) is a not-for-profit, independent Forum on Consciousness, bringing together the worlds of organization operated exclusively for educational, scientific natural and social sciences, as well as the Wisconsin Stem and cultural enrichment opportunities. Promega serves Cell Symposium, the latter in partnership with the UW-Madison Planet Aware as the primary corporate sponsor. Educational programs Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine Center. focusing on the life sciences are designed for a wide range of learners— from upper elementary school students to scientists in academia and industry, as well as the general public. During the academic year, approximately People Care 3,400 middle and high school students from Wisconsin and Illinois visit the BTC Institute’s labs for hands-on, molecular biology-based field trips. For schools that Community Touch Additional Info The BioPharmaceutical Technology Center provides students access to hands-on, molecular biologybased laboratory experiences. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 51 Introduction Experience with the BTC Institute Youth Apprentice Program Corporate Mind The BTC Institute offers a specialized program with the Dane County Youth Apprenticeship Program in Biotechnology where high school students must complete 900 laboratory work hours while also taking a four-hour class at the BTC Institute every Product Reach Wednesday evening throughout the school year. A second-year program participant, Madhu, recently won the grand prize at the Capital Science and Engineering Fair in Madison, WI. She goes on to compete at the Intel International Science Fair. Madhu, a high school senior, has worked nearly 600 hours in a lab at UW-Madison Department of Planet Aware Surgery. Her project is based on her work in the UW lab, which has included characterizing bacterial communities (microbiomes) in the larynxes of mice; determining the best protocol for taking, storing, and extracting DNA from human laryngotracheal swabs; and co-authoring a review paper: Insights People Care into the Role of Collagen in Vocal Fold Health and Disease [Tang, S., Mohad, V. and Gowda, M. (2016)]. All of these projects are relevant to human health. Somehow Madhu also finds time to volunteer at UW Hospital and for children’s summer science programs, as well as tutoring peers at her high school. Her extracurricular activities programs include varsity tennis, the National Honor Society, Mock Trial, Health Occupation Students of America, and playing violin. “I have always been interested in the combination of medicine and biotechnology, and I got the chance to personally explore Community Touch that because of the Youth Apprenticeship Program. The amount of hands-on, real-world experiences you can get in this program is unparalleled. I’m fortunate to have such a great mentor who is always eager to teach me more about otolaryngology and support me through everything. After having the opportunity to conduct my own research in laryngeal microbiology and collaborating on papers, I know I want to continue this work in college. I can truly say that the YAP-Biotechnology program has been the highlight of my high school academic career.” –Madhu Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 52 Additional Info Introduction iGEM Competition Team Sponsorship Promega has Corporate Mind supported high school and university students in the International Genetically Engineered Machine (iGEM) Competition for many years. In 2016, our Germany branch, Promega GmbH, sponsored teams from Dusseldorf, Munich, Hannover, and Tuebingen, and Promega BNL (Netherlands) sponsored a team from Tu-Eindhoven. By sponsoring teams Product Reach with a wide range of products, Promega enabled the groups to work on clean removal of cancer cells, modifying DNA for cancer treatment, tissue printing, hereditary fructose intolerance, and developing new proteins tools. Learn more about their work on the Promega Connections blog. Planet Aware Woods Hollow Children’s Center aims to provide excellence in early childhood education and care. Today’s Learners, Tomorrow’s Leaders Woods Hollow Children’s Center, located on the Madison headquarters People Care campus, is a nonprofit child care center for children 6 weeks to 10 years old available to Promega employees and the surrounding Madison community. With Promega The International Genetically Engineered Machine (iGEM) Competition is a premiere student competition in synthetic biology. as a substantial supporter, Woods Hollow strives to provide excellence in early childhood education and care, and is fully accredited by the National Association for the Education of Community Touch Young Children. The center promotes parent involvement in all center activities as well as appropriate teacher compensation. This 25-year commitment to the well-being of children, parents, and staff offers a model for replication by other employers and organizations. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 53 Additional Info Introduction Marine Biological Laboratory Located in Woods Hole, Corporate Mind MA, the Marine Biological Laboratory (MBL) is one of the largest nonprofit biological laboratories in the world, attracting leading scientists and students from around the globe. Fifty-six Nobel Prize winners are among the scientists significantly affiliated with the MBL. The Promega Discovery Fund, established in 2013, supports the MBL Education Department in offering highly competitive, discovery-based Product Reach courses and research programs. Promega also provides tools and technologies, as well as a Promega scientist working on-site for six weeks to assist students during summer courses. Additional monetary support by Promega of the Director’s Vision Implementation Fund aims to ensure MBL’s future growth as the world’s leading year-round convening institute in the life sciences. Planet Aware Promega Award for Biochemistry In recognition of important collaborations from innovative researchers in China, Promega partners with the Chinese Society of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (CSBMB) to grant The Promega Award for Biochemistry People Care to the scientist who makes the most significant advances in the study of stem cells each year. The 2016 recipient is Dr. Fuchou Tang, a Research Investigator from Beijing University, China. Promega continues to work with the awardees by sharing scientific knowledge to promote Community Touch continued collaboration. Promoting Innovation and Young Scientists The 2016 Voluntades Pyme Award has been presented to Promega Biotech Ibérica, S.L. for its Promega New Lab Startup program that promotes innovation, research and development. Promega Biotech Ibérica also has the Promega Sponsorship Fund that supports Additional Info young scientists through micro funds aimed at promoting the communication of scientific work. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 54 Introduction International Symposium on Human Identification The New Perspectives at ISHI Corporate Mind International Symposium on Human Identification (ISHI) is the world’s largest conference focused on technologies, For the Phoenix Police Department, a connection policies and innovations in forensic DNA analysis for human made at the International Symposium on Human identification. Promega has sponsored ISHI since 1998. Identification (ISHI) became the ‘big break’ in an almost More than 950 scientists, DNA analysts, law enforcement 25-year cold case for a serial murderer dubbed the professionals, and legal and ethical experts from 40+ “Canal Killer”. In the early 1990s two young women countries participate in learning opportunities such as were murdered and DNA evidence connected a single suspect to the murders of two young women in the Product Reach interactive workshops, presentations, case studies and scientific posters. Many labs and industry agencies count early 1990s, but there was little other evidence and the hours attended towards continuing education requirements. case went cold. In 2014, a novel approach described ISHI is an inclusive forum open to all practitioners and by genetic genealogist Colleen Fitzpatrick while in suppliers of DNA analysis for human identification. Phoenix at ISHI provided hope. By using Y-DNA that is passed down in males like surnames, in conjunction Scientific Journalism Workshops Promega GmbH with public Y-DNA genetic genealogy databases, an Planet Aware organized workshops for journalists from regional newspapers unknown perpetrator’s last name might be identified. to discuss new information and current trends in bioscience. Identifying the name ‘Miller’ from this approach was Three journalist-scientist tandems were awarded key for the detectives. This combined with all other with the “Main Focus Biology” award, sponsored information available allowed the Phoenix Police by Promega. This award and workshop aims to Department to quickly make an arrest and a trial is promote transparency in the bioscience field set to begin in 2017. People Care between researchers and publication readers. Community Touch Additional Info Opening Remarks from the Hennepin County Sheriff’s Office. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 55 Introduction Madison Area Technical College Advanced Scientists in the Schools Scientists from the Technical Manufacturing Scholarships Promega recognizes that Corporate Mind Services Department at Promega regularly go into the supporting training in Advanced Manufacturing is vital to the community to visit Madison-area elementary and middle company’s future wellbeing. Therefore, Promega Scholarships school classrooms to give students hands-on experience in in Advanced Manufacturing provide education and training molecular biology. One lesson this year involved extracting opportunities for students at Madison Area Technical College DNA from strawberries. Students made an extraction solution in this area. using water, dish soap and table salt under the guidance of Promega scientists. They used pipettors, beakers, microfuge Product Reach Student Support in Impoverished Areas There are still tubes, and flipper racks, to give them a glimpse of the many poor mountainous areas in China where life can be tools scientists use every day. Scientists also share their difficult and conditions in schools fall behind developed own educational backgrounds and describe what it’s like regions. In the last year, Shanghai Promega donated hundreds to work in biotechnology. Promega has received positive of books to elementary school students in these impoverished feedback from both students and teachers who have learned areas. For the last two years, Promega Beijing has donated about the fascinating world of heredity through this fun DNA computer classrooms to elementary schools in extraction lab. Planet Aware these remote areas, most recently to a school in Zhonghe Town, Yongren County, Yunan Province. People Care Community Touch Additional Info Promega Shanghai and Beijing offices are focused on improving education in remote and impoverished areas of China. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 56 Introduction Promega Webinar Series The Promega Webinar Series Community Wellness Corporate Mind is a program that provides noncommercial live webinars to scientists around the world, free of charge. Scientific We appreciate the support that our communities provide topics range from basic science concepts to highly technical to Promega and place an emphasis on giving back to research presentations. This communication channel allows organizations that address various needs within the unique interactions between young and senior scientists in community. Each location globally has autonomy to take the areas of genomics, proteomics, genetic identity, and action in areas that they feel are of most value to their cellular analysis. community. Product Reach Instructor Support Promega offers educational resources Cancer Research Support Promega France helped raise such as complimentary lectures and lab teaching guides funds and awareness for research into cancers that affect for teachers looking to enhance their curricula. Topics of women through involvement in the event Courir Pour Elles interest have ranged from DNA purification to emerging (Running for Her). Only women participate as runners or infectious diseases. Our Training Support Program offers walkers in this race, and men help out in a support role. instructors at the high school, undergraduate, and graduate Promega was a corporate sponsor and organized a team of levels who teach courses using DNA, RNA, protein, or cellemployees to take part in the event. Courir Pour Elles also Planet Aware based techniques, the opportunity to receive up to $2,000 features cancer patients who not only run but share their in discounts off Promega products to supplement their stories of struggle and survival. These stories serve as a classrooms. means to uplift and encourage those participants touched For more information, please visit http://www.promega. by cancer to help bring hope. The race had com/products/pm/na/training-support-program/ 12,000 participants, and raised over €300,000 (about $318,000 USD). People Care Community Touch Additional Info Promega France employees raised funds for women’s cancer research by sponsoring and participating in Courir Pour Elles. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 57 Introduction Habitat for Humanity Corporate Mind “It was an awesome opportunity for us to bond and feel the accomplishments of a hard day’s labor. That one day was probably the hardest work day I’ve had since I started with Promega five years ago. That day also had a very rewarding sense of accomplishment that was undeniable as I drove home with aching muscles, muddy clothes, dying of thirst, and anxious for a real bathroom. It was rewarding to have the comradery of coworkers who all pitched in together to get our tasks accomplished. It was most gratifying to meet the family weeks later at the Habitat for Humanity’s celebration where they took possession of their new home. That celebration also recognized the completion of 250 homes built by Habitat for Humanity in Dane County. To have been a part of it was humbling.” –Production scientist Kelly Rogers tells about her Ops In Action experience working Product Reach with four other Promega co-workers building a Habitat For Humanity home. Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 58 Additional Info Introduction Ops In Action Promega employees in general feel a deep Outdoors for a Cause The Promega Biotech Corporate Mind responsibility to give back to their local and worldwide Ibérica branch found a way to make outdoor communities. To recognize and support this commitment, activity even more valuable for its employees by Promega created a pilot program for the operations donating one euro to the children’s oncology department group called Ops in Action. The program allows Madison of Hospital La Paz in Madrid for every kilometer its staff employees to apply for paid time to volunteer for the charity biked, walked or ran outside. The idea behind Kilometros or organization of their choice. Participants have given back in Solidarios (Solidarity Kilometers) was simple but powerful: various ways from traveling to South Africa to help orphaned healthy activity leading directly to the wellness of others. Product Reach children affected by HIV/AIDS to coaching and mentoring During three summer months, employees got outside and Science Olympiad teams at Madison-area middle and high the branch raised €1,884 (about $1,993 USD) toward the schools. One Ops in Action project raised funds to help purchase of a much-needed portable ultrasound machine build a shelter to shade a group of motorcycle taxi drivers for the hospital. To keep track of their progress, employees in Kenya while they wait for customers. The contribution used Strava, a free app that can track and automatically log spurred the drivers to grow their business by also selling physical activity using GPS. Users were also able to follow corn at the shade and eventually renting land so they can one another, access maps of recommended routes and post Planet Aware grow their own corn to sell, proving that a relatively small photos of their adventures. investment can go a long, long way. People Care Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 59 Additional Info Introduction International Giving Promega Australia has a long history Community Action Team The Community Action Team at Corporate Mind of supporting local and international organizations to give Promega Biosciences in San Luis Obispo, CA is an employeeback to their communities. In 2016, donations led group that works to support local organizations and were made to World Vision’s Overseas Aid Fund nonprofits. In 2016, the team hosted four fundraisers and and 40HR Famine Appeal, The Smith Family supported 13 different organizations including the ALS Learning for Life program, and the Salvation Army. Association, Project Surf Camp and the United Way. To encourage involvement in the community, paid time is Unified in Denim On May 27, 2016, all men and women of provided each month for employees to utilize and monetary Promega Italia participated in Denim Day by wearing a pair Product Reach donations are matched by the company. In addition to of jeans to bring awareness and stand against fundraisers, the Community Action Team organizes quarterly sexual assault. This movement started after a road clean ups to help maintain an adopted road. historic ruling in the Italian Supreme Court for a case centered on sexual assault which has led to the global movement that Denim Day has become. Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 60 Additional Info Introduction Community Organization Resource As Corporate Mind an outreach to the local community, facilities at the BioPharmaceutical Technology Center (BTC) on the Promega headquarters campus are made available for use by educational institutions, governmental agencies, community organizations, and businesses for educational, scientific, and business purposes, managed Product Reach by Promega Corporation. Affordable rental rates for meeting rooms, the BTC’s 300-person auditorium, and even the building’s rooftop terrace are tiered for non-profit and for-profit organizations. Diverse types of groups —from the local library to one of the largest knitting guilds in the US —regularly rent out BTC space. Planet Aware The BTC cafeteria is also open to the public and attracts many people from surrounding businesses during the lunch hour. Food Bank Support Promega Italia supported the Banco Alimentare, a food People Care bank that not only provides distribution of food to the disadvantaged but also works to offer physical support and social inclusion to those in need. In addition, a portion of all Promega Italia expenses support social causes through the use of the UniCredit Card E. Community Touch Additional Info Space on the Promega Madison campus is made available to local non-profit and for-profit organizations. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 61 Introduction Creativity and the Arts Corporate Mind The ability to think creatively has always been a cornerstone for scientific experimentation. At Promega, we have a long history of leveraging innovation to support creativity within the company and in our surrounding communities. Recycled Artistry Discarded Promega pipette boxes and tip holders inspired Madison, WI, artist Victor Castro Product Reach to zip-tie these plastic grids and boxes together to build installations of large, colorful wall hanging sculptures. He also shared the technique with children at the Madison Museum of Contemporary Art’s after-school community center art program as well as at other workshops, guiding Professionally curated exhibitions at Promega are free and open to the public. young artists in creating their own slowly growing sculptures. The message, he says, is that small actions repeated over Creativity for the Community Marking its 20th Anniversary, Planet Aware and over can lead to big change. the Promega Art Showcase is a quarterly art exhibit hosted on the Promega corporate campus that has featured the work of local and international painters, photographers, sculptors, and artists in many other media. The professionally curated exhibitions are free and open to the public, and offer both well established and up-and-coming artists a venue for their People Care work while introducing the surrounding community to diverse perspectives. Showcase opening symposiums consistently attract hundreds of art enthusiasts. An annual employee art show highlights and encourages artistic creativity among Promega employees. Community Touch Recycled Promega pipette boxes are used by a local artist to create colorful wall sculptures. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 62 Additional Info Introduction Cool Science Image Contest Images from microscopes, Establish Creative Venue Support Promega Madison Corporate Mind satellites, telescopes, cameras, and other technologies supports numerous cultural venues in the local community are informative, but they can also be true works of art. such as the Trinity Irish Dance Company, Forward Theater The annual Cool Science Image Contest, sponsored by Company, the Madison Museum of Contemporary Art, and Promega, challenges students, staff and faculty at the the UW-Madison’s Tandem Press, which teaches students University of Wisconsin-Madison to seek out and share and the public about art and the craft of fine printmaking in compelling science images. Winning images are showcased particular. Promega also partners with the American Players at Promega headquarters and at the Wisconsin Science Theatre (APT) to support a program in which APT actors travel Product Reach Festival, and are also featured on UW-Madison websites to schools around the state to bring the theater experience and other communications. Winners have included a colorful to thousands of students. infrared image of Madison-area lakes, a magnified photo of silver and gold stinkbug eggs, and jewel-like lactose crystals suspended in oil. An image of antibodies and proteins in human tissue and blood vessels created through a technique called “immunostaining” is reminiscent of a painting by Planet Aware Monet or Van Gogh. This may look like a painting by Monet or Van Gogh, but this is actually an image of antibodies and proteins in human tissue and blood People Care vessels created by a technique called “immunostaining.” The Cool Science Image Contest encourages students, staff and faculty at the University of Wisconsin-Madison to seek out and share compelling Community Touch science images. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 63 Additional Info Introduction Economic Impact in Community $1.24 Corporate Mind As showcased above, Promega encourages community more than outreach in the areas of education, community wellness, and creativity. The specific areas of support vary due to the diversity of employee passions and unique needs of each region. In addition to the value of employee volunteerism worldwide, monetary contributions exceed one million dollars million annually. Beyond our direct contributions, Promega has a Product Reach positive economic impact in the communities in which we operate. A third party economist has estimated a multiplied annual economic impact of more than $550 million in 211 Wisconsin alone. This analysis accounts for direct, indirect, and induced impact of Promega from job creation to expense in annual contributions of goods and services. Planet Aware to We have a long history of organizations People Care leveraging innovation to support supporting Community Touch creativity within the company Community Creativity & Education Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 64 Additional Info Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info Additional Info 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Blood Serum Introduction Additional Information Corporate Mind 2017 Report Parameters Reporting on Promega Corporate Responsibility progress is Some sections of the GRI that were not covered in the report completed on a calendar year basis with information in this report will be addressed below. In 2016 we had no incidents or issues sharing results and actions from January 1, 2016 to December 31, in the following areas: 2016. This is the ninth Promega report in this area following the • Environmental fines or sanctions (G4-EN29) initial report released in July of 2009. This process of reporting Product Reach will continue annually in the future. Corporate Responsibility • Incidents of discrimination and action taken (G4-HR3) reporting attempts to focus on the environmental and social • Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people impacts of Promega operations worldwide using the framework and actions taken. (G4-HR 8) established by the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines and the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. • L  egal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, Information for this report has been gathered from all 22 Promega and monopoly practices. (G4-SO 7) Planet Aware branch and subsidiary locations worldwide. Engagement with • F  ines and non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance key internal stakeholders has been focused on areas identified with laws and regulations. (G4-SO 8) as key impacts and opportunities. Our current process captures information on a wide range of indicators, but we recognize Please contact sustainability@promega.com with any that there is still room for growth in the information we capture. questions on the Promega Corporate Responsibility Report. In rare instances, additional or adjusted information for prior periods was captured resulting in slight variations from previously People Care reported indicators. Product Responsibility and Non-Compliance Carbon footprint calculations have been made using emission in 2016 factors provided by the World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol on energy and business travel. Reported emissions Incidents regarding product health and safety 0 from distribution were calculated with the conversion factors Incidents regarding product information Community Touch provided by DEFRA’s 2016 Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors 0 and labeling and have incorporated the new methodology for emissions for air freight that include radiative forcing. Lastly, the Environmental Incidents with marketing communication 0 Defense Fund’s Paper Calculator has been used for calculating Breaches of customer privacy and the life cycle impacts of our paper usage. Current and previous 0 loss of customer years’ carbon footprints have been calculated using the most updated information and emission factors from the resources Incidents concerning provision and 0 above. use of product Additional Info *Notable incidents would have resulted in fines or warnings. Illustration of cancer cell in mitosis. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 66 Introduction Key Indicators Business 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Corporate Mind Number of Employees 956 1,009 1,120 1,197 1,223 1,285 1,327 1,381 1,440 Building Footprint (Sq. Feet) 610,925 610,925 687,724 689,314 721,090 878,583 1,037,560 1,093,672 1,125,921 Number of Global Locations 16 17 17 17 18 18 19 19 19 Environmental Product Reach Greenhouse Gas Emissions 22,397 21,822 23,819 24,401 24,401 29,161 34,928 37,021 38,983 (Tons of CO2) Emissions Per Million in Revenue (Tons of CO2/ 111.1 102.6 100.2 94.0 84.3 92.9 104.6 106.2 106.1 Millions of Dollars) Emissions Per Building Planet Aware Footprint (Tons of CO2/ 36.7 35.7 34.6 35.4 33.8 33.2 33.7 33.8 34.6 Thousand Sq Ft) Energy Consumption: Electricity (kWh) 16,880,814 16,393,560 16,363,009 17,592,001 17,785,445 21,284,680 26,692,713 27,784,046 29,902,153 Natural Gas (Therms) 683,201 667,819 658,883 664,891 603,132 916,119 1,275,922 1,200,345 1,246,352 People Care Water Consumption 14,241,375 14,474,710 17,900,975 19,031,864 20,646,841 23,120,002 35,502,212 31,506,609 32,400,318 (Gallons) Total Paper (Reams) 127,631 22,894 27,798 18,522 28,141 16,488 24,972 12,360 14,378 Solid Non-Hazardous Waste 235,555 222,046 253,624 277,368 280,424 310,270 325,707 355,562 453,593 Community Touch (Cubic Feet) Incinerated (Cubic Feet) 8,800 6,452 7,193 7,311 7,436 9,693 6,676 7,540 5,092 Land filled (Cubic Feet) 114,495 112,281 127,253 130,120 125,805 147,110 147,801 179,058 216,228 Recycled (Cubic Feet) 112,260 103,313 119,179 139,937 147,183 153,468 171,229 168,964 232,274 Chemical Waste (Pounds) 145,395 144,449 177,238 165,679 186,568 153,828 167,784 185,076 203,805 Additional Info Infectious Waste (Pounds) 9,316 9,431 9,261 9,164 12,779 13,749 14,483 16,480 21,003 Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 67 Introduction GRI Index Corporate Mind We are committed to transparent reporting on our environmental, social and economic performance. This report contains Standard Disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting G4 Guidelines. The following table has been developed to help users locate specific information in the report. Content GRI Section # Page # Product Reach Overview 3 CEO Letter G4-1 4 Corporate Mind GRI Section # Page # G4-3, G4-5, G4-6, G4-7, G4-9, G4-10, Overview 6 Planet Aware G4-EC1, G4-LA1 Conscious Leadership 8 Corporate Purpose, Vision and Values G4-56 8 Respecting Human Rights G4-15, G4-LA12 9 People Care Investments in the Future G4-13, G4-EC7 10 Valuing Diversity G4-15, G4-LA12, G4-HR2 10 Community Touch Corporate Governance G4-34, G4-SO4 10 Supply Chain Management G4-12, G4-EC9 10 Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 68 Additional Info Introduction GRI Index (Continued) Corporate Mind Product Reach GRI Section # Page # Overview G4-4, G4-8 14 Customer Focus G4-8 15 Product Reach Investments for the Future G4-EC7 21 Quality Process and Product G4-PR1 21 Planet Aware GRI Section # Page # Overview G4-14 24 Planet Aware G4-EN 15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, Responding to Climate Change 26 G4-EN18, G4-EN19 Minimizing Electricity Usage and Emissions G4-EN3, G4-EN4, G4-EN5, G4-EN6 27 Conserving Natural Gas G4-EN3, G4-EN21 28 People Care Tracking and Reducing Impacts from Product G4EN7, G4-EN17, G4-EN30 29 Distribution Minimizing Impacts from Business Travel G4-EN17, G4-EN30 31 Community Touch Preserving Natural Capital G4-EN1 32 Minimizing Waste G4-EN23, G4-EN25 32 Conserving Water G4-EN8, G4-EN13 34 Connecting with Customers without Paper G4-EN1 35 Additional Info Reducing Packaging G4-EN28 36 Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 69 Introduction GRI Index (Continued) Corporate Mind People Care GRI Section # Page # Overview 38 Work Environment 39 The Promega Culture 40 Product Reach Cultivating Emotional & Social Intelligence (ESI) 41 Promega Well-Being 43 Promega Wellness G4-LA5, G4-LA6 43 Planet Aware Promega Fitness 44 Promega Benefits G4-LA2, G4-LA9, G4-LA 10, G4-LA11 47 Promega Relaxation 48 People Care Community Touch GRI Section # Page # Overview G4-EC8 50 Supporting Education/ Knowledge G4-SO1 51 Community Touch Community Wellness G4-SO1 57 Creativity and the Arts G4-SO1 62 Economic Impact in Community G4-EC8, G4-SO1 64 Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 70 Additional Info Introduction GRI Index (Continued) Corporate Mind Additional Information GRI Section # Page # G4-15, G4-17 to G4-23, G4-28 to G4-34, Report Parameters 66 G4-PR2, G4-PR3, G4-PR4, G4-PR7 Key Indicators 67 Product Reach GRI Index G4-32 68 Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 71 Additional Info Introduction BACK Corporate Mind Global Carbon Footprint Carbon Footprint Progress Toward Goal 112 Product Reach 105 105 106 SCOPE 1 103 101 Tons of C02 Per Million in Revenue 94 93 2020 Goal 83 SCOPE 2 Planet Aware SCOPE 3 People Care 2008 2016 14236MA Community Touch Figure 1. Global Carbon footprint as indexed to revenue. This includes direct emissions from fuel combustion (scope 1), emissions from purchased electricity (scope 2), and indirect emissions from business travel, outgoing distribution, water usage Additional Info and paper usage (scope 3). Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 72 Introduction BACK Corporate Mind Global Carbon Footprint Composition Carbon Footprint Composition Product Reach 19% 53% Electrical Usage Natural Gas 2% Air Travel Planet Aware Auto Travel Rail Travel 7% Water People Care Paper 19% Distribution 14227MA Community Touch Figure 2. Global carbon footprint composition. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 73 Additional Info Introduction BACK Corporate Mind Electricity Progress Towards Goal Electricity 83.7 79.9 79.7 81.4 Thousand kWh per Million in Revenue Product Reach 77.0 2020 68.8 67.7 Goal 67.8 61.4 Planet Aware People Care 2008 2016 14228MA Community Touch Figure 3. Global electricity usage as indexed to revenue. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 74 Additional Info Introduction BACK Natural GasNatural ProgressGas Toward Goal Corporate Mind 3,822 Product Reach 3,389 3,444 3,392 3,139 Therms per Million in Revenue 2020 2,919 Goal 2,771 2,560 2,083 Planet Aware People Care 2008 2016 14229MA Community Touch Figure 4. Natural gas usage as indexed to revenue. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 75 Additional Info Introduction BACK Corporate Mind Global Distribution Global Emissions Distribution Emissions Product Reach 27 27 27 25 Tons of CO2 per Million in Revenue 23 23 21 21 20 2020 Goal Planet Aware People Care 2008 2016 14230MA Community Touch Figure 5. Global distribution emissions as indexed to revenue. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 76 Additional Info Introduction BACK Corporate Mind Business Travel Carbon Footprint Business Travel Carbon Footprint Product Reach 11 10 Tons of CO2 per Million in Revenue 10 10 9 9 9 9 8 Planet Aware People Care 2008 2016 14231MA Community Touch Figure 6. Emissions from business travel take in to account air, automobile, and rail travel at all global locations. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 77 Additional Info Introduction BACK Corporate Mind Non-Hazardous Waste 14 44 Product Reach 30 30 28 Cubic Feet per Million in Revenue 31 22 26 20 557 486 501 539 508 489 513 485 632 Planet Aware Landfill/Recycling/Incineration 2020 Goal 568 528 535 501 434 469 443 514 588 People Care 2008 2016 14232MA Community Touch Figure 7. Non-hazardous waste as indexed to revenue. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 78 Additional Info Introduction BACK Corporate Mind Global Hazardous Waste Hazardous Waste 62 RECYCLED/TREATED/INCINERATED 65 Pounds of Waste Per Million in Revenue Product Reach 49 42 138 167 63 Planet Aware 616 737 713 366 253 252 People Care 55 42 350 165 307 373 615 644 2009 9 2016 14233MA Community Touch Figure 8. Hazardous waste as indexed to revenue. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 79 Additional Info Introduction BACK Corporate Mind Water usage Water progressUsage toward goal 106 Thousand Gallons Per Million in Revenue Product Reach 90 88 2020 75 73 74 Goal 71 68 71 Planet Aware People Care 2008 2016 14234MA Community Touch Figure 9. Water usage as indexed to revenue. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 80 Additional Info Introduction BACK Corporate Mind Paper UsagePaper Progress Toward Goal Usage Product Reach 633 Reams per Million in Revenue Planet Aware 108 117 97 People Care 71 53 75 35 39 2008 2016 14235MA Community Touch Figure 10. Paper usage as indexed to revenue. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 81 Additional Info Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info PROMEGA CORPORATION • 2800 WOODS HOLLOW ROAD • MADISON, WI 53711-5399 USA • TELEPHONE 608-274-4330 www.promega.com • © 2017 PROMEGA CORPORATION • ALL RIGHTS RESERVED • PRICES AND SPECIFICATIONS SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT PRIOR NOTICE • 06/17 • 26717756
