UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication On Progress FOREWORD 27 September 2017 Dear All, For this our second update report I am pleased to confirm that Verisec AB continues to support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In this Communication on Progress, we present some of our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles. By the very nature of our business we support public accountability and transparency. Therefore we commit to reporting our progress annually according to the Global Compact COP policy. Sincerely, Johan Henrikson CEO Verisec AB 2 INTRODUCTION Sustainable and responsible business is important for Social sustainability is at the core of Verisec business. By proviVerisec to be able to create long-term value for the ding secure digital identities we provide a secure means for company and our stakeholders. Sustainable business people across the globe to interact across digital channels according to our definition means integrating financial while maintaining a high degree of privacy and personal interesponsibility, social responsibility and environmental grity protection. Thereby we contribute to important social responsibility in all aspects of our business. structures and building new ecosystems. Using our technology we also enable increased welfare at reduced cost by allowing Verisec has been a member of the UN Global Compact for both local and central government to offer digital services many years and the ten principles of UN Global Compact (e.g. eHealth initiatives). and its underlying conventions and declarations are always present in the company’s business. The ten basic priciples of UN Global Compact are important elements in the daily work of Verisec. Verisecs mission is to make the digital world accessible in an easy and safe way by delivering innovative solutions for digital Verisec has policies regarding health and safety, business ethics, identities and information. An app on your mobile device for communications, bribery and rehabilitation for employees. login, instead of a token you rarely have in your pocket, or a The head office has, among other things, recently moved to lot of passwords that are easily forgotten, are examples of the central parts of Stockholm to facilitate for employees how we operate in the area we call digital identities. Information residing around Stockholm, to travel to work in the most security is about protecting information through encryption. environmentally friendly way possible. All employees have a special health insurance, despite the fact that Sweden has Verisec’s goal is to work to secure identity management for subsidized healthcare. All employees are also encouraged businesses, organizations and individuals. In 2002, ten percent to use the health care contributions in the form of wellness of the world’s population were connected to the internet. grants and massage during business hours, that the company Today, the same figure is close to 50 percent. During the same is providing. Verisec has also achieved a number of improvetime, the number of hacking attacks has increased with 38 ments to minimise the company’s carbon footprint. percent, according to a report from PwC. 3 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1: Business should support and respect the Verisec operates globally. We are committed to ensure that protection of internationally proclaimed human rights we are not complicit in human rights abuses. If we were to within their sphere of influence. find ourselves implicated in abuses of human rights, we would take immediate steps to rectify the situation. PRINCIPLE 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuse. To make sure that no harm comes to any human being, we are complying with the ISP (Inspection for Strategic Products, a government authority in Sweden), rules of export control and supervision of dual-use products, and classify our products accordingly to the ISP Appendix I. All employees shall be treated with respect and dignity and be entitled to fundamental human rights. The freedom of expression of employees, customers and other stakeholders shall always be respected. Verisec has offices in seven countries SWEDEN | GERMANY | UK | UAE SPAIN | MEXICO | SERBIA Established 2002 4 LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of All employees shall have a written contract, be informed about association and the effective recognition of the right to and fully understand their employment conditions and rights. collective bargaining. The contract shall as minimum contain: working hours, notice period, wages and frequency of payment. PRINCIPLE 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. A normal working week is 40 hours, unless otherwise regulated in national legislation. Employees have the right to PRINCIPLE 5: The effective abolition of child labour yearly holidays and parental leave. PRINCIPLE 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect All employees shall be free to form and to join, or not to join, of employment and occupation trade unions or similar employee representative organisations. Verisec has a policy regarding the working environment and is responsible for work not to endanger the health or Verisec complies with the relevant laws relating to employment safety of employees and that the workplace safety in general and employment conditions in each country we operate in. is good. For example, in order for an employee to get approWe recognise that labour standards and conditions may vary priate training to drive a truck in our plant, his supervisor needs from country to country. We ensure that our employees have to have a truck driver license. The supervisor’s supervisor, in this satisfactory wages, working conditions and that there is no case our CEO, also needs to possess a license of the same sort. exploitation of labour. Steps to correct and prevent physical accidents and injuries as No person shall be employed who is below the minimum legal well as psychosocial illnesses are being taken to limit hazards in age for employment. We place high demands on suppliers that the working environment. There are various initiatives in our we are in business with continously, to not take part of or in different offices, depending on local needs and requests from any way support, any form of child labour. our employees, but some of the measures we take to prevent physical and psychosocial illnesses in the the work space are Verisec offer equal employment opportunities to all. The persons neck and back massage, having the possibility to exercise during recruited are selected on merits and are not discriminated business hours, and benefit from a wellness grant. because of gender, race, origin, religion, sexual orientation, disability or age. To us, diversity is positive. Verisec offer equal employment opportunities to all 5 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary To manufacture a login token in China, transporting it several approach to environmental challenges; thousand miles and then manage and distribute it in Sweden, of course means leaving an environmental footprint. Verisec’s PRINCIPLE 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environeffort to develop security solutions that use the mobile phone mental responsibility; and as the login device, are to be seen as part of a reduced climate impact. We believe that the mobile phone of the future will be PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the development and diffusion the entity that most people use to securely connect to various of environmentally friendly technologies. services on the Internet and in line with this, the number of physical devices will be reduced. Our plant in Upplands Väsby is an important link. We have begun to reduce energy use in our distribution facility. In 2015 Our business is to help other companies implement digitiwe invested in a more energy efficient heating /cooling system, zation. This means that our products and services, reduce and in March 2017 we changed our electricity supplier so that or eliminate paper-based processes, and physical transport. we are now consuming environmentally friendly sourced hydroLetters and other documentation can, with our technology, be power. Further, we have added heat blocking window films to replaced by digital communication. Physical communication reduce the temperature in the building and thus saving energy can be replaced by digital contacts and our technology makes by relieving the cooling system. Latly, we’ve started investigating it possible for people to work from home /remotely with less how to improve the current ventilation unit and heat exchanger. travelling as a result. Recycling is also a natural part in all of our offices across the We only use printing shops that are environmentally world. Sorting paper, metals, foods and plastics is part of this certified, and always select paper that is FCS-marked and ongoing project. We’ve been collecting huge amounts of plastic Rainforest Alliance Certified. bottle caps in our Serbian office to support the Bottle Caps for Handicapped humanitarian initiative, which aims to turn the Verisec has invested in a system for remote meetings caps into wheelchairs and other equipment invaluable to disbetween our offices so that we can cut down on travel. abled children and teenagers in Serbia. We are also committed to the EU WEEE initiative to minimize the impact of electronic We offer employees to work from home as a step to waste. All our electronic equipment is being collected, reused reduce travelling and also the impact on the environment. and/or disposed off in accordance with EU regulations by Verisec strive to minimize environmental impact in all approved suppliers. parts of the business. The move to a refurbished plant in Upplands Väsby was a part of our efforts to streamline our We strongly encourage our employees to drive hybrid cars, processes and minimize the number of transports. and six out of seven leasing cars within the company are hybrid. 6 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: Business should work against corruption The company has a policy on business ethics. Corruption does in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. not only create problems for the individual company, but also prevents communities from developing, especially in poor parts of the world. All forms of corruption, including but not limited to extortion, bribery, facilitation payments, nepotism, fraud, terrorism financing and money laundering, are forbidden. Digital payments and transactions – part of our core business, increase the traceability and thus prevent money laundering and other related forms of corruption. No one shall offer, ask for, give or accept, directly or indirectly, a personal payment, gift or benefit in exchange for favourable treatment intended to influence a business transaction or to obtain a personal or business advantage. Verisec has a policy that states that the principles relevant to business ethics is an integrated part of the business 7 About Verisec Verisec is a company on the cutting edge of digital security, creating solutions that make systems secure and easily accessible. The company provides a wide range of products and services within its two areas of business: Digital Identity and Information Security. Verisec has global distribution and operations in Stockholm, London, Belgrade, Madrid, Frankfurt, Dubai and Mexico City. Verisec is listed on Nasdaq First North Premier in Stockholm. www.verisec.com © 2017 Verisec AB. All rights reserved. 8
