ANNUAL REPORT 2016 A WORLD-CLASS HOTEL COMPANY A STRONG BRAND | UNRIVALLED GEOGRAPHIC NETWORK | | STRONG CORPORATE CULTURE | COMMERCIAL AND OPERATIONAL LEADERSHIP | HIGH-­QUALITY PIPELINE | | CLEAR GROWTH STRATEGY CONTENTS Strengths Administration Report 56 This is Scandic Insert Widest network 22 Risks and risk management 63 The leading hotel company Leading commercial platform 28 Financial reports 66 in the Nordics Insert Operational leadership 32 Notes 74 Our Nordic DNA 1 A strong culture 34 Adoption 101 CEO statement 2 Value creation Auditor’s Report 102 Scandic’s concept for success 6 Inspiring leadership 38 Corporate Governance 106 Business model Engaged and motivated team 40 Board of Directors 114 One strong proprietary brand 8 Satisfied and loyal customers 44 Executive Committee 116 Our journey, vision, mission 10 A sustainable footprint 46 Sustainability Report Clear market positioning 12 High profitability over time 52 Stakeholder dialogs 118 Focus on scalability 18 Scandic’s 2020 strategy 54 Sustainable supplier management 120 Variable leases 20 Employee data 122 GRI Index 124 Scandic is a Swedish company subject to Swedish laws. All values are expressed in The Scandic share 126 Swedish kronor. Figures in parentheses refer to 2015 unless otherwise specified. Data on markets and the competitive situation is based on Scandic’s own assessments Definitions 128 unless a specific source is indicated. Such assessments are based on the best and latest Shareholder information 129 available facts from published sources. This document is a translation of the official Swedish Annual Report for Scandic Hotels Group AB (publ) for the 2016 financial year. Only the Swedish Annual Report has been audited. THIS IS SCANDIC 42,000 A SOLID BRAND Today, Scandic is the strongest hotel brand in the Nordic region. This is because the company controls operations and the customer experience – from booking to following up. This creates a secure base. But a strong brand is perishable. To keep the brand alive, each Scandic employee needs HOTEL ROOMS to live up to the expectations of guests, every time they interact. At the same time, the content and perceived values of the brand need to be constantly developed so that it remains relevant and appreciated. STRATEGIC COOPERATION In the Nordic market, leasing is the most common model for operating hotels and Scandic focuses on hotels with long-term leasing agreements. In addition to giving 223 120 Scandic financial flexibility, the leasing model links the interests of Scandic and the property owners. This allows for long-term positive development of properties and positive financial results. Scandic’s strong market position means that it is the first choice for many property owners when it comes to new hotel projects. HOTELS PLACES CORPORATE CUSTOMERS DOMINATE 1.9 MILLION LOYAL GUESTS About 70 percent of Scandic’s revenue comes from business travelers Over the years, Scandic has been a pioneer and driven development in the hotel and conferences. The remaining 30 percent is from leisure travel. industry. Guests have appreciated Scandic’s innovation and today, the company Scandic is a full-service provider of accommodations, restaurants and enjoys a high percentage of repeat customers. This is manifested in the loyalty conference facilities with a range of services tailored to local markets. program Scandic Friends – the largest in the Nordic hotel industry with more than Scandic constantly differentiates its offering in relation to competitors. 1.9 million members. Members earn valuable points each night they stay, and Returning guests should feel that Scandic offers distinct and meaningful Scandic Friends members account for about 40 percent of Scandic’s reservations. added value. 16 15,000 HIGH-QUALITY HOTEL PORTFOLIO Scandic works constantly to optimize its existing hotel HOTELS portfolio through additions and reconfigurations. It has also successfully built a pipeline of new hotels. In February IN PIPELINE 2017, the pipeline included 16 exciting new hotels that EMPLOYEES will open by 2020. A 50-YEAR HISTORY FORERUNNER IN SUSTAINABILITY Scandic was founded as Esso Motor Hotel in Laxå, Sweden in 1963. Within Doing business responsibly is important to Scandic. The company is the driving just ten years, Esso was the largest hotel chain in Sweden. The Scandic force in the hotel industry in the area of sustainability, both when it comes to brand was established in 1983. The journey since then has been marked by environmental and social issues. This leading position was confirmed when strong organic growth combined with strategic acquisitions. The model has Scandic was named the most sustainable hotel operator for the sixth year in always been to transform hotels into Scandic ones right away – a successful a row in last year’s survey by Sustainable Brands in Sweden. Scandic’s efforts strategy that has laid the foundation for Scandic’s strong brand. Ownership in this area reduce costs and increase revenues. They also strengthen the of the company has changed over the years. Between 1996 and 2001, company’s brand since guests – like Scandic – feel increasingly strongly about Scandic was listed on the stock exchange. The re-listing of Scandic’s shares these issues. in the fall of 2015 marked a comeback. THE LEADING HOTEL COMPANY IN THE NORDICS 41,572 hotel rooms. At 223 hotels in operation. In about 120 cities. These three figures underline Scandic’s role as the leading hotel operator in the Nordic region. Scandic focuses on hotels in the mid-market segment. Annual sales for 2016 totaled more than SEK 13 billion. Scandic has more than 15,300 team members. And each person is equally important for creating the positive customer experience that Scandic is known for. NET SALES AND GROWTH ADJUSTED EBITDA AND EBITDA MARGIN REVPAR AND GROWTH MSEK % MSEK % SEK % 15,000 40 1,400 12 800 30 12,000 30 1,050 9 600 20 9,000 20 700 6 400 10 6,000 10 350 3 200 0 3,000 0 0 -10 0 0 0 -10 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Net sales, MSEK Growth, % Adjusted Adjusted RevPAR, SEK Growth in RevPAR, % EBITDA, MSEK EBITDA margin, % OUR NORDIC DNA The Nordic way of thinking has been in Scandic’s DNA since its inception over 50 years ago. It is reflected in our design, our service and our people. It steers our culture, our thinking and our leadership. It is reflected in our curiosity and our openness to the world and its diversity. In thinking big, challenging ingrained ideas, working as a team and being driven by the conviction that nothing, absolutely nothing, is impossible. And naturally, it is the foundation of our vision, our mission and our values. “IN 2016, MOST THINGS WENT OUR WAY” H OW WOULD YOU SUM UP 2016? HOW ARE THE DIFFERENT MARKETS – As a really good year for Scandic. We’re now in “SCANDIC IS WELL EQUIPPED DEVELOPING? a period where external conditions are favorable, – In Sweden, which is our largest market, we added new FOR THE FUTURE WITH EXCITING with continued good economic conditions in the Nordic capacity in 2016. Scandic Continental opened as well as our countries and a growing hotel market. Not only that, ScanHOTELS IN THE PIPELINE IN first signature hotel, Haymarket by Scandic. Both are true dic has a strategy that is working well, which means that A MARKET THAT CONTINUES success stories. In my career in the hotel industry, I’ve never we’re taking market share all the time. We have successTO BE STRONG.” seen anything like it. Typically, it takes 18 to 24 months for a fully introduced our cultural platform, Inspiring Nordic, and new hotel to become profitable. Scandic Continental had created get-up-and-go in our organization. Our employee high occupancy and was profitable from day one. satisfaction is high, as is customer satisfaction. In short, it feels like most things went our way in 2016. And that we’re contribution of each person. We’ve always had a strong – The success of Haymarket by Scandic shows that our stronger than ever. culture and proud employees at Scandic, so Inspiring investment in signature hotels is absolutely right. The initia­Nordic is more an evolution than a revolution. tive continued in 2016 with Grand Central by Scandic and HOW DID THE MARKET DEVELOP in 2017, we will launch Downtown Camper by Scandic, DURING THE YEAR? WHAT’S THE FOCUS FOR 2017? which is also in Stockholm, and Grand Hotel by Scandic in – The European hotel market has experienced a long – For us, 2017 is the year of leadership. We are committed Oslo. The latter is part of the takeover of the operation of period of growth. In line with this, the Nordic markets are to developing the leaders we have and becoming a hoteight hotels that we carried out in January 2017. In 2019, also favorable. Scandic has a stable and recurring cushouse for talented employees so they can grow personally we will continue by opening the signature hotels Marski by tomer base thanks to its strong position in the business and in their roles within Scandic. Scandic in Helsinki and Hotel Norge by Scandic in Bergen. community. Corporate customers and organizations During the year, we will also launch a number of new account for about 70 percent of our business and with our concepts to make the customer experience even better. – In Finland, the macroeconomic situation continued to be wide network of hotels, we can satisfy virtually any need. With our new meetings concept, we can offer more effecweak last year, but the hotel market still showed positive tive and inspiring conferences and we are continuing to growth. We strengthened our position in the country by – Moreover, we see that the Nordic countries are becoming strengthen our digital platform – all to create an inspiring establishing a hotel in Vaasa and our leading position in the more popular tourist and meeting destinations for internaexperience for our customers. We’re also continuing to capital was accentuated by our recently announced investtional guests. Holding conferences in major Nordic cities develop our loyalty program, Scandic Friends. ment in a new hotel at Helsinki-Vantaa Airport. has become increasingly attractive. The geopolitical climate is positive in our part of the world. And our Nordic lifeHOW DO YOU STEER SCANDIC’S – In Denmark, business remained strong during 2016 and style and design inspire people to visit. So altogether, OPERATIONS IN DIFFERENT COUNTRIES? both the corporate and leisure markets grew. We acquired a things are generally pointing in the right direction. – Last year, we carried out a reorganization where all counhotel in Aalborg, which is a strategic market for us. And in try managers now report directly to me. They are now also 2019, the Kødbyen and Falconer hotels will be finished. This HOW DID INTERNAL WORK PROGRESS part of the Executive Committee. This has shortened deciwill make our position in the Copenhagen area even stronger. DURING THE YEAR? sion-making paths and it highlights the importance of – In 2016, we rolled out our culture platform, Inspiring having local leadership in our different geographic marWHAT ABOUT SCANDIC IN NORWAY? ­Nordic, throughout the organization. Through films, workkets. Within the framework of our strong, clear Scandic – The Norwegian market is still a bit of an uphill battle shops and discussions involving all of our team members, culture, we’ve made room for each country to run operabecause of low oil prices. For Scandic’s part, we’ve sucwe have tried to create an understanding of our vision, tions their own way, with local nuances. Scandic is now ceeded in isolating the effects of this to the oil destination ­mission and values and what they mean in practice. so big and strong in the Nordic markets that we need to Stavanger. There, the hotel market has declined by about allow a certain degree of flexibility for local adaptation. 30 percent. – Our team members have been extremely engaged in this This can’t be steered from our head office, but with an ear But we’ve managed to handle the situation and none of process. I think everyone feels that they have an important to the ground. our hotels are in the red. This demonstrates the power and role and that the success of the company is based on the strength of our business model. Thanks to our variable GRI: G4-1 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 3 leasing model and staffing flexibility, we are quite resistant to market volatility. – The integration of Rica continued according to plan. The focus last year was on reducing costs and in 2017, we will direct our efforts to generating more sales. – Otherwise, the Norwegian market was stable. We have many hotels in the northern parts of the country. These attract tourists, but they also play an important role as conference hotels. ­Norway has outsourced various agencies as part of its rural development movement and this is benefiting our hotels. Today, we have a market position that allows us to win even large contracts. AND SCANDIC’S POSITION IN GERMANY? – Our three existing hotels are doing well and have improved their operating margins. Thanks to our decision in 2016 to build up qualified resources for business development in Germany, we have created the conditions for further expansion in this huge market. German hotel guests like our HOW IS THE PIPELINE for a new hotel in central Gothenburg and lower costs in the form of reduced energy Nordic concepts and we tend to emphasize LOOKING? one at Helsinki Airport. consumption and waste. them a bit more at these hotels. We would – As it is now in February 2017, we will be happy to establish more hotels in the increase the number of rooms by 10 perHOW IS YOUR SUSTAINABILITY – Our sustainability program is based on same city since we can see how our two cent in the next two years. And we have PROGRAM STRENGTHENING the Ten Principles of the UN Global Comhotels in Berlin complement each other. interesting new projects in the pipeline for YOUR BUSINESS? pact and we have a systematic approach 2018 and 2019. This means we are well – We are convinced that our sustainability with established processes and proce– We have a selective focus for our expanpositioned relative to our growth objectives. work strongly influences how our guests dures that integrate sustainability throughsion with an emphasis on the six largest In January this year, we took over eight and society in general see Scandic as a out the entire value chain. In the areas of cities. hotels in Norway, Sweden and Denmark company. It has led to greater diversity and inclusion and diversity, health, carbon with a total of 1,700 rooms. One of these more committed team members, which in emissions and waste, Scandic has conwas the prestigious Grand Hotel in Oslo. turn improves the customer experience. crete, time-bound targets that are conAnd in February, we signed agreements Our sustainability work has also resulted in stantly monitored. 4 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GRI: G4-1 – Some examples of projects during the WHAT’S THE OUTLOOK year include our commitment to the Fast FOR 2017? Track program that helps newcomers with – Scandic is well positioned for the future chef’s training enter the workforce faster. with exciting hotels in the pipeline in a We also continued working to reduce market that continues to be strong. At the waste at our hotels, a project that will be beginning of 2017, we had already sold expanded next year. half of our volume. Based on our cultural platform, we will continue developing our SCANDIC POSTED RECORD team members, our concepts and our RESULTS. AGAIN. WHAT’S customer program. THE SECRET? – Basically, at Scandic we’re driven by AND NOW THAT THINGS ARE very simple principles. We listen to our GETTING REALLY EXCITING, guests and understand what they want. We YOU’RE LEAVING? are faithful to the mid-market segment. We – Yes. After more than thirty years in the have great hotels in good locations. And hotel industry and eight years at Scandic, we have a clear strategy that we follow to I have decided to stop working operatively. the letter. Everything we said we would do It’s time for me to do something else in life. at the time of our IPO in December 2015 This is why I have decided to leave my we’ve done. position as President & CEO on July 31 In 2016, our net sales rose by 7.3 perwhen I will hand over the reins to Even cent, mainly driven by increased RevPAR ­Frydenberg whom I’d like to welcome and more rooms in operation. Our adjusted warmly to Scandic. But until then, I look EBITDA margin reached our long-term forward to carrying on with full force to target of 11 percent and we strengthened continue developing the leading hotel our financial position. company in the Nordic countries. Being listed on the stock exchange has given us greater transparency and – Finally, I’d like to thank everyone for increased visibility in the media. And our putting their hearts and souls into making share has been well received in the marour guests feel welcome. At every hotel. ket. In fact, globally, Scandic was the hotel Around the clock. Your daily interaction share that developed the most positively with our guests is what strengthens and last year. Swedish investors have gotten to molds the Scandic brand. I’m so glad to know us and they’re confident of Scandic’s have you on our team. development potential and prospects. We also see growing interest from international investors. This is very gratifying. Frank Fiskers, “OUR SUSTAINABILITY WORK HAS LED TO INCREASED President & CEO DIVERSITY AND MORE COMMITTED TEAM MEMBERS, WHICH IN TURN IMPROVES THE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE.” GRI: G4-1 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 5 SCANDIC’S CONCEPT FOR SUCCESS Scandic’s value creation builds on its strong brand and proven repetitive business concept. Together, these have given the company a leading position in the attractive Nordic hotel market. The driving force is to work close to customers and constantly develop the offering. By being a pioneer, Scandic creates competitiveness – and thereby continued good and profitable growth. A PROVEN BUSINESS MODEL SCANDIC’S STRENGTHS VALUE CREATION AT ALL LEVELS Scandic is a hotel operator that conducts its operations Scandic has the largest and widest network of hotels in the Scandic has a high ESI (Employee Satisfaction Index). under a single brand it owns in full. This allows Scandic to Nordic region. Its hotels are strategically located in preAs an employer, Scandic is always ranked highly deliver an offering at each hotel that meets customer mium locations, adjacent to business parks, airports and in surveys. expectations. selected communication hubs. Several hotels can be Scandic is the strongest hotel brand in the Nordic region The company is positioned in the mid-market segment, located in the same city, complementing each other. with sustainably high guest satisfaction. Loyal customers which is less cyclical than other segments. This segment is Scandic is a brand based on common tools and a winare rewarded through the Scandic Friends program. In also dominant in the Nordic markets. ning culture that pervades all of its employees. This ensures 2016, the number of members rose to over 1.9 million. Scandic’s business model is based on clear concepts consistent high quality and effective implementation of clear Scandic has a sharp focus on being a responsible hotel and strategies as well as economies of scale. By centralizbusiness concepts based on the customers’ needs and company. The company has adopted clear sustainability ing support functions, hotel employees can instead conwishes. All guests are warmly welcomed at Scandic and goals in a number of areas. Scandic is actively committed to centrate on taking care of guests and optimizing operations offered a hotel stay that meets expectations. diversity and inclusion, which also covers gender equality. locally. Activities and results are regularly followed up at all Scandic has also adopted clear financial goals for its Scandic focuses on lease agreements as a model for ­levels – on the department, hotel, country and Group levels operations. These include revenue growth, EBITDA margin operating hotels. These usually involve variable rents based – and key ratios can be compared within one country as and debt. In 2016, Scandic achieved all of them. on the hotel’s revenue and a shared investment commitwell as between countries. ment with the property owner. The glue that holds Scandic’s 15,300 team members Read more about how Scandic creates value together is a strong common cultural platform. This forms on pages 38–53. Read more about Scandic’s business model the basis for all employees in their daily interactions, both on pages 8–21. internal and external. Read more about Scandic’s strengths on pages 22–37. 6 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GRI: G4-4 STRENGTHS COMMERCIAL HOTEL PLATFORM OPERATION NETWORK TEAM MEMBERS & CULTURE ENGAGED AND LEASE MODEL MOTIVATED TEAM A WORLD-CLASS NORDIC HOTEL SATISFIED AND SCALABILITY COMPANY LOYAL CUSTOMERS EA O TIO M N SS MID-MARKET A SUSTAINABLE IN E POSITIONING FOOTPRINT CR BUS ONE VA STRONG FINANCIAL LU DE L E PROPRIETARY RETURNS BRAND SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 7 ONE STRONG PROPRIETARY BRAND Scandic is a hotel operator that conducts and controls its operations under a single, fully-owned brand. This provides many opportunities for the company to influence the customer experience and Scandic has long been the strongest and most well-known brand in the Nordic hotel market. Work on the company’s cultural platform, Inspiring Nordic, is continuing in stages to fortify the brand, both internally and externally. BRAND AWARENESS AMONG BUSINESS AND LEISURE TRAVELERS BUSINESS TRAVELERS LEISURE TRAVELERS 100% 100% Source: Study conducted by Evidence on behalf of Scandic. U nlike many of its competitors, and new concepts and procedures can be ticularly strong position among business tisements and PR activities. It is polished, Scandic controls its operations by introduced with full leverage. travelers. Consolidated for the entire Nordic tested and developed every hour of the day conducting operations itself under region, Scandic is the clear leader. in the constant interaction between Scandic a single, wholly-owned brand. This allows BEST-KNOWN BRAND The strong brand is also notable in and its guests. There are no shortcuts and Scandic to deliver a consistent offering with Scandic is the best-known hotel brand in other surveys. For example, Scandic is cheating is not possible. Scandic’s brand consistent high quality in all markets and at the Nordic region and the first choice for ranked 20th in the Sustainable Brand is perishable. all hotels. It also creates the conditions business and leisure travelers and conferIndex among Sweden’s best companies Scandic currently has about 15,300 required to control the customer experience ence guests alike. This position is based within sustainability. It is also ranked as team members in seven countries. The and meet customer expectations. on an offering with a standard concept at one of the most attractive employers by glue that holds these individuals together This clear ownership is also the basis heart. Guests always recognize a Scandic business students. is the company’s strong common cultural for Scandic’s effective cost control. There hotel and the experience meets their platform. This, however, does not mean is high transparency and operations and expectations. BUILDING THE BRAND IN ALL that everyone is cast in the same mold. performance are monitored regularly at all Depending on the market, Scandic either CUSTOMER INTERACTION Scandic’s culture is more of a framework levels. Likewise, changes can be impleranks first or second in brand recognition in Scandic’s brand is not a theoretical conthat creates scope for variation and impromented swiftly in all areas of the business the Nordic countries. Scandic holds a parcept. And it is not built mainly though advervisation and allows people to develop in 8 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 BUSINESS MODEL their roles. This creates committed is Nordic values and the lifestyle they taken place through workshops, competiteam members, which in turn leads to represent. Scandic’s guests like an infor“SCANDIC’S BRAND IS tions and other fun and inspiring activities. satisfied guests – and ultimately, an even mal approach. They appreciate openness, The aim is for Scandic’s team members to stronger brand. personal service, Nordic design and diverNOT A THEORETICAL understand and adopt the platform in an sity. This forms the foundation on which CONCEPT. IT IS intuitive and honest manner. A CLEAR BRAND PLATFORM Scandic is based – and what Scandic has The work on Inspiring Nordic will conScandic is a relationship-oriented comalways rested on. POLISHED AND DEVELtinue in full force in 2017, emphasizing the pany. Clear customer focus is therefore The Inspiring Nordic platform was introOPED IN EVERY INTERapplication of the common values in interone of the company’s key drivers for sucduced in 2015 and in 2016, extensive actions with customers. Keeping Scandic’s cess. This is the basis for Scandic’s new ­culture-related work was carried out in the ACTION BETWEEN culture alive is a never-ending process. cultural platform, Inspiring Nordic, which Group. Before the summer, all hotel direcSCANDIC AND ITS is described on the next pages. tors and the heads of all functions were Inspiring Nordic is based on the com­ invited to take part and through them, the GUESTS.” pany’s existing corporate culture but rest of the Scandic team has become raised to the next level. The starting point involved in this cultural evolution. This has SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 9 “LOVELY” Just arrived at Scandic. Lovely room, lovely staff as always. OUR @andreatrudi CULTURE IS OUR BRAND “AT EASE” I don’t think I have ever felt so at ease at a hotel before. The staff was so genuine, so down-to-earth in a really good way. mimmi_k “THE DETAILS” Feeling welcome! It’s all about the details. zarahsophie “WOW!” “A VIEW TO KILL FOR” Just wow! Great reception, big and nice hotel room, a real Have you tried the yoga space at Continental, with a view to Nordic feel and the best breakfast I’ve ever had. kill for and giving peace to life? mette2015 @karen78 10 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 We are warm and welcoming, meeting everyone with open arms and open minds, and we care for the people, planet and society around us. “WE MIGHT TAKE SCANDIC OUT OF THE We are ourselves celebrating each other’s unique potential and appreciating the advantage of our differences – just as we see and treat NORDICS, BUT WE WILL each guest as a unique individual. “GREAT RESTAURANT” NEVER TAKE THE NORDICS Really great restaurant and bar at Scandic, didn’t expect that! Met up with friends and we had so much fun! OUT OF SCANDIC.” @alwayslisa FRANK FISKERS We are reliable and deliver high, consistent PRESIDENT & CEO quality in everything we do. But we also go above and beyond what’s expected, knowing that the key to success is about attention to every little detail and a constant obsession with going from good to great. We dare to do things differently, to go outside of our comfort zone and to spend more time looking forward than back – always aspiring to be an inspiration to our guests, to each other, to owners and to society at large. “WHAT A VIEW” Just love the Nordic environment that is always near Scandic. mrright “YES” Party at Scandic last night. Yes, Scandic. therealbob GRI: G4-56 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 11 CLEAR MARKET POSITIONING The global hotel industry is in constant change, both with regard to demand and customer behavior. And alternative forms of distribution have also emerged. The mid-market segment, which is Scandic’s focus, is the dominant alternative for business and leisure travelers in the Nordic region, and it is less cyclical than other segments. 12 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 BUSINESS MODEL A DISTINCT INTERNATIONAL TREND THE NORDIC HOTEL MARKET The global hotel industry is in a stage of dynamic The Nordic hotel market is not a mirror image of the interdevelopment. Digital travel agents, known as national hotel market. Most importantly, OTAs do not have Online Travel Agents (OTAs), are changing the game. In the INCREASE IN GLOBAL TRAVEL the same strong position here. The dominant hotel chains US, which is leading the development in this area, digital Sales in the global travel industry (travel and in the Nordic region operate their own hotels and remain booking sites currently account for nearly 20 percent of tourism) account for 3.1 percent of the world’s largely in control of bookings. This means that they strive to hotel booking volumes. The winners are mainly smaller GNP, which is equivalent to the banking industry. own the entire value chain as well as relationships with hotels that are widening their recruitment base. The losers International travel to Europe has increased their customers, from the first point of contact to follow-up are chiefly major hotel chains operated according to the by about 50 percent since 2000. During the after the hotel stay. OTAs have more of a partnership role, franchise model. They are gradually losing control of their same period, travel to Sweden grew by about securing distribution in international markets outside of the distribution, resulting in reduced profitability as costs for 60 percent. hotel company’s footprint. commissions increase. According to an analysis by the American investment bank Morgan Stanley, commissions Lifestyle steers hotel choice to OTAs amounted to 16 billion USD in a global perspective. According to a customer survey of 4,000 people that Scandic carried out last year, Nordic hotel guests prefer when GREATER TRANSPARENCY things are functional, rational and relaxed. In line with the Through their increasingly dominant position, OTAs have Nordic lifestyle, mid-market hotels have become the domimajor influence on customer behavior when choosing hotels. nant option for both leisure and business travelers in the Other websites that provide hotel information and reviews, Nordic countries. such as Tripadvisor.com, also allow customers to compare A growing number of hotel guests also expect personal types of accommodation and prices when booking. treatment and to have specific needs met. They want to be This transparency makes it difficult for hotels that do seen and rewarded for their loyalty. And they want a welnot meet customer expectations to survive the competition. coming atmosphere that makes it easy to socialize. A poor review affects business very quickly, while a hotel In addition, today’s hotel customers have a focus on with good reviews and attractive prices will enjoy competihealth and well-being. Many guests expect a wide offering tive advantages. of organic food, and people with allergies want adequate food options. Access to a spa and gym is also an important Increased digital interaction factor for many people when choosing a hotel. The opporDEVELOPMENT OF GDP Another global trend is that customers expect to interact tunity to relax is particularly important in connection with digitally with hotels before, during and after their stay, just % conferences. 6 as with many e-commerce sites and in other industries. 4 Information has to be easily accessible and it must be easy Continued growth in the Nordic countries 2 to book and interact with the hotel, even on mobile phones. Growth in GDP is a strong driver for the hotel industry. 0 The line between analog and digital is disappearing. As growth in GDP in the Nordic countries is expected -2 For customers, it is natural to share their experiences in to remain stable in coming years, development in the -4 social media. They communicate regularly with other hotel hotel industry is likely to be positive. According to the -6 guests and enter into discussions with hotels about their industry organization Visita, higher growth is expected in -8 experiences, both good and bad. This openness is part of the hotel sector than in the economy as a whole. Demand -10 the new reality that all companies are finding themselves 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 E 17 E 18 E is being driven by business travel, tourism, congresses 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 in. Within the hotel industry, which is an “experience indusand conferences. Sweden Norway Denmark Finland try,” this dialog is highly business-critical and something Travel and tourism is one of the world’s largest indusevery successful hotel company must address. Source: Nordea Economic Outlook (Dec 2016). tries. There is an accelerating trend where the Nordic SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 13 countries are becoming more popular as tourist and general economic climate affect operations in this segment meeting destinations. Holding international conferences in to a lesser extent compared with other segments. major Nordic cities has become more attractive. Large new The major global hotel companies – Hilton, Marriott, entertainment and sports venues have been built and comIHG and Accor – are underrepresented in the Nordic counmunications have improved. The Nordic region is an easily tries. One reason for this is that the Nordic hotel concept accessible and interesting destination. is primarily based on lease agreements. Global chains ­normally operate based on other business models, usually POSITIVE DEVELOPMENT IN REVPAR franchising. The share of occupied hotel rooms in the Nordic region has shown a positive trend for many years. The most important SCANDIC’S OFFERING measure of the performance of the hotel market as a whole Sold rooms account for 67 percent of Scandic’s revenue. is RevPAR (Revenue Per Available Room). In 2016, RevPAR The rest is attributable to sales of Food & Beverage went up in all Nordic markets. (19 percent) and conferences (14 percent). The backbone of Scandic’s business is providing accommodation STRONG REGIONAL OPERATORS and conference facilities to the business community, The Nordic hotel market offers a total of 291,000 rooms. which accounts for 70 percent of Scandic’s business. The largest operators in each country account for 153,000 ­Conference operations are central to the offering at many rooms, which is more than half of the total room capacity. of Scandic’s hotels. These hotel companies operate primarily in the mid-market Thanks to its wide network of hotels, the company is segment and room rates normally range between premium able to handle even the biggest contracts. Scandic can also and economy class. Based on the number of rooms, manage growing security requirements, primarily from Scandic’s market share is 13 percent. In the mid-market international customers. segment, Scandic’s market share is 25 percent. Scandic has about 5,200 corporate contracts in total. In general, the mid-market segment is less cyclical than Corporate customers include private companies and other segments. Experience shows that changes in the public institutions. These corporate contracts create SHARE OF HOTEL NIGHTS GROWTH IN INTERNATIONAL TOURISTS IN THE NORDIC MARKET, GUESTS % 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 Domestic Internordic International 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Globally Europe Northern Europe Source: Scandic. Source: UNWTO. 14 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GRI: G4-4 BUSINESS MODEL BREAKDOWN OF SCANDIC’S TURNOVER HOTEL NIGHTS 67% MEETINGS & CONFERENCES 14% FOOD & BEVERAGE 19% a ­stable base for all of Scandic’s activities. At the beginning of each year, a large portion of the year’s volume is already contracted. The ten largest corporate customers account for about 18 percent of the number of sold rooms. REVPAR IN THE MARKET AVERAGE ROOM RATES IN THE MARKET OCCUPANCY IN THE MARKET (OCC) 1) (REVENUE PER AVAILABLE ROOM) 1) (ARR) 1) SEK SEK % 800 1,200 80 700 70 1,000 600 60 500 800 50 400 300 600 40 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Sweden Norway Denmark Finland Sweden Norway Denmark Finland Sweden Norway Denmark Finland 1) Source: Benchmarking Alliance and Finland Statistics. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 15 GERMANY: AN ATTRACTIVE MARKET Scandic has a Nordic soul. But this doesn’t mean SCANDIC HAS WHAT IT TAKES With about 800,000 rooms, the German hotel market is that its operations have to be limited to the Nordic many times larger than the Nordic market. Today, with three hotels and more than 1,100 rooms, Scandic is a countries. Today, the company has six hotels outside small player, but the company sees possibilities for success­ful expansion in this large market. This is based of the Nordic region. Three are in Germany. And on the fact that the leasing model used by Scandic is the most common basis for cooperation among German based on Scandic’s positive experience so far, the property owners. In addition, Scandic’s financial strength and ability to generate revenue make the company an company sees potential to advance its position in this attractive tenant. Scandic has also proven that it is already successful in Germany. The Nordic way of taking care of huge market. This is an integral part of Scandic’s guests and designing hotels is appreciated. And profit­ ability has developed very positively at Scandic’s three growth strategy. existing hotels. Scandic has decided to continue growing in the German market by establishing hotels in a number of the largest cities and at regional hubs. Germany is a large market for exhibitions and conferences, and this fits in well with Scandic’s operations. Corporate customers are Scandic’s motor. As the first step, in 2016, Scandic recruited a business developer responsible for Scandic’s business development in the German market. She has solid experience in the industry and is stationed in Berlin. SUCCESSFULLY ESTABLISHED In 2010, Scandic opened Scandic Potsdamer Platz in Berlin and two years later, Scandic Emporio opened its doors in Hamburg. In early autumn 2014, Scandic took over the operations of Alsterhof Hotel in the capital, thus establishing its third hotel in Germany. The hotel, which has 217 rooms, is strategically located near shopping and entertainment, within walking distance of Kurfürstendamm avenue. The new name was obvious: Scandic Kurfürstendamm. 16 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 When Scandic took over the hotel, it had been newly “THE NORDIC WAY OF renovated but it wasn’t profitable. Scandic hired the TAKING CARE OF GUESTS existing staff and immediately started to introduce the proven Scandic concept. A new commercial strategy was AND DESIGNING HOTELS established. A customer base of corporate customers was quickly built up and cooperation with Scandic’s central IS APPRECIATED IN THE functions led to direct synergies. GERMAN MARKET.” Within two years, revenues from Scandic Kurfürsten­ damm had increased by almost 60 percent. In 2016, Sylvia Schnelle RevPAR (Revenue Per Available Room) was up 20 percent Director Business Development – proof that Scandic’s model works exceptionally in the German market as well. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 17 FOCUS ON SCALABILITY Scandic’s business model allows the company to implement clear concepts and strategies throughout its entire hotel portfolio. This ensures consistency from a marketing perspective and strengthens the brand. Since all operations are based on common platforms, customers can always expect an experience that meets expectations, regardless of which Scandic hotel they choose. C OMMON CONCEPTS Scandic’s successful concept is based on creating satisfied ­customers who choose to return to ­Scandic when they are looking for accommodations, arranging conferences or ­eating out. The Scandic brand represents functionality, reliability, excellent service, consistent high quality and a pleasant experience. Since Scandic is a hotel operator that conducts business under its own brand, the company can consistently ensure that the customer experience remains at the same high level at each of its 223 hotels. This is achieved by developing concepts centrally and implementing them locally. Through benchmarking and best practices, these concepts can be further improved. Scandic also tracks customer views and expectations through market studies and customer surveys. New trends are identified. This way, the com“SCANDIC’S STRENGTH pany can develop and implement new LIES IN COMBINING concepts quickly. Customers should feel that Scandic always meets or exceeds ECONOMIES OF SCALE their expectations. WITH INTIMACY AND A PERSONAL TOUCH IN INTERACTIONS WITH CUSTOMERS.” 18 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 BUSINESS MODEL A REPETITIVE MODEL addressing the market. It also creates THE RIGHT SPECIALIST FOR Scandic’s way of working is based on a ­conditions for negotiating competitive and THE RIGHT JOB IN 7 YEARS repetitive and proven way of interacting adapted solutions with providers throughScandic has centralized a number of supMEMBERSHIP IN with guests. Customers should always out the entire value chain. port functions in its operations. These recognize and get the reception and level Behind the scenes, Scandic uses a include IT and support, revenue optimizaSCANDIC FRIENDS of service they have come to expect. Scanpurely industrial approach that streamlines tion and procurement. This leads to control HAS INCREASED BY dic’s strength lies in combining economies flows and reduces the number of suppliof the entire cost structure and optimizaof scale with intimacy and a personal ers. This makes it possible to maximize tion of resources. A particular task is +300% touch in interactions with customers. This cooperation and minimize lead times. All to performed in only one place in the organiis reflected in the fact that 95 percent of reduce total costs and increase margins. zation – by specialists in that particular corporate customers renew their contracts This isn’t seen or experienced by hotel area. This ensures professionalism, focus each year. It is also evident in the rapid guests. But it benefits them by ensuring and cost efficiency. increase in the number of members of the that they enjoy a well-functioning hotel Above all, it means that employees at Scandic Friends loyalty program. In the stay that offers good value for money. Scandic’s hotels can concentrate on their past seven years, the number has grown main task – keeping Scandic’s guests from about 440,000 to around 1,900,000, FLEXIBLE COST STRUCTURE satisfied. an increase of more than 300 percent. Through using central and systematic cost At the same time, Scandic listens. What control, Scandic can easily adapt its operis good now can be even better. New cusations to changes in demand. Salary costs tomer requests are used to develop the are the single largest item. By having the business and create new potential revenue right mix of permanent and temporary streams. employees, the company can adapt quickly to new market conditions. Variable SIZE MATTERS leases also act as an economic buffer in Scandic is the largest and leading hotel a downturn. In this way, lower occupancy operator in the Nordic region. Its size leads results in reduced rental and salary costs. to advantages, not only in its work SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 19 VARIABLE LEASES Scandic focuses on lease agreements as a model for operating hotels. These usually involve variable rents based on the hotel’s revenue and a shared investment commitment with the property owner. This model, which is the most common model in the Nordic region, reduces the risk of conflicts by evening out margins in an economic cycle. Dividing responsibilities clearly leads to a fruitful cooperation between the parties. C LOSE COOPERATION of the property and strong financial Global chains usually operate ­performance. Of Scandic’s 223 hotels, using a business model based on 192 have leases. management or franchise agreements. Scandic has made a strategic decision to LONG-TERM LEASES focus on long-term leases with variable Scandic’s leases generally have an initial rent. This is the most common model term of 15 to 20 years with an option to for operating larger hotels in the Nordic extend. Scandic continually assesses hotel region. profitability and then normally chooses to In general, the leasing model means extend agreements after the contract that the property owner is responsible for period. If conditions for continued profitmaintaining and refurbishing the building able operations are considered to be poor, as well as technical installations and bathleases may occasionally be terminated. rooms. Scandic is responsible for maintainIn Sweden and to some extent in Denmark, ing and renovating the hotels’ furniture, there is a legal tenure in connection with fixtures and equipment. the extension of leases. This means that This division creates the conditions the tenant is entitled to an extension on needed for fruitful cooperation. Both parmarket terms. In other countries, there ties are driven by a common ambition that is usually an option to extend the original enables long-term positive development agreement. NEW TOOL FOR CREATING GROWTH In 2016, Scandic adopted a new tool for accelerating the development of the hotel portfolio. This includes Scandic entering as a combined property owner and operator at the initial stage of the development of a new hotel. This way, the company can capture and develop business opportunities that are considered to have long-term viability. The investment must always be kept at such a level that it does not affect Scandic’s overarching financial objectives. 20 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 BUSINESS MODEL About half of Scandic’s hotels are owned by seven reputaIn 2016, Scandic and Pandox agreed to extend the leases ble property owners. The largest individual partner is for 19 hotels in the Nordic region. In connection with the ­Pandox. The average rental period in the current portfolio lease, a joint investment of 470 MSEK was agreed upon, is 11 years. divided evenly between the parties, to renovate and extend these hotels. The program covers 1,600 hotel rooms and CONTINUAL UPGRADES bathrooms and extensive meeting and restaurant areas. Scandic has a modern and well-invested hotel portfolio. The cooperation is in line with the successful working model Three quarters of its rooms are less than ten years old. To established by the companies in connection with a previous ensure the long-term quality of its hotels, Scandic invests renovation program that ended in 2016. This involved 3 to 4 percent of sales annually in renovation and developextensive renovations and the development of 40 hotels, ment. This is usually carried out in cooperation with the and was based on a joint investment of about 1,600 MSEK. property owners. REMAINING LEASE LENGTH1) INVESTMENTS, 5 YEARS Number of rooms MSEK 25,000 800 5.1% 4.8% 4.5% 3.7% 3.4% 700 20,000 600 15,000 500 400 10,000 300 200 5,000 100 0 0 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 >2 0 Renovations New hotels & expansions IT Variable Variable with fixed minimum rent Fixed % Renovations as % of net sales 1) Including pipeline. BREAKDOWN OF LEASE AGREEMENTS2) LARGEST PROPERTY OWNERS2) Variable Variable with fixed minimum rent Fixed Pandox Rica Eiendom Balder KLP Midstar Eiendomsspar 2) Excluding pipeline. Lars Wenaas Other SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 21 WIDEST NETWORK Scandic is the largest and leading hotel operator in the Nordic countries. With 223 hotels in close to 120 places, Scandic offers unique reach for private and corporate customers alike. Scandic targets the mid-market segment and about half of its hotels are located in big cities. The goal is to continue developing the portfolio by establishing two to four new hotels each year. R IGHT HOTELS IN THE RIGHT PLACES airports and other important communication hubs. The is to open two to four new hotels every year. Scandic’s Scandic is the Nordic market leader based on numlocations of its hotels are chosen to suit corporate customlong-term development plan has resulted in today’s well-­ ber of hotel rooms. At the turn of 2016/2017, ers, conference and business groups and leisure travelers. diversified hotel portfolio of high quality combined with Scandic had 41,572 rooms at 223 hotels. About 95 perHistorically, more than 70 percent of Scandic’s revenues a strong pipeline of major hotel projects that will be realized cent of Scandic’s room capacity is in the Nordic region. come from corporate customers and conferences. in the near future. This represents about 30 percent of the total number of An overview of the development of Scandic’s total hotel In 2016, Scandic opened five new hotels with a total rooms in hotels operated by hotel companies in the Nordic portfolio can be found on the following pages. of 1,112 rooms. Two of these, Haymarket by Scandic countries in what is known as the “branded” market. and Scandic Continental in Stockholm, are presented On the national level, Scandic is the largest hotel operaA STRONG PIPELINE on pages 26–27. tor in Sweden and Denmark, the second largest in Norway Scandic has a proactive and successful approach to iden­ In the next two years, Scandic will complete and open and the third largest in Finland – although the company is tifying and realizing new hotel and revenue opportunities. 16 new hotels. In total, this will add more than 5,000 rooms. the biggest player in the Helsinki area. Scandic has six One fundamental part is that the company constantly Scandic is constantly looking for new hotels to add to hotels in selected locations in Germany, Poland and works to optimize its existing hotel portfolio through its portfolio. Germany, with a hotel market that is many Belgium. And the company has communicated its ambition improvements, expansions and reconfigurations. At the times greater than the Nordic market, is an area of focus. to grow particularly in the German market. beginning of 2017, there were ongoing expansions of Scandic’s offering fits well into the German market and Scandic hotels are strategically located in premium 430 rooms at existing hotels. This corresponds to the the company is preparing to expand in the country. Read locations in city centers and adjacent to business parks, capacity of two new hotels. Additionally, Scandic’s goal more on pages 16–17. “BY SCANDIC” By positioning its hotels in different ways, Scandic can operMARKET SHARE IN THE NORDIC COUNTRIES – BASED ON NUMBER OF ROOMS, 2016 ate several hotels at the same location without the hotels directly competing with each other. The opening of the comNumber of rooms per brand Sweden Norway Denmark Finland Total pany’s first two signature hotels – Haymarket by Scandic Scandic 16,652 14,001 3,874 5,536 40,063 and Scandic Grand Central – is in line with this strategy. The Nordic Choice 14,981 15,074 1,050 687 31,792 signature hotels offer unique hotel experiences and offerBest Western 7,426 2,002 1,585 800 11,813 ings in characteristic environments and give Scandic opporRezidor 4,002 7,184 1,978 1,627 14,791 tunities to capitalize on these special features and attract Other large hotel companies 9,168 678 10,725 16,337 36,908 new customers. Others, including independent hotels 14,981 15,074 1,050 687 31,792 Adding the suffix “by Scandic” on the names of signaTotal 120,090 85,665 43,432 50,368 299,555 ture hotels also strengthens Scandic’s brand. In 2017 and Scandic’s market share, % 2018, four more signature hotels will open – one each in Of entire market 14 16 9 11 13 Stockholm, Helsinki, Oslo and Bergen. Of other large hotel companies 32 36 20 22 30 Source: Scandic Nordic Hotel Database. 22 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRENGTHS DEVELOPMENT OF HOTEL PORTFOLIO NUMBER OF AVAILABLE ROOMS IN THE NORDIC MARKET Number of rooms ‘000 50,000 140 41,572 ROOMS 45,000 40,000 120 100 AT 223 HOTELS 80 35,000 60 40 30,000 20 25,000 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 20182011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 In operation Opened Closed Pipeline 2020 Sweden Norway Denmark Finland This graph shows Scandic’s pipeline in February 2017. Source: Own information, external sources and company websites. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 23 DIVERSIFIED PORTFOLIO Scandic offers a wide range of hotels in terms of geography and targeting. The portfolio includes centrally located hotels in capitals and other major cities and hotels in strategically selected locations outside of major cities – at airports, business parks and communication hubs. In other words, Scandic has the Nordic map well covered. LEADING IN SWEDEN HOTELS ACROSS NORWAY MARKET LEADER IN DENMARK FOCUS ON LARGER CITIES Scandic is the market leading hotel operaScandic is Norway’s second largest hotel Most of Scandic’s Danish hotels are IN FINLAND tor in Sweden based on number of rooms. company and it enjoys a very strong posilocated in and around Copenhagen. The Scandic’s Finnish portfolio is concentrated Scandic is also the hotel company with tion in both the corporate and leisure seghotels in the Danish portfolio have underin major cities, particularly in Helsinki the most well-recognized brand and the ments. Brand recognition has increased gone a complete renovation in recent where Scandic is the leading hotel comfirst choice for corporate and leisure quickly in the past few years and Scandic years and capacity is being expanded sigpany. The newly-renovated Scandic Park ­customers. is now ranked second in the country. The nificantly. This will further strengthen has quickly become a great success in the company has a strong offering for tourists Scandic’s position as the market leader in capital. In the entire country, Scandic is the visiting northern Norway. Denmark. third largest hotel company. SWEDEN NORWAY DENMARK FINLAND 84 82 23 28 HOTELS HOTELS HOTELS HOTELS 16,652 14,001 3,874 5,536 ROOMS ROOMS ROOMS ROOMS 4,541 2,992 1,185 1,248 EMPLOYEES (FTE) EMPLOYEES (FTE) EMPLOYEES (FTE) EMPLOYEES (FTE) 5,650 3,744 1,412 1,750 MSEK IN SALES MSEK IN SALES MSEK IN SALES MSEK IN SALES 24 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GRI: G4-6, G4-8, G4-9 STRENGTHS SCANDIC’S HOTELS IN THE NORDIC COUNTRIES AND THE REST OF EUROPE “S CANDIC’S GOAL IS TO GROW BY 2 TO 4 HOTELS EACH YEAR.” SELECTIVE GROWTH IN GERMANY Today, Scandic has six hotels outside of the Nordic region – three in Germany, two in Poland and one in Belgium. The company sees significant potential to advance its position in Germany through selective growth in attractive locations in the largest cities. EUROPE 6 HOTELS 1,509 ROOMS 581 EMPLOYEES (FTE) 539 MSEK IN SALES GRI: G4-6, G4-8, G4-9 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 25 ”BOTH HOTELS HAVE QUICKLY FILLED A NEED AMONG GUESTS” 26 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 TWO NEW LANDMARKS IN STOCKHOLM In 2016, Scandic established new hotels at a high tempo. Five new hotels were opened, increasing room capacity by more than 1,100 rooms. Most of the rooms were at the two large hotels that opened in Stockholm: Scandic Continental and Haymarket by Scandic. And both hotels have become new landmarks for the city and Scandic alike. SCANDIC CONTINENTAL – CLASSIC Scandic’s first signature hotel. It is located in the former LOCATION PUB department store next to Hötorget (Haymarket Square) On April 1 last year, Scandic Continental opened its doors in Stockholm, hence the name. after a total refurbishment. The hotel is located just opposite Haymarket is more than a hotel. It’s a destination in itself. Stockholm’s Central Station where since the 1870s there People don’t just come to stay and sleep. The famous buildhas always been a hotel. Scandic Continental enjoys the ing offers inspiring environments, exciting restaurants and most central location a hotel can have in the city today. It’s unique venues that take guests back to the vibrant 1920s. at the hub of all public transportation and 60 meters below, Beautiful art deco features have been restored to recreate a new underground commuter train station is in the works. the building’s timeless, classic charm. Inspiration for the Every day, an estimated 80,000 commuters pass through hotel comes from the fact that Greta Garbo once worked the arcade around the building. The atmosphere in and here as a shop girl. The past, present and future mingle in around the hotel is truly continental. an exciting way. And Haymarket has been designed to be a Scandic Continental has 392 rooms and focuses on businew social meeting place for Stockholmers. ness travelers and conferences. With 25 conference rooms, Haymarket has 405 rooms, including 16 suites. Among the hotel can welcome up to 900 participants simultaneously. these is a high-class suite of 50 square meters with its own The largest conference room holds 300 people. And after a private terrace. The hotel also has a complete floor that productive day, the hotel offers many great opportunities for offers fantastic opportunities for events. Its exclusive, intirelaxation. On the eleventh floor, guests can stimulate body mate theater is also a special attraction. Here, guests can and mind with outdoor activities when the weather permits. enjoy film classics from the 1920s in the spirit of the hotel. Three floors below are the hotel bar and terrace that offer stunning views of the city. Since it opened, the bar has FLYING START become one of Stockholm’s most popular rooftop venues. In Scandic Continental and Haymarket by Scandic have addition, the hotel has a restaurant, another bar and a café. quickly filled a need among guests and are meeting expectations, both financially and qualitatively. HAYMARKET BY SCANDIC – MORE THAN A HOTEL Haymarket by Scandic, which opened a bit more than a month after Scandic Continental, marked the launch of SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 27 LEADING COMMERCIAL PLATFORM Scandic has a stable repeat customer base with an emphasis on corporate customers. High and consistent quality is guaranteed through clear concepts and common tools as well as a culture that imbues all team members. This means that guests experience Scandic as one company and always enjoy a warm reception. Scandic is currently working to strengthen the company’s commercial offering further. F OCUS ON CORPORATE aims to reinforce Scandic’s position as the CUSTOMERS leading meeting provider in the conference Scandic has a solid commercial “70 PERCENT OF SCANDIC’S REVENUE market by enabling more efficient and foundation with faithful customers and a inspiring meetings and conferences. high repurchasing rate. Corporate customCOMES FROM BUSINESS TRAVEL ers are the backbone of Scandic’s business and about 70 percent of Scandic’s AND CONFERENCES.” THE ROAD AHEAD Based on the new cultural platform, Inspirrevenue comes from business travelers ing Nordic, Scandic is currently under­ and conferences. Scandic has corporate taking a number of long-term initiatives to agreements with over 4,000 companies Through Scandic’s wide range of guests, more closely with selected partners and develop its offering and strengthen the and more than 95 percent renew their flexible pricing and the large number of though an international sales and distribucustomer experience. contracts every year. This customer base corporate agreements, the company can tion strategy. Repeat customers are one of Scandic’s is well diversified, both in terms of comadapt quickly to changing conditions. This important assets. The Scandic Friends pany type and sector. Some 17 percent of means that revenue can be optimized in STRENGTHENED COMMERCIAL loyalty program is an important factor in the revenue from corporate customers different markets and according to local RESOURCES this respect and will be further strengthcomes from state-owned companies. circumstances. Today, Scandic already has a very strong ened and developed. Effective control of About 60 percent of the 500 largest composition in the hotel market. Based on this distribution channels is already an imporpanies in each Nordic country have agreeEVERY THIRD GUEST A LEISURE platform, the company is now continuing tant key to success for Scandic and ments with Scandic. TRAVELER work to consolidate its position as the through a new strategy, the company Scandic also has agreements with Of Scandic’s revenue, 30 percent is attribindustry leader and create additional intends to strengthen customer relationabout 350 agencies that arrange leisure utable to leisure travelers. Scandic’s Norgrowth. From 2015 to 2016, Scandic ships even further. Finally, the new digital travel, for example, to theater and sporting wegian hotels in particular have a strong established a strong central organization landscape is creating opportunities in the events, as well as with all major business profile in the tourism market with a number aimed at managing and developing the hotel industry. Scandic intends to become travel agencies (BTAs). Through cooperaof hotels in the northern part of the country company’s brand, customer offering, disa leader in digital development. tion with sports clubs and commercial offering world-class outdoor experiences. tribution and ability to drive revenue. partners, Scandic creates additional The Nordic hotel market is largely a One current project involves providing CREATING THE BEST opportunities for occupancy at its hotels. domestic and internordic market at the room keys on mobile phones, which is CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE Scandic has an effective central sales moment. About 72 percent of Scandic’s being tested at selected hotels. Guests At Scandic, product and concept developdepartment focused on both the corporate guests are from the Nordic countries. Noncan now also read about 5,000 news­ ment is always based on the customer and leisure markets. This direct contact Nordic customers are generally leisure papers and magazines from all over the perspective. The basis for this is the cusbuilds long-term relationships and loyalty travelers mainly from Germany, Russia, world on their devices when they stay at tomer surveys that are regularly conducted among customers. Offerings can be adapted the US and the UK. Scandic is making a any Scandic hotel. by the company. These surveys aim to find to customers’ direct requirements and it is concentrated effort to increase the numIn the second quarter of 2017, Scandic out how well Scandic delivers on customer easy to follow up between countries. ber of international guests by cooperating will also launch a new meetings concept. It expectations and also provide insight on 28 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRENGTHS how the company can develop its offering hotels, website and call centers. The priestablish a smooth and personal relationINCREASING CUSTOMER further. For example, who are the custommary external booking channels are conship with guests as well as create unique LOYALTY ers of tomorrow and what drives their tracted dealers, global distribution sysand individually-tailored offers. Scandic Scandic Friends is the largest loyalty prochoice of hotels? tems (GDS) and online travel agencies begins to shape the customer relationship gram in the Nordic hotel industry. The Based on an extensive survey of 4,000 (OTAs). The latter are especially important already at this stage. number of members is constantly growing people in the Nordic region, Scandic has for reaching new customers and internaScandic expects bookings through digiand it reached 1.9 million by the end of established three focus areas intended to tional travelers. tal channels to grow. This is why the comlast year. In Germany, where Scandic curdrive revenue and create the best hotel About 70 percent of Scandic’s rooms pany is developing new concepts to meet rently has three hotels, 40,000 people experience for guests – service, food and are sold through its own distribution chanits customers’ changing online behavior. have joined Scandic Friends. accommodation. nels. This high proportion gives Scandic Scandic’s new website and mobile soluAs members of Scandic Friends, guests control over the rapidly changing hotel tions will play an important role in this earn points when they stay at Scandic CONTROLLED DISTRIBUTION booking market. Reservations through strategy by facilitating contact with the hotels. Points can be used for reward nights Scandic sells most of its hotel rooms Scandic’s own distribution channels also customer early on. at any Scandic hotel. The more nights a through its own booking channels – its cost less and increase opportunities to guest stays during a twelve-month period, SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 29 BOOKINGS THROUGH OWN DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS 70% the greater the benefits. In 2016, LEVERAGING DIGITAL data-driven insights that offer increased Scandic Friends members accounted for OPPORTUNITIES availability and opportunities for custominearly 40 percent of room revenues, repThe constantly evolving digital landscape “RETURNING zation that strengthen customer relationresenting a very high percentage of repeat is opening up new business opportunities. ships with Scandic. The company aims guests. Scandic Friends is an important tool In 2016, Scandic launched a new digital GUESTS ARE to achieve a leading digital position in the for creating relevant communication and platform, including an updated website AN ASSET.” industry with an offering that appeals to establishing a direct relationship with that facilitates interaction with customers. the new generation of guests who grew up guests. The program helps increase brand This helps Scandic improve the customer in the digital era. awareness, resulting in a steady demand. It experience and create relationships during is also a low-cost way to attract new guests. the entire customer journey – from the Scandic is currently enhancing its digital Scandic is currently carrying out develdream stage and first contact to booking, platform by adding an optimization sysopment work to strengthen the company’s staying, checkout and follow-up. In the tem. The aim is to offer customers a smart, loyalty program further. next few years, Scandic will accelerate interactive, seamless and inspiring digital investments in its e-commerce offering. experience. The platform will be based on 30 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRENGTHS EVERYONE IS WELCOME! It should be obvious to any hotel company that wants to call itself a leader to make hotels accessible to everyone. This includes anyone who has a broken leg, has a hearing impairment, uses a wheelchair or in any other way needs special ­consideration. This isn’t always the case. But at Scandic, every guest can feel welcome. Scandic is the only hotel company to have an Accessibility Ambassador. It also has a separate and unique Accessibility Standard covering 135 points that is implemented at all of its hotels. Scandic is also the first hotel company in the world to offer interactive online training in accessibility. The training gives employees tips and advice that can be applied in their daily work. SALES BY DISTRIBUTION CHANNEL SOLD ROOMS BY CUSTOMER SEGMENTS TYPES OF AGREEMENTS Number of agreements 6,000 4,000 2,000 0 Hotel direct, website, call centers Leisure Meetings Individual Individual Leisure Meetings Corporate groups & corporate groups corporate leisure Online travel agents Global distribution Contracted (OTA and ADS) systems (GDS) leisure SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 31 OPERATIONAL LEADERSHIP O NE COMPANY, ONE PLATFORM Unlike many other actors within the hotel industry, everyone at Scandic works based on a common concept and model for follow-up. This drives and optimizes RevPAR (Revenue Per Available Room). Scandic’s operations are based on the same platform. This system brings together data on revenue and expenditure, customer statistics, deviations from the budget – all broken down in detail. Transparency is high. This means that key figures can be compared within one country as well as between countries. The common platform also allows for benchmarking, which creates conditions for establishing best practices throughout the entire company. EFFECTIVE COST CONTROL Key performance indicators (KPIs) are used as important key ratios within Scandic’s organization when evaluating how effectively its operations are conducted. These can include hours worked compared to the number of guests or the resource allocation during breakfast or cleaning. KPIs provide fast and simple answers that can be used immediately to take action. Cost control is key to Scandic’s success and made possible by the company’s effective follow-up system. Every morning, each hotel director can obtain an overview of the previous day. What was the revenue? How was it distributed? How many working hours were required? Based on this information, activities for the next day can be adapted Scandic’s success is partly founded on its constant focus on the customer and planned in the best way. and on meeting expectations. It is also based on creating operational HOTEL MANAGERS ARE KEY excellence. This work, which most often goes on behind the scenes, The managers of Scandic’s 223 hotels are the key to the is grounded on industrial thinking. All team members act according to Group’s success. They know their markets. This is why it a common model and framework. This allows Scandic to control costs is natural that they have full responsibility for revenue and expenses at their hotels. Their duties include adapting carefully and optimize its investments. Scandic’s offering to their local markets. To allow hotel managers to focus fully on their local businesses, they have the full support of Scandic’s central functions such as finance, salaries, HR and technical func32 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRENGTHS tions. Agreements with major companies are also handled centrally. The primary task of each hotel is to ensure that its guests are satisfied. A COMPLEX PROCESS Scandic is establishing new hotels at a rapid pace. This includes both new construction and conversion of existing properties. Developing, opening and operating hotels is a complex business. It involves many stakeholders, tight deadlines and budgets that must be kept. Everything also needs to be done seamlessly. Scandic has built up a strong organization to establish, manage and develop its hotel portfolio. This is based on a proven program that ensures the process, from the initial contact to the opening of the hotel. This way, the interiors of the hotels can be standardized, depending on the potential of each hotel. In addition, common renovation needs at several hotels can be met by fewer suppliers. These functions also help Scandic increase value “S CANDIC’S CENTRAL and improve quality control. And in this area, Scandic considers itself to be an industry leader. COMPREHENSIVE APPROACH FUNCTIONS SUPPORT TO SECURITY Security issues are high on the agenda when LOCAL OPERATIONS.” corporate customers book hotels for their staff. Scandic has a strong concept in this area and aims to inspire others. Scandic employees receive regular training in security issues. Two mandatory fire drills and training sessions are held each year. And every six months, the company arranges comprehensive crisis training where potential incidents are simulated. THE GOP MODEL Scandic’s central crisis team coordinates this The Target GOP model is one of Scandic’s conwork and follows up on the results. trol measures. It provides hotel managers with a tool for measuring how successfully the hotel has managed to convert revenue into gross profits. It takes changes in the business mix into account and is used by all hotels. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 33 A STRONG CULTURE Scandic currently has about 15,300 employees in seven countries. The Inspiring Nordic platform is the glue that binds each member of Team Scandic and builds a common culture. It constitutes a framework for all of the company’s employees in their daily internal and external contacts. S TRONG CORE VALUES INSPIRING NORDIC SHOWS THE WAY Scandic’s firmly rooted culture does not mean that All internal work is based on the cultural platform Inspiring all team members are cast in the same mold. Nordic (described on pages 10–11) that was introduced in “ALL TEAM MEMBERS AND Rather, it constitutes a basic approach that creates room 2016. Last year, all Scandic teams were introduced to the for variation and improvisation. When it comes to recruiting, platform in different ways and work is continuing in 2017. MANAGERS ARE INVOLVED IN Scandic’s philosophy is simple: choose people with the It constitutes the natural framework for engaging and sparkSCANDIC’S INSPIRING NORDIC right attitude and skills, motivate them and provide clear ing enthusiasm among Scandic’s employees. rules and conditions so they can develop, both in their proCULTURAL PLATFORM.” fessional roles and as individuals. This approach creates TRAINING AT SCANDIC happy team members that feel safe, which is the key to Scandic’s team members learn and develop in their profescreating satisfied guests. sional roles through their daily interaction with guests. Scandic can only maintain its strong customer loyalty Training in a more formalized format is provided through and training programs adapted to the company’s specific and bring customers even closer if its team members act Scandic Business School. This is Scandic’s internal and needs are offered every year. Participation in courses is according to the company’s core values. Scandic’s longcustomized concept for staff training and development. It is determined together between employees and managers. term and extensive work in human resources takes this greatly appreciated internally and it has been recognized In addition to standard courses, it is also possible to attend into account. and praised by several organizations. individually-tailored external courses. Scandic Business School offers a wide range of courses Scandic also works constantly to ensure the regrowth for employees. Through e-learning, 60 inspiring courses of hotel managers internally. This is carried out through specially-adapted training courses and programs in leadership development. In total, 63 percent of Scandic’s 223 current hotel managers have been recruited within the BREAKDOWN OF TOTAL TRAINING HOURS TRAINING IN INSPIRING NORDIC organization. BY TYPE OF TRAINING % 100 SCANDIC’S TEAM MEMBERS Scandic’s business is seasonal with particular highs. To 80 meet this challenge effectively, Scandic has a great need 60 for temporary employees. In this respect, Scandic has an important role to play as a first employer. Scandic offers 40 young people the opportunity to gain valuable professional 20 experience. Scandic’s temporary employees constitute an important recruiting base for the company and many are 0 offered permanent employment. Classroom training Online training Sweden Norway Finland Denmark Other Inspiring Nordic participation, total 34 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GRI: G4-DMA STRENGTHS Scandic’s employees in all countries, including short-term GENDER DISTRIBUTION, COMPANY IN TOTAL GENDER DISTRIBUTION, NEW HIRES1) and temporary staff, have full protection and coverage regarding health and safety, either through their contracts 63% 37% 53% 47% or applicable collective bargaining agreements. Around 87 percent of employees are covered by collective bargaining (64%) (36%) (53%) (47%) agreements. Scandic knows that a happy, healthy workplace is a competitive advantage when it comes to recruiting. Another appreciated benefit is that all hotel employees are offered nutritious meals at work. The company generally strives to provide a good work-life balance for its employees. 9,446 women 5,518 men 581 women 656 men EMPLOYEES FROM 120 COUNTRIES Inclusion, gender equality and diversity are prioritized 1) Data refers to permanent employees. areas within Scandic. The company wants its organization to reflect the diversity found in society and to have an ­inclusive approach to employees, guests and society at large. Scandic believes this is a strong competitive advanGENDER DISTRIBUTION, HOTEL DIRECTORS AGE DISTRIBUTION, NEW HIRES1) tage for the company. This is also supported by research 51% 49% in the area. 1,237 (46%) (54%) HOTEL DIRECTORS NEW HIRES IN 2016 RECRUITED INTERNALLY 63% Median 29 years women men 675 people 515 people 47 <30 30–50 >50 1) Data refers to permanent employees. GRI: G4-DMA, LA-8 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 35 All Scandic employees should be treated with consid­ eration and respect, regardless of age, origin, ethnicity, gender or sexual orientation. Today, the company employs people from no less than 120 countries, and according to the latest employee survey, Scandic is perceived as a workplace where diversity is appreciated. Scandic regularly carries out important initiatives that aim to create employment possibilities for people outside of the labor market, such as the many skilled newcomers that now live in our part of the world. Traineeships have been established for youths, providing them with work experience. Scandic’s recruitment work focuses on creating diversity within the organization. The distribution between men and women is good on most levels in the company. Among part-time employees, there is a larger share of women. Employees receive remuneration based on local salary levels and market practices. The remuneration model is based on clear criteria that disregard gender, origin, ethnicity, age and other irrelevant factors. 36 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GRI: G4-DMA STRENGTHS EMPLOYEES WITH COLLECTIVE AGREEMENTS 87% GRI: G4-11 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 37 INSPIRING How are market dynamics changing in the hotel industry? What drives LEADERSHIP customers? And how can Scandic best live up to customer expectations and further strengthen the customer experience? What leadership do we need within our organization? How can we maintain and develop the strong commitment of our team members? And how can we reach Scandic’s targets for 2020? 38 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GRI: G4-DMA “OUR WORLD IS CHANGING RAPIDLY, SO WE MUST ALWAYS BE READY.” “BY INSPIRING EACH OTHER, WE INSPIRE OUR GUESTS.” “THE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE IS ALWAYS IN FOCUS.” 700 SCANDIC MANAGERS managers at Scandic should know what is communication concept supports and Being a leader at Scandic isn’t just a title TOGETHER expected of them, what is happening in develops the company’s profile – all activion a business card. With leadership comes There were many important issues on the the company and how it can benefit them ties with a focus on creating an inspiring a responsibility to inspire and show the way agenda when Scandic gathered leaders in in their work. customer journey from the first contact when it comes to interacting with guests the Group for a jam-packed and producto following up. according to the company’s values. Custive day at its annual event in March 2017. CONTINUED DEVELOPMENT tomers should feel that they always get the About 700 managers participated, repreOF CUSTOMER JOURNEY BEING A LEADER AT SCANDIC same good service, regardless of whether senting all functions within the Group. The Among other things, Scandic’s concept NOT JUST A TITLE they stay at a hotel, hold a meeting or eat at program included a retrospective of 2016 that offers customers more effective and Getting leaders together at the same time Scandic’s restaurants. and a presentation of the current situation, exciting conferences was introduced. fosters team spirit. It allows people to share but above all, it looked at how to navigate The status of work on the new loyalty experiences and make important informal the future with a focus on the compasses program was presented. There was also contacts. It also helps calibrate Scandic’s Scandic provides for strong leadership. All an update on how Scandic’s expanded employees so that they act unanimously. GRI: G4-DMA SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 39 ENGAGED AND MOTIVATED TEAM By recruiting the right people, engaging and developing them, and providing the right conditions for them to grow professionally and personally, Scandic creates satisfied employees. This is reflected in the regular measurements the company carries out. And the investment in the new cultural platform, Inspiring Nordic, aims to further strengthen employee commitment. R OLLOUT OF INSPIRING HIGH DEMAND FOR TRAINING NORDIC Employees’ personal development is a key AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER Before the summer of 2016, Scancomponent of Scandic’s constant efforts to dic began introducing its new cultural platstrengthen the brand and its attractiveform, Inspiring Nordic. Initially, all hotel ness as an employer. The company theredirectors and functional managers were fore aims to provide the industry’s best GREAT PLACE TO WORK VOICE INDEX included, with the rest of the Scandic team training opportunities. engaged in the process gradually. This was carried out in a structured dialog process 1st PLACE IN FINLAND 2016: 760 Scandic Business School was established more than 20 years ago. Demand is in which the platform was introduced, dis2015: 763 high among Scandic’s employees. About cussed and brought to life through con2nd PLACE IN DENMARK 2014: 732 20,000 online courses are completed crete case studies combined with inspiring ( 700 = EXCELLENT) each year. In 2016, the total number of practical exercises. Involving the entire training hours at Scandic Business School Scandic team at all levels of the company was 50,216. This corresponds to about has created the personal commitment for 1,300 weeks of training. which Scandic is known. This index has historically been at a high participated in the survey. In the “Large Scandic Business School also offers Internally, the launch was very well level and the trend is positive over time. organization” category, Scandic in Finland classroom training. One of the programs is received. In many places, participation The employee survey carried out in 2016 came in first place and was recognized for Talent@Scandic that develops talented was 100 percent. Participants ranked the had a response rate of 94 percent and its open work environment characterized employees into hotel directors and other concrete benefits of the exercises at a resulted in an index of 760 as a consoliby trust, where employees share the same leaders within the company. In 2016, 20 level of 3.4 on a four-point scale and the dated value for the entire Scandic Group. cultural values and together strive to crepeople took part in the program. ability to engage people was appreciated This was the same level as the previous ate great hotel experiences. In Denmark, to the same high extent. During the first year. An index of more than 700 is considScandic won second place, improving its half of 2017, work will continue to involve ered an “excellent” level, placing Scandic position compared with last year. 2016 employees in the cultural platform through high compared with other companies. marked the first year that Finland particiworkshops and other activities at all Voice indexes vary within Scandic from pated in the survey. ­Scandic hotels. country to country. Denmark and Finland Every year, the research firm Universum have the highest indexes, placing them on asks about 18,000 business students to HIGH LEVEL OF ENGAGEMENT the “best performer” level. vote for their dream employer. In the past Scandic carries out comprehensive surcouple of years, Scandic has been veys annually to measure team members’ AMONG DREAM EMPLOYERS included in the exclusive Top 50 List. In drive and motivation. The results are sumEach year, Great Place to Work identifies 2016, Scandic came in 30th place, in line marized in the Voice Index, which is an the “best company to work for.” And in with the ranking the company has had Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI). 2016, Scandic in Denmark and Finland since 2014. 40 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GRI: G4-DMA VALUE CREATION VOCATIONAL TRAINING, SCANDIC BUSINESS GENDER DISTRIBUTION, EMPLOYEE GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION, GENDER SCHOOL, WOMEN/MEN TURNOVER1) 61% 39% 56% 44% (66%) (34%) (58%) (42%) SWEDEN 4,586 2,419 30,412 19,804 935 women 732 men NORWAY 2,957 1,864 FINLAND 878 435 TOTAL NUMBER OF TRAINING HOURS 1) Data refers to permanent employees. DENMARK 1,013 738 50,216 OTHER EUROPEAN 254 182 TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION, EMPLOYEES 63% 37% (64%) (36%) 9,688 women 5,638 men NORWAY FINLAND TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 4,821 1,313 15,326 5,270 women 3,223 men DENMARK SWEDEN PERMANENT EMPLOYEES: 8,493 1,751 7,005 4,176 women 2,295 men REST OF EUROPE TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES: 6,471 436 242 women 120 men CONTRACTED WORKERS: 362 GRI: G4-9, G4-DMA SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 41 BUSINESS DIAMOND OF THE YEAR In 2016, Roshan Malalatunga was named Business Diamond of the Year in Linköping, Sweden. Roshan manages the three Scandic hotels in the city and is passionate about recruiting trainees and apprentices so they can have careers and a future at Scandic. Just as he was given the chance to develop within the company. TAKING THE LONG WAY “I see myself as a coach in the business. Roshan came to Sweden from Sri Lanka as a student when he was 22. He began “I SEE MYSELF Naturally, I have an overview of everything and can go into detail, but I let my departstudying accounting at Umeå University. AS A COACH ment heads manage their operations His first job was as a temporary controller themselves. I encourage them and try to at Scandic Swania in Trollhättan. And his IN THE create a good working environment.” manager at the time acted as any good “I also like when I get invited to visit leader should: He saw the potential of his BUSINESS.” companies and schools that want to learn new employee and gave him the opportumore about our business. And I participate nity to grow in the position. in a mentoring program for newly-arrived “He was a legendary manager,” says academics. We’re good at recruiting young Roshan. “I think 15 or 16 people who people from other countries. We are worked for him all went on to become A COACH IN MANY WAYS demanding, but anyone who is prepared to hotel managers at Scandic.” “Right now, we’re busy building additions work hard can have a great future with us It wasn’t long before Scandic offered on two of the hotels. The biggest project is at Scandic. My advice to them is to make Roshan a job as hotel manager at Scandic at Scandic Frimurarehotellet – or Frimis, Swedish friends and learn more about Bollnäs. There, he learned everything from as we say here in Linköping. We’re adding Swedish culture. Don’t live as if you’re scratch in three years. And in 2011, it was 54 rooms and a large conference area. somewhere else. Pick the best things from time to move to his current position as Frimis has played an important role in your country and blend them with the best hotel manager for the three Scandic hotels tourism in the city for the last 100 years of Sweden,” says Roshan. in Linköping. and now we’re focusing on the next 100,” says Roshan. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 43 SATISFIED AND LOYAL CUSTOMERS Scandic aims to offer guests the best possible experience during the entire customer journey – from planning to checking out. Scandic’s ongoing surveys show that customer satisfaction is at a consistently high and stable level. And the trend continues to be positive. The company rewards customer loyalty through the Scandic Friends program whose members account for 40 percent of Scandic’s room revenue. H IGH LEVEL OF CUSTOMER more than 1.9 million people. During 2016, 40 percent of • Work to make Scandic accessible is not limited to SATISFACTION Scandic’s room revenue was generated by loyalty program the physical environment. Last year, Scandic’s breakEvery day, Scandic carries out surveys among members, a very high share of returning guests. The confast buffet welcomed a much-appreciated addition: guests. They can share their opinions about their stays at tent of the Scandic Friends program is continually being a new section developed for guests with food allergies the hotels in a number of dimensions including service, developed. and vegans. food, the room experience and more. The results are used as direct feedback by the respective hotel. The surveys are MOMENTUM IN FOOD & BEVERAGE Scandic’s work to make its hotels accessible is also recogan important tool to ensure that Scandic’s offering and serSince 2010, Scandic’s customer satisfaction in the area of nized outside of the Nordic countries. In 2016, Scandic vice are attractive. In addition, the information constitutes food and beverage has risen from 65 to 74. This substantial was a sponsor of the Paralympics in Rio de Janeiro and input for further developing offerings. increase reflects the fact that sales in this area during the Scandic’s Accessibility Ambassador was on hand to speak The results of these surveys are summarized in the Total same period almost doubled – rising from 2.2 to 4.2 SEK about how Scandic works to make its hotels accessible. Guest Satisfaction (TGS) chart below that shows an aggrebillion. The trend is positive and expected to continue. He was also invited by the Swedish Embassy in Singapore gate of all investigated parameters with a value for Scandic In the Norwegian market, Scandic is known for having to talk about smart, stylish design adapted to all guests. in each country and on the Group level. The value continues the country’s best breakfast. The designation comes from to remain stable at a high level. the annual Twinings Best Breakfast competition, which is Because of the increasingly strong position the internet the unofficial Norwegian breakfast championship. Scandic has as an information and distribution channel, in 2016, dominated and Scandic’s hotels won in 12 of 19 regions. Scandic introduced a web-based tool that gives the company access to reviews on 50 major rating and review sites INVESTMENTS IN ACCESSIBILITY such as TripAdvisor, Booking.com and Google. Scandic There are more than 10 million people in Europe with some receives a notification every time a question is asked or a form of disability. Scandic has a world-leading offering review is posted, allowing it to quickly step in and respond. within accessibility that is constantly being developed. This During the first year, 2016, the tool gave Scandic’s is reflected in the following highlights from 2016: TOTAL GUEST SATISFACTION (TGS) employees a full overview of how the company is viewed • Scandic’s Accessibility Standard, which includes 135 online. At the same time, Scandic’s ranking on TripAdvisor points, was implemented at all former Rica hotels. 100 improved by 8 percent and the number of reviews on review • Thanks to a unique partnership, Scandic was able to prosites grew by 51 percent. vide mobile lifts for guests with disabilities at 28 hotels in 85 the Nordic countries at the end of the year. LARGEST LOYALTY PROGRAM IN THE • The new Scandic Continental opened with 40 of its rooms 70 NORDIC HOTEL INDUSTRY “designed for all.” These comfortable rooms have accessible Scandic Friends has long been the Nordic region’s largest features built into the design and they can be booked by 55 loyalty program for hotel guests. The number of members is anyone. This initiative is in line with the increase in requests growing all the time and in 2016, the program included for accessible rooms in connection with conferences. 40 2014 2015 2016 Total Sweden Denmark Europe Finland Norway 44 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GRI: G4-DMA, PR-5 VALUE CREATION TOTAL GUEST SATIS­FACTION (TGS) 69/100 LOYAL MEMBERS’ SHARE OF ROOM REVENUES DEVELOPMENT OF CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Members 000’ % F&B 2,000 100 85 1,500 75 75 1,000 50 65 500 25 0 0 55 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Scandic Scandic Friends, % of room revenues Total Sweden Denmark Europe Finland Norway GRI: G4-DMA, PR-5 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 45 A SUSTAINABLE FOOTPRINT Since 1993, Scandic has been working to move forward and establish an industry standard when it comes to responsible and sustainable hotel operations. Diversity, inclusion, health and the environment are priority areas. Scandic’s efforts are based on commercial, social and environmental benefits. The company regularly introduces activities and procedures that contribute to running the business in accordance with the UN Global Compact and its precautionary principle. P URPOSEFUL SUSTAINABILITY AND AT THE FOREFRONT WITHIN CONTINUED LOW CO2 SUSTAINABILITY WORK INCLUSION AS COMPETITIVE HEALTH EMISSIONS In 2015, Scandic signed the UN ADVANTAGES Scandic wants to make staying at hotels a The total amount of energy consumed in Global Compact principles for sustainability. Today, Scandic employs people from no less pleasant experience for the growing group 2016 was 440,138 MWh. Roughly 95 perThese include human rights, working condithan 120 countries. All employees are of customers who prioritize a healthy lifecent is attributable to the energy Scandic tions, the environment and anti-corruption. treated with consideration and respect, style. Today, all of the company’s hotels buys ready-made, which is known as indiIn addition to reporting regularly on the regardless of age, ethnicity, gender or sexual have gyms, offering guests a chance to rect energy (Scope 2). This energy includes company’s performance in relation to these orientation. Scandic regards diversity as a exercise or relax. And to help guests make the electricity, district heating and district principles, Scandic is also required to make unique competitive advantage for its brand. healthy and responsible food choices, cooling required to operate its hotels. A continual progress in these areas. Active support for integration in society is key Scandic offers a wide range of organic and total of 86 percent of the electricity is from Scandic’s sustainability efforts are supif Scandic’s work on inclusion is to succeed. certified products. With its new breakfast renewable sources such as wind and ported by and evaluated against a number of One current example is the Fast Track concept, Scandic provides alternatives for hydroelectric power. long-term goals set by the company. These project launched by the Swedish Governguests with special dietary requirements, Scandic currently uses gas and oil to heat refer to four areas: inclusion and diversity, ment together with the industry organizaoffering vegan, gluten-free and lactosecertain hotels. The resulting CO2 emissions health, CO2 emissions and waste. All of tion Visita and the hotel and restaurant free food. are referred to as direct energy (Scope 1). All these dimensions are critical to the continunion HRF. As part of this project, Scandic Scandic constantly strives to give its of this energy comes from non-renewable ued strengthening of Scandic’s established has undertaken to evaluate and validate employees a good balance between work, sources and it accounts for about 5 percent and strong profile within sustainability. skills among new arrivals with chef’s trainpersonal development and leisure time. To of total CO2 emissions. There are also emisAll areas include measurements that ing. The aim is to help them enter the labor the greatest extent possible, working hours sions from other indirect energy (Scope 3) make it possible to follow up on the com­ market faster. The project has been sucare set based on dialog between managers associated with employee travel which pany’s work. These goals are an important cessful and in 2016, Scandic hired ten and employees. account for about 1 percent of total emispart of Scandic’s 2020 strategy. chefs as part of its commitment. sions. Scandic is constantly striving to GOAL 2020 GOAL 2020 GOAL 2020 GOAL 2020 INCLUSION HEALTH CO2 EMISSIONS WASTE AND DIVERSITY “Scandic will lead the hotel “Scandic will be the premier “Scandic will be “Scandic will continue to industry in giving all employees hotel choice for customers who the hotel company with the reduce total waste and the same opportunities.” prioritize a healthy lifestyle lowest CO2 emissions.” increase the percentage of and an attractive employer when it recycled waste.” comes to work-life balance.” 46 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GRI: G4-14, G4-15, G4-19, G4-DMA, EN-3, EN-15, EN-16, EN-17 VALUE CREATION Scandic’s total CO2 emissions SCOPE 2 SCOPE 1 SCOPE 3 during 2016 totaled 35,996 tonnes. Scope 2 includes emissions from the Scope 1 includes emissions from gas and Scope 3 includes emissions from employenergy Scandic buys ready-made, which is oil that Scandic purchases in the form of ees’ air travel. These emissions, like those known as indirect energy. This includes raw materials. This is known as direct in Scope 2, are released from purchased electricity, district heating and district coolenergy. Scandic uses gas and oil to heat energy but come from a third party, for ing to operate hotels through, for example, certain hotels, but the company is working example, airlines. ventilation, lighting and operations. Today, continually to phase these out as sources of 2015 2016 SCOPE 2 SCOPE 1 SCOPE 3 86% of the electricity that Scandic purheat. Some hotels use propane or kitchen Air Indirect Direct Other energy energy indirect chases comes from renewable sources gas in their restaurant kitchens. Total km2) 2,848,408 3,006,083 energy such as wind and hydroelectric power. 2015 2016 CO2 emissions, tonnes 366.1 388.9 Scandic prioritizes district heating and coolEnergy consumption ing above local cooling systems. Gas, MWh 7,697.4 6,139.3 Train 2015 2016 Propane gas, MWh 954.61) 1,713.2 Total km3) – 807,175 Energy consumption, MWh Heating oil, MWh 404.3 215.4 CO2 emissions, tonnes3) – 0.003 Electricity 250,395.4 222,596.6 9,056.3 8,067.9 District heating 180,269.8 196,096.2 CO2 emissions, tonnes 2) D  uring 2015, flight data for Scandic Grand Palace Bryssel, Scandic District cooling 11,410.4 13,377.0 Gas 1,717.81) 1,498.3 Gdansk and Scandic Wroclaw was excluded since these hotels did not have systems for recording the number of km traveled. For 442,075.6 432,069.8 Heating oil 106.71) 56.8 2016, these hotels are included. 3) There was no follow-up on this data in 2015. CO2 emissions, tonnes 1,824.5 1,555.1 Electricity 3,856.7 3,054.9 1) Scandic’s data collection method for CO2 emissions has been District heating 25,369.9 28,442.3 refined, which is why the figures for 2015 have been adjusted compared with figures stated in Scandic’s Annual Report 2015. District cooling 2,179.4 2,555.0 Propane gas use was higher in 2016 than in 2015 as a result of more accurate follow-up on the hotels’ reporting of environ­ 86% 31,406.0 34,052.2 mental data. WASTE 2015 2016 RENEWABLE Total weight per method of disposal, In 2016, 69 percent of Scandic’s waste tonnes Hazardous waste Waste Hazardous waste Waste was recycled, an increase of 2 percent Reuse 0 43.1 0 0 compared with 2015. Of the remaining ELECTRICITY Recycling 125.3 5,233.1 9.0 6,583.8 part, combustible waste was burned to Energy recovery 0.0 1,761.4 18.4 2,502.4 release new energy. It is impossible for Combustion 124.5 41.2 29.1 4.0 Scandic to avoid hazardous waste, as Landfill 25.4 84.2 3.1 83.4 electronics and appliances need to be Other1) 0.1 656.5 0 329.8 replaced and construction materials are Total 275.3 7,819.5 59.6 9,503.4 sometimes left over from renovations. Today, however, half of all hazardous waste Total weight per type of waste, tonnes 2015 2016 is recycled, resulting in a large reduction Paper 775.5 1,990.5 in Scandic’s environmental impact. Glass 1,377.8 1,385.6 In 2015, not all hotels were included Metal 124.3 171.0 in the reporting. In 2016, all hotels are Plastic 244.6 193.2 included, which explains the large discrepOther waste 5,572.4 5,763.1 ancy between the years. 1) Waste disposed of through other means includes fats and residual waste. Municipal waste is excluded. GRI: G4-22, G4-23, G4-DMA, EN-15, EN-16, EN-17, EN-23 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 47 optimize its operations with regard to be environmentally certified. At the end of much as 69 percent of Scandic’s waste Scandic’s breakfast buffet contains a wide energy consumption and emissions. This 2016, 82 percent of all hotels were certiwas recycled, compared with 67 percent in selection of organic products and the work is calculated as an intensity figure, fied, with 180 of 223 hotels certified with 2015. This shows the success of the team company serves over 100,000 cups of which was 2.75 tonnes CO2/MSEK in the Nordic Ecolabel or the EU Ecolabel. members at Scandic’s hotels who are Fairtrade-certified coffee every day, ensur2016. The corresponding figure for 2015 Two hotels in Germany had Green Globe working purposefully and with great coming good working conditions for the producwas 2.79. certification. This means that the hotels mitment to reduce waste. For example, by ers. Fish and seafood purchased follows the operate from a life cycle principle and minimizing the use of disposable plastic WWF’s Seafood Guide and largely comes AWARD-WINNING meet established environmental demands packaging – such as by serving butter from from sustainable fishing. Scandic also natuENVIRONMENTAL WORK for energy conservation, waste minimizaa plate or offering shampoo in wall containrally offers organic wine and beer. For The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is a tion and the use of recycled materials. The ers – Scandic uses about 50 million fewer younger guests, Scandic Sweden always non-profit organization that offers a global hotels constantly aim to minimize the negplastic packages every year. offers organic kids’ meals served with system for measuring and reporting a ative environmental impact of their operaCombustible waste that cannot be recywholesome organic vegetables and bevercompany’s environmental impact. This is tions in large and small ways. All to reduce cled is burned to release new energy. It is ages free from additives and food coloring. the leading environmental and climate Scandic’s impact on the climate. impossible for Scandic to avoid hazardous Another important aspect is hygiene and index for investors. According to CDP’s Each Scandic hotel has an employee waste entirely, as electronics and applifood safety in kitchens and restaurants. To 2016 report, Scandic achieved level B, responsible for environmental issues who ances need to be replaced occasionally ensure maximum quality and food safety in ranking above the average for the 260 ensures that the hotel lives up to environand construction materials are sometimes its operations, Scandic has developed a largest Nordic companies. The ranking mental requirements and reports regularly left over from renovations. However, half of training program on these issues for all acknowledges Scandic’s long-term and on the use of energy, water, chemicals and all hazardous waste is recycled today, kitchen and serving staff. This program has focused work to reduce the company’s waste. Based on this information, Scandic resulting in a large reduction in Scandic’s now been implemented in all countries. environmental impact and contribute to can follow up and analyze its environmenimpact on the climate. a reduction in CO2 emissions. tal work. NEVER-ENDING EFFORT SUSTAINABLE AND To reduce the company’s environmental ENVIRONMENTALLY CERTIFIED REUSING WASTE RESPONSIBLE FOOD footprint, Scandic is implementing energyHOTELS The basic principle is that Scandic should Scandic prioritizes sustainable food saving initiatives at its hotels. All light bulbs To ensure that sustainability is systematinot generate any waste. And waste that is options. To the greatest extent possible, the are regularly replaced with LED lights and cally integrated into Scandic’s daily busigenerated should be reused or recycled to aim is to offer guests food and beverages switches are being replaced to enable ness, Scandic requires all of its hotels to the greatest extent possible. In 2016, as that are good for both them and the planet. custom lighting. Static air conditioning is 48 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GRI: G4-DMA, EN-18, EN-23 VALUE CREATION THE FISH AND SEAFOOD WE SERVE AT SCANDIC COMES MAINLY FROM SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES AND WE FOLLOW THE WWF’S SEAFOOD GUIDE KRAV ENVIRONMENT being replaced by demand-controlled SCANDIC IN SOCIETY loaded with clothes, which were sent DEBIO ventilation systems. Large refrigeration Local involvement is critical to Scandic’s directly to people in distress. ENVIRONMENT units have been replaced with individual success. It is also the driver behind the refrigerators with glass doors that allow internal “Scandic in Society” program, STANDING UP FOR VALUES employees to see their contents without which involves all hotels and in which Being a responsible partner in society Ø LABELED releasing expensive and energy-heavy team members take part in various ways. does not only mean complying with ENVIRONMENT cooled air. The starting point is that Scandic makes requirements and regulations. Scandic Scandic always aims to reduce water resources such as premises and food has chosen to be an active and committed LUOMU consumption and has water and energy available. Scandic’s team members give member of society with clear values that ENVIRONMENT efficient appliances in kitchens and bathof their hearts and energy to help the the company is prepared to stand up for in rooms. In 2016, Scandic consumed a most vulnerable people in society. In the communities in which it operates. total of 2,492,116 m3 of water. This is an addition to the joy and satisfaction it gives Human trafficking is area of responsiEU ORGANIC increase of approximately 7 percent Scandic to be active in creating a better bility for the entire hotel industry. ScanENVIRONMENT compared with the previous year, which and safer society, it promotes team spirit. dic has taken a clear stance on human is explained by the addition of new hotels. In Berlin, Scandic employees regularly rights and cooperates actively with the But it also signals that consumption must donate their own clothes and clothes left police to prevent human trafficking at its FAIRTRADE be monitored more closely and additional behind (and which are unclaimed) by hotels. In 2015/2016, Scandic’s internal WORKING CONDITIONS methods of reducing it need to be found. guests to a charity for homeless people. training course was offered at 117 Scandic is working purposefully to miniIn a special activity, Scandic invited a hotels. It is based on teaching employRAINFOREST ALLIANCE mize the use of hazardous chemicals. To group of 20 refugee children to cook ees how to act in cases of suspected WORKING CONDITIONS the greatest extent possible, volumes food with the company’s chefs. They trafficking and prostitution. In 2017, the AND ENVIRONMENT are controlled by automatic dosing. Last were also given clothes that had been contents of the course will be reviewed year, Scandic used only 445 tonnes of donated in various ways. before the training continues throughout chemicals at all hotels, a reduction of In Denmark, four Scandic Glostrup the organization. Scandic also supports UTZ about 4 percent compared with 2015. In employees began a spontaneous initiathe RealStars organization that works to WORKING CONDITIONS 2016, 78 percent of chemicals were tive to help refugees in Lesbos. This prevent sex trafficking through dialog environmentally certified, compared with resulted in half a million Danish kroner in and advocacy in the community. 77 percent in 2015. cash collected and three containers fully GRI: G4-DMA, HR-2 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 49 LETTING NOTHING GO TO WASTE An important part of Scandic’s sustainability program is recycling as much of the waste from its operations as possible. One particular challenge is reducing food waste. In the past few years, the company has been working systematically to reduce food waste, especially from breakfast. And the results show that there are gains to be made in this area. LESS WASTED FOOD MEANS LESS GARBAGE Breakfast at Scandic is popular. Each year, hotel guests consume more than 18 million eggs and drink the equivalent of 14 million oranges as juice. At the same time, breakfasts generate 912 tonnes of waste. And a significant amount is uneaten food that is thrown out. What if Scandic could reduce this waste? How could it be done? And what would Scandic gain? These were questions Scandic’s Food & Beverage unit asked a few years ago. And to get answers, Scandic ran a number of pilot ­projects. The results were so positive that now all of Scandic’s hotels are working to reduce food waste from breakfast operations. 50 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GRI: G4-DMA TEAM EFFORT GIVES RESULTS “Reducing food wastage isn’t a complex science but something we can achieve through small, practical things. This is why both the kitchen and serving staff need to be involved,” says Thomas Fankl, who has overall responsibility for the food at Scandic’s Swedish hotels. “It’s basically about using common sense. Adapting volumes on the breakfast buffet, for example, to the number and type of guests in a smart way that doesn’t come across as being stingy.” So what does this involve in practice? According to Thomas, “We communicate with our guests to help them to think in the right way and not take more food than they can eat. And we can achieve gains by adjusting the logistics of serving. The selection on the buffet can also be changed. Serving utensils can be refined. We also use transparent garbage bags in our kitchens so we can see how much food we’re throwing out. This helps remind our team members about the issue. They can also help guide guests in making choices. The whole is greater than the sum of its parts. ENVIRONMENTAL AND FINANCIAL WINS By working to reduce food wastage, Scandic has achieved significant improvements. Results vary between hotels since they operate under different conditions. Some hotels have been able to decrease food waste by up to 50 percent. And all hotels have achieved reductions of more than 15 percent. Based on these initial results, Scandic has calculated that a “standard hotel” with 250 rooms could save more than 100,000 SEK per year by working systematically to reduce food waste from breakfast. Scandic will continue to run the project in 2017 and will roll it out on a larger scale across the entire organization. This includes an app that allows Scandic to sell leftover food to people who can order and pick it up directly at the hotels. And all of these activities will have a positive impact on both Scandic’s environmental work and the company’s financial results. GRI: G4-DMA SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 51 HIGH PROFITABILITY OVER TIME Scandic has adopted clear financial goals for its operations. These involve sales growth, profitability and financial strength. Scandic met its goals for all parameters in 2016. The goals are mediumto long-term and were adopted at the end of 2015. FINANCIAL TARGETS 1 2 3 GROWTH PROFITABILITY CAPITAL STRUCTURE The Group shall have revenue growth of at least 5 percent The adjusted EBITDA margin of the Group shall be at least The Group shall have net debt in relation to adjusted per year over a business cycle, excluding acquisitions and 11 percent on average over a complete business cycle. EBITDA of 2–3x. adjusted for exchange rate fluctuations. TARGET AND OUTCOME, 2012–2016 TARGET AND OUTCOME, 2012–2016 TARGET AND OUTCOME, 2015 AND 2016 % % Times 12 12 3.0 10 10 8 8 2.0 6 4 6 2 4 1.0 0 2 -2 -4 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2016 In 2016, revenue growth adjusted for exchange rate fluctuIn 2016, the adjusted EBITDA margin was 11.6 percent for In 2016, net debt in relation to adjusted EBITDA dropped to ations was 7.3 percent. The revenue growth was attributthe Group. The margin increased in all segments, that is, 1.8x compared with 2.7x at the end of 2015. The reduction able to high RevPAR in the existing hotel network as well as in Sweden and Norway as well as in the other Nordic counwas the result of the strong cash flow. the strong performance of hotels that were established tries and Europe. in 2016. 52 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 VALUE CREATION AN ATTRACTIVE FINANCIAL PROFILE Scandic’s ability to deliver good profitability over time rests on four pillars. 1 2 3 4 STABLE GROWING SALES A FLEXIBLE COST STRUCTURE STABLE EBITDA MARGINS STABLE CASH FLOWS Scandic has stable growing sales with a Scandic has a flexible cost structure. The large share of recurring sales and the Scandic is good at generating cash flows. large share of return guests. The strong About 25 percent of costs are fully variable flexible cost structure have provided ScanThis is because little capital is tied up market position in the mid-market segment in the form of consumables and salesdic with high and stable EBITDA margins in in its working capital. As customers generand the good geographic footprint means related costs such as rent and commisrecent years. Another contributing factor is ally pay when checking in and suppliers that Scandic is often the first choice for sions. Accordingly, these costs vary directly cost efficiencies at all levels through careare paid with the usual terms of credit, Nordic business travelers. This can be seen with the sales volume. About 55 percent of ful planning of staffing and economies of Scandic has negative working capital. in the large number of framework agreeScandic’s costs are semi-flexible. To adapt scale within IT, purchasing and administraEven the requirement for investments in ments with companies and organizations, such costs to current business conditions, tion. The company focuses on the midfixed capital is limited through the division many of which are renewed every year. Scandic closely monitors the order situamarket segment of the hotel industry. Hisof responsibilities between the property Recurring sales are strengthened by the tion at all levels of operation. This allows torically, this segment has proven to be owners and Scandic. The need for reinvest­ Scandic Friends loyalty program, which had the company to address deviations quickly. less cyclical than other hotel segments. ments in the hotel business – excluding about 1,900,000 members at year-end. The business model with variable leases the construction of new hotels – usually This demonstrates the company’s ability to contributes to stable margins over time. amounts to 3.5 to 4 percent of sales. retain its guests, which is a strong contribThe ability to convert profit into cash flow uting factor for stable revenue growth. – cash conversion – is a result of the low Strong sales and faithful guests make level of capital tied up. Scandic an attractive partner for property owners, and a leasing model with variable rent contributes to creating a platform of common values between Scandic and property owners. This is a condition for continuing the expansion of the hotel network in attractive locations. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 53 SCANDIC’S 2020 STRATEGY Scandic’s strategy focuses on maintaining and further strengthening the company’s leading market position in the Nordic countries as well as selective growth in the German market. The focus is on growing, improving and refining the company’s business based on changes in customer behavior and digitalization in the hotel industry. FUTURE STATES AND HOW WE GET THERE INSPIRING CULTURE using refillable shampoo and soap containers and eliminaScandic has formulated a clear vision of what the company FUTURE STATE Our culture is one of our key strengths ting bottled water are just a few examples of Scandic’s innwill achieve by 2020. The goals are summarized in six and it is characterized by energy, engagement, empowerovations that now help us and other hotel chains minimize future states that describe how Scandic will be experiment and inclusion. We appreciate diversity and inspire environmental impact. enced at this time. The strategy also includes a description team members to develop and grow. We live our values of Scandic also has a strong tradition of taking social of how each state will be achieved. This is the basis for being caring, you, a pro and bold and this creates great responsibility and we aim to strengthen this position further determining which projects will be initiated and prioritized hotel experiences for our guests. to become an inspiring company in society. This will be from a strategic point of view. achieved through a focused approach within diversity and HOW WE GET THERE Scandic’s team members are the inclusion for team members, guests and society. We aim to key to our success. We actively engage our diverse workTHE FAVORITE HOTEL BRAND facilitate and resolve societal challenges together with govforce and recognize the value of collaboration and repreFUTURE STATE Our brand is a promise that creates ernments, local authorities and other companies. senting multiple views and insights. By engaging all team expectations. At Scandic, we deliver on this promise and We will show commitment to and encourage well-being members in bringing our cultural platform, Inspiring Nordic, also consistently raise these expectations, creating a cycle among our team members, guests and people in society. to life, we will be equipped to exceed tomorrow’s expectaof increasing performance with the goal of providing a Scandic will also proactively support our shared responsitions from our guests. great hotel experience that guests want to return to and tell bility for a sustainable future. Important areas that we are The role of our leaders is increasingly important. By their friends about. continuing to focus on include waste management and practicing inspirational and empowering leadership, we will CO2 emissions. HOW WE GET THERE Scandic aims to strengthen its foster a culture that constantly engages our team memleading position as the favorite hotel brand in the Nordic bers. We will ensure we have a learning culture that also OUTPERFORMING THE MARKET market by creating great experiences across all touch visualizes opportunities for growth, regardless of whether FUTURE STATE Our strong brand, offering, network, points – from the phase of dreaming and planning to the our team members are working with us temporarily or have recurring business and commercial capabilities drive interaction and sharing of the experience with colleagues, been with us for many years. stronger revenue generation compared with our competifriends and family after the stay. We will ensure that our We are adjusting the way we review and reward perfortors. Our repeatable operating model, economies of scale service and offering are relevant, authentic, meaningful mance, appreciating what is being delivered as well as how and sharing of best practice generate high and stable and remarkable in both a rational and emotional way. it is being accomplished. margins, thus reducing cyclical effects. We will develop our offering with a focus on the service, food and room experience. Offerings and services that are the DEDICATED CORPORATE CITIZEN HOW WE GET THERE Scandic’s success is based on most relevant to our guests and enhance their experience will FUTURE STATE We are an inspiration through the strong continual improvements in all parts of our operations. be prioritized, leveraging data and customer insights in the engagement and clear responsibility we take in society. Our The Group sets the overarching strategy to leverage the decision making. Through customer centricity and by removdedication to sustainability is appreciated by our key stakecompany’s scale in brand, revenue generation and operaing pain points, we will make the customer journey seamless. holders and is a strength for our business. ting model. Each country has its own profit and loss However, it is the moment of execution that matters and responsibility to drive revenue premium and operating HOW WE GET THERE Scandic is a leading company in makes the difference to our guests. This is why it is the most margins. environmental sustainability. We are proud of our many important focus area for the organization while we live our Through partnerships and a strong distribution platform, great environmental innovations that have now become values BE CARING, BE YOU, BE A PRO and BE BOLD. Scandic will expand its reach for new customers. Our web industry practice. Encouraging guests to reuse towels, 54 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 A WORLD-CLASS VISION NORDIC HOTEL What we strive to be COMPANY MISSION WE CREATE GREAT HOTEL EXPERIENCES Why we run our operations FOR THE MANY PEOPLE VALUES How we treat each other BE CARING BE YOU BE A PRO BE BOLD FINANCIAL TARGETS >5% ANNUAL >11% ADJUSTED 2–3X NET DEBT TO What we promise our owners REVENUE GROWTH EBITDA MARGIN ADJUSTED EBITDA RATIO The favorite Inspiring Dedicated Outperforming Capitalize A growing DESIRED POSITION hotel brand culture corporate the market on market hotel network What we want to be in 2020 citizen dynamics STRATEGIC PROJECTS TO REACH DESIRED POSITIONS platform, loyalty program, total revenue management, tion and shaping of brands. In addition, we see changes in relationships make us an attractive partner for property international sales, meetings and upselling are important the expectations of tomorrow’s workforce, in the competidevelopers and owners. commercial focus areas. In our operations, we will increase tive landscape and in legislation. Companies are also In Germany, we are expanding our existing network by best practice sharing between hotels and countries. expected to take a different responsibility for society. establishing new hotels in attractive locations in major Across our business, we aim to maintain our cost leaderScandic acts rapidly on changes and new opportunities cities. These hotels will meet our high requirements on ship and leverage opportunities from digitalization with in the market. We will closely monitor the market and profitability and terms and conditions in leases. clear governance. understand potential changes as well as the pace of these Existing hotels will be subject to constant evaluation with changes. This means we will be able to proactively decide regard to innovation and extensions. Our investment in sigCAPITALIZE ON THE MARKET DYNAMICS regarding Scandic’s role and approach to these changes. nature hotels creates continued opportunities to strengthen FUTURE STATE We continuously act on insights and we the customer experience and get a better yield from are agile in our approach to stay ahead in the industry. We A GROWING HOTEL NETWORK selected hotels. proactively embrace and leverage the constant changes in FUTURE STATE We have an undisputed market-leading guest behavior and market dynamics. position across the Nordics and have strengthened our presence in Germany. We continuously develop and extend HOW WE GET THERE There are constant changes and existing hotels and add new hotels. opportunities in the hotel industry and market dynamics. New players are entering the market, changing the value HOW WE GET THERE Our expansion rate is high and our chain and challenging relationships with customers. Digitaambition is to open two to four new hotels every year in the lization impacts the entire industry, the way customers Nordic region. This includes new builds and takeovers of behave and the way we operate. Social media is creating existing hotels. Scandic’s ability to deliver higher revenues transparency, with customers controlling the communicathan comparable competitors coupled with good, long-term SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 55 ADMINISTRATION REPORT OPERATIONS Significant events in 2016 Scandic Hotels Group AB (publ) • RevPAR grew by 7.0 percent. LFL in local currency, RevPAR went up by 6.3 percent as a result of higher occupancy and average Corp. Id. 556703-1702 room rates. The Board of Directors and the CEO of Scandic Hotels Group • Net sales increased by 7.3 percent to 13,082 (12,192) MSEK. AB (publ), with its registered office in Stockholm, hereby submit • Net sales LFL in local currency climbed 5.3 percent mainly due to higher occupancy and increased average room rates. the Annual Report and consolidated financial statements for • Adjusted EBITDA rose to 1,513 (1,246) MSEK, corresponding to a margin of 11.6 (10.2) percent. the 2016 financial year. • The margin improvement is a result of higher margins in Norwegian and European operations. Margins also were higher in Sweden as a result of an indemnity received. Operations • Net debt on the reporting date totaled 2,710 MSEK, corresponding to 1.8x adjusted EBITDA. The company owns 100 percent of the Scandic Group through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Scandic Hotels Holding AB. Over the year, Scandic conducted hotel operations in seven counGroup key ratios, MSEK 2016 2015 Change, % tries. On the reporting date, Scandic had 223 hotels operated Financial key ratios through 10 subsidiaries. Net sales 13,082 12,192 7.3 Nordic hotel market development Net sales growth, % 7.3 12.6 Demand for hotel nights in the Nordic markets was good during Net sales growth LFL, % 6.6 7.7 the year. In Sweden, the number of sold rooms went up by Adjusted EBITDAR 4,896 4,406 11.1 5.2 percent and RevPAR in the Swedish market rose 7.6 perAdjusted EBITDA 1,513 1,246 21.4 cent as a result of higher occupancy and increased average room rates. RevPAR in the Norwegian market increased by EBITDA 1,462 1,114 31.2 1.0 percent, with slight changes in occupancy and average EBIT (Operating profit/loss) 925 613 51.0 room rates. In the Danish market, RevPAR went up by 10.6 perAdjusted EBITDA margin, % 11.6 10.2 cent driven mainly by higher average room rates while RevPAR Earnings per share, SEK 8.58 1.43 in the Finnish market grew 7.8 percent, largely driven by higher average room rates. Hotel-related key ratios RevPAR (Average Revenue Per Available Room), SEK 643.3 601.3 7.0 Seasonal variations ARR (Average Room Rate), SEK 976.1 933.9 4.5 Scandic operates in a sector affected by seasonal variations. Revenues and earnings fluctuate during the year. The first OCC (Occupancy), % 65.9 64.4 quarter and other periods with low levels of business travel such as the summer months, Easter and Christmas/New Year’s are generally the weakest periods. The Easter holiday may fall in both the first and second quarters, so this must be taken into account when making comparisons between years. ApproxiHOTEL MARKET DEVELOPMENT HOTEL MARKET DEVELOPMENT mately 70 percent of Scandic’s revenues come from business IN SWEDEN 20161) IN NORWAY 20161) travel and conferences while the remaining 30 percent is from % % leisure travel. 15 10 8 12 6 9 4 2 6 0 -2 3 -4 0 -6 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Jan-Dec Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Jan-Dec 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 Sold rooms Available rooms RevPAR Sold rooms Available rooms RevPAR 1) Source: Benchmarking Alliance and STR Global. 56 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • ADMINISTRATION REPORT GRI: G4-3, G4-5, G4-7, G4-17 Sales and profit/loss ties, expanded distribution agreements and renovations to cent (17.2) of net sales. The decrease in fixed and guaranteed Net sales rose by 7.3 percent to 13,083 (12,192) MSEK. LFL hotels, contributed to increased occupancy and higher average rental costs is a result of revenue growth and subsequent in local currency, net sales went up by 5.3 percent due to room rates. higher variable rent. an increased number of rooms sold, higher room rates and In Norway, lower levels of activity within the Norwegian oil Personnel costs and Other external costs decreased in relagreater demand within restaurant and conference operations. sector continued to result in a decrease in occupancy and tion to net sales, primarily as a result of increased turnover. New hotels contributed to revenue growth of 3.8 percent. average room rates at destinations dependent on the oil indusAdjusted EBITDA before pre-opening costs for new hotels Divested hotels had a negative impact on growth of 1.4 pertry. This, however, was offset by good demand in other parts of and non-recurring items increased to 1,513 (1,246) MSEK as cent. In addition, exchange rate effects had a negative impact the Norwegian market. New hotels contributed positively to a result of higher revenue. The adjusted EBITDA margin was on revenue of 0.4 percent. RevPAR, which increased by 1.3 percent, and divested hotels 11.6 (10.2) percent. Excluding a non-recurring payment from RevPAR grew by 7.0 percent (6.3 percent LFL in local curhad a negative impact of 0.2 percent on growth. a property dispute with Folkets Hus & Park in Sundsvall of rency) with good growth LFL in all countries, where Scandic The Group’s restaurant and conference revenues grew by approximately 65 (10) MSEK, the adjusted EBITDA margin went is estimated to have grown more than the market. Strong 5.7 percent. Meeting and conference operations continued to up from 10.1 to 11.1 percent. demand within the leisure travel segment during the summer, show positive development and higher occupancy had a posilarge congresses and conferences during the second and third tive effect on breakfast and restaurant revenues. Restaurant quarters, and a fourth quarter with continued strong demand and conference revenues contributed to net sales growth of particularly in Sweden and Denmark led to a good market 32.9 (33.4) percent. growth. This, together with the positive development of hotels Rental costs accounted for 25.9 percent (25.9) of net sales that were opened during the year, Scandic’s commercial activiand fixed and guaranteed rental costs accounted for 16.8 perNET SALES, PER QUARTER OCC & ARR, LFL – CHANGE PER QUARTER MSEK % 4,000 10 3,500 8 3,000 6 2,500 4 2,000 2 1,500 1,000 0 500 -2 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2015 2015 2015 2015 2016 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 2015 2016 2016 2016 2016 OCC, LFL ARR, LFL ADJUSTED EBITDA , PER QUARTER RevPAR, ROLLING 12 MONTHS MSEK SEK 600 660 500 640 400 620 300 600 200 100 580 0 560 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2015 2015 2015 2015 2016 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 2015 2016 2016 2016 2016 RevPAR RevPAR, LFL ADMINISTRATION REPORT • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 57 Pre-opening costs for new hotels amounted to -51 (-28) MSEK. Five-year summary In 2015, non-recurring items had a -104 MSEK impact on MSEK 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 results. This includes costs of -52.0 MSEK related to the integration of Rica Hotels and -39.3 MSEK for IPO preparations. Financial key ratios – income statement EBITDA increased to 1,462 (1,114) MSEK. Net sales 13,082 12,192 10,826 7,882 8,035 The Group reported a net financial expense of 132 (-497) MSEK. Interest expenses decreased to -133 (-500) MSEK as a Net sales growth, % 7.3 12.6 37.4 –1.9 5.6 result of refinancing and repayment of loans in connection with Net sales growth LFL, % 6.6 7.3 4.5 –3.5 1.0 the company’s IPO in December 2015. Exchange rate fluctuaAdjusted EBITDAR 4,896 4,406 3,826 2,734 2,807 tions from the revaluation of derivatives had a positive effect of Adjusted EBITDA 1,513 1,246 1,019 693 792 35 (-14) MSEK on the net financial expense. EBITDA 1,462 1,114 686 589 706 Reported taxes amounted to -175 (5) MSEK and were impacted positively by non-taxable income. Adjusted EBIT 976 745 544 292 366 Earnings per share before and after dilution totaled 8.58 EBIT (Operating profit/loss) 925 613 211 187 281 (1.43) SEK. Adjusted for positive exchange rate effects due to Adjusted EBITDAR margin, % 37.4 36.1 35.3 34.7 34.9 the revaluation of loans and investments, earnings per share Adjusted EBITDA margin, % 11.6 10.2 9.4 8.8 9.9 totaled 6.86 SEK. EBITDA margin, % 11.2 9.1 6.3 7.5 8.8 Growth in RevPAR and net sales compared with 2015 Adjusted EBIT margin, % 7.5 6.1 5.0 3.7 4.6 RevPAR, RevPAR, Net sales, Net sales, Operating margin (EBIT), % 7.1 5.0 1.9 2.4 3.5 Jan–Dec 2016 SEK % MSEK % Profit/loss for the year attributable to the Parent Company 879 117 –439 –248 148 LFL contribution Financial key ratios – financial position to growth 38.1 6.3 643 5.3 Balance sheet total 14,144 12,900 13,456 11,322 11,104 Exchange rate impact –2.2 –0.4 –53 –0.4 Equity attributable to the Parent Company 7,103 6,205 3,614 3,126 3,221 Exit hotels –1.5 –0.2 –168 –1.4 Working capital –1,181 –1,132 –909.2 –690 –802.3 New hotels 7.6 1.3 467 3.8 Interest-bearing net liabilities 2,710 3,355 6,073 4,555 4,205 Reported growth 42 7.0 890 7.3 Interest-bearing net liabilities/adjusted EBITDA 1.8 2.7 6.0 6.6 5.3 Growth LFL = LFL portfolio growth. LFL contribution to growth = LFL portfolio change in RevPAR and net sales in relation to the total portfolio. Cash flow from operating activities 1,609 1,186 790 545 611 Operating cash flow 890 401 –1,596 111 195 Financial targets In September 2015, Scandic adopted the following mediumto Key ratios per share long-term financial targets: Average number of shares 1) 102,457,837 81,826,211 81,826,211 81,826,211 81,826,211 • Annual net sales growth of at least 5 percent on average Earnings per share, SEK 8.58 1.43 –5.36 –3.03 1.81 over a business cycle, excluding potential M&As. • An adjusted EBITDA margin of at least 11 percent on averEquity/share, SEK 69.3 75.8 44.2 38.2 39.4 age over a business cycle. Hotel-related key ratios • A net debt in relation to adjusted EBITDA of 2–3x. RevPAR (Average Revenue Per Available Room), SEK 643.3 601.3 573.5 534.1 554.5 ARR (Average Room Rate), SEK 976.1 933.9 927.4 903.3 910.6 OCC (Occupancy), % 65.9 64.4 61.8 59.1 60.9 1) The average number of shares has been recalculated with regard to events during 2015. See Note 19. The number of shares outstanding on December 31, 2015, was 102,985,075, earnings per share on December 31, 2015, was 1.13 SEK/share. 58 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • ADMINISTRATION REPORT SEGMENT Sweden Norway Other Nordic countries and Europe Jan-Dec Jan-Dec Change, Jan-Dec Jan-Dec Change, Jan-Dec Jan-Dec Change, MSEK 2016 2015 % MSEK 2016 2015 % MSEK 2016 2015 % Net sales 5,637 5,065 Net sales 3,744 3,716 Net sales 3,701 3,412 Net sales growth, % 11.3 11.9 Net sales growth, % 0.8 16.7 Net sales growth, % 8.5 9.4 Net sales growth LFL, % 6.6 11.9 Net sales growth LFL, % –1.5 25.8 Net sales growth LFL, % 10.8 10.6 Adjusted EBITDA 975 828 Adjusted EBITDA 363 321 Adjusted EBITDA 522 400 Adjusted EBITDA margin, % 17.3 16.3 Adjusted EBITDA margin, % 9.7 8.6 Adjusted EBITDA margin, % 14.1 11.7 RevPAR, SEK 693 644.4 RevPAR, SEK 559.4 551.0 RevPAR, SEK 658.8 592.7 ARR, SEK 1,012.3 957.0 ARR, SEK 937.7 956.6 ARR, SEK 957.9 879.5 OCC, % 68.5 67.3 OCC, % 59.7 57.6 OCC, % 68.8 67.4 Net sales increased by 11.3 percent (6.6 percent LFL) during Net sales increased by 0.8 percent during the year to 3,744 Net sales increased by 8.5 percent (10.8 percent LFL) to 3,701 the year to 5,637 (5,065) MSEK, mainly driven by the positive (3,716) MSEK. The Norwegian market showed uneven devel(3,411) MSEK. RevPAR in local currencies grew by 8.8 to 10.8 market trend and contributions from new hotel openings. opment. Reduced investments and activities within the oil percent in Scandic’s main markets in the segment, i.e. DenRevPAR went up by 7.5 percent mainly as a result of higher industry led to a slump in demand and room rates at destinamark, Finland and Germany. Growth was driven by both volume occupancy and increased average room rates. During the year, tions dependent on the oil industry, primarily Stavanger. This and rates. The new hotels that opened in this segment, Scandic two new hotels opened in Stockholm: Haymarket by Scandic was offset, however, by strong demand from leisure travelers in Vaasa in Finland and Scandic Aalborg City in Denmark, got off and Scandic Continental, both of which showed positive results the summer months coupled with continued growth in northern to a good start and are delivering revenue according to plan. during the year. Norway and the Oslo region. RevPAR increased by 1.5 percent Scandic’s three hotels in Germany reported continued growth Adjusted EBITDA and the adjusted EBITDA margin were and RevPAR LFL in local currency grew by 4.3 percent. in revenue and improved margins with shared support funchigher compared with 2015. The margin improvement can be Adjusted EBITDA and the adjusted EBITDA margin were tions between the two hotels in Berlin contributing to lower attributed to a positive non-recurring payment related to a higher compared with the previous year due to an underlying costs. property dispute of 65 (10) MSEK. The abolishment of reduced increase in RevPAR and improved efficiency due to the integraAdjusted EBITDA and the adjusted EBITDA margin improved social security contributions for employees under the age of 26 tion of the former Rica hotels. compared with the previous year, mainly as a result of higher in 2015, known as the youth discount, had a negative effect of revenues and cost synergies. approximately 30 MSEK on EBITDA. Central functions Adjusted EBITDA for central functions amounted to -347 (-303) MSEK. Central costs increased among other things as a result of measures to strengthen the Group’s commercial organization and increased investments in digital development. ADMINISTRATION REPORT • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 59 Financial position Net investments during the period totaled -719 (-785) MSEK, The balance sheet total on the reporting date was 14,144 with -450 (434) MSEK from hotel renovations and -37 (-50) MSEK compared with 12,900 MSEK on December 31, 2015. MSEK from IT. Investments in new hotels and increased room Interest-bearing net debt decreased from 3,355 to 2,710 capacity totaled -232 (-139) MSEK). MSEK at the end of 2016. Exchange rate fluctuations had a Cash flow from financing operations during the year 125 MSEK impact on the reduction. Loans to credit institutions amounted to -104, mainly as a result of interest payments. amounted to 3,777 MSEK for the year. Net debt on the balance At the end of the period, the Group had 1,068 (248) MSEK sheet day corresponded to 1.8 times adjusted EBITDA (2.7 times in cash and cash equivalents. Unused credit facilities on December 31, 2015). amounted to 1,000 (600) MSEK. During the year, the Group’s On December 31, 2016, the total number of shares and revolving credit facility increased from 600 to 1,000 MSEK. votes after dilution was 102,457,837. On the reporting date, total equity amounted to 7,103 MSEK compared with 6,205 MSEK on December 31, 2015. Cash flow and liquidity Operating cash flow amounted to 890 (401) MSEK. The increase is due to higher operating profit and lower working capital. The cash flow contribution from the negative working capital amounted to 150 (54) MSEK. The Group has negative working capital since most of its revenue derives from payments made in advance or in connection with stays. WORKING CAPITAL/NET SALES, INVESTMENTS, 5 YEARS ROLLING 12 MONTHS % MSEK 0 800 5.1% 4.8% 4.5% 3.7% 3.4% 700 -2 600 -4 500 400 -6 300 200 -8 100 -10 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2015 Renovations New hotels & expansions IT % Capex related to renovations as a % of net sales 60 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • ADMINISTRATION REPORT Hotels and rooms in operation and under development Operational Under development Lease agreements Management agreements Franchise and partner agreements Owned Total Total 31 Dec 2016 Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms Sweden 77 15,781 1 145 6 726 – – 84 16,652 1 700 Norway 61 11,344 – – 20 2,522 1 135 82 14,001 4 1,366 Denmark 22 3,664 1 210 – – – – 23 3,874 2 670 Finland 26 5,303 – – 2 233 – – 28 5,536 – 70 Rest of Europe 6 1,509 – – – – – – 6 1,509 – 16 Total 192 37,601 2 355 28 3,481 1 135 233 41,572 7 2,822 All hotels under development will be operated through lease agreements, except Scandic Gällivare (80 rooms) that is operated under a franchise agreement. Portfolio development Scandic has entered into a share swap agreement with a third Executive Committee and Board of Directors At the end of the period, Scandic had 41,572 rooms at 223 party to ensure the delivery of shares that may be allotted Scandic’s Executive Committee has solid experience from the hotels, of which 192 had lease agreements. During the year, the according to the Long-Term Incentive Program (LTIP) that was hotel sector and consumer-oriented operations in various marnet increase in the number of hotels in operation was 2 and the implemented in December 2015. If the full number of matching kets. The Executive Committee consists of the CEO and nine number of rooms grew by 652. New hotels that opened during shares and performance shares is allotted, the total number of senior executives: The Chief Financial Officer (CFO), the Chief the year included Haymarket by Scandic (405 rooms), Scandic shares allotted under the LTIP will amount to 286,886, correCommercial Officer (CCO), the Senior Vice President Human Continental (392 rooms), Scandic Aalborg City (168 rooms), sponding to approximately 0.28 percent of Scandic’s share Resources & Sustainability (SVP Human Resources & SustainScandic Vaasa (68 rooms) and Scandic Gällivare (80 rooms). capital and votes. ability), the Vice President Business Development (VP Business The opening of Haymarket by Scandic in May also marked the Development) and the Heads of Sweden, Norway, Denmark, launch of the Group’s first signature hotel. In September, ScanRisks and risk management Finland and Europe. Five nationalities are represented in the dic Grand Central in Stockholm was rebranded as a signature A description of Scandic’s significant risks and uncertainties Executive Committee, which is composed of nine men and one hotel and changed its name to Grand Central by Scandic. is provided in the Risks and risk management section on woman. During the year, the Country Heads were included in pages 63–65. the Executive Committee at the same time as the position of Research and development Chief Operating Officer was phased out. No R&D work was carried out during the year. Employees At the Annual General Meeting 2016, Ingalill Berglund, The number of full-time employees (FTEs) including temporary Albert Gustafsson, Stephen Leithner and Christoffer Lundström Share and ownership structure staff increased to 10,694 (10,505) during the year. The averwere elected as new Board members while Casper Callerström The Scandic share has been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s age number of employees in the Group was 9,359 on Decemand Rikard Steiber resigned from the Board on May 12, 2016. Nordic Mid Cap list since December 2, 2015. According to the ber 31, 2016 compared with 9,887 on December 31, 2015. company’s share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB, Scandic aims to be an equal opportunity employer and to proGuidelines for remuneration to senior executives Scandic had 6,244 shareholders at year-end 2016 with equal vide a safe work environment, which among other things is Guidelines for remuneration and other terms of employment for voting rights, equal rights to the assets and profits and an governed by the Group’s Code of Conduct. During the year, the the CEO and senior executives were adopted at the Annual equal right to dividends of the total share capital. Sunstorm annual employee survey again showed good results and General Meeting held on May 12, 2016. See the Corporate Holding AB was the largest shareholder, with 20.4 percent of improvements within leadership, motivation and commitment Governance Report on page 111 for further information. the share capital and votes. At the end of the year, total Swedto the company. According to the research company TNS Sifo, ish ownership amounted to 71.3 percent of the shares of which Scandic is ranked as an “excellent” company from an 42.7 percent were held by Swedish institutions, 25.4 percent employee perspective. by Swedish mutual funds and 3.2 percent by private investors. ADMINISTRATION REPORT • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 61 Long-Term Incentive Program grow as a tourist and meeting destination, which is expected to Scandic has a share-based Long-Term Incentive Program. The drive demand for hotel rooms going forward. Scandic expects expected financial exposure to shares that may be allotted market conditions for the industry to remain favorable during under the LTIP and the delivery of shares to the participants of 2017. Today, Scandic is Scandinavia’s largest hotel company the LTIP have been hedged through Scandic’s entering into a with a popular offering, a well-invested hotel portfolio and a share swap agreement with a third party on market terms. strong geographical network. The company’s existing business For further information, see Note 6 and page 111 of the together with its pipeline of new hotels provide a solid basis for Corporate Governance Report. continued strong growth in the future. Events after the reporting date Parent Company On January 18, Scandic signed an agreement with property The operations of the Parent Company Scandic Hotels Group owners Pandox and Eiendomsspar to take over the operation of AB include management services for the rest of the Group. eight hotels in Norway, Sweden and Denmark with a total of Revenues for the period amounted to 29 (21) MSEK. Operating 1,708 rooms. The agreement includes Grand Hotel in Oslo, losses totaled -7(-31) MSEK. which will become Scandic’s sixth signature hotel. The transfer The net financial expense for the period was 17 (-13) was carried out without consideration and all of the hotels will MSEK. The Parent Company’s profit before taxes was 76 (531) contribute positively to EBITDA from 2017. MSEK. On January 19, Scandic signed a long-term lease with LAK Real Estate Oy, a subsidiary of Finavia, regarding the establishAppropriation of profits ment and operation of a new hotel at Helsinki Airport. Work to In accordance with the Board’s dividend policy adopted on complete the hotel, Scandic Helsinki Airport, started in January September 14, 2015, Scandic aims to distribute at least 50 2017 and the opening is planned for the first half of 2018. The percent of its net profit from the financial year 2016 onwards. hotel will have 148 rooms. Decisions regarding the appropriation of profits are made On February 3, Scandic announced that the company had with consideration to the company’s future profits, financial signed a long-term lease with the property company Vasa­ position, capital requirements and macroeconomic conditions. kronan. The agreement covers the operation of a new hotel in The Board proposes that the profits be distributed as follows: the Platinan area in Gothenburg. The hotel will have 362 rooms SEK and 15 conference rooms including a large multifunctional event space (Black Box) of 1,000 m2. The hotel is planned to Dividend to shareholders, 3.15 SEK per share 324,402,986 open at the end of 2020. To be carried forward 6,321,481,846 On February 9, the Board of Directors of Scandic Hotels Total 6,645,884,832 announced that Even Frydenberg will take over as President & For more information, please see the financial statements CEO after Frank Fiskers announced plans to leave Scandic and notes. ­during the summer. Even Frydenberg will start the new position on July 31, 2017. Prospects 2016 can be summarized as a year of strong results for Scandic. RevPAR and net sales developed positively and margins improved. Scandic has entered 2017 with an extremely large project portfolio. The current macroeconomic situation in the Nordic countries is favorable for the hotel industry and at the same time, statistics show that the Nordic region is continuing to 62 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • ADMINISTRATION REPORT RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Risk management process The President & CEO is responsible for managing risks in Scandic has established a risk management process designed accordance with the guidelines adopted by the Board. The risk to identify and reduce risks that can have an adverse effect on management process and work within specially identified risk All business activities are associated with risks. areas are driven centrally by the Group’s Chief Financial Offithe Group’s earnings and cash flow, brand and reputation or Risks that are managed well can lead to opportunilong-term competitiveness. The process that provides a framecer, who has overall responsibility. Operational risks are manties and create value, while risks that are not manwork for the Group’s risk management follows an annual cycle: aged by the Executive Committee where each significant risk aged properly can lead to damage and losses. • The Executive Committee carries out risk mapping where identified is assigned to a designated manager who is responrisks are identified and measured based on the probability sible for proposing measures to fill any gaps and ensure the The ability to identify, assess, manage and monitor risks is an that they will occur as well as the consequences of their execution of action plans. Financial risks are managed by important part of the management and control of Scandic’s occurrence on the Group’s operations and financial posiGroup Finance in accordance with Board-approved policies business operations. The aim is that the Group’s objectives will tion. This results in a risk map where each risk is classified and instructions, and are reported by the Chief Financial Officer be achieved through well-considered risk-taking within estabas low, medium or high. The internal controls and the conto the Audit Committee. lished limits. trol environment are then evaluated where a high level of The risk management process includes strategic, operacontrol can reduce risks both in terms of probability and Sustainability risks tional and financial risks. consequences. During the year, an assessment of sustainability risks was carScandic has good underlying risk diversification in the form • Based on the Group’s risk profile and risk strategy, any gaps ried out. This assessment considered all four areas of the UN of a geographically diverse and balanced customer base. The in relation to the desired level of control are identified. Global Compact: environment, human rights, labor rights and Group operates primarily in the Nordic market through 223 Thereafter, an action plan is developed to reduce gaps anti-corruption. The results were included in Scandic’s work to hotels that serve its main target groups: business and leisure where the value of reducing the risk is measured against develop its sustainability strategy. In Scandic’s business develtravelers. Of the Group’s revenues, corporate travel accounts the cost of establishing and maintaining internal controls. opment, operational and strategic decisions included sustainfor approximately 70 percent and leisure travel for about 30 • The structure and frequency of monitoring risk status and ability as a parameter evaluated based on opportunities and percent. Scandic is not dependent on a specific industry or a action plans is determined. Strategic risks are reported to risks. The management of sustainability risks is an integral part few customers. the Board and monitored in connection with strategy semiof the Group’s risk management process. For a detailed description of internal controls designed to nars, establishing business plans and regular Board meetmanage risks relating to financial reporting, see pages 111– ings. Financial risks are reported and monitored both in Strategic and operational risks 113 in Scandic’s Corporate Governance report. financial reporting to the Board and at Audit Committee The following pages provide a description of the most signifimeetings according to the agenda adopted at the annual cant risks to which Scandic’s operations are exposed. These RISK MAPPING general meeting. Operational risks are managed by the are not the only risks and there may be other risks that are curExecutive Committee and higher or more critical risks are rently considered immaterial that may have a negative effect also regularly reported to the Board. on the Group’s business, financial performance or position. The order in which risks are presented should not be considered an Responsibility and monitoring indication of the probability of the occurrence of the risk or the ACTION PLAN VALUATION AND The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for ensuring seriousness of the consequences. TO REDUCE CLASSIFICATION that the Group has appropriate risk management structures in Strategic risks include external factors that may affect GAPS OF RISKS place. The Board is also responsible for monitoring strategic Scandic’s business and long-term competitiveness as well as ANNUAL CYCLE risks. The Audit Committee is responsible for evaluating the internal factors that could lower the prospects of achieving efficacy of the structure and risk management processes. The Scandic’s strategic business objectives. Operational risks are Audit Committee is also responsible for monitoring financial risks over which Scandic has control and primarily include prorisks in accordance with the committee’s instructions. cesses, assets and people. IDENTIFICATION EVALUATION OF GAPS IN DESIRED OF INTERNAL CONTROL LEVEL CONTROL RISKS • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 63 MARKET RISKS Risk management Scandic operates in a sector where demand for hotel nights and conferences is influenced by Scandic operates in the mid-market hotel segment, which historically has demonstrated the underlying domestic development and purchasing power in the geographic markets in greater resilience in economic downturns. which Scandic does business, as well as development in countries from which there is a signifiScandic’s business model is based on lease agreements where approximately 90 percent cant amount of travel to Scandic’s domestic markets. have variable, revenue-based rents. This results in lower profit risks since revenue losses are Additionally, profitability in the sector is impacted by changes in room capacity where when partly offset by reduced rental costs. Scandic’s other expenses also include a high share of new hotels are established, occupancy can decrease in the short term. In the long term, howvariable costs where above all, staffing flexibility is important to be able to adapt cost levels to ever, greater availability of rooms can help generate interest in particular destinations for busivariations in demand. All together, this means that by having a flexible cost structure, Scandic ness and leisure travel, thereby increasing the number of hotel rooms sold. can lessen the effects of seasonal and economic fluctuations. Increased growth in apartment hotels and concepts such as Airbnb as well as the rising use Scandic sells products to a wide range of customers and industries. Scandic has a high perof video conferencing may impact demand for traditional hotel and conference services. centage of satisfied and returning customers and guests. Competition from web-based distribution channels and search engine companies may A high share of distribution, or close to 70 percent, is achieved through Scandic’s own reduce traffic to Scandic’s own distribution channels, which could have a negative impact on channels, and a high level of revenues from members of Scandic’s loyalty program contributes Scandic’s operations and profitability. to revenue stability. Scandic invests regularly in achieving an optimal and customer-friendly buying process and maintaining a leading digital dialog with customers. To increase the inflow of private international travel, Scandic has entered into strategic cooperation agreements with relevant online travel agencies (OTAs). POLITICAL RISK, TAXES AND DECISIONS OF AUTHORITIES Risk management Changes in VAT or other taxes may affect demand for hotel stays, conference facilities and resScandic operates only in countries that are politically mature and stable, which leads to a low taurants. Changes in taxes, social security fees and other fees that increase Scandic’s costs political risk. Through geographic spread, the risk that changes to legislation and regulations in may have a negative effect on the Group’s results. a single country may impact Scandic’s earnings negatively is reduced. LEASE AGREEMENTS – FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS Risk management Scandic’s business model is based on lease agreements. These agreements are signed for a The risk involved in long-term financial commitments is reduced through a high proportion of period of typically 15 to 20 years, with the option to extend in many cases. According to these agreements with variable rent. Of Scandic’s total lease agreements (based on number of agreements, the property owner and the tenant (Scandic) share responsibility for investments rooms), approximately 90 percent have fully variable rent or variable rent with a minimum guarin and maintenance of the property. Scandic’s commitment relates in general to maintenance anteed rent. The latter is the most common contract model in the Nordic countries. and replacement of finishes, furniture, fixtures and equipment. Historically, these investments Revenue-based rent and joint investment responsibility mean that the property owner and have accounted for 3 to 4 percent of Scandic’s net sales. tenant have a common interest in developing and maintaining the property in order to increase guest satisfaction and generate revenue. Scandic prepares rolling plans for the renovation and maintenance of hotels to ensure their standard, attractiveness and ability to continue to generate good revenue. According to Scandic’s portfolio strategy, the company only enters into lease agreements for hotels in markets that have good, stable demand, that are in attractive locations and that have the scale and configuration that allow for good profitability and thereby low commercial risk. Where these criteria are not met and the risk of entering into lease agreements is deemed too high, franchise agreements may be considered if the geographic location of the property has a strategic value or may contribute to increasing the value of Scandic’s loyalty program by improving geographic reach. 64 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • RISKS BRAND AND REPUTATION Risk management The hotel market is constantly evolving in terms of preferences and customer behavior. For this Scandic is the leading brand in the Nordic countries and the Scandic brand is one of the reason, it is extremely important for a hotel company to ensure that its brand and content as Group’s most valuable assets. Scandic’s loyalty program, Scandic Friends, is the largest in the well as its perceived position remain relevant and appreciated at all times. Maintaining the Nordic hotel industry. In 2016, Scandic Friends generated about 40 percent of the Group’s revstrength and relevance of the Scandic brand and customer perception of Scandic’s offering and enues from accommodation. By owning its brand, Scandic can guarantee the consistency and concept is therefore critical to ensure long-term competitiveness. quality of its offerings and service and also ensure that the content and offering are constantly adapted to the demands and preferences of both existing and new customers. Scandic’s Code of Conduct is based on social and environmental sustainability as well as ethical business conduct in all areas of its operations. The Code applies to all employees and also places demands on Scandic’s suppliers and partners. HUMAN RESOURCES AND TALENT MANAGEMENT Risk management Scandic operates in the service industry where each customer and guest experience has a Scandic has a strong corporate culture that is being strengthened further through the contingreat impact on how the Group’s offering, quality and service are perceived. Employee engageued development of the Group’s cultural platform that has been in place since 2015. During ment is a key driver in terms of customer satisfaction and it is therefore also central to the 2016, the platform was implemented fully in the Group. Group’s long-term results. The ability to attract, develop and retain talents and build a good serEach year, Scandic conducts an employee survey that has a very high response rate and vice and corporate culture is thus crucial to Scandic’s success. high scores when it comes to job satisfaction. The insight obtained through this survey is an important tool for continued improvement throughout the entire organization. Scandic develops leadership through regular evaluation and development programs at all levels of the organization including Scandic Business School. Talent@Scandic is the Group’s program for management training and talent development. Sensitivity analysis Financial risks agement for specific areas such as exchange rate risk, interest A change in RevPAR due to variable rental costs and variable The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: rate risk, credit risk, the use of derivatives and non-derivative costs will have an impact of approximately 40 to 60 percent on market risk (including exchange rate risk and interest rate risk), financial instruments and investment of excess liquidity. Group EBITDA. Based on Group results from 2016 and assuming that credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall financial policy Finance identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close all other factors except RevPAR remain unchanged, Scandic focuses on the unpredictability of the financial markets and collaboration with the Group’s operating units. assesses that an increase or decrease of 1 percent in RevPAR seeks to minimize potential adverse effects on the Group’s For a description of the management of financial risks, see will have an impact of approximately 30 to 50 MSEK on EBITDA financial result. Notes 20b and 20c. on an annual basis, where the higher value relates to a change Risk management is handled by Group Finance in accordriven entirely by the average room rate and the lower value dance with policies established by the Board of Directors. refers to a change driven solely by occupancy. These include overall risk management as well as risk manRISKS • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 65 CONSOLIDATED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT INCOME STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME GROUP GROUP MSEK Notes 2016 2015 MSEK Notes 2016 2015 INCOME 2, 3 Profit/loss for the year 882 120 Room revenue 8,530 7,869 Other comprehensive income Restaurant and conference revenue 4,299 4,068 Franchise and management fees 29 35 Items that may be reclassified to profit and loss: Other hotel-related revenue 224 220 Translation differences for the year 169 –145 Net sales 13,082 12,192 Hedge of net investment in foreign operations, net of tax –124 39 Other income 13 16 Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss: TOTAL OPERATING INCOME 13,095 12,208 Actuarial gains/losses for the year –6 73 OPERATING COSTS Total other comprehensive income, net of tax 39 –33 Raw materials and consumables –1,138 –1,092 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 921 87 Other external costs 4, 5, 6 –2,850 –2,700 Personnel costs 6 –4,211 –4,010 Adjusted EBITDAR 4,896 4,406 Fixed and guaranteed rental charges 5 –2,203 –2,091 Variable rental charges 5 –1,180 –1,069 Adjusted EBITDA 1,513 1,246 Pre-opening costs –51 –28 Non-recurring items – –104 EBITDA 1,462 1,114 Depreciation 11, 12 –537 –502 TOTAL OPERATING COSTS –12,170 –11,596 Adjusted EBIT 976 745 EBIT (Operating profit/loss) 925 613 Financial items Financial income 7 265 3 Financial expenses 8 –133 –500 Net financial items 132 –497 EBT (Profit/loss before tax) 1,057 115 Tax 9 –175 5 PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE YEAR 882 120 Attributable to: Parent Company shareholders 879 117 Non-controlling interests 3 3 Profit/loss per share before dilution, attributable to: Parent Company shareholders (SEK per share) 10 8.58 1.43 Profit/loss per share after dilution, attributable to: Parent Company shareholders (SEK per share) 10 8.58 1.43 66 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • FINANCIAL REPORTS GRI: G4-9 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET GROUP Notes 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Notes 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 ASSETS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Fixed assets Equity Goodwill 11 5,793 5,575 Share capital 19 26 26 Trademarks 11 3,145 3,151 Other contributions 7,865 7,865 Other intangible assets 11 165 181 Translation reserve –29 –71 Land & buildings 12 95 89 Retained earnings –790 –1,643 Equipment, fixtures and fittings 12 2,882 2,549 Equity attributable to owners of Parent Company 7,072 6,177 Shares in associated companies 13 10 10 Non-controlling interest 31 28 Financial investments 14 8 4 Total equity 7,103 6,205 Other long-term assets 14 17 Deferred tax assets 23 35 32 Long-term liabilities Total fixed assets 3 12,147 11,608 Liabilities to credit institutions 20 3,777 3,600 Provisions for pensions and similar commitments 21 413 380 Current assets Other provisions 22 133 124 Inventory 15 92 81 Other liabilities 47 – Accounts receivable – trade 16 498 464 Financial leases 1 3 Current tax assets – 2 Deferred tax liabilities 23 560 412 Other current receivables 134 232 Total long-term liabilities 4,931 4,519 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 17 205 265 Cash and cash equivalents 18 1,068 248 Current liabilities Total current assets 1,997 1,292 Advance payments from customers 28 112 88 Accounts payable – trade 28 527 482 TOTAL ASSETS 14,144 12,900 Derivative instruments 28 20 77 Current tax liabilities 20 5 – Other liabilities 222 190 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 24 1,224 1,339 Total current liabilities 2,110 2,176 Total liabilities 7,041 6,695 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 14,144 12,900 GRI: G4-9 FINANCIAL REPORTS • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 67 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT GROUP MSEK Notes 2016 2015 Operating activities Operating profit/loss 925 613 Adjustment for items not included in cash flow, etc. 25 537 521 Income tax paid –3 –1 Cash flow before changes in working capital 1,459 1,132 Changes in working capital Inventory –7 2 Accounts receivable – trade –11 –36 Other current receivables 179 –34 Accounts payable – trade 23 –30 Other current liabilities –34 152 Cash flow from operating activities 1,609 1,186 Investing activities Acquisition of fixed tangible assets 12 –719 –639 Sale of associated companies – 16 Acquisition of subsidiaries – –162 Cash flow from investing activities –719 –785 Operating cash flow 890 401 Financing activities Share issue – 1,540 Share issuing costs – –23 Borrowings 20 475 4,742 Amortization –475 –6,801 Refinancing costs – –98 Interest paid 7, 8 –101 –221 Dividend –3 – Cash flow from financing activities –104 –861 CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR 786 –460 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 248 716 Translation differences in cash and cash equivalents 34 –8 Cash flow for the year 786 –460 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 1,068 248 68 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • FINANCIAL REPORTS CHANGES IN EQUITY GROUP Equity attributable to owners Non-controlling of the Parent Company i­ nterest Share Other Translation Retained MSEK c­ apital contributions reserves ­earnings Total Total equity OPENING BALANCE 1 Jan 2015 0 5,294 35 –1,742 3,587 27 3,614 Profit/loss for the year – – – 117 117 3 120 Other comprehensive income: Items that may be reclassified to profit and loss: Currency fluctuations from translation of foreign operations – – –145 – –145 0 –145 Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation, net of tax – – 39 – 39 – 39 Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss: Actuarial gains/losses for the year, net of tax – – – 73 73 – 73 Total other comprehensive income –106 73 –33 0 –33 Total comprehensive income – – –106 190 84 3 87 Bonus issue 20 – – –20 – – – Transactions with shareholders: Share issue and share issue cost 6 1,535 – –49 1,492 – 1,492 Shareholders’ contribution received – 1,036 – – 1,036 – 1,036 Dividend – – – – – –2 –2 Share-based payments – – – 0 0 – 0 Forward contract to repurchase own shares – – – –22 –22 – –22 Total transactions with shareholders 6 2,571 – –71 2,506 –2 2,504 CLOSING BALANCE 31 Dec 2015 26 7,865 –71 –1,643 6,177 28 6,205 Profit/loss for the year – – – 879 879 3 882 Other comprehensive income: Items that may be reclassified to profit and loss: Currency fluctuations from translation of foreign operations – – 166 – 166 3 169 Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation, net after tax – – –124 – –124 – –124 Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss: Actuarial gains/losses for the year, net after tax – – – –6 –6 – –6 Total other comprehensive income – – 42 –6 36 3 39 Total comprehensive income – – 42 873 915 6 921 Transactions with shareholders: Dividend – – – – – –3 –3 Share-based payments – – – 5 5 – 5 Forward contract to repurchase own shares – – – –25 –25 – –25 Total transactions with shareholders – – – –20 –20 –3 –23 CLOSING BALANCE 31 Dec 2016 26 7,865 –29 –790 7,072 31 7,103 FINANCIAL REPORTS • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 69 INCOME STATEMENT STATEMENT OF PARENT COMPANY COMPREHENSIVE INCOME PARENT COMPANY MSEK Notes 2016 2015 MSEK Notes 2016 2015 Net sales 29 29 21 Profit/loss for the year 65 415 Operating expenses Other comprehensive income: Other external expenses 4, 6 –8 –24 Other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to Personnel expenses 6 –28 –28 profit and loss – – Total operating expenses –36 –52 Other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to profit and loss – – Operating profit/loss –7 –31 Total other comprehensive income, net of tax – – TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 65 415 Financial items Interest income and similar items 7 114 99 Interest expenses and similar items 8 –97 –112 Net financial items 17 –13 Appropriations 66 574 Profit/loss before tax 76 531 Income tax 9 –11 –116 PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE YEAR 65 415 70 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • FINANCIAL REPORTS BALANCE SHEET PARENT COMPANY MSEK Notes 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 MSEK Notes 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 ASSETS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Financial assets Equity Participations in Group companies 26 4,590 3,536 Share capital 19 26 26 Receivables from Group companies 29 5,067 6,778 Total restricted equity 26 26 Deferred tax assets 23 71 82 Non-restricted reserves 6,581 6,207 Total fixed assets 9,728 10,396 Net profit/loss for the year 65 415 Current assets Total non-restricted equity 6,646 6,622 Current receivables 6 2 Total equity 6,672 6,648 Receivables from Group companies 29 66 – Liabilities Cash and cash equivalents 18 790 2 Long-term liabilities Total current assets 862 4 Liabilities to credit institutions 3,839 3,679 Liabilities to affiliated companies 29 – 8 TOTAL ASSETS 10,590 10,400 Other liabilities 47 – Total long-term liabilities 3,886 3,687 Current liabilities Other liabilities 8 2 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 24 24 63 Total current liabilities 32 65 Total liabilities 3,918 3,752 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 10,590 10,400 FINANCIAL REPORTS • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 71 CASH FLOW STATEMENT PARENT COMPANY MSEK Notes 2016 2015 Operating activities Operating profit/loss –7 –31 Adjustment for items not included in cash flow, etc. 25 – 87 Income tax paid – – Cash flow before changes in working capital –7 56 Changes in working capital Other current receivables –5 –2 Other current liabilities –34 2 Cash flow from operating activities –46 56 Investing activities – – Cash flow from investing activities – – Operating cash flow –46 56 Financing activities Share issue – 1,540 Share issuing costs – –23 Borrowings 475 3,679 Amortization –475 – Interest paid –92 – Loans to subsidiaries 925 –5,251 Cash flow from financing activities 833 –55 CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR 787 1 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 2 1 Translation differences in cash and cash equivalents 1 – Cash flow for the year 787 1 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 790 2 72 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • FINANCIAL REPORTS CHANGES IN EQUITY PARENT COMPANY Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Share Share premium Retained Total MSEK capital reserve earnings equity OPENING BALANCE 1 Jan 2015 0 – 3,706 3,706 Net profit/loss for the year – – 415 415 Other comprehensive income – – – – Total comprehensive income – – 415 415 Bonus issue 20 – –20 – Transactions with shareholders: Received shareholders’ contribution – – 1,036 1,036 Share issue and issue cost 6 1,534 –49 1,491 Share-based payments – – 0 0 Total transactions with shareholders 6 1,534 987 2,527 CLOSING BALANCE 31 Dec 2015 26 1,534 5,088 6,648 Net profit/loss for the year – – 65 65 Other comprehensive income – – – – Total comprehensive income – – 65 65 Transactions with shareholders: Share-based payments – – 5 5 Forward contract to repurchase own shares – – –46 –46 Total transactions with shareholders – – –41 –41 CLOSING BALANCE 31 Dec 2016 26 1,534 5,112 6,672 FINANCIAL REPORTS • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 73 NOTES Notes common to the Group and the Parent Company. Amounts in MSEK unless otherwise stated. NOTE 01 Accounting principles Basis for presentation Translation of foreign currencies The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial ReportThe consolidated financial statements are presented in Swedish kronor (SEK), which is the funcing Standards (IFRS) adopted by the EU and in accordance with RFR 1 Supplementary accounting tional and reporting currency of the Parent Company. principles for groups of companies and the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The annual accounts The results and financial position of all Group companies using a functional currency other have been prepared in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and RFR 2 Accounting than the reporting currency are translated into the Group’s reporting currency as follows: for legal entities. a) Assets and liabilities for each of the balance sheets are translated at the daily closing rate. The consolidated accounts have been drawn up in accordance with the acquisition value b) Income and expenditure for each of the income statements are translated at the average method, except in respect of certain financial assets and liabilities that are valued at actual value exchange rate. in the income statement. c) All exchange rate differences that arise are reported in other comprehensive income Drawing up annual accounts in accordance with the IFRS requires the use of a number of imporand accumulated in the translation reserve in equity. tant accounting estimations. The Board of Directors and Executive Committee are also required to make assessments when implementing the company’s accounting principles. The areas that Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising in the acquisition of foreign operations are treated include a large degree of assessments that are complex, or areas where assumptions and estimaas assets and liabilities of the entity and translated at the daily closing rate. tions are of significant importance for the consolidated accounts, are detailed in each note. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency according to the exchange rates that apply on the transaction date or the date on which the items were translated. Consolidated accounts Exchange rate gains and losses that arise when paying such transactions and in translation of monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency at the daily closing rate are reported The consolidated accounts cover the companies, including branches, in which the Group’s ownerin the income statement. The Group applies hedge accounting for net investments in foreign subship is equivalent to at least one half of the votes or where the Group in another way exercises a sidiaries. controlling influence over the business. Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has a controlling interest. The Group controls a company when it is exposed to or has the right to the variable The below exchange rates are used in the consolidation. returns from its stake in the company and has the opportunity to influence the return through their influence in the company. Exchange rates Jan–Dec 2016 Jan–Dec 2015 The acquisition of companies or businesses is accounted for using the acquisition method. SEK = EUR The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for Income statement (average) 9.4704 9.3562 recognition are recognized at the fair value on the acquisition date. Goodwill and other intangible assets arising from an acquisition are recognized as an asset that is the excess of the cost of the Balance sheet (at end of period) 9.5669 9.1350 business combination over the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognized. If the acquisition value is less than the actual value of the purchased operation’s SEK = NOK assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, the difference is reported directly in the income statement. Income statement (average) 1.0199 1.0465 Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. Associated companies are incorporated in the Group’s financial statement using the equity Balance sheet (at end of period) 1.0540 0.9556 method. Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried in the consolidated balance sheet at cost, adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of the net assets SEK = DKK of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments. Income statement (average) 1.2720 1.2544 Internal Group transactions, undertakings and unrealized earnings from transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Balance sheet (at end of period) 1.2869 1.2242 Sales between Group companies are priced according to market terms. Internal profits arising in conjunction with sales within the Group are eliminated in their entirety. Pre-opening costs relate to costs associated with the opening of new hotels. Items affecting comparability pertain to non-recurring items, such as integration costs for acquisitions and expenses in connection with the IPO. Normally, there are no items affecting comparability. 74 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • NOTES New and amended International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers New and amended standards adopted by the Group IFRS 15 replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts and the related SIC and IFRIC. Accounting principles and the basis for calculations are in all material aspects unchanged compared The standard regulates the recognition of revenue. The principles that IFRS 15 is based on shall with the Annual Report 2015. Amendments and interpretations of standards that enter into force provide users of financial statements with more useful information on the company’s revenues. The for the fiscal year beginning January 1, 2016 have not had any material effect on the Group’s finanincreased disclosure requirement means that information shall be provided on the nature of the cial reporting. revenue, the time of settlement, any uncertainties connected with revenue recognition and cash flow linked to the company’s contracts with customers. According to IFRS 15, revenue shall be ­recognized when the customer assumes control of the sold goods or services and is able to use New standards and interpretations yet to be applied by the Group and derive benefit from the goods or services – a principle that replaces the previous principle that A number of new standards and interpretations entered into force during the financial year that started revenue is recognized when the risks and rewards have been transferred to the buyer. A company on January 1, 2016 but have not been applied in the preparation of this report. None of these are can choose between “full retroactivity” or prospective application with additional disclosures. expected to have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements, except for the following: IFRS 15 will enter into force on January 1, 2018. Earlier adoption is allowed. The introduction of IFRS 15 is expected to have a limited effect on Scandic since the new s­ tandard will only have IFRS 2 Share-based payments an effect on the accounting of the loyalty program. The new standard states that revenue from the On June 20, 2016, the IASB published three extensions to IFRS 2 Share-based payments. The change customer will be allocated to earned points and the goods on the basis of r­ elative independent is intended to eliminate non-uniform practices in three main areas: sales prices rather than based on the residual value method. This can affect the amounts allocated a) How effects of vesting conditions in the valuation of share-based payment transactions that to the goods sold and the date of presentation of a certain portion of the r­ evenues. Approximately are settled in cash should be regulated. 2 percent of the Group’s revenue will be affected by accounting under IFRS 15. b) The classification of share-based payments, which includes the employee’s obligation to pay ­withholding taxes on compensation. IFRS16 Leases c) Accounting for a change in the terms of share-based payments, which means that the rating In January 2016, the IASB issued a new lease standard that will replace IAS 17 Leases and the will be changed from settlement in cash to settlement in equity instruments. related interpretations IFRIC 4, SIC-15 and SIC-27. The implementation of the standard will mean that nearly all lease agreements will be recognized in the balance sheet, as no distinction will be The changes apply to financial years beginning on January 1, 2018 or later. made between operational and financial leases. According to the new standard, an asset (the right The Group will evaluate the impact of the introduction of the standard. As currently no cash-­ to use the leased asset) and a financial obligation to pay leasing fees are accounted for. Contracts settled remuneration plans exist, the effect is assessed to be limited for the Group. of short duration and contracts of lesser value are excluded. The accounting for lessors will in all material aspects remain unchanged. The standard is effective for financial years from January 1, 2019. Early adoption is permitted if IFRS 9 Financial instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers also is applied. The Group currently does not This standard deals with the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and intend to apply the standard early. liabilities. The complete version of IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014. It replaces the sections of The introduction of the new standard will require recalculation of comparative figures and some IAS 39 that deal with the classification and measurement of financial instruments. The standard key ratios where the effect of the introduction of IFRS 16 is shown. The impact of the introduction of shall be applied in the financial year starting on January 1, 2018. Application of the standard IFRS 16 concerns Scandic on the Group level only and not the legal entity, meaning that the introbefore this date is allowed. The Group assesses that the effects of the adoption of the new standard duction of IFRS 16 will not affect the Parent Company’s capacity to pay dividends. will be limited. Scandic will report according to the new standard from the first quarter 2019. The effect of the transition should be presented in the Annual Report for 2018 and communicated prior to the press release of the first quarter 2019. The new leasing standard will primarily affect the accounting of the Group’s operating leases and is expected to have significant effects on Scandic’s balance sheet when leases are reported in the balance sheet. The income statement is also expected to be impacted primarily by adjustments NOTES • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 75 cont. Note 01 between income statement items. The company intends to evaluate and quantify the effects of the recognition of IFRS 16 during 2017. NOTE 02 Revenue by type of agreement None of any other IFRS or IFRIC interpretations yet to be applied are expected to have a material Group impact on the Group’s financial statements. MSEK 2016 2015 The Parent Company’s accounting principles Lease agreements 13,029 12,135 Unless otherwise stated, the Parent Company applies the same accounting principles as the Group. Management agreements 11 11 The Parent Company has prepared its annual accounts in accordance with the Swedish Annual Franchise and partner agreements 18 24 Accounts Act and RFR 2 Accounting for legal entities. Owned 37 38 Total 13,095 12,208 Differences between the accounting principles of the Group and the Parent Company Other 29 21 The Parent Company applies the alternative rule for Group contributions and reports both received Group eliminations –29 –21 and paid Group contributions as appropriations. In this respect, the Parent Company does not Group 13,095 12,208 comply with IAS 27. Financial instruments in the Parent Company are not reported according to IAS 39 in view of the connection between reporting and taxation. Accounting principles Remuneration to employees in the Parent Company is not reported according to IAS 19, Revenue recognition as the Parent Company, in accordance with RFR 2, applies reporting according to the Pension Revenue consists of the value of goods and services generated in hotels under lease agreements, ­Obligations Vesting Act. management and franchise fees and other income generated in the Group’s operations. Revenue is reported at the actual value of what has been received or will be received and corresponds to the amount to claim for delivered goods and services, less any discounts given and sales-related taxes. Below is a description of the composition of the Group’s revenue. Lease agreements – revenues from hotel operations, including all income from sold rooms, conferences, food and beverage and other services. Revenue is reported when the goods or services have been consumed, i.e. when checkout or invoicing of the services takes place. The Group has a customer loyalty program in which customers earn points from completed purchases. These points give the customer a discount on future purchases. Revenues are accounted for when the points have been used. See also Note 22. Management fees – from hotels managed by the Group through long-term agreements with hotel owners. Management fees usually consist of a proportion of the revenue from the hotel and/or profits and are recognized in the income statement at the end of the month in question and are realizable according to the terms of the agreement. Inovicing occurs monthly in arrears. Franchise fees – received in conjunction with licence fees for the Group’s trademarks, through long-term agreements with hotel owners. Franchise fees consist of a proportion of the revenue from the hotel and are reported in the income statement based on the underlying terms of the agreement. The fee is recognized in the income statement at the end of the month in question and invoicing occurs monthly in arrears. 76 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • NOTES cont. Note 03 NOTE 03 Segment reporting Scandic’s main markets in which the Group operates are: Central functions – Costs for financial control, business development, investor relations, communications, technical development, human resources, branding, marketing, sales, IT and purchasing. Sweden – Swedish hotels that are operated under the Scandic brand. These central functions support all of the hotels in the Group, including those under lease agreeNorway – Norwegian hotels that are operated under the Scandic brand. Norwegian partner hotels ments as well as management and franchise agreements. are operated under their own brands. The split of net sales between segments is based on the location of the business activities and Other Nordic countries & Europe – Hotel operations under the Scandic brand in Belgium, Denmark, segment reporting is carried out after the elimination of inter-Group transactions. Finland, Poland and Germany and hotel operations under the Hilton brand in Finland. The different Net sales come from a large number of customers in all segments. The segments are reviewed countries have been aggregated to one segment based on the fact that the countries involved have and analyzed based on adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA is earnings before interest, taxes, depresimilar economical situations, they operate the business in similar ways and have similar types of ciation and amortization and excludes non-recurring items that are not directly related to the norcustomers. They also have the same currency, EUR, or a currency pegged to EUR. mal operations of the company, for example, costs for transactions, exits and restructuring. Adjusted EBITDA also excludes pre-opening costs that refer to expenses for contracted and new hotels before opening day. 2016 Other Nordic Central 2015 Other Nordic Central MSEK Sweden Norway countries & Europe functions Group MSEK Sweden 1) Norway 1) countries & Europe1) functions Group External net sales 5,637 3,744 3,701 – 13,082 External net sales 5,065 3,716 3,411 – 12,192 Other income 13 – – – 13 Other income 16 – – – 16 Internal transactions – – – 29 29 Internal transactions – – – 21 21 Group eliminations – – – –29 –29 Group eliminations – – – –21 –21 Total net sales 5,650 3,744 3,701 – 13,095 Total net sales 5,081 3,716 3,411 – 12,208 Expenses –4,675 –3,381 –3,179 –347 –11,582 Expenses –4,253 –3,395 –3,0119 –303 –10,962 Adjusted EBITDA 975 363 522 –347 1,513 Adjusted EBITDA 828 321 400 –303 1,246 Adjusted EBITDA margin, % 17.3 9.7 14.1 – 11.6 Adjusted EBITDA margin, % 16.3 8.6 11.8 – 10.2 EBITDA – – – – 1,462 EBITDA – – – – 1,114 EBITDA margin, % – – – – 11.2 EBITDA margin, % – – – – 9.1 Depreciation – – – – –537 Depreciation – – – – –502 EBIT (Operating profit/loss) – – – – 925 EBIT (Operating profit/loss) – – – – 613 Net financial income/expense – – – – 132 Net financial income/expense – – – – –497 EBT (Profit/loss before tax) – – – – 1,057 EBT (Profit/loss before tax) – – – – 115 1) HTL’s operations were integrated with Scandic Sweden and Scandic Norway from 2016 and are therefore included in the segment r­ eporting for Sweden and Norway respectively. Comparative figures for 2015 have been recalculated. Assets and investments by segment Other Nordic countries & Sweden Norway Europe Central functions Group MSEK 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Fixed assets 5,095 5,512 3,658 3,372 1,203 835 2,191 1,889 12,147 11,608 Investments in fixed assets 341 267 210 170 131 159 37 43 719 639 RevPAR development by segment OCC LFL 1) ARR LFL 1) RevPAR LFL 1) RevPAR 1) SEK 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Sweden 68.5% 66.9% 991.6 945.1 679.4 632.5 693.0 644.4 Norway 59.4% 58.8% 936.0 946.3 556.4 556.1 559.4 551.0 Other Nordic countries & Europe 68.6% 67.1% 956.3 873.0 656.1 586.1 658.8 592.7 Total 65.8% 66.0% 966.2 917.9 636.0 605.8 643.3 601.3 1) For definitions of key ratios, see page 128. NOTES • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 77 cont. Note 03 Accounting principles NOTE 04 Audit fees Segment disclosures Segments are reported in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating segments. Scandic operates similar Fees to audit companies Group Parent Company businesses in several countries in Europe where the main markets are in Sweden and Norway and MSEK 2016 2015 2016 2015 the segments have therefore been identified from a geographical perspective and economic size. The segments monitored by management are divided into Sweden, Norway, Other Nordic countries PricewaterhouseCoopers & other segments and Central functions. Segment information corresponds to the internal reporting Fees for audit assignments 4 4 – – to executive decision-makers: the CEO, the Executive Committee and the Board of Directors. Fees for accounting assignments 1 5 – 4 Revenue from Fees for tax assignments 1 2 – 1 Revenue and fixed assets per country external customers Fixed assets Fees for other assignments 0 0 – – MSEK 2016 2015 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Other audit companies Sweden 5,650 5,081 5,095 5,512 Fees for audit assignments 0 1 – – Belgium 22 76 0 0 Fees for accounting assignments – 0 – – Denmark 1,412 1,264 656 307 Fees for tax assignments 1 0 – – Finland 1,750 1,601 480 465 Fees for other assignments – 0 – – Norway 3,744 3,716 3,658 3,371 Poland 76 64 15 15 Total fees to audit companies 7 12 – 5 Germany 444 406 52 48 Group assets – – 2,191 1,889 The auditing assignment includes auditing the Annual Report and accounts as well as the Total for the Group 13,095 12,208 12,147 11,608 administration of the company by the Board of Directors and CEO, other duties the company auditor must perform as well as advice and other assistance arising from the audit or in The allocation of income and assets is based on where the Group is domiciled, i.e. where the indicarrying out these duties. vidual hotel is located. Scandic does not have any large customers where the revenue from the cusThe Parent Company’s audit fee has been charged to the subsidiary Scandic Hotels AB. tomer exceeds 10 percent of the total revenue of the Group. Fees for other assignments in 2015 relate mainly to preparations for the stock exchange listing Group assets refers to intangible assets identified on the acquisition of Scandic Hotels AB, but in 2015. which have not been allocated by country. 78 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • NOTES NOTE 05 Operational leasing agreements Leasing fees according 2016 2015 to operational leasing Other Other agreements leasing leasing Lease of agreeLease of agreeMSEK premises ments Total premises ments Total Leasing fees paid during the year 3,383 94 3,477 3,066 100 3,166 – of which minimum fees 2,203 69 2,272 1,997 60 2,057 – of which contingent rents 1,180 2 1,205 1,069 40 1,109 Future leasing undertakings due – within 1 year 2,293 95 2,388 2,281 78 2,359 – in 1 to 5 years 8,918 183 9,101 9,203 185 9,388 – in more than 5 years 15,663 0 15,663 8,972 26 8,998 Total future leasing undertakings 26,874 278 27,152 20,456 289 20,745 Important estimations and assumptions Leasing undertakings relating to premises relate in all significant respects to the premises on which Scandic’s hotel operation is carried out. The amounts relating to future leasing undertakings refer to minimum leasing fees, i.e. fixed rental fees. In most lease agreements, the majority of the rental cost is dependent upon revenue from the leased premises. Revenue-related leasing costs are not included in the amounts. The table, therefore, does not provide a full view of Scandic’s future leasing costs. Lease agreements have a duration of between 15 and 20 years and are generally not cancellable during the time of duration. The leasing terms, index clauses and presence of conditions to extend agreements vary. For most agreements, the agreements are extended when the leasing period has ended, after renegotiation with the lessors. Options to extend agreements are often regulated in the leasing terms. Scandic’s business model is based on lease agreements where the property owner and Scandic share responsibility for investing in and maintaining the properties. Scandic’s commitment relates in general to maintenance and replacement of finishes, furniture, fixtures and equipment. The extent of obligations is regulated by the demarcation list of the lease agreement. Historically, these investments have accounted for 3 to 4 percent of Scandic’s net sales. In 2015 and 2014, investments accounted for 4 to 5 percent of net sales as a result of the large joint investment program with Pandox. Investment commitments regarding signed agreements for new hotels and expansions are estimated at 1,267 MSEK, of which 322 MSEK in 2017, 583 MSEK in 2018 and 362 MSEK in 2019. Accounting principles Operational leasing agreements As per December 31, 2016, all of the Group’s leasing agreements are classified as operational leasing agreements. In all operational leasing agreements regarding hotels, Scandic carries risks limited to operating the hotel and certain investment commitments. The leasing cost for operating leasing contracts is recognized on a straight-line basis except where another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which the economic benefits from the leased assets are recognized. NOTES • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 79 NOTE 06 Employees, personnel expenses and remuneration to the Board of Directors Personnel expenses Group Parent Company 2015 MSEK 2016 2015 2016 2015 Remuneration and other Compensation Remuneration in compensation to Board of Directors, for committee connection with Salaries and other remuneration 3,311 3,179 19 14 SEK Board fees work IPO Total Payroll overhead Vagn Sörensen, Chairman of the Board 600,000 100,000 – 700,000 excluding pension expenses 535 514 5 4 Per G. Braathen 300,000 – – 300,000 Pension costs 365 317 4 10 Caspar Callerström 6) – – – – Total personnel expenses 4,211 4,010 25 28 Grant Hearn 300,000 83,333 300,000 683,333 The members of Scandic’s Executive Committee are employed by the Parent Company and the Erika Henriksson 1) 6) – – – – subsidiaries Scandic Hotels Holding AB , Scandic Hotels AB, Scandic Hotels A/S, Scandic Hotels AS Lottie Knutson 2) 150,000 – 300,000 450,000 and Scandic Hotels Deutschland GmbH. As adopted at the Annual General Meeting held on April 27, Eva Moen Adolfsson 300,000 66,667 300,000 666,667 2015, members of the Board of Directors are remunerated by Scandic Hotels Group AB. If notice is given by the Group, the Group’s CEO has a notice period of 12 months and additional Niklas Sloutski 6) – – – – payment for 6 months. For notice given by the CEO, the notice period is 6 months. If notice is given Rikard Steiber 300,000 – – 300,000 by the Group to other members of the Executive Committee, the notice period is 6 to 12 months. Benny Zakrisson 3) 225,000 75,000 – 300,000 For notice given by other members of the Executive Committee, the notice period is 6 months. Fredrik Wirdenius 4) 125,000 – 300,000 425,000 Remuneration and other compensation Jan Wallmark, employee representative 5) 36,000 – – 36,000 2016 Total remuneration and Compensation other compensation 2,336,000 325,000 1,200,000 3,861,000 Remuneration and other compensation for committee Other 1) Erika Henriksson resigned from the Board on July 15, 2015. to the Board of Directors, SEK Board fees work compensation Total 2) Lottie Knutson was elected to the Board at an Extraordinary General Meeting on June 18, 2015. 3) Benny Zakrisson resigned from the Board on September 15, 2015. Vagn Sörensen, Chairman of the Board 658,334 70,833 – 729,167 4) Fredrik Wirdenius was elected to the Board at an Extraordinary General Meeting on July 15, 2015. Ingalill Berglund 1) 186,667 87,500 – 274,167 5) Jan Wallmark was appointed employee representative to the Board on May 22, 2015. 6) Caspar Callerström, Erika Henriksson and Niklas Sloutski have decided to refrain from accepting remuneration. Per G. Braathen 311,667 – – 311,667 Caspar Callerström 2) 100,000 50,000 – 150,000 2016 Albert Gustafsson 3) 186,667 29,166 – 215,833 Remuneration to senior Base remuVariable remuOther comPension managers, SEK neration neration1) pensation costs Total Grant Hearn 311,667 70,833 – 382,500 Frank Fiskers, Lottie Knutson 311,667 – – 311,667 President & CEO 7,400,000 4,257,327 494,250 2,595,978 14,747,555 Stephan Leithner 4) 186,667 29,166 – 215,833 Other members of Executive Christoffer Lundström 5) 186,667 – – 186,667 Committee (13 people) 2) 17,300,921 6,944,539 1,301,557 3,111,705 28,658,722 Eva Moen Adolfsson 311,667 79,166 – 390,833 Total remuneration and Niklas Sloutski 253,334 79,166 – 332,500 other compensation 24,700,921 11,201,866 1,795,807 5,707,683 43,406,277 Rikard Steiber 6) 125,000 – – 125,000 1) Variable renumeration includes share-based payments of 1,193,727 SEK for the CEO and 1,820,319 SEK for the other members of the Executive Committee. The remuneration for other members of the Executive Committee includes seveFredrik Wirdenius 311,667 – – 311,667 rance pay as well as base and variable remuneration for two people during the notice period. Jan Wallmark, employee representative 42,000 – – 42,000 2) The number of other members of the Executive Committee above refers to the total for the entire year. At year-end, Total remuneration and other members of the Executive Committee totaled nine people. other compensation 3,483,671 495,830 – 3,979,501 2015 1) Ingalill Berglund was elected to the Board at the AGM on May 12, 2016. Remuneration to senior Base remuVariable remuOther comPension 2) Caspar Callerström resigned from the Board at the AGM on May 12, 2016. management, SEK neration neration1) pensation costs Total 3) Albert Gustafsson was elected to the Board at the AGM on May 12, 2016. 4) Stephan Leithner was elected to the Board at the AGM on May 12, 2016. Frank Fiskers, 5) Christoffer Lundström was elected to the Board at the AGM on May 12, 2016. President & CEO 7,400,000 10,619,986 296,985 2,591,268 20,908,239 6) Rikard Steiber resigned from the Board at the AGM on May 12, 2016. Other members of Executive Committee (6 people) 9,997,621 5,698,178 375,155 2,038,269 18,109,223 Total remuneration and other compensation 17,397,621 16,318,339 672,140 4,629,537 39,017,462 1) Variable non-recurring remuneration, in exception of current remuneration guidelines, for the CEO regarding the integration of Rica Hotels, was decided upon by the Board on January 20, 2015 and amounted to 850,001 SEK. Variable non-recurring remuneration, in exception of current remuneration guidelines, was decided upon by the Board on October 21, 2015 in connection with the IPO and amounted to 5,550,000 SEK for the CEO and 2,356,240 SEK for senior managers. Remuneration to the CEO and other senior managers can consist of fixed salary, variable salary, pension and other compensation. For guidelines for remuneration to the CEO and senior management, see the Corporate Governance Report on page 111. 80 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • NOTES cont. Note 06 Pensions Granted rights outstanding: The CEO has a defined contribution plan until age 65. The pension premium amounts to 35 percent of 2016 2015 the fixed salary. The CEO had no share of the pension liability. As of January 1 286,945 – Other members of the Executive Committee are covered by a defined contribution pension plan, Granted 295,047 286,945 and to a lesser extent by a defined benefit pension plan. The retirement age is in compliance with applicable local laws and collective agreements. Other senior managers’ part of the pension liability Allotted – – was 1 (0) MSEK at December 31, 2016. Forfeited 65,382 – Total at December 31 516,610 286,945 Long-Term Incentive Program In December 2015, Scandic implemented a share-based Long-Term Incentive Program (LTIP 2015) – of which currently exercisable – – and an additional LTIP program (LTIP 2016) was decided upon at the Annual General Meeting on The rights have no exercise price. May 12, 2016. The LTIP enables participants to receive matching shares and performance shares, provided they make their own investments in shares or allocate shares already held to the program. Number of rights Number of rights For each such savings share, the participants in LTIP 2015 can free of charge be assigned a Grant date Due date Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 matching share. In the LTIP 2016, the allocation of matching shares to 50 percent due to a requireDecember 2, 2015 April/ May 20181) 251,952 286,945 ment related to the total return on the shares (TSR) being met and 50 percent are free of charge. In June 10, 2016 April/ May 20191) 264,658 – addition, the participants may receive a number of performance shares, free of consideration, depending on the degree of meeting certain performance criteria adopted by the Board of DirecTotal 516,610 286,945 tors, for which criteria are related to EBITDA, cash flow and RGI for the financial years 2015–2017 1) The due date is after the Scandic’s quarterly report for the first quarter has been published. The date for this is still to be confirmed. and 2016–2018. The allotment of performance shares shall depend on the degree of fulfillment of the perforFair value calculations mance conditions for the program. The performance conditions are related to accumulated EBITDA The fair value is measured through the use of generally accepted valuation models with the follow(defined as EBITDA adjusted for non-recurring items not related to the ordinary business such as ing input factors: transaction costs for acquisitions) for the financial years 2015 to 2017 and 2016 to 2018 (PerforLTIP 2016 LTIP 2015 mance Condition 1), accumulated cash flow (defined as EBITDA plus/minus changes in working Weighted average share price, SEK 62 67 capital minus capex, excluding extraordinary investments not included in the budget such as new Right life 2.92 year 2.45 year business acquisitions) for the financial years 2015 to 2017 and 2016 to 2018 (Performance Condition 2) and accumulated RGI (defined as Revenue Generation Index = RevPAR in relation to the Deduction of expected dividends 4% 3% RevPAR of the competition group) change compared with the competition group for the financial Risk-free interest non applicable non applicable years 2015–2017 and 2016–2018 (Performance Condition 3). The performance condition levels Expected volatility non applicable non applicable and to what extent these have been fulfilled will be published in connection with the expiry of the vesting period. As the exercise price (zero for the LTIP 2015 and the LTIP 2016) is significantly lower than the The number of performance shares that may be allotted shall be calculated in accordance with share price on the grant date, the value has a limited sensitivity expected volatility and risk-free the following: for any allotment of performance shares to occur, a certain minimum level for the interest. performance condition must be exceeded. For the maximum allotment of performance shares, a LTIP 2016 LTIP 2015 certain maximum level for the performance condition must be reached. Between the minimum and Parent Parent maximum levels for the performance condition, the participant will receive a linear allotment of perCost of the program, MSEK Group company Group company formance shares. Matching shares and performance shares will be allotted after the end of a vesting period starting Expected cost of the entire program 10 3 12 3 on December 2, 2015 (LTIP 2015) and June 10, 2016 (LTIP 2016) and ending on the day of the The maximum cost of the entire program 32 11 36 11 publication of Scandic’s interim report for the first quarter of 2018 and 2019, subject to the particiCost in 2016 2 1 5 1 pant remaining a permanent employee within the Group and retaining the savings shares during the entire vesting period. Cost in 2015 – – 0 0 The number of matching shares and performance shares that a participant is entitled to be The cost in the above table includes social security charges. allotted shall be increased to compensate for any dividend paid on the Scandic shares during the The cost of the programs, included in the income statement for the Group, is calculated in vesting period. accordance with IFRS 2 and is distributed over the vesting period. The calculation has been made The maximum value per entitlement to receive a matching share or performance share is limbased on the following assumptions: (i) an annual dividend yield of 3 percent of the LTIP 2015 and ited to 300 percent of 67 SEK, the value of the Scandic share at the introduction price on December 4 percent of the LTIP 2016, (ii) an estimated annual turnover of personnel of 10 percent, (iii) an 2, 2015, and the average share price on the last five days of March 2016, 60 SEK. If the value of average fulfillment of each performance condition of 50 percent, and (iv) a maximum of 581,992 such a right exceeds the cap, a proportional reduction in the number of matching shares and permatching shares and performance shares eligible for allotment. In total, the costs for the programs formance shares shall be made. are estimated to total 22 MSEK including social security charges. This estimation is also based on the assumption of an annual share price increase of 10 percent during the program. Assuming that the cap is reached and that participants are entitled to the allotment of the maximum number of matching and performance shares and remain in the program until the end of the vesting period, the maximum cost of the programs will amount to 68 MSEK, including social security charges. The expected financial exposure to shares that may be allotted under the LTIP and the delivery of shares to the participants of the LTIP has been hedged by Scandic entering into a swap agreement with a third party on market terms, whereby the third party undertakes to, in its own name, acquire and transfer shares to the participants. NOTES • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 81 cont. Note 06 Accounting principles Severance payments 2016 2015 Employees receive severance payments on termination before normal retirement age or when they Average number of employees Average Average voluntarily accept termination in exchange for such compensation. The Group recognizes severper country number of of which number of of which ance payments where it is under a manifest obligation either to give notice to employees following employees men employees men a detailed, formal plan without right to rescission or to provide compensation in the event of termiParent Company nation as a result of an offer made as an incentive for voluntary resignation. Benefits that become Sweden 2 2 2 2 due more than 12 months after the balance sheet date are discounted to the present value. Subsidiaries Share-based payments Sweden 4,609 1,678 4,190 1,510 The Group has a share-based incentive plan where the settlement is carried out in shares and the Belgium 16 12 54 30 Group is provided with services from the employees as payment for the shares. The cost of the proDenmark 1,083 433 994 418 gram amounts to the fair value of the share on the grant date multiplied by the number of vested shares and the cost is distributed over the vesting period. Finland 680 250 661 245 At the end of each reporting period, the Group reviews its assessment of the number of shares that Norway 2,563 1,108 3,569 1,375 are expected to be earned based on the non-market vesting conditions and terms of employment. Poland 112 36 112 41 Any deviation from the original assessment that the review raises are recognized in the income Germany 294 134 305 151 statement and the corresponding adjustments are made in equity. It can sometimes happen that the employees render services before the grant date, in which Total for the Group 9,359 3,653 9,887 3,772 case an estimate of the fair value is made in order to recognize a cost to be distributed for a fee 2016 2015 reported to be spread over the period between the time the employee begins performing services Gender division of the Board and Execuof which of which and the grant date. tive Committee on the balance sheet date Total men Total men The social security costs that arise with the granting of equity rights are seen as an integrated part of the allotment and are treated as a cash settled program. Board of Directors 11 8 9 7 Executive Committee 1) 10 9 7 4 Swap agreement for repurchase of own shares Total for the Group 21 17 16 11 Scandic has a swap agreement with Nordea for purchasing its own shares. This swap agreement is 1) The Executive Committee was extended to include the Country Heads during 2016. reported as a financial liability for the agreed amount payable on the maturity date and as a deduction from equity. Interest costs related to the swap agreement are accounted for in the income statement in the period they occur. When the agreement has reached the maturity date and the obligation and agreed amounts have been paid, the liability will be derecognized from the balance sheet. 82 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • NOTES NOTE 07 Financial income NOTE 09 Income tax Division by income type Group Parent Company Group Parent Company MSEK 2016 2015 2016 2015 MSEK 2016 2015 2016 2015 Interest income 3 1 0 – Tax expenses Interest income from Group companies – – 68 99 Current tax expenses –3 –1 – – Revaluation of derivative instruments 35 – – – Adjustment of tax for previous year 0 –6 – – Results from associated companies 2 2 – – Deferred tax relating to Exchange rate gains, net 225 – 46 – temporary differences 9 36 – – Total 265 3 114 99 Deferred tax relating to untaxed reserves 1 –3 – – Deferred tax relating to loss carried forward –185 –27 –11 –116 Income due to change in tax rate 3 6 – – NOTE 08 Financial expenses Total tax income/expenses –175 5 –11 –116 Connection between tax expenses for the year and reported profit before tax, Division by type of cost Group Parent Company MSEK MSEK 2016 2015 2016 2015 Tax in accordance with current rate, Interest expenses, bank –104 –313 –96 –8 22.0% –233 –25 –11 –117 Interest expenses, suppliers 0 0 – – Adjustment of tax expense from Interest expenses, pension plan –11 –11 – – previous year 0 –6 – – Interest expenses to Group companies – –93 –1 –93 Tax effect of non-deductible expenses –5 –6 – 0 Revaluation of derivative instruments – –14 – – Tax effect of non-taxable income 45 55 – – Exchange rate losses, net – –9 – –11 Adjustment for differing tax rates 0 9 – – Share of transaction costs Tax effect of non-offsettable losses –4 – – – expensed during the year1) –18 –60 – – Loss carried forward from previous year Total –133 –500 –97 –112 for which deferred tax asset has not been reported 40 27 – – 1) Part of interest expenses has been expensed over the duration of the borrowings, see Note 20. Loss carried forward from previous year for which deferred tax asset has been Accounting principles reported – –55 – 1 Financial income and expenses Tax effect on changed tax rate All interest income and interest expenses are accounted for at their amortized cost. Derivatives are on deferred taxes 4 6 – – accounted for at the fair value through profit or loss. Associated companies are accounted for using Total tax income/expenses –175 5 –11 –116 the equity method. The theoretical tax cost has been calculated on the basis of the tax rate applicable to the Parent Company, 22.0 percent. Deferred tax on actuarial gains recognized in Other comprehensive income amounts to 2 (-21) MSEK and deferred tax on hedging of net investments of foreign operations amounts to -24 (-11) MSEK. Deferred tax related to the new issue has been accounted for in equity amounting to – (6) MSEK. NOTES • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 83 NOTE 10 Earnings per share Basic Group 2016 2015 Profit/loss for the year attributable to shareholders of the Parent Company, MSEK 879 117 Average number of shares outstanding, basic1) 102,428,053 81,826,211 Earnings per share, SEK 8.58 1.43 Diluted Group 2016 2015 Profit/loss for the year attributable to shareholders of the Parent Company, MSEK 879 117 Average number of shares outstanding, basic1) 102,428,053 81,826,211 Dilutive effect of stock purchase plans 29,784 – Average number of shares outstanding, diluted1) 102,457,837 81,826,211 Earnings per share, diluted, SEK 8.58 1.43 The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the profit/loss for the year attributable to shareholders of the Parent Company divided by the weighted average numbers of shares outstanding during the year. When calculating diluted earnings per share, the average number of shares is adjusted to take into account the effects of dilutive potential ordinary shares originating during the reported periods from share-based payment programs that have been offered to employees. Dilutions from share-based payment programs affect the number of shares and only occur when the strike price is less than the share price. Potential ordinary shares are not viewed as dilutive if they result in better earnings per share after dilution, which occurs when the net income is negative. 84 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • NOTES NOTE 11 Intangible fixed assets 2016 2015 Impairment testing AccumuAccumuImpairment tests on goodwill and trademark are carried out annually as well as every time indicalated Reported lated Reported Acquisidepreciaresidual Acquisidepreciaresidual tions of a diminution of value are identified. There are three cash-generating units in the Group: Group, MSEK tion value tion value tion value tion value Sweden, Norway and Other Nordic countries & Europe. The recoverable amount for cash-generating units is established on the basis of determination of the value in use. The calculations are based on Goodwill estimates of future cash flows before tax over a five-year period. The cash flow for 2017 is based Opening balance 5,575 – 5,575 5,674 – 5,674 on the budget approved by the Board of Directors and for 2018 to 2020 on the company’s longAcquisition of businesses – – – 97 – 97 term forecasts. For the following year, cash flow estimates are based on estimated market growth Exchange rate differences 218 – 218 –196 – –196 of 2.5 (2.5) percent and estimated increases in costs. Closing balance 5,793 – 5,793 5,575 – 5,575 The revenue forecasts are based on industry data regarding market development and on previous years’ experience regarding the ramp-up of new and renovated hotels. The cost forecasts are based Trademarks on industry data regarding inflation and salary increases, on estimated realization of the synergies Opening balance 3,177 –26 3,151 3,188 –12 3,176 from the Rica acquisition and the experience of previous years. When calculating the value in use, the WACC rate before tax and a sustainable terminal growth rate have been used as in the table below. Depreciation for the year – –16 –16 – –14 –14 The impairment tests for the year show that no impairment is required for any of the segments’ Exchange rate differences 10 – 10 –11 – –11 reasonable changes in the parameters, such as a single change +/1.0 percentage point of WACC Closing balance 3,187 –42 3,145 3,177 –26 3,151 rate before tax and on the EBITDA margin. Impairment occurs at a WACC rate before tax of 13.8 percent for Sweden, 9.9 percent for Norway Other intangible assets and 10.4 percent for Other Nordic countries & Europe, to maintain the EBITDA margin. Opening balance 323 –142 181 313 –111 202 Other Nordic countries & Acquisition of businesses – – – 27 – 27 Sweden Norway Europe Purchases 3 – 3 – – – Forecast period, years 5 (5) 5 (5) 5 (5) Depreciation for the year – –35 –35 – –33 –33 WACC rate, % 7.8 (7.8) 7.7 (7.7) 7.8 (7.7) Exchange rate differences 18 –2 16 –17 2 –15 Terminal growth rate, % 2.5 (2.5) 2.5 (2.5) 2.5 (2.5) Closing balance 344 –179 165 323 –142 181 Total intangible fixed assets Opening balance 9,075 –168 8,907 9,175 –123 9,052 Acquisition of businesses – – – 124 – 124 Purchases 3 – 3 – – – Depreciation for the year – –51 –51 – –47 –47 Exchange rate differences 246 –2 244 –224 2 –222 Closing balance 9,324 –221 9,103 9,075 –168 8,907 Goodwill Trademark Total Goodwill and trademark, MSEK 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Sweden 1,926 1,958 2,312 2,372 4,238 4,330 Norway 1,707 1,555 625 581 2,332 2,136 Other Nordic countries & Europe 2,160 2,062 208 198 2,368 2,260 Total goodwill and trademark 5,793 5,575 3,145 3,151 8,938 8,726 NOTES • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 85 cont. Note 11 Accounting principles NOTE 12 Tangible fixed assets Intangible fixed assets Goodwill 2016 2015 Goodwill represents the excess of the value of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s Accumushare of the net identifiable assets of the acquired operation on the date of acquisition. Goodwill lated on acquisitions of operations is reported as an intangible asset. Goodwill accounted for is tested depreciaAccumuannually in order to identify any impairment requirement and is reported at the acquisition value tion and Reported lated Reported less the accumulated impairment. Acquisiwriteresidual Acquisidepreciaresidual Group, MSEK tion value down value tion value tion value Goodwill is allocated across cash-generating units when an assessment of any impairment requirement is made. The allocation is made to the cash-generating units or groups of cashLand and buildings1) generating units that are expected to benefit from the acquisition of an operation giving rise to Opening balance 107 –18 89 119 19 100 the goodwill item. Depreciation for the year – –1 –1 – –1 –1 Exchange rate differences 9 –2 7 –12 2 –10 Trademarks Trademarks acquired are reported at the acquisition value less depreciation and any impairment. Closing balance 116 –21 95 107 –18 89 The trademark Scandic Hotels with an uncertain useful life is not depreciated, but instead assessed Equipment, fixtures and annually with regard to any impairment requirement. The trademark Scandic Hotels, in the acquired fittings companies in the Scandic Group, has existed on the market since 1984 and today constitutes the basis for the Group’s operations. Opening balance 7,502 –4,953 2,549 7,146 –4,732 2,414 The trademark is used in all of the markets in which the companies are established. The tradeAcquisition of businesses – – – 38 – 38 mark Rica Hotels, which was acquired in April 2014, has a certain useful life of eight years, mainly Purchases 719 – 719 639 – 639 related to the franchise and management agreements Rica Hotels has signed, and depreciation is Sales/disposals –327 321 –6 –47 47 0 linear during the assessed useful life. Depreciation for the year – –473 –473 – –454 –454 Other intangible assets Write-down during the year – –12 –12 – – – Customer relationships identified in the Rica Hotels acquisition are reported under Other intangible Exchange rate differences 296 –191 105 –274 186 –88 assets. Customer relationships have a certain useful life of nine years and depreciation is linear Closing balance 8,190 –5,308 2,882 7,502 –4,953 2,549 during the assessed useful life. Development costs that are directly attributable to development of identifiable systems for the Total tangible fixed assets operations are also capitalized as intangible fixed assets when the following criteria are fulfilled: Opening balance 7,609 –4,971 2,638 7,265 –4,751 2,514 • It is technically possible to complete the software so that it can be used. Acquisition of businesses – – – 38 – 38 • It is the company’s intention to complete the software and to use it. Purchases 719 – 719 639 – 639 • There are prerequisites for using the software. • It can be shown how the software will generate probable future financial benefits. Sales/disposals –327 321 –6 –47 47 0 • Adequate technical, financial and other resources exist for completing the development and Depreciation for the year – –474 –474 – –455 –455 for using the software. Write-down during the year – –12 –12 – – – • The expenses attributable to the software during its development can be calculated Exchange rate differences 305 –193 112 –285 188 –97 in a reliable way. Closing balance 8,306 –5,329 2,977 7,609 –4,971 2,638 In 2009, Scandic began a major investment in a new operational system that came into use at 1) Land and buildings refers to a property in Norway. This property was acquired in the Rica Hotels ­acquisition in April the first hotels during 2010 and was operational at all hotels at the end of 2011. The investment 2014. Ongoing construction costs amounting to 241(343) MSEK are included in Equipment, fixtures and fittings. consists of both licence costs and considerable implementation work. The investment has been divided into stages based on when the system becomes operational at different hotels. DepreciaAccounting principles tion of each stage started when the system became operational. Tangible fixed assets During 2012, another major investment began on a new Group reporting system. The investment Land and buildings comprises mainly hotel buildings. Land and buildings is reported at the Group’s was completed in December 2013 and has been the subject of depreciation. During 2016, an acquisition value, based on an external valuation made in conjunction with the acquisition of the operaupgrade of the system was carried out and completed during the year. tions less depreciation of buildings made subsequently. Buildings are the subject of component depreciThese two in-house developed systems are capitalized under Other intangible assets and will be ation, where different parts of the building are depreciated based on differing useful lives. The depreciawritten off over five years. tion period for buildings is between 25 and 50 years. Land is not subject to depreciation. Equipment, fixtures and fittings are reported at the acquisition value less depreciation and impairImportant estimations and assumptions ment. The acquisition value includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the The estimations that may have the greatest effect on the future profit and position of the Group are asset. Assets are depreciated in a linear way over the calculated useful life, which varies depending on the assumptions made when considering the impairment of intangible assets. Every year, the Group the character of the assets. Assets consist of many different types of equipment, fixtures and fittings investigates whether any need for impairment exists for goodwill and trademarks in accordance such as furniture, fixtures and fittings in hotel rooms and public areas, kitchen equipment and IT with the accounting principle described above. Recoverable amounts for cash-generating units equipment with varying useful lives. For this reason, a number of different depreciation periods are have been determined through calculation of the value in use. Assumptions made in this calculation used. In general, IT equipment is depreciated over three years, while other fixtures and fittings, instalare described in the table in the section Impairment testing, from which it emerges that revenue lations and equipment are depreciated over three to 20 years. Equipment, fixtures and fittings with a was expected to rise in the coming years. Should growth be considerably weaker, an impairment useful life shorter than three years are reported as expenses in the income statement. requirement that significantly affects the Group’s profit and position may arise. 86 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • NOTES cont. Note 12 Important estimations and assumptions Additional expenditure is added to the reported value of the asset only when it is probable that the NOTE 15 Inventory future financial benefits associated with the asset will benefit the Group and that the acquisition value of the asset can be measured in a reliable way. All other forms of maintenance of a tangible The Group’s inventory consists in its entirety of raw materials, mainly for restaurant operations. fixed asset are reported as expenses in the income statement. If there is a need for impairment, tangible fixed assets are impaired to the lowest of the recoverAccounting principles able amount and the reported value. Inventory Inventory is reported at the lower of the acquisition value or net selling price. The acquisition value is determined using the first in, first out (FIFO) principle. NOTE 13 Shares in associated companies Group, MSEK Share 31 Dec 2016 Share 31 Dec 2015 Reported value 31 Dec 2016 Reported value 31 Dec 2015 NOTE 16 Accounts receivable Gress-Gruppen AS 33% 33% 10 10 Accounts receivable, gross values, MSEK 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Total 10 10 Total accounts receivable 511 479 Deducted provision for doubtful accounts –13 –15 Changes during the year, MSEK 2016 2015 Accounts receivable, book value 498 464 Accumulated acquisition values, opening balance 10 32 Acquisitions – – Change in deducted provision for doubtful accounts receivable 2016 2015 Result/dividends – 2 1 January –15 –16 Sales – –19 Provision for doubtful accounts –3 –6 Exchange rate differences 0 5 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable –4 –4 Accumulated acquisition values, closing balance 10 10 Reversed unutilized amount 8 10 Exchange rate differences 1 1 Accounting principles 31 December –13 –15 Shares in associated companies An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is neither a subAge analysis, MSEK 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 sidiary nor an interest in a joint venture. Significant influence is the power to participate in the Receivables not matured 329 243 financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies. Significant influence is normally present in situations where the company has a share­ Receivables matured 1– 30 days 138 165 holding of between 20 and 50 percent of the voting rights. Receivables matured 31 – 60 days 15 32 The share of income represents the company’s share in the net income (after tax) from these Receivables matured 61– 90 days 9 13 associates and is directly accounted for in the income statement. Receivables matured 91– 120 days 9 19 Receivables matured more than 120 days 11 7 Accounts receivable, reported value 511 479 NOTE 14 Financial investments Changes during the year, MSEK 2016 2015 Accumulated acquisition values, opening balance 4 5 Acquisitions 0 – Disposals 0 0 Reclassification 1) 3 Exchange rate differences 1 –1 Accumulated acquisition values, closing balance 8 4 1) During the year, there was a reclassification of other long-term receivables to financial investments of 3 MSEK. The financial investments on the balance sheet date consist of approximately 50 (50) smaller investments. NOTES • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 87 cont. Note 16 Accounting principles Loans receivable and accounts receivable Loans receivable and accounts receivable are financial assets that are not derivatives, that are not listed in an active market and that have fixed or determinable payments. They are part of current assets, with the exception of items with due dates more than 12 months after the balance sheet date, in which case they are classified as fixed assets. Loans receivable and accounts receivable are classified as accounts receivable and other receivables in the balance sheet. Loans receivable and accounts receivable are reported at the acquisition value less any provision for depreciation. According to IAS 39, loans receivable and accounts receivable shall be valued at the accrued acquisition value using the effective interest method, but since accounts receivable have very short durations and the interest effects are very small, the value reported by the Group is not deemed to diverge materially from the actual value. Loans receivable run with a variable rate of interest and therefore the actual value is not deemed to diverge materially from the reported value. Important estimations and assumptions A provision for depreciation of accounts receivable is made when there is objective proof that the Group will not be able to recover all of the amounts due in accordance with the original terms and conditions of the accounts receivable. The provision amount constitutes the difference between the asset’s reported value and the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate. The provision amount is reported in the income statement. NOTE 17 Prepaid expenses Division by type of expense Group Parent Company MSEK 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Prepaid rent 81 141 – – Other items 124 124 0 0 Total 205 265 0 0 NOTE 18 Cash and cash equivalents Group Parent Company MSEK 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Cash and bank balances 1,068 248 790 2 Total 1,068 248 790 2 Accounting principles Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash, bank balances and other current investments with a due date within three months from the time of acquisition. 88 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • NOTES NOTE 19 Share capital Ordinary share class B/ Change in Preference share Ordinary share Class A Ordinary shares1) Total number of shares share capital, SEK Share capital, SEK Quota value, SEK Number of shares 1 Jan 2015 1 24,999,999 10,000,000 35,000,000 – 100,000 0.002857 Bonus issue – – – 35,000,000 400,000 500,000 0.014286 Reduction of share capital incl. redemption of shares –1 –24,999,999 – 10,000,000 –357,143 142,857 0.014286 Bonus issue – – – 10,000,000 19,857,143 20,000,000 2 Share split (1:8) – – 70,000,000 80,000,000 – 20,000,000 0.25 New issue – – 22,985,075 102,985,075 5,746,269 25,746,269 0.25 Number of shares on 31 Dec 2015 – – 102,985,075 102,985,075 25,646,269 25,746,269 0.25 Number of shares on 31 Dec 2016 – – 102,985,075 102,985,075 – 25,746,269 0.25 1) At the Extraordinary General Meeting held on September 15, 2015, the Articles of Association were amended so that Scandic Hotels Group AB has only one share class. NOTE 20A Borrowings Liabilities to Internal Total The company’s external loans were refinanced in July 2015 with new terms and prolonged maturity. Changes during the year, MSEK credit institutions loans ­borrowings The loans comprise three long-term credit facilities in SEK, NOK and EUR with terms that are within five years and interest based on Stibor/Euribor/Nibor +1.00 to 2.90 percentage points and a revolvOpening balance 1 Jan 2015 5,806 976 6,782 ing multicurrency credit facility of 600 MSEK and duration of five years and interest based on a base Borrowings 4,765 – 4,765 rate +0.50 to 2.40 percentage points. During 2016, the revolving multicurrency credit facility was Capitalization of interest 117 93 210 increased to 1,000 MSEK.The margin within the interest rate interval for all loans is dependent on Capitalization of transaction costs1) –91 – –91 the company’s debt ratio. The loan terms stipulate that the following covenants shall be within certain ranges: interest cover and net debt in relation to adjusted EBITDA. At each measurement period Transaction costs expensed during the year1) 60 – 60 and on the balance day, all covenants were fulfilled. There are no requirements for amortization and Amortization of loans –6,792 – –6,792 no assets have been pledged as security for the loans. The loan agreement also includes conditions Loan converted to shareholders’ contribution – –1,036 –1,036 for compulsory notification to the lender and possible refund prematurely up-to-date if someone Exchange rate differences –265 –33 –298 other than the current owner EQT Fund V owns more than 50 percent or if Scandic were delisted from the stock exchange. The Board of Directors monitors the company’s financial position regardOpening balance 1 Jan 2016 3,600 – 3,600 ing the fulfillment of the loan terms. For the loans in EUR and NOK, hedge accounting is applied to Borrowings 475 – 475 hedge net investments in foreign operations in Finland, Denmark and Norway. As the Danish krona Transaction costs expensed during the year1) 17 – 17 is linked to the euro, it is also used for hedge accounting. The exchange loss of -160 (51) MSEK from the translation of the loans into SEK has been reported in Other comprehensive income and Amortization of loans –475 – –475 added to the translation reserve in equity. The hedges were efficient regarding hedge accounting of Exchange rate differences 160 – 160 foreign operations. Closing balance 31 Dec 2016 3,777 – 3,777 In June 2013, the company received a shareholder loan to strengthen its financial position and 1) Existing loans were renegotiated in the middle of 2015 and resulted in transaction costs of – (91) MSEK. These costs ensure that no covenants would fail. This shareholder loan is reported as an internal loan and in 2015, have been capitalized and are distributed in a linear manner over the borrowing period. it was converted into equity through an unconditional shareholders’ contribution. Accounting principles Borrowings Borrowings are financial liabilities that are initially reported at actual value, net after transaction costs. Borrowings are subsequently reported at the accrued acquisition value and any difference between proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is reported in the income statement allocated over the period of the borrowing using the effective interest method. Borrowings are classified as liabilities to credit institutions and as internal loans in the balance sheet. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer the payment of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. NOTES • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 89 NOTE 20B Management of financial risks Market risk – Foreign exchange risk Credit risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various Credit risk refers to the risk that counterparties cannot fulfill their obligations. Credit risk arises currency exposures. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognized from cash and cash equivalents, derivative instruments and deposits with banks and financial instiassets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations. tutions as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and agreed transactions. Risk management Foreign exchange risk arises when future business transactions or recognized assets or liabilities are Risk management denominated in a currency that is not the entity’s functional currency. The operations of the Scandic Credit risk is managed on the Group level. Only banks and financial institutions that have received Group companies are mainly local, with revenues and expenses denominated in domestic currencies, an independent minimum rating of A-1 are accepted. In cases where no independent credit rating and the Group’s internal sales are low. This means that exchange rate exposure related to transactions exists, a risk assessment of the customer’s creditworthiness is carried out considering the customis limited. According to the Group’s Financial Policy, which requires Group companies to manage their er’s financial position, previous experience and other factors. The use of credit limits is monitored foreign exchange risk against their functional currency, the Group companies hedge their foreign regularly. Sales in the company’s operations are primarily settled by cash or credit cards, although exchange risk in larger future business transactions through Group Finance. To manage the foreign invoicing is also used. Credit losses relating to customers as per December 31, 2016 amounted to exchange risk arising from future commercial transactions, the Group companies use forward con3 (6) MSEK, see Note 16. tracts signed with Group Finance. Group, MSEK < 1 year 1– 3 years 4 – 5 years > 5 years Exchange rate effects in the Group arise from the translation of foreign subsidiaries’ financial statements into SEK. For the year, 43 (42) percent of the Group’s sales were in SEK, 29 (30) percent in As at 31 December 2016 NOK and 28 (28) percent in EUR and other currencies. Currency exposure arising from the Group’s Liabilities to credit institutions 1) 99 4,087 – – foreign net assets is managed primarily through borrowings denominated in the currencies involved. The Group’s borrowing in different currencies is shown in the table below. The Board has decided that Derivative instruments 2) – 20 – – the exchange rate risk of net assets and liabilities after borrowings should not be hedged. Accounts payable and other liabilities 527 – – – 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Group, MSEK < 1 year 1– 3 years 4 – 5 years > 5 years Group borrowings divided into different currencies As at 31 December 2015 SEK 40% 40% Liabilities to credit institutions 1) 103 309 3,731 – EUR 31% 31% Derivative instruments 2) 60 7 10 – NOK 29% 29% Accounts payable and other liabilities 672 – – – Market risk – Interest rate risk 1) Liabilities to credit institutions includes future cash flows regarding liabilties such as future interest payments. Interest rate risk arises from changes in market interest rates that can have a negative effect on the 2) Market value on December 31. Group’s revenue, cash flow and interest-bearing assets and liabilities. Liquidity risk Risk management Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group does not have sufficient liquidity to pay its debts and meet Since the Group has no significant interest-bearing assets, the Group’s revenues and cash flow its commitments. from operating activities are essentially independent of changes in market interest rates. The Group’s interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings. Loans issued at variable rates Risk management expose the Group to interest rate risk in respect of cash flow. Loans issued at fixed rates expose the Liquidity risk is managed by maintaining within the Group sufficient cash and cash equivalents and Group to interest rate risk in respect of fair value. The Group’s Financial Policy, which was established in short-term investments with a liquid market, available financing through agreed credit facilities and 2015, stipulates that 25 to 75 percent of Scandic’s loans must be taken at fixed interest rates. Deviations the ability to close market positions. The Group’s liquidity in the form of cash and cash equivalents from this must be approved by the Board. The Group uses, when needed, interest rate swaps to manage and short-term investments is monitored and forecast on a daily basis by Group Finance. The this. The Group’s borrowings on the balance sheet date are shown below. Group’s liquidity reserve on December 31, 2016, consisting of cash and unutilized credit facilities, The Group normally takes long-term loans at variable interest rates and converts them into amounted to 2,068 (848) MSEK. fixed interest rates using interest rate swaps. In such transactions, the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between the agreed fixed and variable Sensitivity analysis as at 31 Dec 2016 Change Result effect MSEK interest rates, calculated based on the agreed nominal value. Interest expense from changed interest rates +/– 1% –/+ 4 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Interest expense from the change in the average level Group borrowings divided between fixed and variable interest of interest rates +/– 1% –/+ 28 Fixed interest 63% 64% If the variable market rate differs from the current fixed rate of derivative, a theoretical overor Variable interest 37% 36% under valuation of the financial instrument will occur. The derivatives are recognized at the fair value in the statement of financial position and the change in value, which does not impact cash flow, All external borrowings at fixed interest rates have been carried out using interest rate swaps. is recognized in profit for the year. The sensitivity analysis is based on net debt. 90 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • NOTES NOTE 20C Management of capital risk NOTE 21 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations The Group’s goal for capital structure is to safeguard the Group’s ability to maintain its operations Provisions for pensions and similar obligations refer in their entirety to defined benefit pension so that it can continue to generate returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, as plans in which the employees have the right to benefits after their employment ends, and where well as to maintain an optimal capital structure to keep capital costs down. the level of benefits is based on final salary and length of service. Provision for such plans has The Group’s managed capital is made up of shareholders’ equity. To maintain or adjust the capibeen made for FPG/PRI occupational pensions in Sweden (ITP 2 plan). In other countries, defined tal structure, the Group may change the dividend paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholdcontribution pension plans have been adopted. The defined benefit plan in Sweden provides ers, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce liabilities. employees with a guaranteed level of pension payouts during their lifetime. The defined benefit In the same way as other companies in the industry, the Group assesses capital on the basis of plan is adjusted for annual inflation of 1.5 percent. The Swedish Central Bank has a long-term the debt/equity ratio. This key figure is calculated as net debt divided by shareholders’ equity. Net inflation target of 2 percent. debt is calculated as borrowings from credit institutions, internal loans and financial leases less cash and cash equivalents. Defined benefit pension plans Calculation of provision, MSEK 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Group, MSEK 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Present value of obligations 413 380 Total borrowings 3,777 3,603 Actual value of plan assets – – Excluding cash and cash equivalents –1,068 –248 Total provision for defined benefit pension plans 413 380 Interest-bearing net liabilities 2,709 3,355 Total shareholders’ equity 7,103 6,205 Changes in provision during the year, MSEK 2016 2015 Debt/equity ratio 0.4 times 0.5 times Net liability, opening balance –380 –462 Remeasurements reported in Other comprehensive income 1) –6 76 Due dates, MSEK 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Net expense reported in the income statement –28 –17 Liabilities due for payment Relocation of ITPK – 0 – within 1 year – – Pensions paid 5 5 – between 1 and 3 years 3,777 – Change in special employer’s contribution –4 18 – between 4 and 5 years – 3,600 Net liability, closing balance 2) –413 –380 – later than 5 years – – 1) Remeasurements recorded in Other comprehensive income during 2016 consist of actuarial gains from a change in Total 3,777 3,600 financial assumptions of -8 (+73) MSEK. Experienced-based gains are +2 (+2) MSEK. 2) The weighted average duration of pension obligations is 25 years. Bank overdraft facilities, MSEK 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Amounts utilized – – Important estimations and assumptions Amounts not utilized 1,000 600 Important actuarial assumptions 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Total bank overdraft facilities granted 1,000 600 Discount rate, % 3.05 3.15 Future salary increases, % 3.00 3.00 Future pension increases (inflation), % 1.50 1.50 Employee turnover, % 3.00 3.00 Sensitivity analysis in actuarial assumptions Change Increase Decrease Discount rate +/–0.5% –12.8% +11.0% Future salary increases +/–0.5% +4.8% –3.6% Future pension increases (inflation) +/–0.5% +9.4% –8.3% Life expectancy +/–1 year +3.% –3.4% NOTES • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 91 cont. Note 21 Pension expenses for defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans NOTE 22 Other provisions MSEK 2016 2015 Expenses relating to service during the current year, 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 defined benefit pension plans –17 –5 Provision Total Provisions Total Changes in other provisions for loyalty Other other for loyalty Other other Expenses relating to service during the current year, during the year, MSEK program provisions provisions program provisions provisions defined contribution pension plans –348 –312 Total pension expenses included in personnel expenses –365 –317 Opening balance 121 3 124 117 3 120 Change through the income Interest expenses for defined benefit pension plans –11 –11 statement 10 –1 9 4 0 4 Closing balance 131 2 133 121 3 124 Total expenses in the income statement –376 –328 Scandic has a loyalty program, Scandic Friends, in which members earn points for overnight stays Payments for 2017 are expected to be at the same level as in 2016. that can then be used for free overnight stays. This loyalty program is covered by the rules in IFRIC 13. The liability is valued at the market value of the anticipated free-night usage. In measurMulti-employer plans ing the liability for the loyalty program, the first step is to calculate the liability for the number of free The company has secured the ITP plan through insurance from the insurance company Alecta. nights expected to be used on the basis of the level of utilization and estimated points withdrawal Although this plan is classified as a defined benefit plan, it is not possible to get sufficient informaper free night, based on the outstanding balance of points. The anticipated utilization of free nights tion from Alecta to be able to report it as a defined benefit plan. Information regarding allocation is then multiplied by the average market price of such free nights. That part of the liability that is between employers is missing and instead, all earnings are allocated to the previous employer. A expected to be utilized after more than one year is reported under Other provisions above, while breakdown of Alecta’s assets and provisions for individuals is not possible, which means that these that part that is expected to be utilized within one year is recognized as deferred income under plans are accounted for as defined contribution plans. Collective consolidation is the buffer of AlecAccrued expenses and deferred income (see note 24). The total liability for the loyalty program and ta’s insurance commitments to be able to handle fluctuations in investement returns and insurance its allocation between current and non-current liabilities is shown in the table below. The provision risks, and it is calculated as the difference between investments and the insurance commitments. is expected to be utilized within five years. The consolidation level is calculated as Alecta’s assets in relation to the insurance commitments. 2016 2015 Alecta has a target ratio of 140 percent for the consolidation level and during 2016, the consolidaTotal Total tion level was 149 percent (153 percent). For 2017, the contribution to the plan is estimated to be liability in liability in at the same level as 2016, which was 45 MSEK. Nonrespect of Nonrespect of Total liability regarding current Current loyalty current Current loyalty loyalty program provision provision program provision provision program Accounting principles Pension undertakings Opening balance 121 87 208 117 78 195 Group companies operate various pension schemes. These pension plans are usually financed Change through the income through payments to insurance companies or managed funds where the payments are determined statement 10 0 10 4 9 13 according to actuarial calculations. The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. Closing balance 131 87 218 121 87 208 A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate legal entity. The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if The assessed market value of free overnight stays used during 2016 amounted to 116 (107) this legal entity does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee MSEK. For the current provision, see Note 24. service in the current and prior periods. A defined benefit plan is a pension plan where the contribution is not defined, but defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, Accounting principles usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and salary. Provisions For defined contribution pension plans, the Group pays fees to publicly or privately managed Provisions for environmental restoration measures, restructuring expenses and legal claims are pension insurance schemes on an obligatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no furreported when the Group has a legal or informal obligation as a result of earlier events, when it is ther payment obligations once the fees are paid. The fees are reported as personnel expenses durprob­able that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the undertaking and when the ing the period they relate to. amount has been calculated in a reliable manner. Provisions are valued based on the best possible The liability recognized in the balance sheet in respect to defined benefit pension plans is the presestimate of expenditure that will be required to resolve the obligation in question on the balance ent value of the defined benefit obligation on the balance sheet date, less the actual value of plan sheet date. Provisions for restructuring include costs for terminating leasing agreements and sevassets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the proerance pay. No provisions are made for future operating losses. jected unit credit method. The net present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of first-class corporate bonds that are denominated in the same currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms of maturity Important estimations and assumptions approximating the terms in the related pension liability. Reporting of provisions for loyalty programs for customers Actuarial gains and losses that arise from experience-based adjustments and changes in actuIn accordance with IFRIC 13, provisions for loyalty programs for customers are reported as a reducarial assumptions are reported in other comprehensive income during the period when they arise. tion in revenue in conjunction with the earning of the right to future use. The reserve outstanding at Past-service costs are recognized immediately as income unless the changes to the pension any time is divided into a long-term part, which is reported under Other provisions, and a short-term plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time (the vestpart, which is reported under Accrued costs and prepaid income. ing period). In this case, the past-service costs are allocated on a linear basis over the vesting period. 92 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • NOTES NOTE 23 Deferred tax assets and tax liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are reported net when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognized tax assets and liabilities and when the deferred taxes are expected to be settled at the same time. 31 Dec 2016 Distribution of deferred tax items on underlying balance sheet Derivative Elimination of Losses Total deferred items and their changes during the year, MSEK Pensions instruments internal goodwill carried forward Issuing costs tax assets Deferred tax assets Opening balance 1 Jan 2016 35 12 5 370 6 428 Reported in income statement 2 –8 – –169 –6 –181 Tax attributable to items in Other comprehensive income 2 – – – – 2 Exchange rate differences – – – 2 – 2 Closing balance 31 Dec 2016 39 4 5 203 0 251 – of which receivables to be utilized within 12 months – – – – – – Intangible Untaxed Accelerated Hedge Total deferred fixed assets Land & buildings reserves depreciation accounting tax liabilities Deferred tax liabilities Opening balance 1 Jan 2016 –734 –12 –26 –25 –11 –808 Reported in income statement 5 1 – 1 –24 –17 Items recognized in equity – – 24 – 35 59 Exchange rate differences –6 –2 –1 – –9 Closing balance 31 Dec 2016 –735 –13 –3 –24 0 –775 – of which liabilities to be paid within 12 months –33 –1 – – – –34 Deferred tax liabilities, net Net deferred tax liabilities Opening balance 1 Jan 2016 –380 Reported in income statement –198 Tax attributable to items in Other comprehensive income 2 Items recognized in equity 59 Exchange rate differences –7 Closing balance 31 Dec 2016 –524 NOTES • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 93 cont. Note 23 31 Dec 2015 Distribution of deferred tax items on underlying balance sheet Derivative Elimination of Losses Total deferred items and their changes during the year, MSEK Pensions instruments internal goodwill carried forward Issuing costs tax assets Deferred tax assets Opening balance 1 Jan 2015 52 9 5 398 – 464 Reported in income statement 3 3 0 –27 – –21 Tax attributable to items in Other comprehensive income –20 – – – – –20 Items recognized in equity – – – – 6 6 Exchange rate differences – – 0 –1 – –1 Closing balance 31 Dec 2015 35 12 5 370 6 428 – of which receivables to be utilized within 12 months – – – – – – Intangible Untaxed Accelerated Hedge Total deferred fixed assets Land & buildings reserves depreciation accounting tax liabilities Deferred tax liabilities Opening balance 1 Jan 2015 –749 –15 –68 –23 – –855 Acquisition of businesses –7 – – – – –7 Reported in income statement 8 0 29 –4 – 34 Tax attributable to items in Other comprehensive income – – – – –11 –11 Exchange rate differences 14 3 12 2 – 31 Closing balance 31 Dec 2015 –734 –12 –26 –25 –11 –808 – of which liabilities to be paid within 12 months –36 –1 – – – –37 Deferred tax liabilities, net Net deferred tax liabilities Opening balance 1 Jan 2015 –391 Acquisition of businesses –7 Reported in income statement 13 Tax attributable to items in Other comprehensive income –31 Items recognized in equity 6 Exchange rate differences 30 Closing balance 31 Dec 2015 –380 94 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • NOTES cont. Note 23 Tax losses carried forward The Group has reported losses carried forward amounting to 909 (1,644) MSEK mainly in NOTE 24 Accrued expenses and deferred income Sweden, Norway and Denmark. These loss carry-forwards can be utilized against future taxable Group Parent Company surpluses. Recorded deferred tax assets related to the reported loss carry-forwards amounted to 203 (370) MSEK and the Group has assessed that these losses carried forward can be to Division into type of expense, MSEK 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 offset in the future, based on the forecasts of the Group for coming years. Non-recorded deficienAccrued leasing expenses 35 45 – – cies amounted to 1,038 (1,381) MSEK in 2016 and are related to Finland, Denmark, Germany, Accrued personnel expenses 654 607 6 6 Poland and Belgium where it still is uncertain to what extent they are offsettable towards taxable Accrued interest expenses 7 11 7 6 surpluses. These deficiencies amounted to 216 (277) MSEK. Tax on previous unrecognized losses carried forward amounted to 39 (27) MSEK. None of the deductible deficiencies are limited Deferred income – 31 – – in time. All deferred tax on deductible deficiencies is valued on taxable deficiencies. Current portion of loyalty program 87 87 – – Other items1) 441 558 11 51 Deferred tax assets, Parent Company 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Total 1,224 1,339 24 63 Opening balance 82 192 1) The bonus check liability is included in Other items and amounted to 58 MSEK (63) and is a payment method permitting disReported in income statement –11 –116 counted stays at all Scandic hotels. Bonus checks have a limited period of validity. When bonus check booklets are sold, a liability is recorded. The liability is liquidated when the checks are utilized or when the customer is deemed to be no longer able to Reported in equity – 6 utilize or redeem the bonus check. Closing balance 71 82 Deferred tax assets in the Parent Company consist solely of unused deductible deficiencies that the Parent Company had on the closing date. NOTE 25 Adjustment for items not included in cash flow Accounting principles Deferred income tax Adjustment for items not included Group Parent Company Deferred income tax is reported using the liability method on all temporary differences arising in cash flow, MSEK 2016 2015 2016 2015 between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the balance sheet. Depreciation 537 502 – – However, deferred tax is not reported if it arises as a result of a transaction that constitutes the first Gain/loss on sale of associated companies – 4 – – reporting of an asset or liability that is not an operational acquisition and which, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the reported nor the tax result. Deferred tax is not reported either on Change in accrued expenses/income and the first reporting of goodwill. Deferred income tax is determined using the tax rates (and laws) that provisions 0 15 19 86 have been applied or notified by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related Total 537 521 19 86 deferred income tax asset is realized or the deferred income tax liability is settled. Deferred tax assets are reported to the extent it is probable that future tax surpluses will be avail­able, against which the temporary differences can be utilized. Accounting principles The cash flow analysis has been prepared in accordance with the indirect method. The cash flow reported includes only transactions that involve payments in or out. In addition to cash and bank balances, short-term financial investments are classified as liquid funds since these are exposed only to an insignificant risk of value fluctuations or have a remaining term of less than three months from the acquisition date. NOTES • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 95 NOTE 26 Participation in Group companies Changes during the year Parent Company MSEK 2016 2015 Accumulated acquisition values, opening balance 3,536 3,532 Given shareholders’ contribution 1,054 4 Accumulated acquisition values, closing balance 4,590 3,536 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Holdings on the balance sheet date Organization number Registered address Shareholding Shareholding Reported value Reported value Scandic Hotels Holding AB 556723-5725 Stockholm, Sweden 100 100 4,590 3,536 Scandic Hotels AB 556299-1009 Stockholm, Sweden 100 100 – – HTL Hotels AB 1) 953 149 117 Oslo, Norway 100 100 – – HTL Hotels AS 2) 30 61 64 56 Copenhagen, Denmark 100 100 – – Scandic Hotels AS 12 59 67 74 Copenhagen, Denmark 100 100 – – Scandic Hotels Holding A/S 288532 Warsaw, Poland 100 100 – – Scandic Hotel A/S 556351-7373 Stockholm, Sweden 100 100 – – Scandic Polen Sp.z o. o. HRB 8618 HL Berlin, Germany 100 100 – – Scandic Hotels Europe AB HRB 158329 B Berlin, Germany 100 100 – – Scandic Hotels Deutschland GmbH 462 318 529 Antwerp, Belgium 100 100 – – Scandic Berlin Kurfürstendamm GmbH 807059602B01 Amstelveen, The Netherlands – 100 – – Scandic Hotel NV 912 198 022 Oslo, Norway 100 100 – – Scandic Netherland B.V 3) 984 695 322 Oslo, Norway 100 100 – – Scandic Hotels Holding AS 941 654 614 Hammerfest, Norway – 100 – – Rica Hotels AS 941 187 706 Furnes, Norway – 100 – – Scandic Hotels Finnmark AS 2) 556520-9797 Stockholm, Sweden 100 100 – – Scandic Hotel Øst AS 2) 974 459 809 Tromsø, Norway – 100 – – Rica Hotels AB 941 249 957 Hell, Norway – 100 – – Scandic Hotels Troms AS 2) 981 045 467 Førde, Norway – 100 – – Scandic Hotels Midt-Norge AS 2) 941 081 371 Bergen, Norway – 100 – – Scandic Hotels Sunnfjord AS 2) 951 791 555 Sandefjord, Norway – 100 – – Scandic Hotels Vest AS 2) 880 289 772 Gardermoen, Norway 50 50 – – Scandic Hotels Sør AS 2) 1447914-7 Helsinki, Finland 100 100 – – Scandic Hotels Gardermoen AS 556723-5717 Stockholm, Sweden – 100 – – Scandic Hotels Oy 813 361 272 Oslo, Norway – 100 – – Total 4,590 3,536 1) During 2016, the company merged with Scandic Hotels AB and has ceased to exist. 2) During 2016, the company merged with Scandic Hotels AS and has ceased to exist. 3) The company was liquidated during 2016. 96 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • NOTES NOTE 27 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities Group Parent Company Lease guarantees relate mainly to guarantees for lease contracts for premises in the Danish and MSEK 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Norwegian subsidiaries. These have remaining periods of contract of up to 13 years. Fixed rental Pledged assets fees for the whole remaining period have been accounted for above. These rental fees are included Floating charges – – – – in future leasing undertakings in Note 5. Real estate mortgages – 45 – – No significant liabilities are expected to arise due to the contingent liabilities reported. No disputes have been identified within the Group for which any material payments are expected. Scandic Shares in subsidiaries – – – – is involved in a small number of commercial disputes. None of these disputes is deemed to have Total pledged assets – 45 – – any major negative impact on the company’s financial position or profit. No contingent assets have been identified within the Group. Contingent liabilities – Guarantee undertakings, FPG/PRI 5 4 – – Important estimations and assumptions Lease guarantees 101 93 – – A few years ago, the company’s Finnish branch received a challenge regarding the deductibility of Tax dispute 142 107 – – interest expenses. Based on external tax experts, the company’s assessment is that the final deciTravel guarantees 3 3 – – sion will likely be in the company’s favor. As a result, no provisions have been made for this matter. Total contingent liabilities 251 207 – – It is, however, shown as a contingent liability of 142 MSEK. NOTE 28 Financial assets and liabilities Loans receivable and Financial liabilities at Other financial 31 Dec 2016, MSEK accounts receivable fair value through profit and loss Borrowings receivables/liabilities Total value reported Financial investments – – – 8 8 Accounts receivable 498 – – – 498 Cash equivalents 1,068 – – – 1,068 Total financial assets 1,566 – – 8 1,574 Liabilities to credit institutions – – 3,777 – 3,777 Advance payments from customers – – – 112 112 Accounts payable – – – 527 527 Derivative instruments – 20 – – 20 Total financial liabilities – 20 3,777 639 4,436 Loans receivable and Financial liabilities at Other financial 31 Dec 2015, MSEK accounts receivable fair value through profit and loss Borrowings receivables/liabilities Total value reported Financial investments – – – 4 4 Accounts receivable 464 – – – 464 Cash equivalents 248 – – – 248 Total financial assets 712 – – 4 716 Liabilities to credit institutions – – 3,600 – 3,600 Advance payments from customers – – – 88 88 Accounts payable – – – 482 482 Derivative instruments – 77 – – 77 Total financial liabilities – 77 3,600 570 4,247 Liabilities to credit institutions have variable interest rates and are reported at the accrued acquisisee Note 6. These are accounted for using the fair value through profit and loss and are reported as tion value. A fixed rate of interest is achieved through interest rate swaps. Variable unit prices derivative instruments above. The actual value of other financial assets and liabilities is not assessed for electricity have been swapped to fixed prices for parts of the Group’s electricity consumption. as diverging materially from the reported value. The Group also entered into a share swap agreement related to the Long-Term Incentive Program, NOTES • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 97 cont. Note 28 Accounting principles Fair value Financial instruments The table below shows the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities at the fair value and The Group classifies its significant financial assets and liabilities into the following categories: categorized in the fair value hierarchy. The different levels are defined as follows: financial assets valued at actual value through the income statement, loans receivable and – Level 1: Quoted prices on an active market for identical assets or liabilities. accounts receivable, borrowings and accounts payable. The classification depends on the purpose – Level 2: Other observable data than quoted prices included in Level 1, either directly or indirectly. for which the financial asset or liability was acquired. The management determines the classifica– Level 3: Data not based on observable market data. tion of the financial assets and liabilities at the first time of reporting and reassesses this decision Liabilities to credit institutions and the shareholder loan are booked at the fair value. There were no at each time of reporting. financial assets at the fair value during 2016 and 2015. a) Financial assets/liabilities reported at actual value through the income statement 31 Dec 2016, MSEK Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets/liabilities valued at actual value through the income statement are financial Liabilities to credit institutions – 3,777 – 3,777 assets/liabilities held for resale. A financial asset/liability is classified in this category if it is acquired mainly for the purpose of being resold shortly thereafter. Derivatives are classified as if Derivative instruments used for hedging – 20 – 20 held for resale unless they are identified as hedges. Assets/liabilities in this category are classified Total financial liabilities – 3,797 – 3,797 as current assets/liabilities. Changes in the value of these financial assets/liabilities are reported as financial income/expenses in the income statement. Scandic applies hedge accounting for net 31 Dec 2015, MSEK Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total investments. Liabilities to credit institutions – 3,600 – 3,600 b) Loans receivable and accounts receivable Derivative instruments used for hedging – 77 – 77 Loans receivable and accounts receivable are financial assets that are not derivatives, not listed on Total financial liabilities – 3,677 – 3,677 an active market and that have fixed or determinable payments. They are part of the current assets, with the exception of items with due dates more than 12 months after the balance sheet date, in In accordance with the Group’s Financial Policy, the Group uses derivative instruments and has which case they are classified as fixed assets. Loans receivable and accounts receivable are classientered into an interest rate swap in order to hedge the Group against interest rate risk. These fied as accounts receivable and other receivables on the balance sheet. interest rate swaps were valued on the reporting date at the market value declared by the issuers, Loans receivable and accounts receivable are reported at the acquisition value less any proviwhich constitutes a Level 2 valuation under IFRS 7. sion for depreciation. According to IAS 39, loans receivable and accounts receivable shall be valued at the accrued acquisition value using the effective interest method, but as accounts receivable have very short durations and the interest effects are very small, the reported value of the Group is not deemed to diverge materially from the actual value. Loans receivable have a variable interest rate and therefore the actual value is not deemed to diverge materially from the reported value. A provision for depreciation of accounts receivable is made when there is objective proof that the Group will not be able to receive all of the amounts due in accordance with the original terms and conditions of the accounts receivable. The provision amount constitutes the difference between the asset’s reported value and the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate. The provision amount is reported in the income statement. c) Borrowings Borrowings are financial liabilities that are initially reported at the actual value, net after transaction costs. Borrowings are subsequently reported at the accrued acquisition value and any difference between proceeds (net of transactions costs) and the redemption value is reported in the income statement allocated over the period of the borrowing using the effective interest method. Borrowings are classified as liabilities to credit institutions and as internal loans in the balance sheet. ­Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer the payment of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. d) Accounts payable Accounts payable are financial liabilities with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are part of current liabilities, with the exception of items with due dates more than 12 months after the balance sheet date, in which case they are classified as long-term liabilities. Accounts payable are reported at the acquisition value. According to IAS 39, accounts payable shall be valued at the accrued acquisition value using the effective interest method, but as the Group’s accounts payable have very short durations and the interest effects are very small, the reported value of the Group is not deemed to diverge materially from the actual value. 98 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • NOTES NOTE 29 Transactions with related parties The group Braganza AB is treated as related party based on its ownership and representation on Group Parent Company the Board during the year. For transactions with subsidaries, OECD’s guidelines for Transfer Pricing MSEK 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 are applied. The following transactions were carried out with related parties: Loans to related parties Group Parent Company Subsidiaries MSEK 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Opening balance – – 1,014 957 Purchases of services Transactions during the year – – –1,054 – Owners – – – – Interest – – 17 98 Braganza AB – 0 – – Exchange rate differences – – 23 –41 Total purchases of services – 0 – – Closing balance – – – 1,014 Sales of services Loans from related parties Owners – 1 – – Group companies Braganza AB 11 3 – – Opening balance – –976 – –976 Subsidaries – – – – Transactions during the year – 1,036 – 1,036 Interest – –93 – –93 Total sales of services 11 4 – – Exchange rate differences – 33 – 33 Closing balances at year-end from Closing balance – – – – purchases and sales of services Receivables from related parties Loans from the Parent Company consisted of the shareholder loan that the company received in order to ensure that no covenants were breached. The interest rate amounted to 10 percent and Owners – – – – the loan expired within 10 years of the issuing date. In connection with Scandic’s stock market Braganza AB 1 0 – – listing the loan was converted to a shareholders’ contribution. Subsidaries – – – – Receivables and liabilities in the Parent Company from/to Group companies consists of receiv­ ables and liabilities within the cash pool of the Group. These are classified as long term. Total receivables from related parties 1 0 – – For terms and remuneration to the Executive Committee, see the Corporate Governance Report. Liabilities to related parties: Owners – 0 – – Total liabilities from related parties – 0 – – NOTES • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 99 NOTE 30 Appropriation of profits and dividend per share NOTE 31 Events after the reporting date In accordance with the Board’s dividend policy adopted on September 14, 2015, Scandic aims to On January 18, Scandic signed an agreement with property owners Pandox and Eiendomsspar distribute at least 50 percent of its net profit from the financial year 2016 onwards. to take over the operation of eight hotels in Norway, Sweden and Denmark with a total of 1,708 rooms. The agreement also includes Grand Hotel in Oslo, which will become one of Appropriation of profits Scandic’s six signature hotels. The transfer will be carried out without consideration and all of The Board proposes that the following available amounts the hotels will contribute positively to Scandic Hotels’ EBITDA already from 2017. in the Parent Company’s balance sheet, KSEK: On January 19, Scandic signed a long-term lease agreement with LAK Real Estate Oy, a sub­ sidiary of Finavia, to establish and operate a new hotel at Helsinki Airport. Work on the new hotel, Share premium reserve 1 534 254 Scandic Helsinki Airport, began in January 2017 and it will open during the first half year of 2018. Retained earnings 5 046 639 The hotel will have 148 rooms. Net profit for the year 64 992 On February 3, it was announced that Scandic had signed a long-term lease agreement Total 6 645 885 with property company Vasakronan regarding the operation of a new hotel in the Platinan area, part of the new RiverCity urban development project in Gothenburg. The hotel will have 362 rooms Be distributed as follows: and 15 conference rooms including a large multifunctional event space (Black Box) of almost Dividend to be paid to the shareholders, 3.15 SEK per share 324 403 1,000 square meters. The hotel is expected to be completed at the end of 2020. To be carried forward 6 321 482 On February 9, the Board of Directors of Scandic Hotels announced that Even Frydenberg would take over the position of President & CEO. This is as a result Frank Fiskers’ decision to leave Scandic Total 6 645 885 in the summer. Even Frydenberg will start the new position on July 31, 2017. The proposed record day for receiving dividends is May 12, 2017. The Board believes that the proposed dividend is justified in relation to the requirements that come with the nature of the Group, the scope and risks of the Group’s equity, as well as the Group’s need for consolidation, liquidity and general position. The proposed dividend reduces the Group’s solvency from 47 to 45 percent and that of the Parent Company from 63 to 60 percent, calculated as per December 31, 2016. Board of Directors and the CEO certify that the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and give a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position and results of operations. The annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the Parent Company’s financial position and results of operations. Income statements and balance sheets will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting on May 10, 2017 for adoption. 100 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • NOTES Adoption The Board of Directors and the CEO certify that the Annual Report has been prepared in accordance with the International Reporting Standards, IFRS, endorsed by the EU, and gives a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position. The Annual Report has been prepared in accordance with accepted accounting principles in Sweden and gives a true and fair view of the Parent Company’s financial position. Income statements and balance sheets will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting on May 10, 2017 for approval. Stockholm, April 4, 2017 Vagn Sørensen Chairman of the Board Ingalill Berglund Per G. Braathen Albert Gustafsson Board member Board member Board member Grant Hearn Lottie Knutson Stephan Leithner Board member Board member Board member Christoffer Lundström Eva Moen Adolfsson Niklas Sloutski Board member Board member Board member Fredrik Wirdenius Jan Wallmark Board member Employee representative Frank Fiskers President & CEO Our audit report was presented on April 4, 2017 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Magnus Brändström Authorized Public Accountant Auditor-in-charge NOTES • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 101 AUDITOR’S REPORT To the general meeting of shareholders of Scandic Hotels Group AB (publ), corporate identity number 556703-1702 REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS Our audit activities nature have been examined by the group team. This has AND CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS The focus and scope of the audit included impairment testing of the group’s goodwill and Opinions We designed our audit by determining materiality and brands which are not subject to ongoing depreciation. We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated assessing the risks of material misstatement in the consolaccounts of Scandic Hotels Group AB for the year 2016. idated financial statements. In particular, we considered Materiality The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the where management made subjective judgements, for The scope of our audit was influenced by our application company are included on pages 56–105 in this document. example, in respect of significant accounting estimates of materiality. An audit is designed to obtain reasonable In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared involving assumptions and considering future events which assurance whether the financial statements are free from in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the addressed the risk of management override of internal fraud or error. They are considered material if individually, parent company as of 31 December 2016 and their financontrols, including among other matters, consideration of or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to cial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in whether there is evidence of bias representing a risk of ­influence the economic decisions of users taken on the accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolimaterial misstatement due to fraud. basis of the financial statements. dated accounts have been prepared in accordance with We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform Based on our professional judgement, we determined The Annual Accounts act and present fairly, in all material sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the respects, the financial position of the Group as of 31 consolidated financial statements as a whole, taking into overall materiality of the financial statements as a whole. December 2016 and their financial performance and cash account the structure of the group, the accounting proThese, together with qualitative considerations, helped us flow for the year then ended in accordance with Internacesses and controls, and the industry in which the group to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing tional Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by operates. and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the the EU, and the Annual Accounts act. The statutory adminThe major portion of Scandic’s operations are in Sweden effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate istration report is consistent with the other parts of the and Norway and represent slightly more than 70% of the on the financial statements as a whole. annual accounts and consolidated accounts. group’s net sales in 2016 and slightly more than 85% of We therefore recommend that the general meeting of the group’s adjusted EBITDA. For the largest reporting units Key audit matters shareholders adopts the income statement and balance in Sweden and Norway, including the parent company and Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our sheet for the parent company and the Group. consolidation, we have examined the year-end bookclosprofessional judgment, were most significant in our audit of ing, executed a review of the interim report as of 30 Septhe annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the curBasis for Opinions tember, we have undertaken hotel visits on an ongoing rent period. These areas, which amongst other things, We conducted our audit in accordance with International basis and we have executed an assessment and testing of include the valuation of deferred tax, valuation of fixed Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing key controls regarding the financial reporting. assets and management’s assessment of provisions have standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those stanFor the reporting units in Denmark and Finland, we have been addressed within the framework of the audit and in in dards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities audited the annual bookclosing and have executed a forming our opinion regarding the annual accounts and section. We are independent of the parent company and the review of the September bookclosing as a part of the overconsolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a group in accordance with professional ethics for accounall review of the group’s interim report. We have also separate opinion on these matters. tants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical undertaken hotel visits, on an ongoing basis, and have responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. tested certain key controls. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is The consolidated accounts, disclosures in the notes in sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. the annual report and complex transactions of a one-off 102 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • Auditor’s report Other Information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter This document also contains other information than the Valuation of goodwill and other acquisition-related assets In testing the impairment requirement for goodwill, brands annual accounts, consolidated accounts and are included We refer to Note 11 Intangible assets and other acquisition-related intangible assets, we exeon pages 1– 55 and 126 –129. The Board of Directors cuted, the following audit activities in order to ensure, priand the Managing Director are responsible for the other Goodwill and other acquisition-related assets, including brands, marily, the valuation and correctness of these items: comprise a significant portion of the Scandic group’s balance information. sheet total. As at 31 December, goodwill and brands amounted to We have undertaken measures to substantiate the matheOur opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated MSEK 8,938 which is equivalent to 63% of the balance sheet matical correctness of the company’s impairment testing, accounts does not cover this other information and we total. These items are not only significant in terms of their amount the correctness of the model applied, as such, and have determined if the model agrees with IFRS. We also chaldo not express any form of assurance conclusion regarding but also in their nature, as they are impacted by management’s estimations and judgements. Due to the significance of this item lenged and evaluated the reasonability of significant this other information. and its nature, this has been deemed to comprise a key audit area assumptions made by management. In order to examine the In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and in the audit. model, itself, we have utilised PwC’s valuation experts to consolidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the test and evaluate the applied models and methods, as well Management and the Board of Directors annually undertake an as significant assumptions. information identified above and consider whether the impairment test of the value of goodwill and brands, and in coninformation is materially inconsistent with the annual junction with each occasion on which there are indications that a On a random sample basis, we have tested and challenged accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we decline in value has been identified, to assess whether there is an the details applied in the calculations against the company’s budgets and financial plan and, where possible, external also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained impairment requirement. information. We have, then, focused on the assumptions in the audit and assess whether the information otherwise The estimated value is based on the Board of Director’s approved regarding growth, margin development and the applied disappears to be materially misstated. future budgets and forecasts for the next five years. The cash flow count rate per cash-generating unit. We have also followed for the years after the next five year period is extrapolated based If we, based on the work performed concerning this up the correctness in forecasting business and financial on the business plan. This assessment includes, therefore, plans through analysing historical outcome, where we cominformation, conclude that there is a material misstatement assumptions of significant importance to the testing of an impairpare previous years’ assumptions regarding future earnings of this other information, we are required to report that fact. ment requirement. This includes assumptions on sales growth, and growth against actual outcomes. We have nothing to report in this regard. the development of margins and the discount rate (WACC). We have implemented a sensitivity analysis of the valuation The value that is calculated in the testing is equivalent to the value of negative changes in significant parameters which, indiResponsibilities of the Board of Directors and of the discounted cash flows for the identified cash-generating vidually or on a collective basis, could imply that an impairthe Managing Director units: Sweden, Norway and Other Nordics and Europe. ment requirement exists. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are Even if a given unit shows no impairment requirement in a testing, Based on our examination, we have identified no obser­ responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts and future developments negatively deviating from the assumptions vations significant to the audit in its entirety as regards consolidated accounts and that they give a fair presentaand judgements providing the basis of that testing can lead to an Scandic’s impairment testing of goodwill and brands, which impairment requirement. should be reported to report to the Audit Committee. tion in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Other acquisition-related intangible assets are subject to ongoing depreciation. For these assets, a testing of the valuation is underDirectors and the Managing Director are also responsible taken if there is a suspicion that the value of the assets has for such internal control as they determine is necessary to decreased so that a write-down needs to be undertaken. enable the preparation of annual accounts and consoliBased on the impairment testing undertaken for goodwill and dated accounts that are free from material misstatement, brands, which is based on best estimate and on the information whether due to fraud or error. available in preparing the annual testing, Scandic’s assessment is In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated that there is no impairment requirement regarding the aboveaccounts, The Board of Directors and the Managing Direcmentioned assets as at 31 December 2016. tor are responsible for the assessment of the company’s Auditor’s report • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 103 ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, as REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND the dividend is justifiable considering the requirements applicable, matters related to going concern and using the REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS which the company’s type of operations, size and risks place going concern basis of accounting. The going concern Opinions on the size of the parent company’s and the Groups equity, basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consoliconsolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general. Directors and the Managing Director intends to liquidate dated accounts, we have also audited the administration of The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s the company, to cease operations, or has no realistic alterthe Board of Directors and the Managing Director of Scandic organization and the administration of the company’s native but to do so. Hotels Group AB for the year 2016 and the proposed affairs. This includes among other things continuous appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. assessment of the company’s and the group’s financial sitAuditor’s responsibility We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders uation and ensuring that the company’s organization is Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about that the profit be appropriated in accordance with the prodesigned so that the accounting, management of assets whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts posal in the statutory administration report and that the and the company’s financial affairs otherwise are conas a whole are free from material misstatement, whether members of the Board of Directors and the Managing trolled in a reassuring manner. The Managing Director shall due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that Director be discharged from liability for the financial year. manage the ongoing administration according to the Board includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among other level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit Basis for Opinions matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally We conducted the audit in accordance with generally company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilithe management of assets in a reassuring manner. a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements ties under those standards are further described in the can arise from fraud or error and are considered material Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of Auditor’s responsibility if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably the parent company and the Group in accordance with proOur objective concerning the audit of the administration, be expected to influence the economic decisions of users fessional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherand thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to taken on the basis of these annual accounts and consoliwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree dated accounts. these requirements. of assurance whether any member of the Board of DirecA further description of our responsibility for the audit We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is tors or the Managing Director in any material respect: of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission ­available on Revisorsnämnden’s website: www.revisors­ which can give rise to liability to the company, or inspektionen.se/rn/showdocument/documents/rev dok/ Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Comrevisors_ansvar.pdf. This description is part of the the Managing Director panies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of auditor´s report. The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for Association. appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proOur objective concerning the audit of the proposed approposal of a dividend, this includes an assessment of whether priations of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our 104 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • Auditor’s report opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give rise to ­liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the administration is available on Revisorsnämnden’s website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/rn/showdocument/documents/rev dok/revisors_ansvar.pdf. This description is part of the auditor´s report. Stockholm, April 4, 2017 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Magnus Brändström Authorized Public Accountant Auditor in charge Auditor’s report • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 105 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Scandic is a Swedish public limited liability company, with its registered office in Stockholm, whose shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s Nordic Mid Cap list. Scandic applies the Swedish Corporate Governance Code and hereby submits its Corporate Governance Report for the 2016 financial year. THE BASIS OF SCANDIC’S CORPORATE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AT SCANDIC GOVERNANCE Scandic’s corporate governance aims to support the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee so that all operaInformation ANNUAL GENERAL Decision NOMINATION tions create long-term value for shareholders and other Election MEETING Proposal COMMITTEE stakeholders. Governance includes upholding: • an efficient organizational structure; • systems for risk management and internal control; and • transparent internal and external reporting. AUDIT COMMITTEE EXTERNAL AUDITOR Information BOARD OF DIRECTORS REMUNERATION COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Responsibility for the governance and control of Scandic is distributed between the shareholders, the Board of DirecGoals Reports tors, its appointed committees and the CEO. The goverStrategies Control nance of Scandic is based on external and internal goverSteering documents nance instruments. The external governance framework includes the Swedish Companies Act, Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule Book for Issuers, the Swedish Corporate Governance PRESIDENT & CEO Code (the “Code”) and other applicable Swedish and foreign laws and regulations. The internal binding governance instruments include the Articles of Association, the Rules of Procedure for the Board, instructions for the Board’s committees and the CEO, values, Chief Financial Officer Chief Commercial Officer VP Business Development SVP HR & Sustainability the Code of Conduct, the authorization and delegation procedure, the Finance Policy, the Information Policy, the Insider Policy, the IT Security Policy and guidelines for leases as well Head of Sweden Head of Norway Head of Denmark Head of Finland Head of Europe as for remuneration to senior executives. DEVIATIONS FROM THE CODE Scandic complies with the Swedish Corporate Governance Code with the following exceptions: EXTERNAL STEERING INSTRUMENTS INTERNAL STEERING INSTRUMENTS • Rule 9.7: Incentive programs – In order to adapt the • Swedish Companies Act • Articles of Association vesting period for potential future share-related incen• Annual Accounts Act •  Rules of Procedure and Instructions • Other applicable legislation for the Board/President tive programs, the vesting period in the Long-Term • Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rulebook for Issuers • Values Incentive Program implemented in December 2015 is • The Swedish Corporate Governance Code • Code of Conduct approximately 2.4 years and accordingly, it does not • Policies and guidelines meet the requirement that the vesting period to the date for the acquisition of shares be no less than three years. 106 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GRI: G4-34, G4-56 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS IN 2016 the income statement and the balance sheet and decides • Adoption of the Long-Term Incentive Program and During 2016, changes were made to Scandic’s Group manon the appropriation of profits and whether to discharge the ­hedging measures for the program in accordance with agement to further strengthen, focus and streamline the Board members and the CEO from liability to the Company. the proposal of the Board. Group’s operations and leadership. The Group’s five country The Annual General Meeting also appoints the Nomination managers were added to the Executive Committee while the Committee, determines their work and adopts principles of 2017 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING position of Chief Operating Officer was phased out. The remuneration and terms of employment for the CEO and Scandic’s 2017 Annual General Meeting will be held 2016 Annual General Meeting resolved to amend the comother senior executives. Scandic’s Annual General Meeting on May 10, 2017 in Stockholm. For more information, pany’s Article of Association § 6 whereby the maximum is held annually in Stockholm before the end of June. see page 129. number of Board members was increased from ten to eleven Extraordinary general meetings may be held as and when members. The Meeting approved the Board’s proposal to needed. NOMINATION COMMITTEE adopt a Long-Term Incentive Program for a maximum of 40 The Nomination Committee represents the Company’s senior executives and key employees in the Scandic Group. 2016 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING share­holders and is tasked with preparing proposals for the At the Annual General Meeting held on May 12, 2016 in Annual General Meeting regarding the election of the ChairSHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS Stockholm, resolutions were passed on the following: man of the Annual General Meeting, Board members, the The Scandic share has been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s • Adoption of the income statement and balance sheet Chairman of the Board and the auditor, as well as proposals Nordic Mid Cap list since December 2, 2015. At year-end for 2015. for fees to the Board of Directors, fees to the auditors and, 2016, the share capital of Scandic was 25.7 MSEK divided • Approval of the Board of Directors’ proposal that no divito the extent it is considered required, proposed changes to into 102,985,075 shares with all shares conferring equal dend be paid for the 2015 financial year and that the the instructions to the Nomination Committee. The proposvoting rights, an equal share of assets and earnings and an year’s profit be carried forward. als should be justified to reflect the requirement that the equal share of any dividends. Of the total share capital, 71.3 • To discharge the Board of Directors and the CEO from Board have a composition that is appropriate based on the percent was held by Swedish investors and 28.7 percent by liability to the Company. Company’s needs, characterized by versatility and breadth. foreign investors. The ten largest shareholders represented • That the Board of Directors shall consist of 11 members The Nomination Committee strives to meet the Code’s 60.4 percent of the share capital and votes in the Company. and no alternates. requirements for an even gender distribution and diversity Sunstorm Holding AB was the largest shareholder with 20.4 • Vagn Sørensen, Per G. Braathen, Grant Hearn, Lottie mainly with regard to age, nationality and skills. percent of the share capital and votes. Sunstorm Holding AB Knutson, Eva Moen Adolfsson, Niklas Sloutski and The Company shall have a Nomination Committee conis controlled by EQT V Ltd, advised by EQT Partners (an indiFredrik Wirdenius were re-elected as Board members. sisting of the Chairman of the Board and a representative of rect holding of approximately 86 percent of the shares), with Ingalill Berglund, Albert Gustafsson, Stephan Leithner each of the three largest shareholders, based on shareAccent Equity 2003 fund as a co-investor (an indirect holdand Christoffer Lundström were elected as new memholder statistics from Euroclear Sweden AB, as at the last ing of approximately 12 percent of the shares). bers of the Board. Vagn Sørensen was re-elected as banking day in August every year. The Nomination CommitChairman of the Board. tee’s term of office shall run until a new Nomination ComShareholders’ influence through the general meeting • PricewaterhouseCoopers was reappointed as auditor, mittee has been appointed. The shareholders exercise influence at the general meeting, with Magnus Brändström as the auditor-in-charge for Unless otherwise agreed by the members of the Nominawhich is Scandic’s highest decision-making body. The genthe period until the end of the 2017 Annual General tion Committee, the Chairman of the Nomination Commiteral meeting adopts the Articles of Association and at the Meeting. tee shall be the member who represents the largest shareAnnual General Meeting, which is the regular general meet• Remuneration to the Board of Directors and the auditor. holders based on the number of votes. If a shareholder ing held annually, the shareholders elect the Board mem• Adoption of guidelines for remuneration to senior execushould cease to be one of the three largest shareholders by bers, the Chairman of the Board and the auditor, and detertives in accordance with the proposal of the Board. number of votes during the Nomination Committee’s term mine their fees. The Annual General Meeting further adopts of office, the representative appointed by the shareholder in GRI: G4-7, G4-13 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 107 question shall resign, and the shareholder who has become one of the three largest shareholders by number of votes shall appoint a representative. Such a change is not necessary if the change in votes is marginal or if the change occurs later than three months prior to the Annual General Meeting, unless there are special reasons for it. The names of the three shareholder representatives and the names of the shareholders represented by them shall be announced no later than six months prior to the Annual General Meeting. The Nomination Committee for the 2017 Annual General Meeting The Nomination Committee for the 2017 Annual General Meeting consists of four members and in addition to the Chairman of the Board of Directors includes repre9 sentatives from the three largest shareholders. The work of the Nomination Commit2016 tee was led by Joel Lindeman of Provobis. The composition of the Nomination ComDevelopment of mittee was published in a press release on October 11, 2016. JAN FEB MAR APR properties % of the number of votes 1 2 3 Nomination Committee Representing as at Dec 31, 2016 MAY JUN JUL AUG 10 Vagn Sørensen Stephan Leithner Sunstorm Holding AB 20.4 4 5 6 7 8 Investment decisions Lars-Åke Bokenberger AMF 9.4 Approval of policies SEP OCT NOV DEC Joel Lindeman Provobis AB 9.2 Succession planning 9 10 11 12 13 14 In the work on nominations for the 2017 Annual General Meeting, the Nomination Committee assessed the size and composition of the current Board of Directors as 1 5 well as Scandic’s operations. Special weight was attached to industry-specific and 11 financial expertise and an even gender distribution. The Nomination Committee comInvestment decisions Board meeting following plies with the rules in the Code regarding Board Member independence. The 2017 election, per capsulam Q3 Interim Report Nomination Committee held three meetings and maintained communication in between. The Nomination Committee based its work on the Chairman of the Board’s 2 report on the work of the Board of Directors and discussions with the CEO. 6 12 The proposals of the Nomination Committee will be presented at the 2017 Annual Year-end Report 2016 General Meeting and on Scandic’s website at www.scandichotelsgroup.com. Remuneration Investment decisions Investment decisions The website also presents the motivations behind the proposals, a report on the to senior executives Strategic and business Evaluation of committee’s work as well as a full presentation of the proposed members. planning 2017 Board of Directors The Nomination Committee can be reached at nominationcommittee@scandic­ Evaluation of Executive hotels.com. For the Nomination Committee to consider suggestions, shareholders Committee who wish to submit proposals may do so at any time, however before December 31. 3 13 More information is available at www.scandichotelsgroup.com. Preparation for AGM Investment decisions BOARD OF DIRECTORS 7 The Board of Directors is responsible for Scandic’s organization and the management Q2 Interim Report of the Company’s affairs. According to the Articles of Association, the Board of Direc4 14 tors shall consist of no fewer than three and no more than 11 Board members, with no more than two alternates. In addition, trade unions are entitled to appoint two Q1 Interim Report Investment decisions ­regular Board members and two alternates. Board members are elected annually Follow-up on investments 8 Short-term Incentive at the Annual General Meeting for the period up until the end of the subsequent ­Program 2017 Change of company Annual General Meeting. signatories 108 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Composition of the Board of Directors 2016 Work of the Board of Directors ments or changes in the Group’s organization and operaThe Board of Directors currently comprises 11 members The duties of the Board of Directors are regulated in the tions should be made. and one employee representative elected for the period up Swedish Companies Act, the Company’s Articles of AssociThe Chairman of the Board is responsible for the work of until the end of the 2017 Annual General Meeting. Four of ation and the Code. The work and procedures of the Board the Board of Directors, including ensuring that the work of the 11 Board members are foreign nationals. The CEO and of Directors are decided annually in written Rules of Procethe Board of Directors is conducted efficiently and that it the Group’s Chief Financial Officer participate in Board dure. These rules govern the distribution of work and fulfills its obligations in accordance with applicable laws meetings, as well as the Board’s secretary. Other employresponsibilities among the Board members, the Chairman and regulations. The Chairman of the Board shall, in close ees of the Group participate in Board Meetings as and of the Board and the CEO, and the routines for financial cooperation with the CEO, monitor the Company’s perforwhen necessary to report on special matters. reporting. The Board of Directors also adopts instructions mance and prepare and lead Board meetings. The Chairfor the committees of the Board of Directors. man of the Board is also responsible for ensuring that the Independence The duties of the Board of Directors include appointing Board members evaluate their work annually and continuNone of the Board members are employed by the Scandic the CEO, adopting strategies, business plans, budgets, ally receive the information required to conduct their work Group. All Board members are considered to be indepeninterim reports, year-end accounts and annual reports as efficiently. The Chairman of the Board represents the Comdent in relation to the Company and the senior executives. well as instructions, policies and guidelines. The Board of pany vis-à-vis the shareholders. Eight of the 11 Board members, who are independent in Directors shall also monitor the financial performance of relation to the Company and the senior executives, are also the Company, ensure the quality of financial reporting and Work during the year independent in relation to the Company’s major shareholdinternal control and evaluate the operations in relation to During the year, eight regular Board meetings were held, of ers. Scandic thereby complies with the requirements in the the objectives and guidelines adopted by the Board of which one per capsulam, and six extraordinary meetings, Code regarding the Board of Directors’ independence in Directors. The Board of Directors also resolves whether to of which two per capsulam. The Board dealt with issues relation to the Company, the senior executives and the enter into or extend leases, franchise agreements and related to investment decisions, property development, Company’s major shareholders. management agreements and whether significant investpolicies and remuneration to senior executives. COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Independent in relation Independent in relaAttendance Committees, attenElected, to the company and tion to the largest and number dance and number RemuneraThe Board of Directors has two committees: The Audit Name Position year senior executives shareholders of meetings1) of meetings1) tion 2016 Committee and the Remuneration Committee. Neither Vagn Sørensen Chairman 2007 Yes Yes 14 (14) Remun. Comm. 4 (4) 729,167 committee is authorized to make decisions, but they preIngalill Berglund Member 2016 Yes Yes 9 (14) Audit Comm. 5 (8) 274,167 pare matters and present them to the Board of Directors for Per G. Braathen Member 2007 Yes Yes 14 (14) – 311,667 decisions. The work of the committees is conducted in accordance with the written procedures for each commitCaspar Callerström Member 2007 Yes No 4 (14) Audit Comm. 3 (8) 150,000 tee, as adopted by the Board of Directors and the Rules of Albert Gustafsson Member 2016 Yes No 9 (14) Audit Comm. 5 (8) 215,833 Procedure for the Board. Grant Hearn Member 2014 Yes Yes 13 (14) Remun. Comm. 2 (4) 382,500 Lottie Knutson Member 2015 Yes Yes 13 (14) – 311,667 Remuneration Committee Stephan Leithner Member 2016 Yes No 10 (14) Remun. Comm. 1 (4) 215,833 The Remuneration Committee prepares resolutions in matChristoffer Lundström Member 2016 Yes Yes 10 (14) – 186,667 ters involving remuneration principles, salaries, benefits and Eva Moen Adolfsson Member 2014 Yes Yes 14 (14) Remun. Comm. 4 (4) 390,833 remuneration to the CEO and senior executives who are subNiklas Sloutski Member 2011 Yes No 13 (14) Audit Comm. 7 (8) 332,500 ordinate to the CEO. The Remuneration Committee shall also Rikard Steiber Member 2014 Yes Yes 2 (14) – 125,000 supervise and evaluate the outcome of programs for variable Fredrik Wirdenius Member 2015 Yes Yes 14 (14) – 311,667 remuneration and the Company’s compliance with the Jan Wallmark Employee 2015 Yes Yes 14 (14) – 42,000 guidelines for remuneration adopted at a general meeting. repres. The Remuneration Committee shall consist of at least Totalt 3,979, 501 three Board members elected at a general meeting. The 1) Total number of meetings during the year. Ingalill Berglund, Stephan Leithner, Albert Gustafsson and Christoffer Lundström joined the Board on May 12, 2016 and Chairman of the Board can also be the Chairman of the therefore they have not been able to attend all of the meetings during the year. ­Caspar Callerström and Rikard Steiber left the Board on May 12, 2016. Remuneration Committee. The other members of the Committee shall be independent in relation to the Company and its senior executives. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 109 The Remuneration Committee consists of Eva Moen • Evaluation of the requirement for an internal audit funcSustainability), the Vice President Business Development Adolfsson (Chairman), Vagn Sørensen, Grant Hearn and tion for recommendation to the Board of Directors. (VP Business Development) and the Group’s five Country Stephan Leithner. • IT Security Policy – review prior to the approval by the Heads. Five different nationalities are represented in the The Remuneration Committee held four meetings during Board of Directors. Executive Committee, which is composed of nine men and the year. The Committee conducted a review of the basic • Status of ongoing disputes and legal matters – standing one woman. During the year, the Company’s Country Heads remuneration of senior executives, the bonus program, other item at all meetings. were included in the Executive Committee and the position remuneration and the Long-Term Incentive Program. of Chief Operating Officer was phased out. The VP CommuEVALUATION OF THE WORK OF THE BOARD nication & IR left the company in November 2016 and since Audit Committee OF DIRECTORS then, neither function is represented in the Executive ComThe Audit Committee prepares the Board of Directors’ work The Chairman of the Board is responsible for evaluating the mittee. During the year, six new members joined the Execuon matters involving risk assessments, internal control, work of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors evaltive Committee. See pages 116–117 for more information. internal audit, accounting, financial reporting and audits. uates its work annually. This evaluation concerns the proThe CEO’s areas of responsibility and powers are govThe Committee’s work aims to ensure compliance with the cedure and main direction for the work of the Board of erned by the Rules of Procedure for the Board of Directors adopted principles for financial reporting and internal conDirectors. The evaluation also focuses on access to and the and instructions for the CEO. The CEO is responsible for trol and that the Company’s relationship with its auditors is need for special expertise on the Board of Directors. The communicating and implementing Scandic’s strategy, busiappropriate for the purpose. evaluation in 2016, in which members of the Board evaluness plans and other decisions in the organization. The CEO The Audit Committee shall also evaluate the audit and ated the work anonymously, was carried out with the help is also ultimately responsible for ensuring that the goverprovide a report to the Nomination Committee. It shall also of an external consultant. The results were presented and nance, organization, risk management, internal processes propose auditors to the Nomination Committee. discussed by the Board of Directors and Nomination Comand IT infrastructure are satisfactory. The Audit Committee also follows up and comments on mittee. The evaluation was used as a tool to develop the To achieve economies of scale and ensure a consistent non-auditing related services that Scandic procures from work of the Board of Directors and also constitutes support customer offering, Scandic has gathered a number of supthe company’s auditor. for the work of the Nomination Committee. port functions centrally including accounting and finance, The Audit Committee shall consist of at least three HR, purchasing, IT, marketing, product development, revemembers. The majority of the members shall be indepenAuditors nue management, and restaurants & conferences. Persondent in relation to the Company and the senior executives, PricewaterhouseCoopers has been the Company’s auditor nel in charge of the various Group functions are also in and at least one member shall be independent in relation to since 2012. At the Annual General Meeting held on May charge of developing group-wide policies, guidelines and the Company, the Company’s senior executives and the 12, 2016, PricewaterhouseCoopers was reappointed as working methods and for following up on and ensuring that Company’s major shareholders, and shall have experience auditor, with Magnus Brändström as the auditor-in-charge, the Group’s operations are conducted in compliance with in auditing or accounting. for the time until the end of the 2017 Annual General Meetadopted policies and standards. The Remuneration Committee consists of Ingalill Bering. Magnus Brändström is an authorized public accounglund (Chairman), Albert Gustafsson and Niklas Sloutski. tant and a member of FAR. During 2016, the auditor Sustainability The requirements of the Swedish Companies Act regarding reported its observations once to the Board of Directors. Sustainability is an integrated part of Scandic’s governance independence and accounting or auditing expertise are No members of the Executive Committee were present. and reporting. The understanding of and commitment to thus met. Thereafter, the auditor participated in five meetings with challenges such as climate change, creating ethical and The Audit Committee held eight meetings during the the Audit Committee. safe workplaces and being a responsible purchasing party year, five of which were attended by the Company’s auditor. The Audit Committee evaluates the auditors’ work and are of major importance to the Group. In these contexts, independence annually. Scandic’s governance documents are Scandic’s Code of The following matters were handled at the Audit Committee The auditor receives a fee for its work, according to a Conduct, Code of Conduct for Suppliers, the Anti-Corrupmeetings: resolution at the Annual General Meeting. Information on tion Policy and the Environmental Policy. During 2015, • Interim reports – review prior to approval by the Board of auditors’ fees is provided in Note 4 on page 78. Scandic updated its Code of Conduct. The Code sets out Directors. that diversity contributes to business success. Scandic’s • Status of internal control and risk analysis, and evaluaEXECUTIVE COMMITTEE policy documents clearly stipulate that no form of discrimition of the structures and efficiency of internal control. Scandic’s Executive Committee has solid experience from nation is accepted. All countries strive to employee people • The auditors’ reports on the review of the annual the hotel sector and consumer-oriented operations in variwho reflect the society in which the hotel operates at the accounts, the interim report for the third quarter, “early ous markets. The Executive Committee consists of the CEO same time as discrimination and harassment are prohibwarning” and internal control. and nine senior executives: The Chief Financial Officer ited. When appointing Board members, Scandic strives for • Audit plan and auditors’ fees, and evaluation of auditors’ (CFO), the Chief Commercial Officer (CCO), the Senior Vice diversity mainly with respect to gender, age, nationality and work and independence. President Human Resources & Sustainability (SVP HR & skills. In 2017, Scandic will formulate a specific diversity 110 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GRI: G4-34, G4-56 policy. The Board of Directors has joint responsibility for IMPLEMENTATION SELF-ASSESSMENT sustainability. Within the Executive Committee, sustainabilOF NEW PROCESSES ity is delegated to the head of each function: the CFO is responsible for anti-corruption and supplier control and the SVP HR & Sustainability is responsible for reporting and UPDATING OF EXTERNAL AUDIT ESG information, employment law, diversity and equality as SELF-ASSESSMENT CHECKLIST well as for sustainability as a whole within the Company. ANNUAL CYCLE INTERNAL AUDIT SIGNIFICANT EVENTS HANDLED BY THE CEO AND THE EXECUTIVE UPDATING OF COMMITTEE IN 2016 GUIDELINES, PROCESSES During the year, changes in the composition of the ExecuAND ROUTINES ANALYSIS OF RESULTS tive Committee to include the Company’s Country Heads were handled and the position of Chief Operating Officer was RISK MANAGEMENT EVALUATION OF phased out. In addition, the Executive Committee handled PROCESS work related to the approval of new leases and extensions of existing leases. At the Annual General Meeting held on May 12, 2016, guidelines for remuneration and other terms of employmay be offered as a supplement to the above in order to Long-Term Incentive Program ment for senior executives, including the CEO, were create long-term ­commitment. At the Extraordinary General Meeting held on November adopted. These guidelines are only applicable to new The pension benefits to the CEO and other senior execu15, 2015, Scandic adopted a performance-based Longemployment agreements entered into between the Comtives shall chiefly consist of defined contribution pension Term Incentive Program, and another was adopted at the pany and the respective senior executives, which is why schemes, but they may also be defined benefit schemes if Annual General Meeting 2016. Terms and conditions for there are employment agreements that were entered into required by a collective bargaining agreement. Fixed salary both programs are provided in Note 6 on pages 80–82. before the guidelines were introduced that do not fully conduring notice periods and severance pay, including comform to the currently applicable guidelines. pensation for anti-competition restrictions, shall in aggreGuidelines for remuneration to senior executives gate not exceed an amount corresponding to the fixed salbefore the 2017 Annual General Meeting Guidelines for remuneration to the CEO and ary for 18 months. The total severance pay for all members The Board of Directors has proposed that the Annual Gensenior executives of the Executive Committee shall not exceed the fixed eral Meeting 2017 adopt guidelines that in all material Scandic’s senior executives are the members of the Execumonthly salary for the remaining years until the employee aspects correspond to the guidelines adopted at the Annual tive Committee. Following a resolution passed at the reaches 65 years of age. Other remuneration may consist General Meeting 2016. The 2016 guidelines authorize the Annual General Meeting held on May 12, 2016, the followof customary benefits, such as health insurance, which Board of Directors to deviate from the guidelines if, in an ing guidelines apply: shall not constitute a significant part of the total remuneraindividual case, there are special circumstances justifying Scandic shall offer terms that are in line with market tion. Additional remuneration may be paid in extraordinary such. In February 2017, the Board of Directors resolved to conditions and that enable the Company to recruit and circumstances, provided such remuneration is intended to approve that the CEO’s fixed salary during the notice period retain the managers required to meet its shortand longrecruit or retain senior executives, and is then to be agreed together with his severance payment, including payment term targets. The remuneration to the CEO and senior upon in the individual case. Such extraordinary arrangefor restriction on competition, total an amount correspondexecutives may consist of a fixed salary, variable salary, ments may include a lump sum cash payment or a benefit ing to the fixed salary for approximately 19 months, i.e. pension and other benefits. The fixed salary of the CEO package in the form of a relocation allowance, income tax marginally above the 18 months set forth in the guidelines. and the senior executives shall be commensurate with support and similar. The Board of Directors considered such a deviation justimarket conditions and reflect the demands and responsiThe Board of Directors has the right to deviate from the fied considering that the CEO will be available to support bility that the position entails, as well as individual per­ above-mentioned guidelines in individual cases if it is of his successor during the extended notice period. formance. The variable salary of the CEO and the senior the opinion that there are special reasons to do so. For executives shall be based on the Company’s fulfillment of more information, see Note 6 on pages 80–82. Resolved remuneration not yet payable criteria set in advance. The variable salary shall amount During 2017, the Company resolved on a lump sum payment to no more than 60 percent of the fixed annual salary of Remuneration of SEK 300,000 to be paid to a member of the senior manthe CEO and 35 to 50 percent of the fixed annual salary of For information on remuneration to the CEO and senior agement in order to retain expertise considered to be imporother senior executives. Long-Term Incentive Programs executives, see Note 6 on pages 80–82. tant to the Company. The remuneration is payable in 2018. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 111 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT ON meeting. Drafts of interim reports are first presented to the Thereafter, the Group’s internal controls and control environINTERNAL CONTROL Audit Committee for discussion and consideration at a comment are evaluated and any gaps compared with the desired This description has been prepared in compliance with the mittee meeting before they are presented to the Board of level of control are identified. An action plan aimed at reducing Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Corporate Directors for approval. gaps is established where the value of reducing the risk is Governance Code (the “Code”) and is therefore limited to The internal financial reporting complies with a standardweighed against the cost of establishing and maintaining internal control related to financial reporting. The report has ized format where a common set of definitions and key internal controls. Based on the risk analysis, control activities not been reviewed by the Company’s auditor. ratios is used for all subsidiaries and hotels. Reporting is are designed aimed at reducing risk at a reasonable cost. The According to the Swedish Companies Act and the Code, carried out through a Group-wide reporting system that activities shall also contribute to improved internal procedures the Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring that interallows a high level of transparency and comparability of and operational efficiency. nal control mechanisms are developed, communicated to financial data. Financial performance is monitored through and understood by the employees of Scandic who carry out monthly reports from the subsidiaries and monthly reviews Control activities individual control measures, and for ensuring that such conwhere members of the Executive Committee, the central Scandic’s internal control is based on the Company’s estabtrol measures are carried out, monitored, updated and accounting department and the relevant country managelished channels for decisions and the delegation and authomaintained. ment team participate. Detailed follow-up of key ratios for rization procedures documented in governing policies and Executives at all levels are responsible for ensuring that different parts of Scandic’s hotel operations enables benchguidelines. internal control mechanisms are established in their respecmarking between hotels and also provides information Control activities may be IT-based or manual. To the tive areas and that these controls achieve the desired quickly on deviations in operating margins and operating greatest extent possible, they shall be an integrated part of results. Scandic’s CFO is ultimately responsible for ensuring profit/loss compared to the expected outcome. Detailed foldefined and documented processes and procedures. that the monitoring of and the work on Scandic’s internal low-up is an important tool for ensuring internal control. A number of control activities that are common to all control are conducted in the format determined by the Scandic uses “BINC” (Best in Class), which involves benchcompanies within the Group have been established. Some Board of Directors. marking key ratios for revenues, operational efficiency and of these are implemented on the hotel level and some are Scandic’s structure for internal control is based on the customer satisfaction where key ratios per hotel are comimplemented in the centralized accounting departments in COSO model, the framework of which is applied to Scandic’s pared with other comparable hotels in a “BINC group.” The each country. Control activities are described in Group-wide operations and conditions. According to the COSO model, a purpose is to create a tool to identify good examples and instructions. review and assessment is made within the areas of control stimulate learning and the development of best practices. environment, risk assessment, control activities, information Information and communication and communication and monitoring activities. Based on this Control environment The part of Scandic’s governance documents in the form review, certain areas of development are identified and prioriThe control environment forms the basis of internal control of of policies, guidelines and manuals that involve financial tized in the ongoing internal control work. financial reporting. An important element of the control envireporting is chiefly communicated via monthly meetings, The procedures for internal control, risk assessment, ronment is that channels for decision-making, authority and where all financial managers participate, and via the control activities and monitoring of financial reporting have responsibility are clearly defined and communicated between Group’s finance handbook. The finance handbook is pubbeen devised to ensure reliable and relevant reporting and different levels of the organization and that governance doculished on the intranet and is updated regularly based external financial reporting in accordance with the IFRS, ments in the form of internal policies and guidelines are availon changes in external requirements and in Scandic’s applicable laws and regulations and other requirements of able. A good control environment is created through commu­operations. companies listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm exchange. This nication and training to ensure understanding of and compliCommunication with internal and external parties is work involves the Board of Directors, the senior executives ance with policies the and regulatory frameworks. The control ­governed by a Communication Policy that provides guideand other employees. environment is strengthened by a positive corporate culture lines on how such communication should be conducted. The manner in which the Board of Directors monitors and and the transparent and relevant monitoring of financial perThe purpose of the policy is to ensure compliance with all ensures the quality of internal control is documented in the formance and key ratios at all levels in the Group. disclosure requirements in a correct and complete manner. adopted Rules of Procedure for the Board of Directors and Internal communication aims to make each employee the instructions for the Audit Committee. The Audit CommitRisk assessment understand Scandic’s values and business operations. To tee’s duties include evaluating the Company’s structure and Internal control is based on a risk analysis. The risk analysis achieve the aim of informed employees, work is carried out guidelines for internal control. related to internal control and the risk of errors in the financial internally, whereby information is communicated regularly The financial reporting to the Board of Directors is carried reporting form a part of the risk analysis that the Executive via the Group’s intranet. out on a monthly basis, according to a format described in Committee performs and presents to the Board of Directors the CEO’s instructions for financial reporting. The Comannually. This analysis identifies and valuates risks based on Monitoring pany’s CFO also conducts a review of the financial perfortheir likelihood of occurring and the potential impact of the Scandic’s accounting functions are integrated through mance and latest forecast for the current year at each Board incident on the operations and financial position of the Group. a common finance and accounting system and common 112 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • CORPORATE GOVERNANCE accounting instructions. The Board of Directors and the The results of the self-assessments and onsite audits are ment, a clear governance model and well-functioning Executive Committee regularly receive information on the reported by the local heads of finance to the management regular financial monitoring. The Board of Directors evaluGroup’s performance and financial position and the develteam of the country in question. The results are reported by ates the need for a special internal audit function on an opment of its operations. The efficiency of the internal conthe Group’s CFO to the Audit Committee, together with a annual basis. trol is evaluated annually by the Company and the Audit report of measures undertaken to improve internal control, Committee. It is also reviewed by the external auditors. The if the results indicate that there is a need to do so either at Measures in 2016 result of the evaluation forms the basis for improvements the hotel level or generally. Scandic continued to focus its risk analysis to gain a better to processes and controls for subsequent years. As part of their review, external auditors make additional understanding of the financial reporting and analysis. IT Internal control at hotel and country levels is monitored hotel visits during which they test controls according to the security was emphasized in the work of the Board of Directhrough self-assessments and onsite audits. internal checklist. The aim is that these onsite audits, from tors and committees. Self-assessment for internal control • All hotels conduct self-assessments at least once a year both Scandic’s accounting department and the external was discussed regularly by the Audit Committee. based on a Group-wide checklist with mandatory and auditors, shall cover approximately one-third of all hotels recommended controls. every year. • Internal audit visits are carried out by employees at the Company’s central accounting department for a number Internal audit of hotels per year. These involves a control checklist, Based on the Audit Committee’s evaluation, the Board of spot checks within relevant areas and a general discusDirectors has decided not to establish a separate internal sion with the hotel manager and department heads to audit function. The decision is based on the assessment ensure the understanding of and compliance with interthat the existing process for internal control is well estabnal control. lished, efficient and supported by a good control environAUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT To the general meeting of the shareholders in of the corporate governance statement. This means that are consistent with the annual accounts and the consoliScandic Hotels Group AB (publ), corporate identity our examination of the corporate governance statement dated accounts and are in accordance with the Annual number 556703-1702 is different and substantially less in scope than an audit Accounts Act. ­conducted in accordance with International Standards ENGAGEMENT AND RESPONSIBILITY on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in It is the board of directors who is responsible for the corpoSweden. We believe that the examination has provided us Stockholm, April 4, 2017 rate governance statement for the year 2016 on with sufficient basis for our opinions. PricewaterhouseCoopers AB pages106 –117 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. OPINIONS A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Magnus Brändström THE SCOPE OF THE AUDIT Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the Authorized Public Accountant Our examination has been conducted in accordance with second paragraph points 2–6 the Annual Accounts Act and Auditor in charge FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor’s examination chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 113 BOARD OF DIRECTORS VAGN SØRENSEN EVA MOEN ADOLFSSON INGALILL BERGLUND PER G. BRAATHEN ALBERT GUSTAFSSON GRANT HEARN Chairman of the Board of DirecMember of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors tors since 2007. Member of the since 2014. Chairman of the since 2016. Chairman of the since 2007. since 2016. since 2014. Member of the Remuneration Committee. Remuneration Committee. Audit Committee. Member of the Audit Committee. Remuneration Committee. Born: 1960. Born: 1959. Born: 1960. Born: 1964. Norwegian citizen. Born: 1977. Born: 1958. Danish citizen. Swedish and American citizen. Swedish citizen. Education: Swedish citizen. British citizen. Education: Education: Education: MBA from Schiller University Education: Education: Master of Business Administration Master of Business Administration Special advanced course in eco­London, UK. Bachelor of Commerce from Diploma in Hotel and Tourism Manfrom Aarhus University, Denmark. from University of Gothenburg, nomics, Frans Schartau Business Other current assignments: Gothenburg School of Business, agement, Shannon College of Hotel Other current assignments: Sweden. Institute. Chairman of the Board of Braathens Economics and Law. Management, Ireland. Chairman of the Board of F L Smidth Other current assignments: Other current assignments: Regional Airlines (BRA), Bramora Ltd Other current assignments: Other current assignments: A/S, SPP Group Plc and Tia TechnolPresident & CEO of Resia Travel Self-employed. Board member of and Scenorama AS. Chairman of the Partner at EQT Partners AB. Board Chairman of the Board of Amaris ogy A/S. Deputy Chairman of the Group AB and Board assignments in Veidekke ASA, AxFast AB and Board and CEO of Braganza AB. member of Frostbite Holding AB and Hospitality, Shearings Holidays Ltd Board of Nordic Aviation Capital A/S. companies within the Resia Group. Handelsbanken Regionbank StockBoard member of Wayday Travel AS. Dometic Group AB (publ). and The Hotel Collection. Board member of Air Canada, BraBoard member of Svenska Rese­ holm. Member of Balco Group AB, Previous assignments: Previous assignments: Previous assignments: ganza AB, CP DYVIG A/S, JP/Politikbyråföreningens Service AB and Juni Strategi and Analys AB. Chairman of the Board of Braganza Board member of GG Holding AB Board member of London & Partens Hus, Royal Caribbean Cruises Västsvenska Handelskammaren Previous assignments: AS, Escape Travel A/S, Europa Reiand Granngården AB. Employed by ners Ltd, Thame and London Ltd, Ltd, CHEP Aerospace and VFS Service AB. President and CFO at Atrium Ljungser A/S and SunHotels AG. Board Lehman Brothers International TLLC Group Holdings Ltd and Global. Previous assignments: berg AB. Twenty years of experience member of Arken Zoo Holding AB, Europe Ltd. ­Travelodge Hotels Ltd. Previous assignments: General Manager, Scandic Rubinen; from the real estate sector. Ticket Leisure Travel AB and Ticket Number of shares in Scandic: – Number of shares in Scandic: CEO of Austrian Airlines Group General Manager, Scandinavian Number of shares in Scandic: Biz AB. 3,000 2001–2006, Executive Vice PresiService Partner; CFO, Radisson SAS 3,000 Number of shares in Scandic: dent and Deputy CEO of ScandinaPark Avenue Hotel and CFO, AVAB 14,925 (through companies) vian Airlines Systems 1984–2001. Elektronik. Chairman of the Board of TDC A/S Number of shares in Scandic: and KMD A/S. Deputy Chairman of 3,134 DFDS A/S and Board member of VEGA. Number of shares in Scandic: 60, 676 Number of shares as per December 31, 2016. 114 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • Board of Directors LOTTIE KNUTSON STEPHAN LEITHNER CHRISTOFFER NIKLAS SLOUTSKI FREDRIK WIRDENIUS JAN WALLMARK Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors ­LUNDSTRÖM Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors since 2015. since 2016. Member of the Board of Directors since 2011. since 2015. since 2015. Member of the Remuneration since 2016. Member of the Audit Committee. Employee representative. Born: 1964. Committee. Born: 1961. Swedish citizen. Born: 1973. Born: 1976. Swedish citizen. Born: 1951. Education: Born: 1966. Swedish citizen. Swedish citizen. Education: Swedish citizen. Bachelor from the Department of Austrian citizen. Education: Education: Master of Science in Engineering, Education: Media Studies, Stockholm UniverEducation: Bachelor of Arts, Webster Master of Business Administration, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, IHM Business School, Stockholm, sity, Sweden. Diplôme de l’Université PhD Business Administration, University and Hotel Management Stockholm School of Economics, Stockholm, Sweden. Sweden. Paris IV. St. Gallen University, Switzerland. Diploma, HOSTA. Sweden and postgraduate certifiOther current assignments: Other current assignments: Other current assignments: Other current assignments: Other current assignments: cate in Business Administration, CEO of Vasakronan AB. Employee within Scandic’s hotel Board member of Actic AB, Cloetta Partner at EQT Partners in Germany. Owner and President of the investEdinburgh Business School, UK. Board member of RICS Sweden. operations. AB, Stena Line BV, STS Alpresor AB, ment company RCL Holding AB. Courses in law and financial Previous assignments: instruments from Stockholm Previous assignments: Number of shares in Scandic: – Swedavia AB, Careereye Online Several senior positions and direcBoard member of Collector AB, FeelBoard member of Vasakronan AB. Group AB and Wise Group AB. good Svenska AB, Rasta Group AB, University, Sweden and Harvard torships within Deutsche Bank AG University, USA. Number of shares in Scandic: Previous assignments: and Partner of McKinsey & ComProvobis Invest AB, Harrys Pubar AB, RCL Holding AB, KL Capital AB, Other current assignments: 3,134 Board member of H&M Hennes & pany Inc in Germany. Mauritz AB and TUI Nordic Holding Future Pawnbroker AB and Tableflip CEO and Board member of Accent Number of shares in Scandic: – Entertainment AB. Chairman of the Equity Partners AB. Chairman of the AB. Board of AM Brands AB and memBoard of Hoist Group Holding AB. Number of shares in Scandic: ber of the Nomination Committee of Board member of RenoNorden ASA, 3,134 Betsson AB and NetEnt AB. Northpaw Capital AB and Southpaw Number of shares in Scandic: Capital Equity Partner AB. 205,219 Number of shares in Scandic: – Number of shares as per December 31, 2016. Board of Directors • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 115 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Standing, from left to right: Linda Eriksson, Jens Mathiesen, Frank Fiskers, Thomas Engelhart, Svein Arild Steen-Mevold, Aki Käyhkö. Sitting, from left to right: Jesper Engman, Jan Johansson, Michel Schutzbach, Peter Jangbratt, Lena Bjurner. 116 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • Executive Committee FRANK FISKERS THOMAS ENGELHART LINDA ERIKSSON AKI KÄYHKÖ MICHEL SCHUTZBACH President & CEO Chief Commercial Officer (adjunct member) Director Group Strategy Head of Finland Head of Europe Born: 1961. Employed and member of Born: 1967. Employed and member of Born: 1983. Employed and adjunct member Born: 1968. Employed by the Group since Born: 1961. Employed by the Group since Scandic’s Executive Committee since 2013. Scandic’s Executive Committee since 2015. of Scandic’s Executive Committee since 2012. Member of Scandic’s Executive 2009. Member of Scandic’s Executive ComDanish citizen. Norwegian citizen. August 2015. Swedish citizen. Committee since September 2016. mittee since September 2016. Swiss citizen. Other assignments: Industrial advisor to Other assignments: – Other assignments: – Finnish citizen. Other assignments: – EQT Partners. Education: Bachelor in Hotel Management, Education: Master of Science in Engineering, Other assignments: Member of the Board of Education: Diploma from Hotels & ManageEducation: Studies at Cornell University, Glion Group/Hosta, Switzerland and Master in Media Technology and Master of Industrial the Finnish Hospitality Industry Association. ment School, Glion, Switzerland. USA, London Business School, UK and IMD International Business, Ceram University, Management from KTH Royal Institute of Education: Bachelor of Business AdministraPrevious experience: Several senior posiBusiness School, Switzerland. Grand Ecole, France. Technology, Stockholm, Sweden. tion in International Business and Managetions within Rezidor, including Vice President Previous experience: President & CEO, Previous experience: Area Vice President Previous experience: Management Consulment, Schiller International University, HR and Regional Director Poland and Ireland. Kooperativa Förbundet (KF); Co-owner, Azure Nordics, Rezidor AB; MD, Coop Marknad AB; tant at Bain & Company and Head of Market­London. Number of shares in Scandic: 11,194 Property Group; President & CEO, Scandic Senior Vice President Commercial Operation ing at Norvida. Previous experience: Several senior Hotels (2007–2010); managerial positions & Brand Experience, Scandic Hotels and Vice Number of shares in Scandic: – positions at Procter & Gamble and Reckitt within Hilton Hotels Corporation and Rezidor President, Merchant Service, EMEA, AmeriBenckiser; Commercial Director, Oy Hartwall SVEIN ARILD STEEN-MEVOLD and President & CEO First Hotels. Chairman can Express. Chairman of the Board of Coop and CEO, Palace Kämp Group. Head of Norway of the Board of Akademibokhandelsgruppen Butiksutveckling AB, Coop Sverige AB and PETER JANGBRATT Number of shares in Scandic: 11,194 Born: 1967. Employed by the Group since AB and KF Media AB. Board member of MedMera Bank AB. Head of Sweden 2010. Member of Scandic’s Executive Svensk Dagligvaruhandel Ekonomisk Number of shares in Scandic: 14,924 Born: 1967. Employed by the Group 1995– Committee since September 2016. Förening and Svensk Handel. JENS MATHIESEN 2008 and since 2015. Member of Scandic’s Norwegian citizen. Head of Denmark Number of shares in Scandic: 75, 441 Executive Committee since September 2016. Other assignments: Board member of JESPER ENGMAN Swedish citizen. Born: 1969. Employed by the Group since Guma Sport Ltd and Oris Dental AS. Vice President Business Development Other assignments: – 2008. Member of Scandic’s Executive ComLENA BJURNER Education: Bachelor in Service ManageBorn: 1974. Employed since 2006. Member mittee since September 2016. Danish citizen. Senior Vice President HR & Sustainability Education: Scandic Business School ment, Norwegian School of Hotel Manageof Scandic’s Executive Committee since Other assignments: Chairman of the Board Born: 1968. Employed and member of and Hilton. ment. 2014. Swedish citizen. of Dansk Erhverv and Board member of DA Scandic’s Executive Committee since 2015. Other assignments: – Previous experience: Several senior (Dansk Erbejdsgiverforening) and Wonderful Previous experience: Several senior Swedish citizen. positions at Scandic including Director Copenhagen. positions within Scandic; General Manager, Education: Master of Real Estate Developof Marketing & Communications, Radisson SAS and Vice President and memOther assignments: Board member of ment, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Education: Shipping Broker, Transocean UNHCR in Sweden. Head of Operations Sweden and CEO of Rica ber of Executive Committee, Nordic Choice Stockholm, Sweden. Hotels Sweden. Member of Scandic’s ExecuShipping, Denmark. Hotels AS with responsibility for Education: Bachelor of Business AdministraPrevious experience: Business Area Directive Committee 2002–2008. Previous experience: Director of Sales & Clarion Collection Hotels chain. tion, Falun/Borlänge University, Sweden. tor and Analyst, Pandox. Analyst, Hotellus. Marketing, Choice Hotels Scandinavia; Number of shares in Scandic: 11,194 Number of shares in Scandic: 11,194 Previous experience: Several senior posiNumber of shares in Scandic: 5,970 CEO, Fountain Scandinavia A/S and Head of tions within American Express: VP HR Head of Sales & Marketing, Avis Rent a Car. Market HR Nordics, Central Eastern Europe, JAN JOHANSSON Chief Financial Officer Number of shares in Scandic: 11,194 Benelux and France, Director HR Business Partner Customer Service Organisation Born: 1962. Employed and member of Latin America/Canada and Director, Scandic’s Executive Committee since Head of Commercial Card & Business Travel September 2016. Swedish citizen. Account Management Nordic. Other assignments: Board member of Number of shares in Scandic: 4,057 Svensk Miljömärkning AB. Membership will cease as of the next general meeting. Education: Master of Business Administration, Uppsala University, Sweden. Previous experience: CFO, Apoteket; CFO, Nobia AB and CFO, Eniro. Number of shares in Scandic: 1,000 Number of shares as per December 31, 2016. Executive Committee • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 117 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Scandic’s sustainability strategy is built on a materiality analysis where various stakeholders rank sustainability issues. Based on the results and in combination with Scandic’s overall long-term goals, the company develops an overall strategy. The results of the strategy are presented on pages 34–51 of this Annual Report. STAKEHOLDERS’ EXPECTATIONS ON MATERIAL ASPECTS Stakeholder group Main aspects The stakeholders invited to the annual dialog are internal and external stakeholders who Employees • Satisfied customers have shown commitment to sustainability issues and a supplementary group of external • Hotel security stakeholders from whom Scandic wants input only for the materiality analysis. The dialogs • Minimizing waste were conducted online and through questionnaires and personal meetings. Scandic reports to the Board of Directors annually on developments within its sustainability work and it conOwners and investors • Reducing CO2 emissions siders the stakeholders’ responses to meet external expectations on sustainability and on • Minimizing waste Scandic’s development. • The Board and Executive Committee’s commitment to sustainability issues HOW SCANDIC SELECTED MATERIAL ASPECTS In 2015, Scandic conducted its first annual materiality analysis to determine relevant susNon-governmental • Reducing CO2 emissions organizations • Minimizing waste tainability aspects affecting the company. Internal and external stakeholders were asked to rank defined aspects related to Scandic’s operations. The stakeholders were asked to priori• Fair working conditions tize the aspects they thought Scandic should focus on and prioritize in its sustainability work Future employees • Fair working conditions based on how these aspects affect the stakeholder’s assessment and decision to choose • Minimizing waste Scandic as a hotel chain and based on Scandic’s material impact in the social, environmental and economic aspects. The aspects were selected based on Scandic’s governance, Guests • Minimizing waste operations, employees and guests. • Reducing CO2 emissions • Occupational health and safety Corporate customers • Fair working conditions MAIN AREAS OF SCANDIC’S SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY • Occupational health and safety The aspects where Scandic aims to inspire, focus aspects where Scandic aims to • Choosing interiors with consideration for environmental be engaged and areas where Scandic takes responsibility. impacts INSPIRE ESG analysts • Active work to prevent trafficking and prostitution Inclusion and diversity. • Reducing CO2 emissions • The Board and Executive Committee’s commitment ENGAGE to sustainability issues Health. CO2. Waste. INSPIRE BE RESPONSIBLE Business partners • Ensuring that all employees have equal rights Hotel security, water, chemicals, energy, ENGAGE and opportunities ­sustainable supply chain, anti-corruption, • Active efforts to prevent trafficking and prostitution ­trafficking & prostitution, food safety, ­ • Fair working conditions community engagement and working BE RESPONSIBLE ­conditions. 118 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • Sustainability report GRI: G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27, G4-DMA EXAMPLES OF INITIATIVES THAT SCANDIC SUPPORTS ECONOMIC VALUE RESULTING FROM INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY WORK Organization Description Country Type of cooperation Fast Track A national initiative that creates oppSweden Scandic is a partner. Economic value creation MSEK (Snabbspåret) ortunities for newcomers with chef’s Direct economic value generated 12,211 training to validate their skills at Revenues 12,211 Scandic through apprenticeships. Carried out in cooperation with the Economic value distributed 12,102.54 Government of Sweden and Visita. Operating costs 7,641.7 Mitt Liv Mitt Liv works to promote an inclusive Sweden Scandic is a partner in Employee wages and benefits 3,954 society and a labor market that values the mentoring program, Financial costs 500 diversity through mentoring, training among others. Taxes 6.5 and broad contact networks. Community investments 0.34 Diversity Charter Part of Diversity Charter’s European Finland Scandic is one of the Finland network. Works to promote diversity founders in Finland. Remaining economic value 108.46 and an inclusive perspective in comThe information in this table shows generated and distributed economic value. This indicates how panies and organizations. Scandic has created value for stakeholders from a broader social perspective. Scandic’s operations The Finnish Encourages young athletes and conFinland Scandic is a sponsor. are run in a sound way with a sustainable distribution of operating costs including wages, taxes and Paralympic tributes to research and training within community investments while there is still good profitability for shareholders. Committee sports for the disabled. Scandic ID league The first football league for people Germany Scandic helped start with intellectual disabilities in Germany. the league and is now The league has more than 300 mema sponsor. bers and plays in Berlin. The league is a member of the German Football Association and Berlin’s organization for the disabled. Budnianer hilfe e.V. The goal of the association is to Germany Scandic supports provide physical and social support the organization. for marginalized children and young adults. Confederation The overall goal of the project is to Norway Scandic is a partner. of Norwegian improve conditions for recruiting Enterprise (NHO) people outside of the labor market. Stiftelsen for A national cooperation to increase Norway Scandic is a member rekruttering the number of students in training of the committee til restaurant programs within the hotel and and project. -og matfag restaurant industry with the intention of securing skills in the industry going forward. Dansk Erhverv Network for the service industry Denmark Scandic is a member of CSR netværk in Denmark, which represents the CSR network. 17,000 Danish companies. ReFood Collects and distributes leftover food Denmark Scandic is a member. from restaurants. GRI: G4-16, G4-DMA, EC-1 Sustainability report • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 119 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT As the leading hotel company SUSTAINABILITY – A NATURAL COOPERATION in the Nordic countries, ScanPART OF THE SELECTION After decades of working with sustain­ PROCESS ability, Scandic has extensive knowledge dic buys goods and services To ensure that Scandic only cooperates and gladly shares this knowledge with worth substantial amounts with suppliers that share its values, sussuppliers. The company encourages a every year. For this reason, tainability is included as an item already in continuous dialog with suppliers parallel to the selection process when it comes to the screening process in order to support procurement and supplier cooperation. A special sustainability and help develop the supplier’s sustaincontrol are an important part screening is carried out by Scandic’s proability work. of the company’s sustainabilcurement team as a first step in the proIn Norway, Scandic drives supplier suscess. This involves criteria regarding the tainability forward together with other ity work. Scandic works sysenvironment, anti-corruption, human companies through the purchasing comtematically to ensure that only rights and work environment. During pany GRESS. Among other things, Scansuppliers that live up to the 2016, 93 percent of all contracted supplidic’s Code of Conduct has played a signifirequirements of the company ers underwent sustainability screening. cant role in GRESS’s work to secure its During the year, all suppliers that were supplier chain. are accepted. screened and accepted agreed to adhere to the principles in Scandic’s Supplier UNDER CONSTANT Code of Conduct. DEVELOPMENT Scandic also regularly carries out risk Scandic has successfully worked with assessments of the entire supplier base. systematizing its process for supplier During 2016, Scandic assessed about management. To support the process, the 1,000 suppliers. If there is uncertainty company continuously works with skills regarding a supplier, a more in-depth development and follows up on the proassessment is carried out through a selfcurement team as regards challenges in assessment that may also be followed by the area. Having secure and skilled team an onsite audit of the supplier. Scandic members creates long-term relationships may also contract external experts to carry and a close collaboration with suppliers out the audit or to verify the answers of the means that Scandic has the conditions supplier. All deviations identified during to create a socially and environmentally selfor third-party audits must be sustainable supplier chain. addressed in the manner described in a corrective action plan approved by Scandic. The measures stated must be implemented within the agreed timeframe for the supplier to remain under contract. 120 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • Sustainable supplier management GRI: G4-12, G4-56, G4-DMA, EN-32, LA-14, HR-10, SO-9 60o enErgy & it emPloyeeS laUndry deCoratIons & coNsumaBles guEsts WelcomE wateR fooD & beveRage wastE taXi/TransPort SCANDIC’S PROCESS 1.  SUSTAINABILITY SCREENING 4. THIRD-PARTY AUDITS OF SUPPLIERS INVOLVES THE PERFORMED BY SCANDIC’S CONSIDERED TO BE HIGH-RISK SUPPLIERS FOLLOWING STEPS: PROCUREMENT TEAM OR WHO HAVE BEEN INVOLVED IN TRANSGRESSIONS 2. SELF-ASSESSMENT FORMS COMPLETED BY SUPPLIERS 5. CORRECTIVE ACTION PLANS AND DIALOG WITH SUPPLIERS TO SUPPORT THEIR 3. AUDITS OF SUPPLIERS DEVELOPMENT PERFORMED BY SCANDIC’S PROCUREMENT TEAM GRI: G4-12, G4-DMA Sustainable supplier management • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 121 EMPLOYEE DATA 2016 2015 Scandic is continuing to grow, Total number of employees1) Women Men Total Women Men Total both when it comes to hotels Total number 9,688 5,638 15,326 9,389 5,354 14,743 Permanent employment 5,270 3,223 8,493 5,057 3,024 8,081 and employees. The demoFull-time 3,184 2,401 5,585 3,077 2,266 5,343 graphic and geographic Part-time 2,086 822 2,908 1,980 758 2,738 breakdown of employees Temporary 4,176 2,295 6,471 4,128 2,226 6,354 remained mainly unchanged Contracted workers 242 120 362 204 104 308 in 2016 compared with 2015. 1) The total number of employees for 2015 has been adjusted to include contracted workers. The most significant 2016 2015 change took place in the New hires1) Number Share, % Number Share, % Total number and % of total 1,237 14.6 1,044 12.9 Executive Committee where Of which Women 656 53.0 553 53.0 the Country Heads were Men 581 47.0 491 47.0 included and the Vice PresiOf which Age <30 675 54.6 485 46.5 dent Communication & IR Age 30–50 515 41.6 505 48.4 left the company. Age >50 47 3.8 54 5.2 Of which Sweden 514 41.6 234 22.4 Scandic works constantly Norway 272 22.0 319 30.6 to analyze and identify disFinland 83 6.7 68 6.5 criminatory wages. In 2017, Denmark 242 19.6 337 32.3 a framework for job classifiOther European 126 10.2 86 8.2 cation will be implemented. 1) Data refers to permanent employment. 2016 2015 This can be used to illustrate Employee turnover1) Number Share, % Number Share, % discriminatory pay for work Total number and % of total 1,667 19.6 1,793 22.2 of equal value. Since the Of which Women 935 56.1 1,045 58.3 Men 732 43.9 748 41.7 framework was not in place Of which Age <30 764 45.8 765 42.7 in 2016, no detailed data on Age 30–50 760 45.6 865 48.2 gender pay disparities will be Age >50 143 8.6 163 9.1 published for 2016. Of which Sweden 660 39.6 433 24.1 Norway 462 27.7 861 48.0 Finland 118 7.1 91 5.1 Denmark 296 17.8 316 17.6 Other European 131 7.9 92 5.1 1) Data refers to permanent employment. 122 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • Employee data GRI: G4-10, G4-DMA, LA-1 2016 2015 Geographic breakdown Women Men Total Women Men Total 1,237 Total 9,688 5,638 15,326 9,389 5,354 14,743 Of which Sweden 4,586 2,419 7,005 4,574 2,327 6,901 Norway 2,957 1,864 4,821 2,841 1,762 4,603 Finland 878 435 1,313 811 415 1,226 NEW PERMANENT Denmark Other European 1,013 254 738 182 1,751 436 931 232 651 199 1,582 431 EMPLOYEES DURING The table shows the total number of employees at Scandic including contracted workers. The Board of Directors is not included. THE YEAR Demographic breakdown Total number of Board of Executive 2016 employees, % Directors, % Committee, % Managers, % Employees, % Women 9,446 63.1 3 25.0 1 11.1 677 53.5 8,768 64.0 Men 5,518 36.9 9 75.0 8 88.9 588 46.5 4,922 36.0 Age <30 6,564 43.9 0 0.0 0 0.0 143 11.3 6,421 46.9 Age 30–50 6,666 44.5 4 33.3 7 77.8 908 71.8 5,751 42.0 Age >50 1,734 11.6 8 66.7 2 22.2 214 16.9 1,518 11.1 Total number 14,964 12 9 1,265 13,690 Total number of Board of Executive 2015 employees, % Directors, % Committee, % Managers, % Employees, % Women 9,185 63.6 2 20.0 3 42.9 622 52.1 8,560 64.7 Men 5,250 36.4 8 80.0 4 57.1 573 47.9 4,673 35.3 Age <30 6,635 46.0 0 0.0 0 0.0 131 11.0 6,504 49.2 Age 30–50 6,183 42.8 3 30.0 5 71.4 870 72.8 5,308 40.1 Age >50 1,617 11.2 7 70.0 2 28.6 194 16.2 1,421 10.7 Total number 14,435 10 7 1,195 13,233 The table shows the total number of employees at Scandic including the Board of Directors. Contracted workers are not included. Average training time, hours 2016 2015 Comparison between 2015 and 2016: The number of permanent Total number 3.3 2.4 employees at Scandic grew while the geographic breakdown Of which Women 3.2 2.6 remained unchanged as a whole. The number of women on the Men 3.6 2.4 Board of Directors increased while the number of female members Of which Executive Committee1) 10.1 – of the Executive Committee decreased due to the fact that the Managers 18.0 13.1 Country Heads are now included in the Executive Committee and Employees 2.0 1.5 two female members left Scandic. The number of female managers 1) Training hours for the Executive Committee are presented together with managers for 2015. at Scandic increased during the year. GRI: G4-10, G4-DMA, LA-9, LA-12 Employee data • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 123 GRI INDEX This is Scandic’s second Annual Sustainability Report and it includes all of Scandic’s hotels party reports on emission factors for district heating and cooling. Waste data is based on a operated under lease agreements in all countries of operation, as well as the Group’s varicompilation provided by Scandic’s waste management suppliers. Human resources data is ous support offices. Scandic’s partner hotels and franchises are excluded as they act under compiled using Scandic’s HR system and supplier data is compiled based on Scandic’s risk their own governance systems. When calculating environmentally-certified hotels, however, assessment tool. Customer satisfaction data is compiled from monthly surveys. all hotels are included. The Annual Sustainability Report was prepared in accordance with GRI G4 on a selfCONTACT DETAILS declared Level Core. It also constitutes Scandic’s COP to the Global Compact on the Scandic’s contact for questions regarding Scandic’s operational sustainability work is Scandic’s Active level. The sustainability information provided has not been externally assured by Director Sustainable Business. Questions regarding Scandic’s Annual Report and Sustainability a third party. Environmental data has been verified by Ethos International in accordance Report should be directed to the Communications & IR department at ir@scandichotels.com. with AA1000AS. Both functions are located at Scandic’s head office in Stockholm, Sweden. The Report refers to the period from January 1 to December 31, 2016. The previous Report was published on April 21, 2016. The base year for environmental data is 2015. Emissions data is calculated based on the GHG protocol, supplier information and thirdFulfilled Partially fulfilled GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES FulfillFulfillTitle Page ment Comments Title Page ment Comments Strategy and analysis G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary p. 46 GC Principle 7 G4-1 Statement from the most senior p. 3–5 principle is addressed by the decision-maker of the organization organization Organizational profile G4-15 Externally developed economic, p. 46 environmental and social charters, G4-3 Name of the organization p. 56 principles or other initiatives to which G4-4 Primary brands, products and services p. 6, 14 the organization subscribes or G4-5 The organization’s headquarters p. 56 which it endorses G4-6 Number of countries where the organip. 24–25 G4-16 List of memberships in associations p. 119 zation operates and names of countries (e.g. trade associations) and national or where either the organization has siginternational advocacy organizations nificant operations or that are specifiIdentified material aspects and boundaries cally relevant to the sustainability topics G4-17 Entities included in the financial p. 56, 124 covered in the report statements G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form p. 56, 107 G4-18 Process for defining material aspects p. 118 G4-8 Markets served by the organization p. 24–25 G4-19 Material aspects p. 46, 118 G4-9 Scale of the organization p. 24–25, 41, G4-20 Aspect boundary within p. 118 66–67 the organization G4-10 Compilation of the organization’s p. 122–123 GC Principle 6 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside of p. 118 employees the organization G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by p. 37 GC Principle 3 G4-22 Restatements of information provided p. 47 collective bargaining agreements in previous reports and the reason for G4-12 The organization’s supply chain p. 120–121 these restatements G4-13 Significant changes during p. 107 G4-23 Significant changes from previous p. 47 the reporting period reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries 124 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • GRI GRI: G4-17, G4-28, G4-29, G4-30, G4-31, G4-32, G4-DMA, EN-3, EN-15, EN-16, EN-17, EN-23 FulfillFulfillTitle Page ment Comments Title Page ment Comments Stakeholder engagement G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding p. 124 G4-24 List of stakeholder groups p. 118 the report or its contents G4-25 Method for identification and p. 118 G4-32 GRI Content Index p. 124–125 prioritization of which stakeholders G4-33 Assurance process N/A The Annual Sustainabilwith whom to engage ity Report has been selfG4-26 The organization’s approach to p. 118 declared at Level Core. stakeholder engagement It has not been assured by a third party. G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been p. 118 raised through stakeholder engagement Governance Reporting profile G4-34 The governance structure of the p. 106, 110 organization, including committees G4-28 Reporting period p. 124 responsible for economic, G4-29 Date of most recent published report p. 124 April 21, 2016 environmental and social issues G4-30 Reporting cycle p. 124 Ethics and integrity G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, p. 11, 106, GC Principle 10 standards and code of conduct 110, 120 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and DMA and indicaFulfillindicaFulfilltors Title Page ment Comments tors Title Page ment Comments G4-DMA Disclosure regarding p. 34–41, GC Principles 1, 2, 3, 7, 8, 9, HR-10 Screening of suppliers p. 120 GC Principles 1, 2 sustainability governance 44–51, 10 using human rights criteria 118–124 SO-9 Screening of suppliers p. 120 Economic performance using criteria for impacts on society EC-1 Direct economic value p. 119 Employment Energy consumption and emission of LA-1 New employee hires and p. 122 GC Principle 6 greenhouse gases employee turnover EN-3 Energy consumption p. 46, 124 GC Principles 7, 8 Health and safety within the organization LA-8 Health and safety topics p. 35 EN-15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions p. 46–47, 124 GC Principles 7, 8 covered in formal agreements (Scope 1) Training EN-16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions p. 46–47, 124 GC Principles 7, 8 LA-9 Average hours of training p. 123 (Scope 2) Diversity and equal opportunity EN-17 Other indirect greenhouse gas p. 46–47, 124 GC Principles 7, 8 emissions (Scope 3) LA-12 Composition of the Board of p. 123 GC Principle 6 Directors and the Executive Employee figures have not EN-18 Greenhouse gas emission p. 48 Includes Scopes 1, 2 and 3, Management, and breakdown been divided into all diversity intensity GC Principle 8 of employees per employee categories desired by the GRI, EN-23 Total weight of waste by type and p. 47–48, 124 GC Principle 8 category as this would contravene disposal method Swedish law. Supplier assessment GC Principle 8 Training on human rights EN-32 Screening of suppliers p. 120 GC Principles 7, 8, 9 HR-2 Employee training p. 49 GC Principles 1, 2 using environmental criteria on human rights LA-14 Screening of suppliers p. 120 GC Principles 3, 4, 5, 6 Customer satisfaction using labor practices criteria PR-5 Customer satisfaction p. 44–45 GRI: G4-32 GRI • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 125 A STRONG FIRST YEAR ON THE STOCK EXCHANGE On December 2, 2015 Scandic made a comeback on the stock exchange when its shares were listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. Scandic is listed on the exchange’s Mid Cap list and is included in the Travel & Leisure sector index. During 2016, the company’s share developed better than the OMX Stockholm Index as a whole and the largest shareholders decreased their holdings significantly. SHARE PRICE TREND places. Trading on Nasdaq Stockholm accounted for Swedish mutual funds held 25.4 percent and private individBased on the closing price on December 2, 2015 (63.75 approximately 59 percent of the total turnover. uals held 3.2 percent. Foreign ownership increased during SEK), which was the first day of trading, up until year-end, the year from 14.5 percent to 28.7 percent. Scandic’s share rose by 20.0 percent while the sector SHARE CAPITAL AND OWNERSHIP On March 23, 2017, Sunstorm Holding AB announced index OMX Stockholm Travel & Leisure decreased 17.8 ­STRUCTURE an agreement to sell 6,000,000 shares to Novobis AB and percent and the broad index OMX Stockholm went up by The share capital amounts to 25.7 MSEK divided into 15,026,982 shares to Stena Sessan Rederi AB. 3.0 percent. Based on the last price paid on December 30, 102,985,075 shares, conferring one vote each. At the end 2016, which was 76.50 SEK, Scandic’s total market capiof 2016, Scandic had 6,196 shareholders, which is an DIVIDEND AND DIVIDEND POLICY talization was approximately 7.88 billion SEK compared increase compared with the end of 2015 when there were The Board of Directors adopted a dividend policy that aims with the market capitalization on December 31, 2015, 5,725 shareholders. During the year, Sunstorm Holding AB to distribute at least 50 percent of the net profit from the which was approximately 6.95 billion SEK. sold 46,065,557 shares, thereby reducing its shareholding 2016 financial year. For the 2016 financial year, the Board to 20.4 percent of the votes and capital. At the end of 2016, of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 3.15 per share. TURNOVER the company was still the largest shareholder. At year-end, The record day is May 12, 2017. During 2016, 121 million Scandic shares were traded at a the total Swedish holding amounted to 71.3 percent of the value of 8,560 MSEK. The share was traded in 10 marketshares of which Swedish institutions held 42.7 percent, THE SHARE PRICE AND TURNOVER TREND, DEC 2, 2015 – DEC 30, 2016 PROPOSED SEK No. of shares ‘000 100 40,000 90 35,000 DIVIDEND: SEK 3.15 80 70 30,000 25,000 PER SHARE 60 50 20,000 15,000 40 10,000 30 5,000 20 0 Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Scandic OMX Stockholm OMX Travel & Leisure Number of shares traded, thousands Source: SIX Trust and Fidessa. 126 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • The share Share Votes, Number of Shareholder ­capital, % % shares Analysts following Scandic GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF OWNERS, % Sunstorm Holding AB 20.4 20.4 21,026,982 Stefan Andersson SEB AMF Försäkring & Fonder 9.4 9.4 9,647,032 Jamie Rollo Morgan Stanley Rolf Lundström1) 9.2 9.2 9,503,800 Andreas Lundberg ABG Handelsbanken Fonder 8.8 8.8 9,047,983 Geoffrey d’Halluin Deutsche Bank Lannebo Fonder 3.0 3.0 3,070,703 Karl-Johan Bonnevier DNB Tredje AP-Fonden 2.7 2.7 2,789,227 Investec Asset Management 2.6 2.6 2,667,505 Proportion Ownership structure Proportion of Number of votes and Svolder 2.0 2.0 2,082,500 as at December 31, 2016 owners, % of owners capital,% Norron Fonder 1.2 1.2 1,236,319 Sweden 71.3 UK 9.1 US 8.3 Size categories Andra AP-Fonden 1.1 1.1 1,083,447 Luxembourg 5.1 Germany 1.0 Other 5.1 1 – 1000 87.0 5,396 1.2 Försäkringsbolaget PRI 0.9 0.9 926,479 Source: Holdings of Modular Finance AB as per 2016-12-31. 1,001 – 250,000 12.2 756 13.3 Data compiled and arranged from Euroclear, Morningstar and the Swedish Financial Länsförsäkringar Fonder 0.8 0.8 855,135 Supervisory Authority, among others. 250,001 – 2,500,000 0.6 37 29.5 Catella Fonder 0.7 0.7 744,874 2,500,001 – 5,000,000 0.0 3 8.3 XACT Fonder 0.6 0.6 587,336 5,000,001 – 10,000,000 0.0 3 27.4 Humle Fonder 0.5 0.5 560,000 OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE, % 10,000,001 – 25,000,000 0.0 1 20.4 Total Total 100 6,196 100 15 largest owners 63.9 63.9 65,829,322 Number of shares 102,985,075 Other 36.1 36.1 37,155,753 Total number of shares 100 100 102,985,075 Source: Holdings of Modular Finance AB as per 2016-12-31. Data compiled and arranged from Euroclear, Morningstar and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, among others. Source: Holdings of Modular Finance AB as per 2016-12-31 (verification dates can vary for foreign owners). Data compiled and arranged from Euroclear, Morningstar and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, among others. Share data 1) Via Novobis AB and privately. Ticker symbol SHOT ISIN SE0000635401 Swedish institutions 42.7 Swedish mutual funds 25.4 Trading lot 1 share Swedish retail investors 3.2 Foreign ownership 28.7 List Nasdaq Stockholm Mid Cap list Sector index OMX Stockholm Travel & Leisure Source: Holdings of Modular Finance AB as per 2016-12-31. Data compiled and arranged from Euroclear, Morningstar and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, among others. The share • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 127 DEFINITIONS HOTEL-RELATED KEY RATIOS FINANCIAL KEY RATIOS AND Non-recurring items ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE Items that are not directly related ARR (Average Room Rate) MEASURES to the normal operations of the Group, for The average room rate is the average example, costs for transactions, exits and room revenue per sold room. EBT restructuring. Earnings before tax. Full-time equivalents (FTEs) Working capital, net The number of full-time employees calcuEBIT Total current assets excluding cash and lated as the total number of working hours Earnings before interest and taxes. cash equivalents minus current liabilities. for the period divided by annual working EBITDA time. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciaLFL (Like-for-Like) tion and amortization. EQUITY-RELATED KEY RATIOS LFL refers to the hotels that were in operaEBITDA margin Earnings per share tion during the entire year and the previous EBITDA as a percentage of net sales. The profit/loss during the period attributyear (no new or exit hotels are included). able to the shareholders of the Parent Adjusted EBIT OCC (Occupancy) Company divided by the average number Earnings before pre-opening costs, nonRefers to sold rooms in relation to the of shares. recurring items, interest and taxes. number of available rooms. Expressed as a Equity per share percentage. Adjusted EBITDA Equity attributable to the shareholders of Earnings before pre-opening costs, nonPre-opening costs the Parent Company divided by the numrecurring items, interest, taxes, depreciaRefers to costs for contracted and newlyber of shares at the end of the period. tion and amortization. opened hotels before opening day. Adjusted EBITDAR RevPAR (Revenue Per Available Earnings before pre-opening costs, nonRoom) recurring items, interest, taxes, depreciaRefers to the average room revenue per tion, amortization and rent. available room. Interest-bearing net liabilities Interest-bearing assets minus interestbearing liabilities. Cover photo: Scandic Aarhus Vest, Denmark. Production: Scandic in cooperation with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Printing: Göteborgstryckeriet 2017. 128 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • DEFINITIONS INFORMATION TO THE SHAREHOLDERS 2017 Annual General Meeting Nomination Committee The Annual General Meeting of the shareholders in Scandic Joel Lindeman Provobis through Novobis AB ANNUAL Hotels Group AB (publ) will be held at 13:00 CET on Wednes­ day, May 10, 2017 at Scandic Continental in Stockholm. Stephan Leithner (Chairman of the Nomination Committee) Sunstorm Holding AB GENERAL MEETING Registration will begin at 12:00 CET. Participation in the Annual General Meeting Lars-Åke Bokenberger AMF Vagn Sørensen Chairman of the Board MAY 10, 2017 Shareholders who wish to participate in the Annual General Meeting must be included in the share register maintained Among other things, the Nomination Committee proposes Board Members to the Annual General Meeting and if applic­ IN STOCKHOLM by Euroclear Sweden AB and notify their intention to partic­ ipate in the Annual General Meeting no later than Thursday, able, auditors and fees to the Board of Directors. May 4, 2017. Financial information 2017 The notice may be sent to: Computershare AB c/o Scandics Interim report January–March 2017 May 10, 2017 årsstämma, Box 610, 182 16 Danderyd, Sweden or alterna­ Interim report January–June 2017 July 20, 2017 tively be given by phone at +46 771 24 64 00. Interim report January–September 2017 October 26, 2017 The notice should contain the name, personal or corpo­ rate identify number, address and telephone number and Financial reports are available on the company’s website at any accompanying assistant. Shareholders attending by www.scandichotelsgroup.com proxy shall state the name and the corporate or personal To subscribe for Scandic’s press releases and interim identity number of the proxy. reports, register your email address on Scandic’s website. To participate in the Annual General Meeting, sharehold­ ers whose shares are nominee registered must temporarily Contact details register the shares in their own names with Euroclear Jan Johansson, CFO Sweden AB. Shareholders should inform the nominees jan.johansson@scandichotels.com well in advance of notifying their attendance. Henrik Vikström, Director Investor Relations Notice convening the Annual General Meeting henrik.vikstrom@scandichotels.com The Annual General Meeting is convened through a notice on the Company’s website and an announcement in the Swedish Official Gazette (Postoch Inrikes Tidningar). The fact that the notice has been published will be announced in Svenska Dagbladet. Any documents that are to be presented at the Annual General Meeting will be made available on the Company’s website at least three weeks prior to the Annual General Meeting and on the day of the Annual General Meeting. shareholder INFORMATION • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 • 129 SCANDICHOTELSGROUP.COM
