Sustainability Performance Report 2016 Resilient World Contents Our Approach CEO statement About Amec Foster Wheeler Our approach to sustainability Embedding sustainability Materiality Foundation of excellence Health, Safety and Security – HSS management K+S Potash project Health, Safety and Security – HSS performance Showcasing HSSE excellence Security in focus Environmental management Carbon management Minimising resource use 5 star efficiency Empowering ethics Human rights Indigenous Business Initiative Community investment Community roundup 10 years with SOS Hydroponics in Manila People Developing full potential Highlighting STEM Diversity and Inclusion Networks Innovation and Delivery Sustainability in projects Atlanta BeltLine Water resource management Here comes the sun – celebrating 10 years in solar Climate Resilience Resilient Cities Mapping our report Sustainability Performance Report 2016 Resilient World Our approach Highlights Our sustainability strategy ‘Resilient World’ aligns our commitments to the UN Global Compact principles, with our strategic priority to ‘provide a safe and sustainable environment for our people and the communities in which we work’. • New strategic priorities for the business developed • Review of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to identify key areas for support • Continued commitment to the UN Global Compact • Three key engagement surveys utilised to review and clarify material issues for the business • Hosted a 17-hour YamJam to celebrate Earth Day and engage employees in conversation on sustainability • Over 5,000 employees completed online sustainability awareness training • Roll-out of Sustainability Promises to embed sustainability action © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet CEO statement Building resilience for sustainable growth It has been just over a year since the United Nations 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) officially came into force, mobilising efforts to tackle climate change, poverty and to fight inequality. Our approach to sustainability play a key part in our actions and is aligned with these SDGs and behaviours across the company. supports the delivery of our own All members of the Executive strategic priorities, specifically the Committee serve on Amec Foster provision of a safe and sustainable Resilient World Wheeler’s Sustainability Committee environment and the engagement, Our sustainability reinforcing the importance of attraction, development and strategy for solving the Resilient World strategy to retention of people. These are all tomorrow’s natural our operations and our ongoing central to the long-term growth of resource challenges commitment to the United Nations our company. together Global Compact and the SDGs. Companies such as Amec Foster Over the past year, we have made Wheeler have a pivotal role to good progress delivering three of our play helping to deliver these goals five commitments in the Resilient between now and 2030. The official World strategy in the areas of launch of the SDGs in 2016 has set human rights and modern slavery, the business community a clear and reaffirming our carbon strategy and compelling path to action which we On joining the company in June goals in light of the Conference of have embedded in to our Resilient 2016, I led a review of the company’s Parties 21 (COP21) outcomes and World strategy. strategy, organisation and cost ensuring that sustainability is central base and subsequently in August to our Identify, Acquire and Deliver Amec Foster Wheeler’s Resilient 2016, launched a companywide process for winning and delivering World strategy aims to solve future transformation programme work. Progress has been made natural resources challenges to fundamentally improve the in publishing and implementing a in partnership with a range of performance of the company and put framework for the Resilient World stakeholders. It ensures that we it on a path to sustainable growth. Foundation of Excellence and in manage risk as well as open new This led to the development of nine defining the innovation criteria for opportunities to deliver long-term strategic priorities for the company Resilient World into one portfolio, value for our company, employees which are set out in our Annual however there is more to do this year and customers. Report 2016 and see sustainability to meet this commitment in full. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / CEO introduction amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet CEO statement Building resilience for sustainable growth financial reporting key performance undertake that work in a safe and indicator on modern slavery which secure environment and our duty seeks to improve the level of is to ensure that work is managed engagement and understanding of properly and that risks are verified the issue across our operations and and effectively mitigated. It is for sphere of influence and commits this reason that our global Health us to increased engagement Safety Security and Environmental and collaboration with external (HSSE) policy is fundamental to stakeholders. Our key performance the operation of our business and indicators can be accessed on page supported by our HSSE framework 22 of our Annual Report 2016. which sets out our expectations and minimum HSSE standards for our The sustainable delivery of our global operations. Our integrated projects in order to appropriately HSSE management system is mitigate operational risks and benchmarked against international respect and protect the environment standards and best practice. and communities in which we work is helping to support sustainable cities In terms of our safety performance, and communities. An example of this we saw an improvement by the end has been the Atlanta Beltline project of the year, with our total recordable in the US, for which we have provided incident rate falling from 0.27 in 2015 I am particularly proud of our work planning, engineering design, to 0.26 in 2016. During 2016, we also combating modern slavery. The construction materials testing and implemented Hazard Elimination diversity and complexity of our geotechnical and environmental and Recognition Training (HEART) projects and value chain in the services since 2004. Our innovative for frontline supervision to improve 55 countries in which we operate sustainable design techniques have hazard spotting, mitigation of risk means that we can encounter enabled the creation of safe and and intervention skills. We are degrees of risks relating to modern sustainable public use areas for the committed to on-going performance slavery. In December 2016, we Atlanta community and the project improvement in identifying and published our first Modern Slavery will serve as a catalyst for further mitigating risk, with our goal to and Human Trafficking statement. infrastructure and environmental create an incident free environment. The publication of this statement clean-up and restoration across sets out the baseline from which In the same way that we are Atlanta and 10-30 billion dollars in we will continue to drive awareness committed to demonstrating the combined economic development. and implement a programme of right behaviours for safety, we continuous improvement to help We are committed to the good take our obligation to conducting tackle this issue. health and well-being of all our business ethically seriously. Our employees and sub-contractors. robust Code of Business Conduct is In addition to this, we are one of six It is a fundamental right for every supported by our global mandatory companies within the engineering individual who works with us to policies and procedures which and construction sector to found the Build Responsibly initiative. This initiative seeks to develop and share best practice, agree common approaches and standards to respect rights and improve the welfare of workers within their operations. I am particularly proud that we are the first FTSE listed company to have a nonSustainability / Date: 05/17 / CEO introduction amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet CEO statement Building resilience for sustainable growth form the foundation for our way of roles. Conexus, our cornerstone As companies increasingly operate in working, underpinning our ethical talent system, has been improved challenging and disruptive markets culture and setting expectations for over the last year to drive our around the world, it is important that always doing the right thing. We bring performance evaluation, high they ground themselves with a strong our global mandatory policies and potential identification, succession culture of ethics and compliance procedures to life through a rigorous management and learning activities. and remain focused on delivering verification and reporting process to To help managers further build sustainable operations and growth. ensure that the organisation actively their performance development Over the coming year, Amec Foster operates in accordance with them skills, we began the roll-out of a Wheeler will continue to build on our and has the required level of training training programme for people success of embedding the SDGs into and understanding. An example of managers called ‘Pathway to People our operating model by delivering our verification process in action can Management’. We also continued the Resilient World strategy and our be seen with the Modern Slavery and to roll out our new approach to commitment to the United Nations Human Trafficking training recently succession planning which involved Global Compact. rolled out across the business which the development of a new key We recognise that being a will be verified through the tracking performance indicator. responsible business quite simply of completion rates and targeted Developing a local workforce in the makes business sense by helping follow-up to ensure the required level 55 countries in which we operate to improve the performance and of awareness and adoption. is core to our business model. resilience of our company. Key to sustainable development is We actively plan and implement Jon Lewis ensuring that we develop the full nationalisation plans to ensure a Chief Executive Officer potential of our people and this is at structured approach that benefits the heart of everything we do. Over local people, the delivery of the the past year, we have refreshed project and in turn the company. We the way we develop our people to have continued to make investments help identify potential earlier in in entry level recruitment, offering their careers so that we can seek employment opportunities to to give them the experiences they students and graduates around the need to accede to our most senior world. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / CEO introduction amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet About Amec Foster Wheeler What we do Our customers’ operations rely We oﬀer similar services in each We deliver our services around the on their assets, ranging from oil of our markets and many of our world through approximately 35,000 platforms to power plants and mines. capabilities are transferable across highly skilled people, including We help them maximise the value markets. engineers, project managers, of these assets throughout their consultants and scientists. As a lifecycle. people-based business, our operating model is low risk and asset light. Consulting and Execution/design Hook-up and Asset support Decommissioning front end and construction commissioning Providing services and remediation Consulting with Conceptualising and Overseeing the and consultancy to Helping customers to our customers to designing their capital installation and operate, maintain and decommission assets determine what projects. commissioning of enhance assets. at the end of their they require from these assets. economic use. their assets. Well positioned across the life cycle of our customers’ assets Project viability review Greenfield projects Brownfield projects O&M support Late life management Environmental services Sustainability / Date: 05/17/ About Amec Foster Wheeler amecfw.com Page 1 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet About Amec Foster Wheeler Our business lines Since 1 January 2017, we have organised our operations into four global market-facing business lines. This structure aligns our organisation with our customers, helping us to meet their needs more eﬀectively and eﬃciently. Oil, Gas & Chemicals Mining Power & Process Environment & Infrastructure The Oil, Gas & Chemicals We provide mining In renewables, our focus is on value chain has three consultancy (including ore delivering customer projects, Our Environment & segments: upstream, which resource estimation, mine primarily for local utilities. Infrastructure business involves exploration and planning and feasibility We provide a full-service focuses on environmental production; midstream, studies), design, and engineering, procurement consulting, engineering which includes transportation project and construction and construction solution design and programme and and natural gas processing; management services to a for wind, solar, biomass and construction management. and downstream, which range of mining companies, biofuels projects. US solar is We oﬀer complete solutions is mainly the reﬁning and primarily in the Americas and our primary market in Power. to public and private-sector petrochemical industries. Africa. Within the conventional customers worldwide. We operate in every part of The Mining business is power market, we work Our customers beneﬁt the project delivery phase of intentionally diversiﬁed with utilities to upgrade from experts with a broad this value chain, except early and we have developed and modify their existing understanding of local cycle exploration and drilling. technical capabilities in assets, often in relation to conditions, coupled with easy a range of commodities, environmental or regulatory access to world-renowned The majority of our upstream which diﬀerentiate us from compliance requirements, technical expertise. activity is currently in our competitors. We have by providing consulting and conventional oil and gas By positioning ourselves a strong position in the engineering services, as well ﬁelds, in particular oﬀshore oil as a trusted partner at the recent growth commodities as project delivery solutions. facilities, providing feasibility beginning of a project – often of potash, gold and lithium, studies, front-end engineering We also have an extensive the early site development among others. design, detailed engineering, track record of serving a and permitting stage – we project management, hook The breadth of our broad range of industrial can deliver comprehensive up and commissioning, and capabilities allows us to customers, such as the pulp solutions across the lifecycle asset support services. respond to growing demand and paper industry, with their of our customers’ assets. for a particular commodity process, steam and power In midstream, we support Our Environment & and to mitigate the impact needs. We provide them with assets focused on storage Infrastructure business of market volatility and consulting and engineering and transport for both consists of the following changing customer focus. services, as well as project onshore and oﬀshore sectors: water; delivery solutions. facilities, as well as gas Terra Nova Technologies is transportation; civil monetisation projects. For a project group within the infrastructure; government; downstream customers, we Mining business that designs and industrial and focus on reﬁnery projects and and builds material handling pharmaceutical. chemicals. solutions, such as high speed Customers include the US conveyor belts and crushing We serve a broad range Federal Government, which plants, for new and existing of customers, including is the largest procurer of mines. international oil companies, environmental services in the national oil companies and world. independent operators in Europe, the Americas, the Middle East, Africa, the Caspian, Southeast Asia and China. Sustainability / Date: 05/17/ About Amec Foster Wheeler amecfw.com Page 2 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet About Amec Foster Wheeler Legacy reporting For the year ended 31 December 2016, our business was organised into four business units. Three had geographical remits, namely the Americas; Northern Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States; and Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe. The fourth business unit, the Global Power Group, had a global remit. Investment Services In addition to the business units described above, Investment Services manages the Company’s non-core and legacy assets and liabilities. These now include the European Transmission and Distribution operations and two wind farms in Northern Europe. Split of revenue 11 % Oil, Gas & Chemicals 17 Mining Power & Process Environment & Infrastructure GPG and Investment Services 26 Total revenue 2016 £5.4bn 41 5 Oﬃce locations Where we operate Amec Foster Wheeler operates in more than 55 countries and is headquartered in London, UK. Employees 2016 35k Sustainability / Date: 05/17/ About Amec Foster Wheeler amecfw.com Page 3 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet About Amec Foster Wheeler The customers we serve We work for a wide range of customers, from blue-chip companies to national and local governments. Our major customers include: BP K&S Potash Canada ConocoPhillips KOC Dominion Kuwait National Petroleum Co Duke Energy National Grid Enel Green Power Petra Diamonds Engie Repsol Sinopec Enterprise Products Operating LLC Sempra ExxonMobil Southern Company Georgia Paciﬁc US Army Corps of Engineers Hyundai ZADCO Order book 12 % 16 Oil, Gas & Chemicals Mining Power & Process Environment & Infrastructure GPG and Investment Services 19 Order book £5.8bn 2 51 We work for a wide range of customers, from blue-chip companies to national and local governments. Sustainability / Date: 05/17/ About Amec Foster Wheeler amecfw.com Page 4 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Our approach to sustainability For us, sustainability is about integrating social, environmental and economic conditions into our values and operations in a transparent and accountable manner. Following the appointment of Jon Our strategic priorities are Lewis as Chief Executive Officer, we began a wide-ranging review of our as follows: strategy, organisational structure • We will continue our evolution • We will invest in information and cost base. As a consequence into a customer-centric, multitechnologies to differentiate our of this review, we have developed a sector consulting, engineering and project delivery capabilities and to number of corporate level strategic construction company, making help us enhance the management priorities supported by detailed resource allocation decisions of our customers’ assets. strategies for each of our business across the business lines to • We will improve the engagement of lines. These priorities have a number benefit the most attractive growth our people and focus on attracting, of common themes, firstly they prospects. developing and retaining the best will give us greater operational • We will enhance our value-based talent globally. and financial discipline through a engineering offering, helping re-organisation into four market• We will enhance or focus on customers to ensure their projects cash generation, eliminating facing business lines, implementing are economically viable. a single set of operational unnecessary expenditure and procedures, enhanced management • Through our lead operating increasing efficiency and scalability accountability and the benefit of the model and leveraging our Indian of necessary costs. scale efficiencies that an organisation operations we will ensure we are • To strengthen the balance sheet, diversified across markets should cost competitive and better able to ensuring a stable financial platform provide. Secondly, implementing bid and win work. to support the business. these strategic priorities will improve • We will invest in excellence in our our customer proposition by • We will provide a safe and technical and business functions, sustainable environment for our enhancing our cost effectiveness and drive standardisation and follow improving the technical capabilities people and the communities in common policies and procedures which we work. we can offer our customers. The throughout the company. third theme is a greater focus on cash generation as a consequence of Our sustainability strategy and commitments, which are improved operational efficiency. aligned to the principles of the UN Global Compact, will support our strategic priorities, specifically the provision of a safe and sustainable environment, and the engagement, attraction, development and retention of people. More detail of each of our strategic priorities can be found on page 17 of our 2016 Annual Report and Accounts. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Our approach amecfw.com Page 1 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Our approach to sustainability Our sustainability strategy risk and unlocking opportunities to the UN Global Compact principles that deliver long-term value to with our values and behaviours, Our sustainability vision is to solve our business, our employees and ensuring these are embedded within tomorrow’s natural resources ultimately our customers. our global policies, procedures and challenges together. Our Resilient standards. World strategy provides us with Resilient World is operationalised and the focus for achieving that vision, embedded throughout our business The table below outlines the key it ensures that as a business we by our Foundation of Excellence. The areas we incorporate into our provide a balance between managing foundation aligns our commitments Foundation of Excellence: Human & Anti-bribery & Environment Community Doing the right thing Labour Rights Corruption Environmental Code of Business Educational Diversity & Inclusion management Conduct & Ethics partnerships Anti-bribery Human rights Carbon management Strategic partnerships & corruption Health & Safety Resource efficiency Supply chain Community investment Progress monitored through Global KPI’s and functional strategy and targets Progress against these focus areas of Innovation Delivery our Foundation of Excellence can be Delivering innovative technologies, Being a trusted partner by found throughout our sustainability solutions and services that add embedding a consistent reporting. business value for our customers sustainability standard across our while minimising environmental projects. In addition to the Foundation of impacts. Excellence the Resilient World • Our customers demand high strategy is focused on three core • We will drive long-term growth standards, and sustainability is pillars, the key aims of which are for Amec Foster Wheeler by a fundamental part of this. We outlined below: developing and encouraging a will ensure a consistent approach growing portfolio of innovative to embedding sustainability People environmental technologies, inherently into the core of our Investing for tomorrow by developing solutions and services which add projects. We will implement valuea diverse, inclusive and talented value to our customers and our add sustainability framework to workforce which exhibits our values business. be used for those clients with and behaviours to drive sustainability. advanced sustainability objectives. See Innovation for further detail. • We will resource for a diverse and See Delivery for further detail. inclusive workforce, introducing new people (both experienced People Investing for tomorrow by and new entrants) to the resource developing a diverse, inclusive and talented workforce which pools in order to create a business exhibits our values and behaviours to drive with genuine diversity of thought. sustainability See the People section of the website Resilient World Ensuring a Innovation Our sustainability foundation of Delivering innovative technologies, for further detail. strategy for solving excellence in solutions and services that add tomorrow’s natural responsible business value for our customers resource challenges business whilst minimising environmental together practices impacts Delivery Being a trusted partner by embedding a consistent sustainability standard across our projects Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Our approach amecfw.com Page 2 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Our approach to sustainability Alignment with the to review the goals against our Our response and our impact in Resilient World strategy to identify relation to the delivery of the goals is Sustainable Development key areas where we are supporting reflected throughout the report. Goals (Global Goals) their delivery, and those that provide The Sustainable Development Goals future business opportunity. (Global Goals), were launched in Although we understand that we September 2015 and agreed by UN can have a positive impact in some member states and set goals on way to all of the goals, we have 17 key areas to create a world that identified several key areas where is comprehensively sustainable: our contribution to the delivery socially fair; economically secure; of the goals is greatest, these are economically prosperous; inclusive highlighted below. As we develop and predictable. focus areas and long term goals we have considered how we can best Recognising the role that business support the delivery of the global has to play in addressing the local goals. and global challenges identified by the goals, we have taken time see our project see our highlighting see our delivery section STEM & community approach to see our project fact sheets diversity & delivery section inclusion see our climate see our people management see our resilience section Resilient Cities & human rights section factsheet Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Our approach amecfw.com Page 3 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Our approach to sustainability Sustainability impacts, Sustainability related issues are part • Global standards, principles and of our business. We have to ensure frameworks risks and opportunities we concentrate on those that have The top five principal business As an international business our the greatest impact on our ability and strategic risks relating to the sustainability impacts are diverse to manage our operations. We use sustainability of our business are and inextricably linked to the regions a number of techniques to do this described in the table below: in which we operate. We believe that including: sustainability impact management • Risk management must be integral to the way in which we manage our business and must • Stakeholder engagement be integrated throughout the entire • Sustainability surveys management system. More Risk Description How we manage the risk information Health, safety, Amec Foster Wheeler is In order to control risk and prevent harm, we are focused on For more information security and involved in activities that achieving the highest standards of health, safety and security see: environment have the potential to cause management. This is achieved through the setting of an effective serious injury to personnel policy and putting in place clear standards which underpin our • Safety or damage to property or the health, safety, security and environmental management systems. environment and damage to We have put in place processes to assure our systems work our reputation. effectively throughout the organisation and health and safety These activities may involve performance is regularly reviewed against agreed targets to operations such as design, facilitate continual improvement. construction, commissioning Amec Foster Wheeler employs environmental and engineering and decommissioning, specialists to support projects in implementing comprehensive which have potential to project management planning at all stages of a project. These cause serious environmental processes are governed by appropriate quality management damage, pollution and habitat systems and are supported by risk identification tools aimed at destruction. identifying and managing all aspects of project and environmental risk. Staff recruitment An inability to attract and This risk is mitigated with a clear HR strategy, which is aligned with For more information and retention retain sufficient high-calibre the business strategy and focused on attracting, developing and see: employees could become retaining the best people for the company with succession planning a barrier to the continued as appropriate. It is underpinned by an employee framework which • People success and growth of Amec describes how we manage our people consistently and we have Foster Wheeler. introduced talent and performance management systems to help The uncertainties about the us identify and nurture talent. effects of the recommended In addition there is a continual review of compensation and all share offer to attract new benefits to ensure sector and geographic competitiveness and employees and retain our there are localised recruitment teams capable of recruiting large existing employees numbers into Amec Foster Wheeler. The additional recruitment and attrition challenges being faced as a result of the planned takeover are being mitigated by retention measures. Ethical breach A substantive ethical breach Amec Foster Wheeler has a number of measures in place to For more information and/or non-compliance with mitigate the risk of a substantive ethical breach and/or nonsee: laws or regulations could compliance with laws or regulations, including; potentially lead to damage • Embedded policies and procedures • Ethics to Amec Foster Wheeler’s • Code of Business Conduct reputation, fines, prosecution, • Segregation of duties litigation and claims for • Management oversight compensation. • Financial and operational controls • Independent whistle-blowing mechanism • Appointment of Head of ethics and compliance and compliance champions • Appointment of ethics and compliance officers • Anti-fraud and other internal audits • Legal team advice • Training programmes support the Code of Business Conduct and Anti-bribery and Corruption and competition law procedures • Oversight by HSSEE committee • Gifts and hospitability procedure with annual internal audits Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Our approach amecfw.com Page 4 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Our approach to sustainability More Risk Description How we manage the risk information Project delivery Failing to maintain discipline The technical functions provide assurance, drives project execution For more information and meeting customer and supports the development, training and mobilisation of see: expectations on project personnel to enhance execution competencies. delivery could result in In addition, the system of globally applied policies and • Delivery damage to reputation, loss procedures, combined with comprehensive management of repeat business and oversight, the risk management process, project reviews, internal potentially lead to litigation audit, peer reviews and customer feedback, mitigate the risk to and/or claims against Amec successful project delivery. Foster Wheeler. Environmental Amec Foster Wheeler’s build/ Environmental management systems are in place to monitor and For more information licences own/operate facilities and mitigate this risk. see: fabrication/ manufacturing Planned preventative maintenance schedules are in place to sites rely on maintaining further mitigate this risk. • Foundation of environmental licences excellence to operate, which include protecting the environment and achieving legally enforceable operating parameters. Failure to maintain these standards may result in the revocation of all or part of the licence and the suspension of operation, resulting in criminal or civil action and/or financial risk to the business. In addition to the principal business the way in which we can positively in this area. These commitments risks, Amec Foster Wheeler support our customers to address include the requirement to raise recognises other actual and their energy and water use, and awareness of modern slavery with emerging risks and opportunities, ensuring they adequately assess our employees and value chain, and which are identified and managed and mitigate the risks of climate also to ensure collaboration with within our corporate risk register and change for the long term operation industry, sharing best practice, management systems. of their projects/assets. More policies and procedure. More information on the services we offer information can be found within the Climate change is a risk area we to our customers in this area can be human rights section of this report. recognise and actively manage. found within the climate resilience We have carbon management and factsheet of this report. reduction programmes in place throughout the business, and also In 2015 we recognised human rights ensure that climate change impact and modern slavery as an emerging risks i.e. flood risks, are considered risk area. Since then, we have been when we look at new operating reviewing and understanding the locations and office space. We risks to the business in relation ensure that as a business we comply to the sectors and geographies in with all applicable local, national and which we work, our supply chain international legal requirements, and partners, and also to the individuals that we are aware of the impacts of that may be impacted by these upcoming requirements following the issues. Our Modern Slavery and global agreement in 2015. Although Human Trafficking statement which recognising the importance for our was published in December 2016 in own business operations, we believe response to the UK Modern Slavery our biggest impact in this area is Act 2015, sets clear commitments Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Our approach amecfw.com Page 5 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Our approach to sustainability Governance Our commitments Amec Foster Wheeler’s board is sustainability policy) for directing Amec Foster Wheeler remains collectively responsible for delivering and managing the Group’s committed to the ten principles of sustainable long-term shareholder businesses consistently in the UN Global Compact. value in line with its obligations to accordance with our vision and The vision is for the principles of the and the expectations of the group’s values. These global policies are Global Compact to be enshrined stakeholders. supported by a set of mandatory within the Amec Foster Wheeler procedures, which further explain The board is responsible for setting policies and procedures and to be how the policies are to be applied. the Company’s strategic aims embedded within our behaviours and On a day-to-day basis, the board and providing the leadership and our culture across the organisation. has delegated responsibility for resources to achieve its objectives. We are working to ensure that our implementation of the global policies High quality corporate governance business lines work with our supply and ownership of the procedures helps to underpin long-term chain partners, clients, business to the executive committee. The company performance and the partners and peers to disseminate board considers the global policies board is responsible for maintaining the requirements along the value to be part of the risk based approach strong governance practices and chain. to corporate governance and the regularly reviewing the Company’s maintenance of sound internal governance structure as illustrated in controls. the governance diagram below. The board is supported in its work by The Code of Business Conduct is four board committees (nominations, the cornerstone of the Company’s audit, HSSEE and remuneration), approach to governance and chaired by either the board Chairman is applicable to all employees, or another non-executive director, including the Chief Executive Officer, and a number of management Chief Financial Officer and other committees and groups, chaired by senior financial professionals. The executing directors, to which specific Code of Business Conduct is the responsibilities have been delegated. responsibility of, and is upheld by, Key management committees which the board. It acts as a guide for our meet regularly throughout the year day-to-day working life, providing a and relate to the management of practical application of Amec Foster sustainability issues include: Wheeler’s values and ensuring all those who work for and under • HSSE committee Amec Foster Wheeler’s direction • People forum understand the behaviour that is expected of them. • Sustainability committee A global policies document works All of which are chaired by the in conjunction with the Code Chief Executive Officer of Business Conduct providing More information on board further detail and elaboration on committees can be found on our matters affecting all of Amec Foster website or within the governance Wheeler’s business. The global section of our Annual Report and policies document describes the key Accounts. policies (which includes the global Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Our approach amecfw.com Page 6 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case Study Embedding sustainability action Supporting our Resilient World strategy, and ensuring that every employee understands what role they can play in embedding sustainability actions and behaviours throughout the organisation we utilise a framework we call the sustainability promises. The sustainability promises are commitments and partnerships In 2016 our global sustainability developed each year taking into as well as the UN Global Compact promises focused on five areas: account feedback from assurance/ Principles. They are approved auditing activities, new/upcoming annually by the sustainability legal requirements, responding to committee which is made up of new global trends, feedback, and member of the executive committee scoping from external benchmarks, and rolled out in Q1 of each year. Achieved Key outcomes Develop a road map for human rights Significant focus in 2016 with review of key processes with focus on modern slavery and procedures to ensure human rights risks are Yes considered, and publication of modern slavery See Human rights statement in December. Work in this area is ongoing. Reaffirm our carbon strategy and Modelling of a new carbon reduction target using goals in light of COP21 outcomes Yes science based targets completed, 2017 will look to roll See Carbon management out strategy to meet first milestone. Global promises Publish and implement a framework in support of the Resilient World Framework for foundation of excellence has been Foundation of Excellence In-part developed and agreed, with aims and long term goals set in key areas. See Our approach Project sustainability framework has been defined Embed sustainability into Identify, and key processes and procedures updated to ensure Acquire and Delivery processes Yes sustainability issues are considered. Work in 2017 is See Delivery section focusing on awareness of this framework, and capturing best practice from projects on close out. Define Resilient World innovation Two key areas – climate resilience and circular econcriteria with one portfolio omy have been identified as innovation portfolios In-part and we continue to build on strategy for roll out, and See Climate resilience section monitoring of these areas. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Embedding sustainability action amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case Study Embedding sustainability action The training was shortlisted for a Learning Technology Award for Best use of social and collaborative learning technologies in 2016. To date over 5000 employees have completed the module. 2017 global promises The focus for our 2017 promises centres around four areas, awrap ll of which build on the work undertaken We made significant progress in offices were awarded star ratings and in 2016, alongside consistency of all areas relating to our promises, recognition for their achievements/ approach and messaging throughout and work in all areas will continue commitments. See 5 star efficiency the business: into 2017 and beyond. For more factsheet for detail on the 5 star • Publish and implement a cost information, please follow the links in office efficiency programme and effective global carbon reduction the table. progress in this area. strategy with milestone targets All business units developed In addition to the 2016 promises, developed in 2016 that support the promises specific to the needs of that and to encourage discussion and need to keep global temperature business with a line of sight to the engagement of sustainability within increase below 2°C. global promises which were tracked the business and raise awareness • Facilitate improvement actions throughout the year. of the Resilient World strategy, a relating to commitments set out new online e-learning sustainability in the Modern Slavery statement Our offices were required to awareness module was developed. including capacity building and due undertake three actions: The module provides employees with diligence. • Improve their 5 star office an interactive learning experience efficiency rating by 1 star where that takes them through what • Build awareness and technical possible sustainability means, sustainability understanding of what we mean by in Amec Foster Wheeler, then sustainability in projects. • Complete an annual office profile review through three project and office • Develop a single point portal of scenarios with key decisions to sustainability related resources • Undertake at least one make throughout. The programme and tools for employees and community/charity event provides feedback on the decisions ambassadors which provide global These actions focused on continual made and the outcomes of the other consistency of approach. improvement of the efficiency possible choices, resulting in a score of our offices and reduction in which the learner is able to share on energy usage, and engagement our internal social media channel, of our employees to support the Yammer, and discuss with other communities in which we work. learners in that space. Actions were tracked using the annual office profile review and Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Embedding sustainability action amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Materiality Determining our priority areas through assessment and engagement Stakeholder engagement Employees/future Media Understanding the views of our employees • Interest in numerous stakeholders helps us • Attraction and retention information for to make better and more informed • Engagement target audience decisions. Although we understand • Safety • Diversity and inclusion Customers that we will not always meet every • Learning, development, • Customer satisfaction stakeholder expectation, their views mobility • Common values, shared global lead us to strengthen our policies • Well-being and industry challenges and practices, understanding the • Innovation and solutions challenges we all face and help Communities us better communicate how we • Capacity building • Education support Investors contribute to solving them. • Sustainable growth of • Relationship our company We have continued to engage our building • Trust • Risk and opportunities key stakeholders, with a number of events taking place throughout the Suppliers Peers year, aiming to consider views across • Lasting commercial • Collaboration the various geographies and sectors. relationship • Shared challenges These opportunities have once • Fair treatment again helped to shape this year’s • Impartial selection Government and Regulators performance report in both style and • Capacity building • Policy content. The diagram outlines some • Global challenges i.e. climate of the key areas for discussion during NGOs change, energy security, human these engagement sessions. • Collaboration and/or rights challenge on common • National challenges i.e. skills issues shortage/education Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Materiality amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Materiality Determining our priority areas through assessment and engagement In 2015, following AMEC’s acquisition Sustainability YamJam YamJam of the Foster Wheeler business, an YamJam is a focused online extensive wide-ranging stakeholder discussion where people get together engagement programme was at the same time to share ideas, undertaken to review and clarify the “Fundamentally, resilience is questions and views on a single topic, material issues for our business. tied to the way we treat the using Yammer. To celebrate Earth Day This programme included various natural world and one another. in 2016 and to engage the business forms of engagement with senior in the topics of sustainability and managers, employees, industry A world that uses resources resilience we held a 17 hour YamJam groups, investors and customers, unsustainably is not resilient. session to ensure all of our employees and resulted in the development of a A world that fails to invest in could get involved throughout their materiality matrix and priority areas the capabilities of its people, day and timezone. A key component for the business to focus on. The that squanders the potential of the session was to ask employees results of this process were used to contributions of women, a what Resilient World meant to them, inform our sustainability strategy – world with metastasizing and to encourage conversation on Resilient World. poverty and inequality – that the topics they felt were important. Building on this stakeholder world will not weather the Key themes that arose from the engagement programme, in 2016 we shocks and surprises of the conversations were around: focused our attention on our internal future as well as one that • Climate change –emissions and stakeholders, with three key events does.” efficient use of natural resources held during the year to understand employee views and areas of focus: • Behaviours to sourcing of food and Johannes Vorster, Abu Dhabi changes to diets Transformation survey • Education on STEM subjects and In 2016 we surveyed around 2,900 “Resilient world to me is encouraging diversity into our people across all parts of the a clean, green world for industry sectors organisation, with 39 questions EVERYONE. A clean world with • Development of more sustainable designed to understand where our employees believe the strengths a low-pollution, low-emissions cities and projects through and weaknesses of our organisation in which cleaner air, water, resources and technology lie, and the areas we need to focus and oceans enable people HSSE climate survey to improve. They recognise the to lead healthy, productive following as key areas of strength: lives. A green world where Understanding what our employees the natural resources such think and feel about safety in our • People: Knowledgeable and company is very important. Our passionate people as oceans, lands & forests are sustainably managed 2016 HSSE climate survey was • Experience: Our people have huge used to make sure we are living to improve environment, skill and experience sets by our values and putting safety livelihoods & ensure food first, and really focus on where our • Diversity: Broad and positive security. A world where employees thought our strengths range of people, opportunities and Governments pursue and weaknesses in this area lie. In capabilities regulations that encourage total 17,844 people responded to • Safety: Our commitment, focus innovation, efficiency and the survey and provided over 9,000 and record on safety is excellent green growth.” comments and suggestions. Key messages from the survey were that There were key consistent messages Chandrani Raha, Bengal HSSE remains a key priority area for provided around what our employees our people, the HSSE brand is strong want to experience from us as an and our employees feel confident to employer – shown here: stop work if safety is compromised. Key improvement areas identified were around near miss reporting, accountability and leadership visibility. See HSS management factsheet for more information on how we manage HSSE within the business. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Materiality amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Materiality Determining our priority areas through assessment and engagement Lower priority Medium priority High priority issues issues People issues Project excellence & Health, Safety innovation & Security Importance to stakeholders Responsible Environmental sourcing management Local job creation / Ethical Human business capacity Climate rights practices building Impact on change concerns sensitive adaption & mitigation Financial habitats accountability Political & other instability Community investment Importance to the business External engagement We recognise the role that businesses and the level of impact we can have, can play in helping address the local is reflected throughout the report, – key themes and global challenges identified by and also detailed further in the Our 2016 has continued to see high the goals We have reviewed the global approach to Sustainability factsheet. and growing levels of engagement goals against our Resilient World and conversation on human rights strategy to identify key areas where Materiality matrix both internally and externally as we we can further support their delivery, We have reviewed the results of our engage with industry peers as part of and also identify areas where 2015 materiality assessment and the Building Responsibly Initiative – this may provide future business considered the impact of emerging see Human rights factsheet for more opportunity. We have ensured that themes and conversations with information. as we develop focus areas and goals stakeholder groups held in 2016 and for how we deliver our business, and consider the highest priority issues to Engagement and conversation also when we have begun to define remain relevant for the business. We around the work we can do to support the innovation portfolios, we have have seen concerns for human rights the meeting of the Global Goals, and considered how we can best support increase in importance for both the the business opportunities it may the delivery of the goals. business and our stakeholders, and provide, continues to grow externally and within key groups internally. We continue conversation and this is reflected in a change in position The Sustainable Development Goals engagement in this area via the in the matrix above. We also see an (Global Goals), were launched in UN Global Compact UK network increased importance on climate September 2015 and agreed by UN sustainable development goals change adaptation and mitigation, member states. This set goals on working group, which aims to provide with increased interest and focus 17 key areas to create a world that a forum for experts and peers to on this area for our Environment & is comprehensively sustainable: identify and share good practice Infrastructure business. socially fair; economically secure; measures for effectively engaging economically prosperous; inclusive with the Goals. Our response and and predictable. understanding of the global goals Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Materiality amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Foundation of Excellence Highlights Ensuring our commitments, values and behaviours are embedded within our global policies, procedures and standards, and ensuring that they are actionable and in operation throughout the business. • Publication of our first Modern slavery and human trafficking statement • Calculated new science-based carbon reduction targets • 33% reduction in businesswide long haul air travel • 99% completion rates for annual Code of Business Conduct and Anti-bribery & Corruption training • Nearly 18,000 employees responded to Health & Safety Climate Survey • 22,240 hours volunteered by employees in our communities • Reduction in Total Recordable Incident Rate © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet rect ppe change ntervene or ny ti ar the manage a you mus we c ake care the rules st w alwa follo y ss essment Health, Safety and Security a risk a HSS management do Everyday around the world our employees and those who work with us are working on behalf of our clients. It is a fundamental right of every individual who works with us to undertake that work in a healthy, safe and secure way. Even though we work in some of the harshest environments undertaking difficult and dangerous work it is our duty to make sure that work is managed properly and risks are effectively mitigated. More than just looking after our Policy and framework people and those who work under our control, we have an obligation to Our policy sets out our fundamental take a leadership role wherever we pledges to our people, it outlines work. According to the International what we believe are the things Labour Organisation (ILO) every we must do to make our working year an estimated two million people environment a healthy, safe and die from work related accident and secure place to work. disease. We can lead by example and, This is an important statement through education and mentoring because it underpins the those with whom we work, we can development of our health, safety play our role in reducing workplace and management approach. It incidents. is regularly both reviewed and We make a healthy, safe and secure approved by our Board. working environment, it does not See the HSSE policy. happen by itself, it is a living and learning process which evolves with us and it is fundamental to the operation of our business. We recognise this through our company values. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / HSS management amecfw.com Page 1 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Health, Safety and Security HSS management The policy is supported by our health, safety, security and Amec Foster Wheeler HSSE Policy environmental (HSSE) framework (Global) Policy document. This framework sets out Amec Foster Wheeler’s expectations and minimum HSSE standards for HSSE Strategy Delivery (Global) our global operations. It provides Strategies the guiding hand on what we believe should be our absolute standard HSSE Framework & core wherever we operate in the world. We Common expectations know that standards of health, safety Processes (Global) and security are different across the world and we are committed Project Management Plan to upholding our legal obligations. agement Security & Emergency Project Man However, where the statutory duty of Plans Preparadness Plans care to an individual falls short of our own standards, we are committed tions, to ensuring that we operate to our s, Instruc Procedure ) and supporting IFs’ framework and standards. Forms (P ts documen Amec Foster Wheeler operates an Global applies to all Amec Foster Wheeler integrated health, safety, security business and operations and environmental management system which is based on the Assurance elements of international standards Effective mitigation of health, safety and security risks relies on implementing and best practice (ISO 14001, practices and processes that eliminates or effectively controls exposure to OHSAS 18001, HSG65*). hazards to an acceptable level. We have to assure ourselves that measures are implemented properly, we do this through our assurance strategy. Our Mandatory procedures assurance process covers a broad spectrum of risk issues from strategic through to operational on-site covering four levels (see below). Our business is far reaching and diverse, it is therefore important As our business and portfolio of operations grows, our profile of HSSE risk that our approach to health, safety evolves with the nature of our acquisition and organic growth into different and security management is flexible regions, countries and industries. enough to recognise industrial norms, processes and best practice. Entity Assurance objective Assurance tools to use However, for some things, such as how we measure and categorise Level Group Provide assurance to the Board • Validation assessment/review 4 that there is a robust HSSE • Statistical monitoring and report incidents we have to do management system in place • Peer review process this consistently throughout the business, where this is the case we Level Business To validate that Operational • Validation assessment/review 3 unit Assurance Plans are effective • Statistical monitoring have a mandatory procedure which and learning is captured in the • Peer review process management system • Performance standard sets out what is required. assessment review Level Ops Develop and implement an • Integrated risk based 2 unit assurance process to give confidence to operational assurance plan • Statistical monitoring management that robust HSSE • Management review management systems are in place to protect people and the environment Level Project To undertake assurance processes • Agree risk based audit schedule 1 which seek to confirm that the HSSE management system is • Management review • Recording & reporting to in place and working effectively operating unit in managing HSSE risks on the • Inspections project • Investigations • Integrated focused audits • Recording & reporting incidents * Note: HSG65 is the UK Health and Safety Executive, guide and approach to managing health and safety. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / HSS management amecfw.com Page 2 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Health, Safety and Security HSS management “Occupational health Lagging indicators relation to leadership inspection tours and safety measures can have been set for 2017. The indicators Zero LTIR below have been designed to track and only deliver to their full verify that leaders are undertaking As in previous years we have set potential if they have the a target to achieve zero lost time these tours as prescribed: unequivocal commitment of incidents for 2017. This may seem to • Percentage of Business Line leaders an organisation’s board and some aspirational, however several undertaking tours senior management. Highparts of the business met this target in 2016, reinforcing our belief that it • Number of tours undertaken level management, not just line is achievable. 2. Self-verification assessments management or specialists, must be directly involved in 10% reduction in TRIR and AIFR To ensure that the management implementing OSH policies” In line with previous years we and verification on our projects is as have chosen to continue our rigorous as it should be, the business Leadership and occupational 10% reduction based on best has set a requirement in 2017 for safety and health, EU-OSHA 2012 performance. business leaders to undertake a self-assessment audit of project site Leading indicators HSSE plans and critical activity HSSE management. The indicators below Leading indicators for 2017 have will track and verify that actions Leadership for safety been designed to ensure appropriate identified by the self-assessment audits Our leaders are imperative in shaping attention to health and safety risk are tracked through to close in each the culture and climate of the identification and management on Business Line: working environment as they provide our project sites. • % completed direction and vision to the company. Our focus for 2017 is on verification of the existence of safety • Number of improvement actions Amec Foster Wheeler has a board generated by self-assessments level HSSEE committee (Health, procedures, risk control and people’s Safety, Security, Environmental understanding of potential hazards. • Number closed and Ethics) which assists the We understand that communication is vital to ensure everyone is kept 3. Independent HSSE audits board in upholding the Company’s principal value of ‘doing the right’ well informed and safe, and that Early in 2017, our HSSE Assurance thing. The committee is responsible accountability from our leadership Framework was updated to formalise for reviewing the HSSE policy at is key. Our 2017 leading indicators four levels of HSSE audit, level 4 of least annually to ensure it remains respond to these focus areas, all of which are independent audits managed fit for purpose and meets legal which respond to the implementation centrally. These independent audits and regulatory requirements in of preventative measures rolled out are in-depth risk based audits of our all respects. It also examines the in April by Chief Executive Jon Lewis. highest risk projects. This indicator will processes in place to satisfy itself 1. Leadership inspection tours: track and verify that the level 4 audit that all significant health, safety and schedule has been implemented to environmental risks are identified In order to actively demonstrate close: and mitigated. leadership and to visibly show our workforce that we care about their • Number of planned audits The committee oversees the safety and wellbeing, requirements in • Number completed operation and activities of the HSSE review committee which is a management committee who’s key responsibility is to provide Lagging Indicator Leading Indicator effective oversight of the company’s performance and management of HSSE issues across the group. Leadership inspection tours Lost Time Injury 100% targeted leaders Looking forward Rate (LTIR) = 0.00 completing tour During 2017 we will continue to put significant effort into Self-verification assessments Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) addressing the underlying causes 100% assessments completed equal or less than 0.20 of our performance. We will be by due date implementing a safety week mid-way through the year to ensure continued All Injury Frequency Rate (AIFR) equal or Independent HSSE audits focus and drive for safety leadership less than 1.27 100% planned audits completed throughout our business. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / HSS management amecfw.com Page 3 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Health, Safety and Security HSS management 2016 Safety Climate Survey Understanding what our employees think and feel about safety in our company is vital. It’s an opportunity Over 9,900 comments & to make sure the company is successfully prioritising safety and protecting our staff. Return suggestions In 2016 we ran a safety climate rate 58% Safety survey, aimed to measure and shape the safety culture within the 17,844 organisation. So what is a safety culture? If we consider safety as Climate people responded having formal and informal aspects, Survey Survey then we can see that processes, procedures, organisational was open for structure, regulations, rules and management belong in formal safety 6 weeks management – and it’s important that we have these. But we believe safety management is more than this. It is about investing in and protecting the human capital of an organisation, and therefore we need improvement programmes and to concentrate on behavioural, social initiatives are working as expected, and cultural processes too In this and whether the way in which we context, a safety culture is a set of care for our people is having a shared values (what is important) positive effect. and beliefs (how things work) that interact with an organisation’s We recognised that just as our structure and control systems to organisation was changing, so was produce behavioural standards (the the safety landscape, we therefore way we do things). need to make sure that we continue to ‘do the right thing’ and put safety Measuring and understanding first. The survey was run over a these informal aspects is just as period of six weeks and in that time Areas for improvement were also important as measuring incident 17,844 people responded, which identified, including the way we rates, compliance reports, near gave us a thorough understanding engage employees on HSSE across misses or claims. A safety climate about what our employees felt the business on their specific survey asks questions about how was going well, and what needed HSSE roles and responsibilities. people feel about certain aspects to improve. We also received over Improvement of HSSE management of safety, including leadership 9,900 comments and suggestions, system procedures was also and supervision, communication, with recommendations and opinions. identified, specifically about the competence, empowerment and quality of near miss reporting. responsibility. Responses from Key messages were that employees felt positive about HSSE, that there These areas, in addition to these surveys help organisations was a strong HSSE brand and it the specific comments and better understand what is happening was a priority area for our people. recommendations, were cascaded beneath the numbers, whether their Employees also felt confident to stop throughout the business. Key the job should they feel safety was findings and recommendations will compromised. be considered for improvement planning for 2017 and beyond to ensure we listen and act on what our employees are telling us. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / HSS management amecfw.com Page 4 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Health, Safety and Security HSS management Safety by design Design safety & environmental goals Achieving inherently safer design • Minimise use smaller quantities in all of Amec Foster Wheeler’s of hazardous substances and Understand hazards & engineering and construction efforts materials generally and minimise environmental impacts is one of our fundamental goals to the number of activities especially ensuring we ‘put safety first’. Our hazardous ones. Safety by Design process assists Implement inherently safer design principles • Substitute replace a hazardous, the achievement of designs that expensive or rare material or enhance safety and environmental activity with one that is less so. characteristics. This process is Manage residual risks & based on the implementation of environmental impacts • Moderate minimise the potential Inherently Safer Design principles impact of a release of substances, applied to engineering, construction Consolidate & materials or energy, e.g. by and their environmental aspects. communicate changing layout configuration, adopting less hazardous operating Amec Foster Wheeler applies a A five-step process conditions, or by minimising the safety by design process on its number of people exposed. engineering projects, designed to 1. Define safety goals help our engineering and design • Simplify – design facilities to teams focus on the impact they have Goals help maintain focus reduce or eliminate complexity on operations and construction throughout the Safety by Design and minimise the possibility of safety, and how we can improve in process, and reflect regulatory human error. this area. The intent of Safety by requirements, legislation and project-specific risk criteria and 4. Manage residual risk Design is to: sustainability strategies, as well If ‘inherent control’ cannot be • Address life-cycle health, safety as project-specific safety and fully achieved or is perceived to and environmental risks and environmental aims. be inadequate, residual hazards, environmental aspects, including risks and environmental impacts management of the use of 2. Understand hazards & aspects will remain. Their effects and natural resources in development The purpose of this step is to identify additional associated risks will need projects. and understand project specific to be reviewed, and where possible, • Systematically and health and safety hazards, as well as mitigated through additional comprehensively identify and environmental impacts so that they engineering or procedural controls. assess hazards and environmental may be appropriately managed and Various studies can be conducted as challenges, and their associated controlled. part of the residual risk management risk to people, environment, asset 3. Implement Inherently Safer process, either in-house or with and production loss, and company Design principles external support. reputation. 5. Consolidate and communicate The intent of Inherently Safer Design, • Examine whether actual and is to eliminate a hazard or the use Once the Safety by Design process potential negative impacts can of materials or energy completely has been completed, and the goals be entirely avoided, or their or reduce the magnitude of use that were identified at the outset magnitude reduced by design. sufficiently to eliminate the need for of the project have been met, the If this is not possible, then elaborate safety or environmental process can be closed. The findings appropriate and preferably management systems. This process of the Safety by Design process can engineering controls( such as of elimination or reduction is be consolidated and communicated isolating people from the hazard accomplished by means that are to internal and external stakeholders. by use of enclosures) are put in inherent to the production process Depending on legislative and place to manage the residual risks and thus permanent and inseparable client requirements, a dedicated and environmental impacts. from it and therefore highly reliable. compliance report such as a Case for We have made Safety by Design The implementation of Inherently Safety or an Environmental Impact an integral part of the project Safer Design is achieved by adopting Statement is produced. engineering design workflow. a strategy based on the following In addition we have dedicated principles: resources in our key engineering • Eliminate remove hazardous centres that are actively involved in materials, processes and ensuring Safety by Design. activities. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / HSS management amecfw.com Page 5 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Health, Safety and Security HSS management Engineering Virtual Reality Our engineers are utilising engineering virtual reality to design, review and learn without going offshore or stepping onto site. The immersive 360 degree environment allows our engineers to gain knowledge and experience of the project site, which increases efficiency, reduces safety risks and costs without physically being there. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / HSS management amecfw.com Page 6 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study Engineering of Saskatchewan’s first potash mine in 40 years Image courtesy: PotashWorks Amec Foster Wheeler is currently delivering the Bethune Mine Project (formerly known as the Legacy Project), Saskatchewan’s first new potash mine in more than 40 years. As K+S Potash Canada’s design and galleries, 71 pipe rack modules project management partner, we are and 27 E-room modules. Benefits responsible for leading an integrated to the project included a smaller Project highlights execution team tasked with construction workforce, reduced • 10 million hours without a lost time delivering all aspects of engineering, construction costs and a shorter injury procurement, construction and timeline to first production. • Significant reduction in buildings commissioning for this solution mine footprint and volume resulted in and processing facility. Our work has $100 million savings in concrete included the management of complex Safety first third-party design-supply technology • 17.3% overall reduction in Capex Safety is Amec Foster Wheeler’s top through More 4 Less approach packages for key components of the priority. In collaboration with K+S plant. • Modular design approach Potash Canada, we have successfully managed health, safety, security maximised opportunities for and environmental aspects of the pre-assembly – reducing More 4 Less project as it has evolved from a pure construction costs and timeline Applying our innovative More 4 greenfield site to a fully operational to first production Less efficiency approach at the production facility. preliminary design stage has resulted With a site workforce that peaked in streamlined engineering and above 3,000 people in a complex significant cost reductions, while and changing work environment, it maintaining high safety standards. was paramount that every individual We densified the mill’s layout to contribute to a safe and sustainable reduce the building’s footprint and workplace. As a result, the project volume by 45%, thereby reducing team achieved more than 10 million the installed cost of concrete by hours without a lost time injury, a roughly $100M. We also implemented clear demonstration of what can be modular design principles to accomplished through collective maximise opportunities for preand resolute commitment to HSSE assembly, including 42 conveyor leadership. Sustainability / Date: 05/17/ K+S potash project amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study Engineering of Saskatchewan’s first potash mine in 40 years You must intervene The project rolled out FIRST To reinforce intervention Step training to management requirements we introduced On a large and diverse site, and senior supervisory levels to recognition programmes directly tied empowering people to step in and provide insight on the barriers to acts of intervention such as ‘Ticket correct unsafe acts and/or to report that prevent people from taking to Safety’ and Project Director’s unsafe conditions is a challenge. action and offer intervention skills HSSE awards, which were promoted Amec Foster Wheeler’s Harm development. That training was then through site-wide awareness Elimination and Recognition Training cascaded to the workforce through initiatives. (HEART) and FIRST Step safety front-line supervisor training and leadership skills programme which Our overall safety message and workforce coaching programme focus on developing intervention challenge for all the workers was specifically tailored to the needs of skills and improving safety through ‘thousands of pairs of eyes available our contractors. Elements of the personal action, are core to meeting each day to make us better by training were also embedded in our that challenge. observing, intervening and reporting’. general site orientation and within the annual Fresh Stand and Clean Finish refresher sessions. Project sustainability framework Human & Labour Rights Environment Anti-bribery & Corruption Community Code of Business Conduct and Diversity & Inclusion Environmental Management Stakeholder Engagement Ethics Human Rights Carbon Management Anti-bribery & Corruption Local Content Health & Safety Efficiency and Innovation Supply Chain Community Resiliency Sustainability / Date: 05/17/ K+S potash project amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Health, Safety and Security HSS performance The first two quarters of 2016 were challenging with incident rate trends rising, however the closing two quarters saw interventions paying off and significant improvements achieved. Chief Executive Jon Lewis, who joined us in June 2016, ensured that HSSE performance was the focus of management attention. Health, safety and security performance Amec Foster Wheeler publishes a standard set of lagging indicators which allows you to benchmark our performance against our peers and other industries. We align our definitions of Total Recordable Injuries and Lost Time injuries against the OSHA definitions. Detailed Performance Summary LTIR per TRIR per Total hours Lost time Total recordable BU Fatality 200,000 hours 200,000 hours worked injuries cases worked worked 25,495,032 0 3 35 0.024 0.27 Americas 0 4 60 0.022 0.33 11,157,082 0 1 25 0.018 0.45 39,640,986 0 12 51 0.061 0.26 NECIS 0 18 74 0.072 0.30 10,272,008 0 6 23 0.117 0.45 18,586,700 0 2 5 0.022 0.05 AMEASE 0 7 39 0.030 0.17 28,484,210 0 5 34 0.035 0.24 4,227,100 0 3 6 0.142 0.28 GPG 0 6 11 0.221 0.41 1,198,666 0 3 5 0.501 0.83 88,707,049 0 20 97 0.045 0.22 Total* 0 35 184 0.05 0.26 51,111,966 0 15 87 0.059 0.34 Employees Subcontractors *total includes plc data Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / HSS Performance amecfw.com Page 1 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Health, Safety and Security HSS performance 0.062 0.033 0.043 0.046 2012 2013 2014 2015 Lost Time Injury Rate In total we had thirty-five lost time Lost Time Injury Rate injuries (LTI) in 2016; two more than the previous year. These are injuries where the injury prevented the person from returning to work after the work shift or day that the injury occurred. Amec Foster Wheeler 0.062 0.033 0.043 0.046 0.050 employees make up 57% of the lost 0.34 0.19 0.22 0.27 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 time incidents which is a reversal in trend from 2015. Subcontractor performance overall showed an 2012 2013 2014 2015 improvement on the previous year. Lost Time Injuries (LTI) Our global LTI rate rose from 0.046 Lost Time Injuries (LTI) in 2015 to 0.05 in 2016, meaning we 6 0.060 1 did not meet our 10% improvement 1 5 0.050 target for 2016. Although overall we 0.34 0.19 0.22 0.27 0.26 1 did not meet our target, a number of Monthly cases Monthly cases 4 0.040 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 our Operating Units performed well, 8 3 0.030 LITR 0.033 0.043 units achieving0.046 with six operating 0.050 6 2 Lost Time Injuries (LTI) Total 0.020 Recordable Ca zero LTI’s through the year. 6 0.060 14 4 1 0.010 2 2013 2014 2015 5 2016 0.050 12 Total Recordable Injuries 10 Monthly cases Monthly cases 04 0.040 0.000 0 Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov 8 Dec Jan 17 3 0.030 LITR Recordable cases include all injuries, 2 0.062 Employees 0.033 Over all rolling LTIR 0.043 2017 target S/C 0.046 0.020 0.050 Employees rolling LTIR 6 4 resulting in medical treatment, 1 0.010 2 restricted duties, lost time or a 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 0.000 0 2016 Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan 17 Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug fatality. They exclude minor first Employees Over all rolling LTIR 2017 target S/C Total Recordable Incident Rate Employees rolling LTIR Employees S/C Overall rolling TRIR aid cases. 2016 saw a slight improvement in our total recordable High Potential Incidents incident rate which fell from 0.27 High Potential Incidents 0.12All Injury Incident in 2015 to 0.26 in 2016. Although 12 11 8 0.12 80 improved on the previous year, 12 7 10 11 70 0.10 10 0.10 6 0.19 overall we failed 0.22to meet our target0.27 of 0.26 Rolling frequency 99 60 Rolling frequency Monthly cases Monthly cases Monthly cases Monthly cases 0.08 0.34 0.19 0.22 0.27 0.26 0.08 88 50 5 a 10% improvement globally. 7 76 0.06 40 65 30 0.06 4 0.04 Subcontractor Total Recordable 2015 4 53 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2016 20 3 42 0.02 0.04 Incident Rate was improved from 10 1 30 2 0.00 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Lost Time Nov Dec Aug Sept Oct Jan Feb (LTI) Injuries Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Total 0.02 Recordable Ca Apr May Jun Jul 0.40 in 2015 to 0.34 at the end of 61 2 2015 Rolling Frequency 2016 Monthly cases Total Recordable Cases (TRC) Employees S/C Overall rolling AIR 1 ost Time Injuries (LTI) Total Recordable Cases (TRC) 0.060 14 2016. However our employee rate 5 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May0.050 Jun Jul 12 Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec 0.00 0 rose from 0.20 in 2015 to 0.22 in0.060 2015 2016 10 Monthly cases Monthly cases Monthly cases 14 4 0.040 0.35 Rolling Frequency Monthly cases 2016, which was heavily influenced 8 3 12 0.030 LITR 0.30 0.050 6 by performance in the NECIS 2 10 0.020 4 0.25 business. A deep dive into these 0.040 1 0.010 2 8 0.20 statistics identified a small number LITR TRIR 0 0.000 0 0.030 Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan 17 Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug 6 0.15 of contributing projects which had a Employees Over all rolling LTIR 2017 target S/C Employees rolling LTIR Employees S/C Overall rolling TRIR 0.020 4 0.10 significant influence over the regional 0.010 performance. These have all been 2 0.05 Aug targeted for improvement. 0.000 0 0.00 un Jul Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan 17 Feb Mar AprHigh Potential May Incidents Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan 17 All Injury Incident ing LTIR We have also been tracking an All Injury 2017 target S/C Employees rolling LTIR 12 11 Employees S/C Overall rolling TRIR 0.12 Employees rolling TRIR 80 2017 target 70 Rate (AIR). This includes all incidents 10 0.10 60 Rolling frequency 9 Monthly cases Monthly cases 8 0.08 resulting in an injury, including first aid 50 7 6 0.06 40 injuries. We plan to target performance 5 4 0.04 30 improvement in this area in 2017 as 3 20 2 0.02 10 1 this gives us a picture of all incidents igh Potential Incidents 0 Jan 2015 Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov All Injury Incidents (AIR) Dec Jan 2016 Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec 0.00 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul A which result in injury. Rolling Frequency Monthly cases Employees S/C Overall rolling AIR 0.12 80 1.80 70 1.60 0.10 1.40 60 Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / HSS Performance amecfw.com Page 2 of 5 Rolling freque nthly cases 0.08 1.20 50 1.00 0.06 40 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 0.80 TRIR 30 ost Time Injuries (LTI) Total Recordable Cases (TRC) 0.060 14 0.35 12 0.30 0.050 10 0.25 Monthly cases 0.040 8 0.20 0.030 LITR TRIR Fact sheet 0.020 6 0.15 4 0.10 Health, Safety and Security 0.010 2 0.05 0.000 0 0.00 un Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan 17 Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan 17 ing LTIR 2017 targetHSS performance S/C Employees rolling LTIR Employees S/C Overall rolling TRIR Employees rolling TRIR 2017 target Root cause igh Potential Incidents analysis All Injury Incidents (AIR) All Injury Incidents (AIR) A key part of the incident 0.12 80 1.80 investigation procedure is the 70 1.60 0.10 identification of both the immediate 60 1.40 Rolling frequency and root causes. The dominant 0.08 Monthly cases 1.20 50 factor in root causes for incidents in 0.06 40 1.00 TRIR our operations continues to be issues 0.80 30 0.04 0.60 around risk management, including 20 0.40 inadequate hazard identification,0.02 10 0.20 application of risk controls, 0.00 0 0.00 ept Oct Nov Dec 2016communications and change Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan 17 Rolling Frequency management. Monthly cases Employees S/C Overall rolling AIR Employees rolling AIR 2017 target In response to this, during 2016 we High Potential Total Recordable Lost Time implemented Hazard Elimination and Recognition Training (HEART) for frontline supervision to improve 18 28 25 hazard spotting and intervention 31 30 skills. The objective of HEART is to 38 improve hazard identification in the 7 work environment through a mix of 7 11 classroom and practical exercises. 7 14 7 14 The latter part of the course 7 12 8 10 10 8 focuses on how hazards can be 8 mitigated effectively and to practice intervention and communication Risk management Behaviour Planning skills with peers and work teams. Communication Work equipment Others During 2016 we trained a total of 2,418 supervisors in HEART. Standards and processes Competence/training/ knowledge transfer Occupational health An occupational health case is employee being admitted to hospital. pregnant and provided all staff with described in our reporting procedure The individual suffered short-term briefings on the situation through as one which causes physiological breathing difficulties but made a full our ISOS traveller information harm or loss of capacity produced recovery. bulletins. When Zika was found to be by systematic infection; continued or transmitted from person to person repeated stress or strain; exposure Our occupational health case we provided additional information to toxins, poisons, fumes, or other incident rate in 2016 was 0.02 per through focused bulletins as well as continued and repeated exposures to 200,000 hours worked, an increase traveller information. Both male and conditions of the work environment from 0.01 the previous year. female workforce could be exposed over a period of time. to the health risk and we made sure Throughout 2016 we tracked the that our people were provided with During 2016 we had eleven reported spread of the Zika virus which has the right information. To date none occupational health cases, all but been associated with the impacts of our employees have been affected one were classified as low potential, on foetal development and is linked by the virus. and include issues such as shortto microcephaly cases and Guillainterm irritation to the eye, contact Barré syndrome. Awareness has dermatitis and contact with acid. been key in helping to protect our We had one medium potential employees, particularly in the early occupational health case which stages. We have asked our female arose through accidental exposure workforce to consider not travelling to chlorine gas resulting in an to Zika affected countries if they are Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / HSS Performance amecfw.com Page 3 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 2012 2013 2014 2015 0.34 Lost Time Injuries (LTI) 6 0.060 14 2012 12 5 0.050 Fact sheet 10 Monthly cases Monthly cases 4 0.040 8 Health, Safety and Security LITR 3 0.030 6 2 0.020 4 HSS performance 1 0.010 2 0 0.000 0 Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan 17 Employees Over all rolling LTIR 2017 target 6 S/C Employees rolling LTIR High Potential Incidents 5 Our ultimate goal is to achieve an All Injury Incidents (AIR) Monthly cases incident free environment. We know 4 that we are some way from this goal. High Potential Incidents To meet this challenge we must go 12 3 0.12 80 beyond looking at the immediate 11 70 effects of an incident, such as a 10 0.10 60 Rolling frequency 9 broken ankle or asset damage and Monthly cases 2 Monthly cases 8 0.08 50 look for ‘what could have happened’ 7 6 0.06 40 and identify what control was 5 1 30 missing or failed to manage the 4 3 0.04 20 risk. Every incident recorded in the 2 0.02 10 company incident management 1 0 0 0.00 0 system is therefore reviewed against Jan 2015 Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan 2016 Feb Mar Apr Feb May Jun Jul Mar Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Apr May its potential, to have resulted in a Rolling Frequency Monthly cases serious event is subjected to inthan merely concentrating on actual contribute to the incidents Employees we have. Over depth investigation. During the year harm/damage incidents. The chart below is an example of there were 56 high potential incident high potential incident analysis, investigations, this was 17 fewer than The above measures all help to build it concentrates on the immediate in 2015. a picture of the effectiveness of our cause of incidents. management systems and inform This is a particularly powerful way of where we need to focus effort. Our We use this intelligence to develop assessing our performance because oneAIM incident management and our global and local continuous it gives us a greater perspective analysis system allows us to look improvement planning. on the robustness of hazard for trends and pin point issues in management tools and techniques our management system which 12 11 Immediate cause:10 Sub Type Top 10 9 Monthly cases 4 5 Failure to appreciate 8the risk 7 Non-application by group 6 Improper use of tools5or equipment 4 4 Personal protective equipment not used 3 10 2 Inadequate equipment 1 Slip or lapse of attention 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul A 4 2015 Non-application by individual 2 Mistake 4 2 Inadequate guards or protective devices 2 Congestion or restricted motion Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / HSS Performance amecfw.com Page 4 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Health, Safety and Security HSS performance Benchmarking Each year we benchmark ourselves against our peers and the industry as a whole using both lost time incident and total recordable incident rates. The table below shows the latest OSHA statistics available along with Amec Foster Wheeler’s 2016 performance. OSHA Professional & Amec Foster Construction All industry Benchmarks 2015 Business Services Wheeler 2016 TRIR 0.9 3.5 3.3 0.26 LTIR 0.20 1.3 1.0 0.050 2016 Leading Indicators Over the course of 2016 we implemented a number of leading indicators. These were designed through the analysis of previous performance where our statistical analysis and systems intelligence was showing an improvement needed to be made. Our four global leading indicators: Corrective action close out: all incident close out actions arising from the incident investigation or Incident Review Panel (IRP) will be closed out within the specified time 1 It was felt that we needed to track the close out of these incidents to assist in creating a more diligent culture of close out. By the end of the year we saw improvements across the regions, however, in some cases the close out did not run to Amec Foster Wheeler time schedule because third parties were responsible for the investigation and/or close out actions. Global Safety Rules / Safety Essentials: Number of people targeted to receive a briefing on the Global Safety Rules and Safety Essentials by year end versus the number YTD 2 In 2015 our Global Safety Rules and Safety Essentials were reviewed and amended, it was therefore important to make sure that all employees were aware of the changes. At the outset of the year a plan was put together to brief 24,224 employees on the changes. At the end of the year a total of 23,958 employees were briefed, covering all the targeted groups. Overall we met our target; the original planned number of employees was affected by natural attrition and redundancies. HEART Training: Number of supervisors identified for HEART training versus the number trained YTD 3 As discussed in the root cause analysis section we made plans during the year to improve our front line supervisor skills in hazard identification. At the outset of the year we planned to train 1991 supervisors on our highest risk projects. We exceeded this target in all areas with the exception of the Americas who were hit by a number of redundancies and project postponements. In total we trained 2,418 supervisors and employees. HEART Observations: Number of HEART observations targeted by year end versus number completed YTD The HEART observation tool was a new global standard employee risk spotting process which is available as a 4 mobile app, an online tool, and in some environments it remains a paper based system. To reach our goal of a harm free environment we need everyone contributing to a safe system of work. HEART observations is our way of engaging everyone in the process – ‘if you see something, do something’. We originally targeted 42,397 observations and massively exceeded this number, returning 121,839 observations. This was highly influenced by our project site observation systems. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / HSS Performance amecfw.com Page 5 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study rect ppe change ntervene or ny ti ar the manage a you mus we c ake care the rules st w alwa follo y essment ss a risk a do World class safety performance Amec Foster Wheeler is committed to the value of ‘Doing the right thing we put safety first’ by maintaining a strong and sustainable HSSE culture across all our operations. We accomplish this through the protection and support of our employees and anyone working with us or affected by our activities, and our commitment to continuous improvement. SES achieves 10 years LTI free SES, a subsidiary of Amec Foster Wheeler, has a strong safety culture which is embedded right through the organisation, from the newest apprentices to the longest serving employees. HSSE development is managed through the company’s training matrix, ensuring employees SABIC’s Olefins 6 plant safety milestone all team members have access to training and learning who have worked on the project 250,000 man hours received a commemorative polo shirt. that prepares a confident, competent and safe workforce. without an LTI Amec Foster Wheeler was The integrated maintenance service recently awarded, for the third Alex McCrimmon, SES Operations Pipeline Remediation project consecutive year, gold at the annual Director said, “The last few years started working in the pipe racks on Environmental, Health, Safety have been particularly busy for us SABIC’s Olefins 6 plant at Wilton in and Security awards, recognising as we have been managing the plant 2009. Since then the team has built companies working at Saudi Basic and equipment requirements, both numerous large scaffolds allowing Industries Corporation European onshore and offshore, for some of access to the pipe racks on the plant. Sites. the largest shutdowns and several major hook-ups. This 10 years LTI free During that time we have expended milestone has been reached through over 250,000 man hours without an impressive team effort, and strong a lost time incident (LTI) and to HSSE Management.” recognise the achievement of this Sustainability / Date: 05/17/ World class safety performance amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study World class safety performance Major 81 million hours safety milestone achieved on KOC’s mega projects The Project Management Consultancy (PMC) team working on Kuwait Oil Company’s (KOC) mega projects continues to reach fantastic safety milestones. They were recently recognised by John Reid, Kuwait Country Manager for Amec Foster Wheeler, for achieving world-class safety performance across a portfolio of upstream projects they manage on behalf of our long-term client, KOC. Photo: Members of KOC Project’s HSE team with a selection of safety awards they have received. From left to right: Georgios Paliokostas, Willard Stephenson, Humayun Sultan, Thomas Sullivan, Nasser The portfolio of major and mega Karim, Shahid Ul-Arfain Syed and Vasile Birzog. projects now includes four projects which have each surpassed 10 million man-hours without any lost time 200 days goal zero for The team on the Seafox 4 and those who support and manage them are injury (LTI) incidents. One of these Seafox ONEgas barge incredibly proud of how far they projects has achieved a staggering campaign have come in developing their safety 21 million man-hours without a single Amec Foster Wheeler is currently culture and improving how they work. LTI incident. The complete portfolio part of the Amec, Jacobs, Stork (AJS) Two hundred without HSSE incident of projects has now exceeded an Joint Venture delivering maintenance, was previously unheard of, and now unprecedented record of 81 million modifications and projects on Shell’s each and every day they are all talking man-hours LTI free, representing ONEgas assets in the Southern about what more they can do to approximately one-third of KOC’s North Sea, which presented some ensure everyone goes home safely. Major Projects’ total safe hours. challenging HSSE issues. Gary Fraser, Project HSEQ Manager, Some of the work involved partial said: “Continuous engagement at deconstruction and significant BG Group contract all levels with a large and diverse workforce mobilised in Kuwait by modification to their normally celebrates 8 years LTI free the engineering, procurement and unmanned installations in the October 2016 marked eight years construction (EPC) contractors has Leman Field, the aim of which was to LTI free on the BG contract. This played a vital role in achieving these remove anything no longer required achievement spans 8.6 million impressive safety figures.” and modify them into very simple, manhours and the delivery of 12 major low-maintenance marine access, projects. renewables powered installations – most of which were to be undertaken Craig Shanaghey, Director of whilst the platform remained in Operations, commented, “Well done to production. everyone who has worked to achieve such a great safety performance over A number of best practices were the past 8 years. This is a fantastic developed including a great example achievement for everyone involved of workforce involvement in safety and testament to the mentality of when the workers produced their own putting safety first.” version of the Step Change in Safety video of Don Merrell’s ‘I Chose to Look the Other Way’. Sustainability / Date: 05/17/ World class safety performance amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Security in focus Amec Foster Wheeler’s Group Security department continues to actively engage with the business at all stages of operations, enabling end-to-end oversight and input. By doing so, we are able to ensure that control measures correctly correspond with the threats pertinent to any specific operation, resulting in costeffective delivery of security globally across the entire organisation. Spotlight on security In order to ensure the duty of the Corporate Security Standard, Group Security also continues to care to our people alongside our published in September 2016 and provide a comprehensive medical assets and reputation, the security the recently implemented Minimum and security programme to prepare department provides tools to secure Security Operating Standards and assist our business travellers business operations globally, whilst has further contributed to our prior to and whilst on international simultaneously forecasting to increasingly comprehensive Security business trips as well as expatriate maintain a focus on preparedness Management System. In developing assignments. In order to streamline to respond to security incidents and the system further, the business has our regional emergency provision business interruptions effectively. set expectations for security planning the RSAs are in the process and operations worldwide and across of developing the Emergency The primary points of contact for all country risk levels from low to Preparedness SharePoint site as a specialist security advice within the extreme. Global Emergency Preparedness business are the Regional Security Tool, which intends to provide Advisors (RSAs), who report to the In order to ensure the highest of accessible and accurate details for all Global Security Director. In turn standards are kept, we monitor and emergency contacts in all regions. RSA’s support the global network of audit the application of our security project specific Security Managers standards across the business. To Moving into 2017 Group Security and Security Focal Points. This do so we use the Group Security identified that in order to ensure structure has been designed to Performance Assurance Tool which our Travel Security Programme ensure our approach to security risk provides risk-based assurance remained user friendly, effective and management is both strategic and whilst enabling us to ensure ‘fit for purpose’ to provide the best tactical. consistent standards and identify tools we can to keep our employees areas for improvement. In addition safe, a reviewed and updated version Amec Foster Wheeler operates a fully as part of a wider assurance should be circulated company-wide. integrated Security Management programme, a company-wide review The resulting Online Travel Security System. Since being published in late is conducted by the Global Security Training package, is mandatory for 2015, the Emergency Preparedness Director demonstrated through a all employees and will be rolled out (EP) Framework has been further Group Security Report submitted to in 2017 in conjunction with the Amec rolled out and integrated through the the HSSEE Committee on an annual Foster Wheeler Academy. business. The development of basis. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 /Security in focus amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Security in focus Current risk focus Performance Group Security’s current risk focus to the pertinent existing and rising To ensure that we monitor our is driven by changes in the security threats as well as to the business performance in this area and are landscape over the course of 2016 itself. Our Security Analysts work able to look for trends, we track and beginning of 2017, as the risk closely with all of the RSAs as well the number of security incidents climate continues to evolve and as the Global Security Director across our business. We define a develop. Through both instant to ensure acute and proactive security incident as any incident incident response and analysis as understanding of Amec Foster that results in physical, criminal or well as the provision of forecasting Wheeler activity and subsequent intellectual security breaches. In reports, we ensure an acute vulnerabilities globally. 2016 Amec Foster Wheeler reported understanding of both political and 44 security incidents. We also use security developments globally. data to calculate a security incident Geographically, we will continue to Looking forward rate which is the sum of all security focus on the Middle East and Gulf incident cases per 200,000 manStates, Africa, South America and In 2017 Group Security will focus on: hours worked. Asia Pacific, where we have regional • Raising awareness of the teams facilitating Amec Foster Corporate Security and Wheeler business in complex and Emergency Preparedness 2015 2016 dynamic security environments. Standards, and supporting Within these environments our focus Total procedures, across the business. can range from political violence and number of instability to criminality, terrorism • Providing prioritised and deployed security 36 46 and kidnap for ransom. support to operations that incidents Over the past year we have witnessed are considered strategically reported an increasing number of events important/company critical, that indicate growing threat from and those where we assume Security transnational, home-grown and responsibility for security incident provision. This is in addition to 0.05 0.07 lone actor terrorism. Of particular frequency concern is the exponentially any projects and offices located in rate increasing number of successful areas rated as high or extreme risk, terror attacks taking place across and includes project execution Europe carving a new, complex and planning and the completion of challenging security environment. country and project level security Both the total number and frequency The rising threat from lone actor reviews, gap analyses and audits. rate of security incidents has risen and homegrown terrorism on a in 2016 from 2015 levels, we believe global scale will remain a significant • Developing our global list of this is due to an increase in reporting concern. As a result we will continue approved third party security and understanding. We would expect to develop emergency preparedness providers/vendors, including the this increase in reporting to continue and response preparation implementation of Master Services into 2017 and beyond as we roll accordingly. Agreements with selected out the standards and supporting international consultancies. procedures further into the business. Group Security will place an additional focus on threats such • Establishing, training and testing as active shooter incidents in the teams capable of managing Americas, social and community security incidents, emergencies conflict in Africa and Asia and and crises across the business workplace violence globally into 2017. following the recent company reThe risk of surges in social unrest structuring and implementation in low and medium risk countries, of a new Operating Model (Purple particularly during times of political Book). change and election periods will also remain a key component of our risk • Emergency Preparedness mitigation focus. Threat analysis SharePoint site being developed as and subsequent risk mitigation is a a Global tool. process that is rooted in our in-house security analysis team who provide a range of specific reports tailored Sustainability / Date: 05/17 /Security in focus amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Environmental management “Good environmental management matters, not only as it’s the right thing to do, but our reputation relies on it. Our stakeholder’s perceptions are shaped by our ability to manage environmental impacts and opportunities well, getting it wrong is not an option for us.” John Raine, Chief HSSE Officer Our business and many like it help to When oil prices are low, securing over 1.63 gigawatts direct current shape the world around us through investment in renewable (GWdc) of solar energy projects the services we offer. We have an technologies is challenging. However across North America. The business ever increasing portfolio of services our success in servicing the solar case for excellence in environmental which focus on the markets of energy market has grown steadily management is illustrated by tomorrow – but the services are only since we first entered the market in the fact that Environmental & useful to us when they are procured 2008. In less than 10 years*, we have Infrastructure services now by our clients. designed and built nearly 30 solar represents 17% of our total global energy facilities and installed turnover. Much of our work has the potential for significant environmental consequences. Ensuring that we *Renewable energy projects in the last 10 years manage our environmental aspects is imperative to the sustainability of our business. Our clients 1,500 MW demand that we carefully manage wind installations 40+ renewable energy environmental risks associated EPC projects with executing our projects and 1.6GWdc doing more with less enables us to minimise wastage. Meeting of solar installations statutory requirements alone is US$2bn not enough, although it forms of renewable energy projects an element of our Foundation of Excellence in our sustainability strategy and part of our basic fundamental principles. Being a business that contributes to global sustainability by offering services which seek to protect and enhance our environment is, by far, a key aspiration. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Environmental management amecfw.com Page 1 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Environmental management Managing our Amec Foster Wheeler HSSE Policy Environmental Aspects (Global) Amec Foster Wheeler has adopted Policy an integrated Health, Safety, Security and Environmental (HSSE) HSSE Strategy management approach which draws Delivery (Global) on the elements of ISO 14001 with Strategies the European part of the business benefiting from ISO certification. HSSE Framework & core Compliance with the standard is Common expectations Processes (Global) required as a part of our mandatory framework although third party certification is not, unless there is a Project Management Plan business need to do so. agem ent Security & Emergency Project Man Preparadness Plans Plans Policy and Framework tions, Our HSSE policy sets out our key s, Instruc Procedure ) and supporting environmental aims and objectives IFs’ Forms (P as a responsible business. Many documen ts of our aims and objectives are Global applies to all Amec Foster Wheeler combined health, safety and business and operations security as well as environmental (see our HSSE policy). Our policy is an important document because Environmental Standards it underpins the development of Our Environmental Standards form our environmental management part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s approach. It is such an important policy that our Board of Directors Beyond Zero road map. They regularly review and must approve form a company-wide benchmark it. The policy is supported by for environmental management our health, safety, security and supporting our Health, Safety and AMEC FOSTER WHEELER HANDBOOK FOR SUPERVISORS AND MANAGERS / ENVIRONMENTAL OPERATIONAL CONTROL environmental (HSSE) framework Environmental policy commitments. Waste management document. Waste is a significant environmental impact around the world so as a responsible company we must manage it effectively. Amec Foster Wheeler sites should incorporate a waste management plan into their on-site environmental management system. This sets out Amec Foster Wheeler’s Key considerations: expectations and minimum  Waste generated at all Amec Foster Wheeler locations will be stored in such a way as to guard against land, air or water pollution and windblown litter  Wastes which are hazardous to people or the environment must be removed environmental standards for our Content as soon as is reasonably practical  All Amec Foster Wheeler operations handling hazardous waste must have global operations. It provides the appropriate authorisation to do so  Hazardous waste must be properly labelled and stored appropriate to the nature of Environment in project design the substance(s) 62 guiding hand on what we believe Environmental due diligence Environmental assessment 63  Waste recycling containers / bins should be provided where material can be 64 and be appropriately labelled to prevent should be our absolute standard segregated from the general waste stream contamination of reusable / recyclable material Environmental permits, permissions and licences 65  A check will be made on any third parties66 removing or managing waste on wherever we operate in the Project site pre-planning Amec Foster Wheeler’s behalf, prior to any waste being removed and periodically Pollution prevention 67 thereafter, to make sure they are appropriately qualified and, where local Major emergency procedures regulations require, licensed, whilst also having the required resources (e.g. world. We know that standards of 68 vehicles, funding etc.) to deal with waste properly Carbon management 69  Effort should be made to reduce, reuse and recycle materials through engagement environmental management are with suppliers (e.g. reduce packaging, bulk purchase, reuse of waste materials etc.) Environmental operational control and with recycling facilities where they exist within the locality Protected and sensitive environments 71 different across the world and we  Appropriate records must be maintain as evidence that the company has Waste management discharged all local legal requirements72with regard to waste disposal Water preservation and protection 73 are committed to upholding our  Employees and sub-contractors will be made aware of Amec Foster Wheeler’s Air pollution waste standards and any local procedures 74 and / or requirements relating to waste management at the location Environmental Polluting material storage 75 legal obligations. However, where Spill response  Any significant failure of waste management at the location must be reported as 76 reporting, recording and investigation an incident (refer to Amec Foster Wheeler’s Standards Site vehicles and equipment procedure) 78 the statutory duty of care to the 72 environment falls short of our own OK FOR S BO UP standards, we are committed to HA ND E RS AND MA ensuring that we operate to our OF OUR Delivering ISO sustainable framework and standards. We N RV world-class HSSE RT performance will not allow our standards to be PA A lowered. E S I TH AG IS RS Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Environmental management amecfw.com Page 2 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Environmental management Environmental Standards Continued These standards were developed we must ensure high standards of safety and environmental (HSE) following a comprehensive performance to reduce associated management systems. Compliance review of Amec Foster Wheeler’s environmental and financial risk with the standards is mandatory environmental commitments (Our (pollution and associated clean-up and verified through our corporate Values, Behaviours and Policies) and costs). assurance activities. performance, including: The standards are split into two In 2016 the Northern Europe • Environmental incident sections environmental planning and CIS business unit piloted a investigation and environmental operational performance standard assessment control. They cover a variety of for the environmental standards. • Regulatory performance issues such as Project Pre-Site This involved a high level review • Environmental key performance Planning, Pollution Prevention, and assessment of each operating indicators Carbon Management, Polluting unit against compliance and Material Storage and Site Vehicles understanding of the environmental • Environmental best practice and Equipment. There are also a set standards. Results of the pilot were (including ISO standards) of accompanying checklists to aid positive with assessment scores The objective of the standards in self-assessment of compliance ranging from 84-94% across the is to ensure a consistent level against the standards. business unit. Operating units were of performance across the issued action plans to close any gaps These standards are applied organisation which protects and identified. These will be followed up to our operations where Amec enhances Amec Foster Wheeler’s throughout 2017 and the process Foster Wheeler has environmental world-class environmental considered for wider roll out as responsibility; they are integrated reputation. We focus on areas where appropriate. into our business line health, Environmental Incidents As part of our mandatory procedure, ‘Incident reporting, recording and investigation’, environmental incidents are captured in Amec Foster Wheeler’s incident management and analysis tool oneAIM. Incidents are assigned an environmental potential based on the table Number of people below: Consequence level Consequence description 0 1 1-2 2-10 >10 1 Minimal reversible environmental impact A1 B1 C1 D1 E1 Minor pollution with short term impact 2 A2 B2 C2 D2 E2 (1 month) Moderate pollution with medium term 3 A3 B3 C3 D3 E3 localised pollution (1 year) Severe pollution with long term localised 4 A4 B4 C4 D4 E4 pollution (>1 year) Major pollution with long term 5 A5 B5 C5 D5 E5 environmental change High level consequences are notified to the management team A B C D E through a first alert process and all high potential consequence incidents subject to an in-depth investigation (level 2). 84 environmental incidents were reported in 2016, only 2 of which were subject to a level 2 investigation, the rest were potential level 1 which indicated small localised spillages with very minor or no environmental impact. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Environmental management amecfw.com Page 3 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Environmental management 0.34 0.19 0.22 0.27 2012 2013 2014 2015 Potential consequence ratings of incidents Amec Foster Wheeler employees were D3 accountable for 43% of all D1 recorded environmental C1 incidents, with managed B2 contractors accounting for B1 32% and sub-contractors A3 accounting for 19%. A2 However, in 2016 the A1 largest spill was attributed 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 to Amec Foster Wheeler. Potential consequence ratings of incidents 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 EIFR* 0.12 0.11 High Potential0.23 Incidents 0.13 0.23 0.47 12 0.12 No. of recorded incidents 84 11 81 51 87 99 179 10 0.10 Of which were spills 73 77 50 71 78 175 Rolling frequency 9 Monthly cases 8 0.08 7 Volume of spills (litres) 30,1486 2,275,494** 301,922 3,314 4,529 7,150 0.06 5 4 0.04 3 *Environmental Incident Frequency Rate per 200,000 2 hours worked 0.02 **Excluding volumes recorded in legacy FW system 1 which did not capture this information 0 0.00 Note: Historical data for 2014 and earlier are based onJanAMEC Feb figures Mar Apr only, as data May Jun from Jul Aug SeptFoster Dec Janwas Wheeler Oct Nov Febnot Marcaptured to allow Apr May Jun us to Jul Aug combine Sept Oct Nov years Dec 2015 2016 before integration. Rolling Frequency Monthly cases During 2016, 87% of all reported incidents were spillages, the other 13% were made up of incident reports including nuisance, litter and uncontrolled emissions to air amongst others. Of these reported spillages. 37% involved the spillage of hydraulic oil from plant, 25% were from release of contaminated water and 22% from fuel spillages. 19% of spillages were of ‘other’ materials, this category includes a mixture of substances such as sewage, coolant and water. The total volume of spillage in 2016 was distorted by one incident recorded on a project in the UK. On 22 September Amec Foster Wheeler received a complaint 0.062 0.033 in relating to contamination of a private drinking water 0.0 19% supply. Upon investigation an estimated 25,000 litres of water was found to have been released from the site 2012 manner, contaminating in an uncontrolled 2013 a private well 20 37% which was used for drinking water with levels of silt. Local residents were contacted and offered alternative portable water if their supply was affected. This incident was rated 25% as a D3, moderate pollution with medium term localised pollution. 22% Other Contaminated water Fuel Hydraulic oil 0.34 0.19 0. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Environmental management 2012 amecfw.com 2013 Page 4 of 5 20 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 0.062 0.033 0.0 2012 2013 20 Fact sheet Environmental management Environmental Regulatory Record 0.34 0.19 0. Of the 84 environmental incidents which took place in 2016, 9 were 11% reported to the relevant statutory body. 2012 2013 20 Not reported to statutoryPotential body consequence ratings of incide Reported to statutory body D3 D1 C1 B2 89% B1 A3 A2 A1 A UK project received notice under section 60 of the Control of Pollution Act 1974 relating to a noise complaint being received from a member of the public. Regular monitoring is currently 0 being undertaken 10 at the 20 site to ensure 30 work is 40 carried out in line with the notice. 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Prosecutions 0 0 0 0 0 0 High Potential Incidents 12 11 10 9 Monthly cases 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun 2015 2016 Rolling Frequency Monthly cases Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Environmental management amecfw.com Page 5 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Carbon management In 2016 we fulfilled our promise to review our carbon reduction targets in line with limiting climate change to two degrees change following on from the agreements made at COP21 (the Paris Climate Conference). In 2017 we will focus our efforts on modelling how these reductions will be achieved. During 2015 we re-baselined our Carbon performance AmecAmec FosterFoster WheelerWheeler 2016 2016 emissions carbon emissions following the Our absolute emissions for EmissionsversusVersus our our 2015 2015 Baseline baseline acquisition of the Foster Wheeler our 2016 carbon year were 140,000 business in late 2014. 2016 was the 1,251,252 tonnes of CO2e which first year we collected a full data set represented a slight increase in 120,000 from the whole buisness using our overall emissions of 0.2% from 100,000 global carbon reporting system. our 2015 baseline. 80,000 This has enabled us to continue to 60,000 improve the accuracy of our data Benchmark indicators over this period. 40,000 To help us monitor emissions 20,000 The 12-month period to 30 as our business changes over 0 September (the carbon reporting time, we use three benchmark 2015 2016 year), rather than the calendar year, indicators below; Company car Direct emissions has been used. This ensures actual Non company car Long haul air data can be reported in our Annual On site fuel Steam Report and Accounts in line with Electricity Natural gas reporting timescales required for 2015* 2016 Short haul air Train and bus mandatory carbon reporting, even for those regions where energy/fuel Per employee 31.75 33.94 usage is more difficult to access. By reducing reliance on estimation, Per £1m Note: a more accurate footprint can be revenue 228.88 220.21 *Includes a full carbon year of data for both AMEC provided in a timely manner. and Foster Wheeler representing full baseline for 2015 Per MWH generated** 0.94 0.90 **MWh generated from our two power generation sites in Chile and Martinez Emission Type (t) 201 70,000 60,000 50,000 40,000 Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Carbon management 30,000 amecfw.com Page 1 of 5 20,000 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Carbon management 2016 emissions by Scope Amec Fos Emissions Ver 140,000 2015 2016 120,000 4% 4% 100,000 80,000 60,000 Scope 1 1,085,148 1,148,118 40,000 20,000 Scope 30 Scope 2 68,540 49,799 2015 Scope 2 Company car 92% Non company car Scope 1 On site fuel Scope 3 62,882 53,335 Electricity Short haul air Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 2.8% 26% 15% The main source of our Scope 1 Scope 2 emissions are associated Scope 3 emissions are associated 70,000 emissions are direct emissions from with the electricity purchased and with business travel, including air and60,000 our power generation plants in Chile utilised for our office space and for rail travel as well as mileage travelled 50,000 and Martinez, US – together these the manufacturing plants of our GPG in personal vehicles and hire cars. 40,000 make up 97% of our Scope 1 emissions. business. 30,000 The remainder is made up of company 20,000 car, natural gas from our offices 10,000 and on-site fuel supplying power generators and other site equipment. 0 Company car Electrici Power Generation Amec Foster Wheeler owns/operates in absolute emissions was due to Due to the impact that the emissions two power generation facilities – increased output at both plants with from our two power generation 1,600,000 PetroPower Energia Limitada in Chile electricity generation rising 5% and sites has on our total emissions, the 1,400,000 and Amec Foster Wheeler Power steam by 17% overall. The tonnes of remainder of this factsheet focuses 1,200,000 Systems – Martinez in California. emissions per MWH output shows a on emissions by reporting type not 1,000,000 800,000 Emissions of these two plants make reduction from 2015 levels, indicating including power generation. This 600,000 up 97% of the total emissions for that although overall emissions went allows us to represent the reporting 400,000 2016, and overall rose during 2016 by up, our emissions were less per MWH and reduction efforts of all other 200,000 3% from 2015 levels. This increase produced. emissions sources more effectively. 0 Emission sources excluding 2016 2018 2020 power generation Emissions of business operations (excluding power generation) 200,000 163,152 150,000 Emissions of our business operations have 100,000 131,072 reduced by 19% 50,000 Our emissions per employee fell from 4.15(t) in 2015 to 3.71(t) in 2016; over a 10% reduction. 0 2015 2016 Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Carbon management amecfw.com Page 2 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Short haul air Train and bus Fact sheet Carbon management Emission Type (t) 2015 vs 2016 24% Emission Type (t) 2015 vs 2016 70,000 60,000 50,000 33% 40,000 21% 9% 30,000 13% 19% 20,000 48% 59% 30% 10,000 0 Company car Electricity Long haul air Natural gas Non company Short haul Steam Train and bus On site fuel car air 2015 2016 Significant reductions were made generation on our temporary sites organisations. In 2016 we in emissions resulting from steam, and for plant and equipment. This consolidated the number of travel natural gas, long and short haul air, increase follows a rise in the number of providers utilised globally and will electricity and company car mileage. Transmission and Distribution projects look to take this even further in in the UK with projects in temporary 2017. Each consolidation results in Electricity locations rather than fixed sites. a more simplistic and efficient data Emissions Reduction Pathway collection process. The largest reduction in emissions Business travel from 2015 levels was seen from Reporting the electricity used by fixed office 1,600,000 We continue to record the emissions locations, a reduction of over 16,000t from our business travel, including We continue to report externally of CO2e. There was specific focus in 1,400,000 air, rail and personal vehicles miles. on our performance in both legal this area in 2016 through three key An updated travel policy which and voluntary carbon reporting 1,200,000 areas: was rolled out in 2015 is now well requirements. In 2016 we achieved a embedded within the business, rating of C on the Carbon Disclosure • Continued 1,000,000 focus to consolidate which sees travel requests regularly Project. office space in cities where we 800,000 refused and challenged. have multiple facilities. We also report our carbon emissions 600,000 Skype has become one of the under a number of pieces of UK • Introduction of an Energy most widely used tools around legislation: Management Procedure in the UK 400,000 the business and is now the first focusing on recommendations • The CRC Energy Efficiency option in place of travelling. We have 200,000 and actions from ESOS reports witnessed a drastic reduction in Scheme; published 0 late 2015. the number of people travelling for • The Energy Savings and 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024meetings, resulting 2030 in2032 a reduction in • Continued focus and efficiency 2026 2028 2034 2038 2040 Opportunities Scheme; 2042 2044 2046 2048 2050 improvements implemented air and rail travel as well as company and non-company car mileage. • The Companies Act 2006 using our global 5 star efficiency (Strategic and Directors’ Reports) programme. (see 5 star office Emissions from train and bus use Regulations 2013. efficiency case studies for more also rose, indicating a positive details). change in behaviour from employees who are thinking differently about On-site fuel their travel arrangements. The most significant percentage rise Recording travel data has always in emissions came from the use of been challenging, with travel on-site fuel which we used for power being booked through various Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Carbon management amecfw.com Page 3 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Carbon management Year 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050 Percent absolute emissions 24% 42% 56% 66% 74% 80% 85% reduction Target emissions (tCO2e) 950,200 724,600 552,700 421,500 321,500 232,200 187,000 Carbon Reduction Planning Following the Paris Agreement, in Finance Approach to Climate• Through this methodology we which 177 countries committed Stabilizing Targets) methodology have annualised this goal in to keep the rise in global average was selected as the most appropriate order to translate the calculated temperature ‘well-below two degrees to calculate Amec Foster Wheeler’s carbon intensity reduction goal to celcius’, we chose to investigate science-based target. The C-FACT corporate-level absolute targets. an emissions target in alignment methodology recommends This breaks down the change with climate change science. The that companies decrease their in carbon intensity into yearly benefit of setting a science-based emissions in line with scientific emission targets and creates a target is to be proactive in the way and policy climate stabilisation pathway for Amec Foster Wheeler that our commitments are moving targets in proportion to their relative to reach its target of an 85% with the aim of giving the company a contribution to global GDP. reduction in emissions by 2050. competitive advantage in the future. By annualising the target, we • Through carrying out the C-FACT Following review of the seven derive a series of yearly targets to process, a target carbon intensity methodologies recommended by understand what reductions need for 2050 of 0.13 kgCO2e/£ GDP Science Based Targets Initiative to be made along the way. contribution was calculated. (SBTI), the C-FACT (Corporate This was calculated using a 2015 baseline of 1,246,512 tCO2e. The Amec Foster Wheeler target: Carbon intensity in 2050 of 0.13 kgCO2e/£ GDP contribution Carbon emissions in 2050 of 186,977 tCO2e Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Carbon management amecfw.com Page 4 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 60,000 50,000 40,000 Fact30,000 sheet 20,000 Carbon management 10,000 0 Company car Electricity Long haul air Natural gas Non company Short haul Steam Train and bus On site fuel car air 2015 2016 The graph below shows a smooth Foster Wheeler. 2017 will see the We will continue to monitor and pathway to the 2050 target, however, business focus on developing a plan report our carbon emissions and by creating targets at key milestones, that will be implemented to meet our our progress towards our set targets the trajectory will be followed in the 2025 target. going forward. most appropriate way for Amec Emissions Reduction Pathway Emissions Reduction Pathway 1,600,000 1,400,000 1,200,000 1,000,000 800,000 600,000 400,000 200,000 0 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 2026 2028 2030 2032 2034 2038 2040 2042 2044 2046 2048 2050 Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Carbon management amecfw.com Page 5 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Minimising resource use “The global population is set to grow by 28 per cent and is predicted to use 71 per cent more resources per capita by 2050, this could be nearly 30 per cent lower with resource efficiency measures. Globally, more sustainable use of materials and energy would not only cover the cost of keeping global warming below 2 degrees Celsius, but also add an extra $2 trillion to the global economy by 2050.” UNEP Energy performance and 2015* 2016 intensity We measure our energy intensity MWh Per employee 5.48 4.4 by employee (average full time equivalent employee), by turnover Per £1m revenue 40.19 32.05 (per £million), and also by output Per MWh generated** 0.17 0.12 from our power generation sites (MWh) so that we can monitor this as Note: the company grows and as demand *Includes a full carbon year of data for both AMEC and Foster Wheeler representing full baseline for 2015 at the power generation sites **MWh generated from our two power generation sites in Chile and Martinez changes over time. Annual fuel and energy consumption (MWh) Heating Energy 2015 (MWh) 2016 (MWh) Natural Gas 49,930 43,263 13% Total Heating Energy 49,930 43,263 13% Electricity 144,368 104,157 28% Onsite Fuel 13,238 19,335 46% Heat & Steam 11,703 6,702 43% Total Energy 169,309 130,195 23% Overall Total 219,240 173,458 21% Note: annual fuel and energy consumption figures exclude our power generation facilities. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Minimising resource use amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Minimising resource use Annual fuel and energy We have rated our existing Water management offices using the office efficiency consumption (MWh) programme, awarding them a star We began to review our water risk The majority of our energy usage and usage in 2012 by appraising our rating should the criteria for each continues to come from the electricity permanent locations. We assessed star be met. The intention is to consumption of our offices and in their exposure to water risk and improve the efficiency star ratings of the manufacturing plants of our GPG assigned priority levels to each of our our office portfolio as we progress offices based on water stress risk and business. This accounts for roughly through the programme, which 82% of our total energy consumption. usage. Using this priority listing, we in turn should reduce our utility launched a pilot water consumption The majority of our natural gas consumption and costs in this area. consumption (65%) continues to come improvement programme in our top from our Americas offices, where use priority sites in the Americas in 2015. In 2015 we rolled out our efficiency This helped us better quantify water of this as an energy source is more programme by introducing office usage so that best management prevalent and where we have the bulk profile questionnaires aligned to the practices would be identified. We of our global locations. On site fuel 5 star efficiency programme within have continued with this work and usage predominately comes from our Transmission and Distribution our carbon reporting software. increased our visibility of actual business, which saw an increase in Completion of an office 5 star data usage by the NECIS business, remote sites that did not have access profile, and the development of an collecting actual usage figures with to mains supplied electricity and improvement plan based on the the aim of developing a benchmark therefore relied heavily on generators. result of this, were the requirements to set future reductions against. We of the 2015 office sustainability will carry on the work to increase the promises programme. 2016 saw the collation of actual water usage data Energy management where it is available as an ongoing continued roll out of the programme, Our direct energy consumption is with the focus placed on the improvement area. Where actual associated mainly with our office implementation of improvement data is not available or accessible and site locations’ building utility plans, increasing star ratings and we continue to calculate water data and includes the consumption of based on country-specific benchmark efficiency both in the consumption electricity, natural gas, heating oil, water consumption figures. of utilities and in the utilisation of steam and generator fuel. We manage our office space. Implementation energy and heating at a local level with of these plans has been met with the office/site using our environmental enthusiasm and tangible results management systems, our global have been recorded throughout our environmental standards and also our offices, with the first 5-star rating office sustainability programmes to awarded to an office in the UK. Learn manage and reduce usage. more about what our offices are doing to attain their star ratings in Our office efficiency 5 star programme our 5 star efficiency case studies supports the decision making process when we procure new office space, and also within our existing office environments as we look to improve the efficiency of our activities. Looking at efficiency criteria across five key areas: • Building infrastructure • Building operation 3 • Energy management and 587,209m performance improvement Direct water • Efficient occupancy consumption • Water efficiency Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Minimising resource use amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study 5 Star efficiency rating Our 5 star office efficiency programme is now well established throughout the business and 2016 saw our Tees Valley Centre (Darlington, UK) achieve 5 stars, our first office globally to do this. How did they do it? Operations management All office equipment has an auditable maintenance system, with Energy use transparency The office has a core HVAC system environmental impact considered with programmable thermostats Monthly usage and cost data as part of the vendor approval and boiler timings and settings is collated by the local facilities questionnaire. Office equipment is which have been reviewed to ensure management team. Reports set to optimum efficiency levels, for maximum efficiency. The heating is show that in 2016 gas usage was example printers are set to Follow now switched off at weekends as well reduced by 10% and water by Me printing with default settings set as bank holidays and a later start 22%. Electricity consumption to double sided and black and white time for post-holiday and weekend has remained consistent despite as standard, saving on energy and heating. The boiler temperatures are an increase in occupancy levels. resources. constantly reviewed and adjusted on This was achieved through closer a daily basis as opposed to previous monitoring and analysis of usage Efficient occupancy set temperatures. The office is also trends. Close monitoring meant that fitted with movement sensors for Occupancy levels in the building are spikes in usage or unusual trends lighting in meeting rooms. 8.63m2 per occupant; the guidelines could be investigated and dealt with for an energy efficient office are 12m2 accordingly in a timely manner. per occupant. minimum office energy efficiency 12m2 8.63 m2 8.63 m2 8.63 m2 8.63 m2 Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / 5 Star efficiency rating amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study 5 Star efficiency rating Waste efficiency Water efficiency In 2015 we undertook a series of energy audits throughout the UK in Waste to landfill was reduced from The office cut water consumption in order to meet our obligations under 15,584 tons in 2015 to 11,569 tons in 2016 by 21%. This was achieved due the Energy Saving Opportunity 2016, a 25% reduction. All but kitchen to a number of actions: Scheme (ESOS). Throughout 2016 waste is currently recycled; the office we have been working through the is now investigating the possibility of • Individuals have the option to use ESOS report implementing the introducing an anaerobic digestion the Facilities Management Helpline recommendations wherever possible system. or have easy access to the local and looking for opportunities for Facilities Management team to further savings. The increase in recycling was due report leaks and dripping taps, in part to our change of staff drink allowing repairs to be carried out provision from Flavia machines to Shinfield Park Office, UK quickly. vending. • A maintenance check plan has The largest potential savings were been put in place to prevent leaks. at our Shinfield Park office in Reading, UK office. The facilities • Urinal tank water displacement Flavia team based in the office assessed Vending devices have been installed and machines the recommendations made in the urinal flush valves have been reset ESOS report and also looked at other to a mode that flushes the urinal potential options to increase energy 5,000 waste No less frequently using a lower water and cost efficiency further.. The team cartridges to waste volume. also identified a number of other landfill cartridges • Water meters are read monthly areas that had not been identified in with readings then compared to the ESOS report that they felt would 3,000 the same month of the previous improve efficiency. waste cups to Cups recycled landfill year. Office building efficiency • Water-cooled air conditioning units In the office restaurant 12 LED light are turned off when not needed. fittings were installed replacing one 25.6p per cup 12.4p per cup • Only full loads are permitted in the hundred and ninety-two traditional dishwashers. bulbs. The team have estimated this will save around £3,000 in energy Other good practice and around 16 tonnes of carbon. The office also has a blanket ban Taking into account the initial costs on individual bins under desks • The site has two electric vehicle charging points available for use by for equipment and installation, we meaning employees have to utilise saw a 100% return on investment designated areas, encouraging waste both employees and visitors. within the first three months. segregation. • The office utilises an ISO14001 accreditation company for cleaning, ensuring any environmental impacts a minimised. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / 5 Star efficiency rating amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study 5 Star efficiency rating The team also identified that the AMEASE Water Week 2016 extractor fan in the kitchen was not linked to the Building Management Our colleagues in AMEASE got together in March to raise awareness of the System (BMS) and, therefore, was importance of water efficiency, as a means to achieving sustainability for operational 24 hours, 365 days a year. global environmental and health purposes, as well as for economic reasons. Linking this equipment to the building management system to The week was split across three key themes, each with its own set of activities. ensure appropriate scheduling, as well as panel modifications and software updates is expected to Theme Activity result in savings of approximately Yammer discussion; #Blue4Water £10,000 per year. Water in your community awareness campaign; ‘Lunch and Learns’ Efficient occupancy Water in your office ‘Let’s Not Leak Profits’ office campaign Due to a reduction in personnel the office space was highly underutilised. Water on your projects ‘Water toolbox talks‘ Action has been taken to relocate employees into designated areas, ensuring the space is used efficiently. Lighting in unpopulated areas has AMEASE Water Week 2016 was celebrated by an encouraging number of our been turned off and heating settings locations who provided positive feedback on levels of employee engagement in adjusted to frost control. the event. These included: the UAE, France, India, the UK (AMEASE Centre), Milan, Perth, Philadelphia, Singapore, Spain, South Africa, Switzerland, and Thailand. All-in-all it is estimated that the actions taken will result in annual Externally, we will continue to support our clients to assess and manage business savings of around £52,000 and over water risks. This is where Amec Foster Wheeler can make the biggest positive a 12% reduction in energy usage. impact through our water experts within the business. Specific information on our water services and projects can be found at amecfw.com/water. The team in our Singapore office, wearing blue for Water Week Our colleagues in the Milan office, celebrating Water Week Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / 5 Star efficiency rating amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Empowering ethics Amec Foster Wheeler has a proud heritage. We have carefully built a reputation for consistently delivering excellence. We have earned the trust of our clients by demonstrating a commitment to always doing the right thing and upholding a culture built on the values expressed in our Code of Business Conduct. As a global leader, Amec Foster Wheeler demands the highest ethical standards from itself and from all of its relationships. We never accept, Governance or excuse, behaviour which is and leadership inconsistent with our values. We ask each individual to live our values and take personal responsibility for their R isk behaviour. Our company supports assessment and encourages our employees and Monitoring and third parties to speak up if they have review a concern or they see something they believe is wrong. Ethics structure Amec Foster Wheeler has a global ethics and compliance programme that incorporates global best Policies Discipline and practises and is continually looking consequence to learn and develop. management Our ethics and compliance programme operates on a model that is based upon a foundation of ethical culture and decision making instilled across the company. The model Guidance and functions as a ‘virtuous circle’ looking Training and Procedures at the horizon to adapt to emerging communication risks and issues. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Empowering ethics amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Empowering ethics In the same way we demonstrate the do business. The Code sets out serves as an individual pledge to right behaviours for safety, we seek Amec Foster Wheeler’s values, drive compliance and uphold our to embed ethical decision making in responsibilities and required culture through the accountability of all of our actions and messages at behaviours of all who represent or every single member of staff. every level of the company. We seek work for the company or under its to go beyond ‘tone from the top’ and direction. The Code is viewed as Reporting ask all of our employees and partners being fundamental to our way of to demonstrate ethical leadership working as it underpins our ethical Amec Foster Wheeler provides by abiding to the same standards of culture and sets out our expectations various channels to enable its ethical conduct no matter who they of always doing the right thing. employees and third parties to are or where they are in the world. raise ethics concerns, including The Code is supported by ethics a dedicated ethics website and Ethics issues are discussed with related policies, procedures and helpline EthicsPoint administered the Health, Safety, Security, guidance. These documents seek to by an independent third party. Environmental and Ethics (HSSEE) expand upon the broader principles In 2016, 111 cases were reported to Committee of the Amec Foster detailed in the Code. the HSSEE Committee relating to Wheeler plc board. The committee ethical concerns. The procedures include: oversees and has responsibility for the Code of Business Conduct, • An anti-bribery and corruption procedure, which also includes, Training its implementation and ethical awareness throughout Amec Foster amongst other things, facilitation We conduct annual mandatory online Wheeler. The committee is supported payments guidance and provisions training on our Code and on Antiby our Head of Ethics & Compliance to combat bribery and corruption bribery and Corruption (ABAC) to and the Chief General Counsel and help demonstrate our commitment • An ethics investigations procedure Company Secretary. The ethics and to ethics. In 2016, 99% of Amec compliance Function is responsible • A legal matters procedure Foster Wheeler employees with for maintaining a high level of access to a computer, completed • A competition law procedure awareness through the content this training. of training and communications • An agents and sponsors procedure We provide face-to-face training to and calls upon the Legal Function • A third party due diligence select employees based on risk which to assist and support with the procedure covers key ethics and compliance implementation of training. risk areas such as Competition Law, • An offshore payments procedure ABAC, Sanctions and Conflicts of Code of Business Conduct • Customer due diligence procedure Interest. In 2017, we plan to continue and policies, procedures • Sanctions procedure our programme of online training to all employees with computer access. and guidance In 2017 we will implement a bi-annual verification exercise for all managers The 2016 online Code of Business Amec Foster Wheeler has a global to confirm and certify that both they Conduct and ABAC training achieved Code of Business Conduct (the and their direct reports know and the completion rates set out below: Code) that has been translated into 14 languages to ensure common understand our Code, our policies understanding everywhere we and mandatory procedures. This Number of Number of Number of COBC per cent ABAC per cent employees employees employees in scope complete complete competed COBC completed ABAC 25,570 25,382 99.3% 25,360 99.2% Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Empowering ethics amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Human rights Amec Foster Wheeler supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. As an international company, we understand the importance of addressing these issues in the way we undertake our business – this is reflected in the culture of our organisation, our company values and demonstrated through our commitment to the UN Global Compact principles since 2009. Human rights is embedded in Amec The Supply Chain Code requires Foster Wheeler’s Code of Business our supply chain partners to notify Conduct (the Code), which is a Amec Foster Wheeler of any alleged, set of principles to guide us and potential, suspected or actual breach those who work on our behalf and of the law, our Code of Business under our direction in the conduct Conduct or our Supply Chain Code of our day-to-day business. It is via the EthicsPoint hotline. The hotline applicable wherever in the world is administered by an independent we are operating and whatever we third party and is available 24 hours are working on. It is the practical a day, seven days a week, with the application of our values. ability to provide support in numerous By 2030 languages. A formal reporting Our Supply Chain Code of Business mechanism is also available to • Take immediate and effective Conduct (the Supply Chain Code), suppliers and other third parties via measures to eradicate forced recently enhanced with additional our website. The Supply Chain Code labour, end modern slavery and human and labour rights clauses, also places the requirement on our human trafficking is aligned to the Code. It is our main supply chain partners to provide a vehicle for ensuring that our supply process for their own employees to • Protect labour rights and chain plays an active role in helping us report activities inconsistent with our promote safe and secure to achieve our vision, behaves in a way Supply Chain Code. working environments for all which is consistent with our values workers, including migrant and in doing so, helps Amec Foster We also have in place formal workers Wheeler sustain the respect and trust reporting mechanisms which are of all our stakeholders. available to all those who work for or on behalf of us in the form of ethics and compliance officers. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Human rights amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Human rights Amec Foster Wheeler values the within our wider sphere of influence. In 2017, we will roll out via our trust that is built upon openness In our statement, we acknowledge Academy an online eLearning and transparency and commits our responsibility to ensure that module to increase awareness never to penalise employees, supply our employees, together with the amongst our employees to the chain partners and third parties for workers in our value chain, are issues and risks around forced making an honest report of potential, not victims of slavery; whether it and bonded labour and human suspected or actual breaches of the is human trafficking or forced and trafficking in global supply chains. law, the Code or the Supply Chain bonded labour. This statement will be We have partnered with TRACE (an Code. the basis from which we will continue independent compliance and due to drive awareness of modern slavery diligence firm) to tailor the module to Modern slavery & human trafficking and seek to improve our processes. our business. Our efforts around modern slavery and human trafficking continue to An internal global, cross-functional We recognise the need for and the be a key focus for us, particularly working group was established in value of collaboration within and with regards to the UK Modern late 2015 to review our risks, ensure across sectors to be able to have Slavery Act 2015 and the Federal our governance structures are meaningful impact on this issue; it is Acquisition Regulation (FAR) antiadjusted appropriately and to raise not an issue any company can solve human trafficking rules for US Federal awareness of modern slavery and singlehandedly. For this reason, we contractors and subcontractors. human trafficking to our employees. continued to invest our time in the The working group also reviewed set-up of Building Responsibly, an In May 2016, we published our and improved our existing policies, emerging global initiative to help Compliance Plan prepared procedures and systems. promote the rights and welfare of in accordance with the US workers in own operations and the Government’s policy on human A key priority in 2016 was to raise supply chain. This collaborative, trafficking and trafficking-related awareness of the issues pertaining industry-led initiative of leading peers activities. Consistent with FAR to modern slavery and human in the engineering and construction 52.222-50(h), it applies to any portion trafficking and to build capacity sector, will be facilitated by Business of a US Government contract that on how to respond to these. for Social Responsibility (BSR) with Amec Foster Wheeler Environment We developed and rolled out an support from Humanity United. & Infrastructure, Inc. is awarded for education pack, accessible via supplies, other than commercially our intranet, to help employees Building Responsibly will enable available off-the-shelf items, or understand the legislation, what member companies to further services to be performed outside modern slavery is and how it relates advance their programmes by the United States with an estimated to our business and our supply sharing best practices, agreeing on valued exceeding $500,000. chain. We utilised the content to common approaches and standards, raise awareness amongst our senior developing tools and engaging Our first slavery and human leadership teams and including clients, civil society, governments trafficking statement was relevant internal functions. We and international organisations. published on 10 December 2016 also engaged Verité to design and Through this initiative, we will align to coincide with Human Rights provide more focused training more effectively with regulations Day. Our statement fulfils the legal for those employees in roles who and stakeholder expectations, whilst requirements of Section 54 of the UK have the potential to interface increasing productivity and fostering Modern Slavery Act 2015, outlining more within these issues, to ensure a better environment for workers. the steps that we, as a business, have they understand in more depth the taken to identify and prevent modern indicators of risk around modern slavery across our operations and slavery. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Human rights amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Human rights Due diligence bodies and academia) on topics that Recognising the need to improve relate to the UN Guiding Principles understanding of the risks amongst We have a number of due diligence on Business and Human Rights key employee groups, we will roll out processes, including customer due (UNGPs), as well as issues relating to the eLearning module to relevant diligence, third party due diligence the Global Goals. staff. and project tender reviews, all with the purpose of reviewing We also attended the European Our continued active involvement and assessing potential risks and Business and Human Rights with the Building Responsibly ensuring that appropriate mitigation Peer Learning Group Meeting, a initiative throughout 2017 measures are implemented where side event organised by the Global recognises the need for, and value required. Compact for European signatory of, collaboration within and across companies with the participation of sectors to have meaningful impact We are undertaking a review of our the UN Working Group on Business on this issue. Continued outreach to existing approach to due diligence and Human Rights. The theme of the NGOs will also ensure we share and and the systems we use. This will one-day workshop was Access to learn best practise. ensure we have a consolidated Remedy in Practice – Understanding company-wide approach that takes and Improving your Grievance 2017 KPIs into account a comprehensive set of Systems. • >95% of targeted employees are risks (including human rights) and The learnings from both events to complete awareness training extends to our third party and supply have been shared internally. We are during 2017 on the issues and risks chain relationships. currently reviewing how our business around forced and bonded labour In line with our commitment to fair can enhance existing policies, and human trafficking in global recruitment practices and ensuring processes and procedures to better supply chains. the adoption of the Employer Pays address the requirements of the • Continued collaboration and Principle, we are also investigating UNGPs throughout the lifecycle of engagement with the industry led an enhanced supplier qualification our projects. ‘Building Responsibly’ initiative, process specific to recruitment facilitated by Business for Social agencies. Focus areas and KPI’s for 2017 Responsibility (BSR) with support UN Guiding Principles on Business Our targets for 2017 support the from Humanity United. and Human Rights commitments made within our We participated in the 2016 UN 2016 Modern Slavery and Human Forum on Business and Human Trafficking Statement. Our attention Rights in Geneva, providing us with is focused on engagement with the opportunity to engage with employees and awareness of modern like-minded businesses and a wide slavery and human trafficking risks range of stakeholders (including within our operations and wider government, civil society, investor sphere of influence i.e. customers, organisations, trade unions, UN supply chain and joint venture partners. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Human rights amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study Indigenous business initiative Amec Foster Wheeler’s Environment & Infrastructure business introduced the Indigenous Business Initiative (IBI) in 2012, to expand our business through enhanced working relationships with indigenous groups in Canada. There is a significant indigenous population in Canada, consisting of First Nations, Métis and Inuit peoples. Indigenous people represent approximately 5% of the total Canadian population and are the fastest-growing segment of Canada’s population. indigenous people have rights and title that are protected under the Canadian Constitution Act, 1982. As a company that works where indigenous participation in projects. competitive position by building a indigenous people live and Our aim is to become the premier brand based on our ability to deliver have rights, building respectful firm in Canada working for and with project results where indigenous relationships with affected indigenous people. communities are involved and/or indigenous communities and are the client. The IBI will provide integrating indigenous people Through the IBI we: the necessary strategic support and and communities into our project guidance to Amec Foster Wheeler delivery is essential. There are • Seek opportunities to work for staff, proposals and projects that significant business opportunities and with indigenous communities involve indigenous people or where for Amec Foster Wheeler to work and businesses and explore clients are indigenous organisations. directly for indigenous groups and mutually beneficial partnership for proponents of projects in or opportunities. By building awareness and near indigenous communities. The • Increase the diversity of our experience at the staff level federal government also issues staff by increasing the number we create an environment that significant set aside projects of indigenous employees with exemplifies our corporate values requiring indigenous involvement, appropriate technical skills. and ultimately creates a place where providing further opportunities for indigenous people want to work or • Increase the awareness of with whom indigenous businesses collaboration. indigenous history, culture, rights will partner. This, combined with Amec Foster Wheeler has a long and current issues by providing genuine relationship building efforts, history of working for and with cultural awareness training and can place Amec Foster Wheeler indigenous groups across Canada, knowledge sharing. as a company that indigenous and recognises the importance groups or organisations can see Amec Foster Wheeler is committed of growing existing relationships, working together with and provide to achieving sustainability through understanding indigenous concerns proponents with informed strategic balancing economic growth, social throughout our operations, guidance. responsibility and environmental and providing opportunities for protection. The IBI enhances our Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Indigenous business initiative amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study Indigenous Business Initiative Building relationships with Amec Foster Wheeler staff continue universities, indigenous organisations indigenous groups and businesses to attend events to meet indigenous and local community groups to The IBI supports the development representatives, clients and develop relationships and promote of relationships that offer strategic partners and increase our exposure Amec Foster Wheeler as an employer opportunities, such as relationships in the market. We recognise that of choice for indigenous job seekers. with indigenous groups where large as indigenous communities build or multiple projects are occurring capacity so too do our clients and Working directly for and with or planned. For example, recently a our teams, as such we strive to learn indigenous groups relationship has been formed with more about indigenous history, Amec Foster Wheeler continues to the Mississaugas of the New Credit culture, rights and current issues. work directly for indigenous groups First Nation. This First Nation would and organisations, delivering projects be involved in every project that Our involvement and membership with funding from the Federal contemplates or undertakes physical in key organisations continues. Government on reserve land and also work on the lands or in the waters We are a member of the following assisting numerous clients in meeting within their traditional territory. This organisations: their indigenous engagement relationship has established a better requirements and participation understanding of this First Nation’s goals, particularly for major resource expectations, provided insights for or power projects. In 2015, work ongoing and future projects, and with indigenous clients accounted has resulted in direct projects and for almost $2.0 M in revenue. In strategic support with municipal addition, work related to indigenous clients. engagement provided an additional • Canadian Council for Aboriginal Business (CCAB), an organisation $2.7 M in revenue. The IBI supports the development of relationships with indigenous focused on driving business Amec Foster Wheeler’s ability to businesses that offer strategic opportunities and advancing offer services related to indigenous opportunities to partner and/or corporate social responsibility for engagement is an important support project commitments. the indigenous community. component of our complete service Amec Foster Wheeler continues offering that helps to differentiate to develop relationships with over our company in the market place. 60 indigenous businesses across The adequacy of indigenous Canada to support our projects. community consultation by our These relationships have resulted in clients and Amec Foster Wheeler the company securing sub-contracts is increasingly under scrutiny. with indigenous businesses for a Many project proponents expect variety of support activities such as • Indigenous Works (formerly the indigenous participation at all project clearing and grubbing. Aboriginal Human Resource phases and this participation itself Council’s Leadership Circle), an is evolving from basic consultation Cultural awareness training and organisation whose mandate regarding priorities, concerns and knowledge sharing is to improve the inclusion and employment to shared visions of engagement of indigenous people the project, active participation in Cultural awareness training and in the Canadian economy. regulatory processes, and economic knowledge sharing are critical to the success of the IBI. In 2013 and development opportunities including 2014, Indigenous Cultural Awareness Employing indigenous people shared ownership of investments. training was delivered to Amec Through our relationship with the At the same time, indigenous Foster Wheeler staff in lunch and Indigenous Works, Amec Foster communities are having increasing learn sessions. Further training will Wheeler is demonstrating our expectations about their level of be delivered based on identified commitment to indigenous inclusion participation in development and need and changing requirements. To in the workplace. Currently, Amec regulatory processes and the weight support this, the IBI will be issuing Foster Wheeler has 53 employees that their voice carries in government a survey to help us understand the who have voluntarily self-identified decisions. gaps in cultural awareness and needs as indigenous. This is up from 29 amongst our senior staff. employees in 2014. Efforts will continue to engage key individuals at Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Indigenous business initiative amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Community investment We believe that our business can play a role in helping to address the local and global challenges identified by the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Our role extends beyond donating money to communities. We also provide dedicated resources and business expertise which helps develop communities and fosters economic growth. This is why we encourage and support our employees, our most important asset, to care about and involve themselves in the communities in which we work and live as well as to support global causes. Governance Our charitable giving and community investment efforts are in line with our global mandatory procedure, which is overseen by the global charities committee. Chaired by the Director of Sustainability, the Global goals committee administers the budget allocation and the approvals process. The committee also reviews recommendations for and for sustainable decides on the global strategic charity, as well as analysing and development. developing specific response to natural or other disasters. Read more The donations we make benefit legitimate charitable organisations and causes, consistent with our Code of Business Conduct. Our Code states that we must support our commitment to health and safety and promote actions which will help maintain or improve the quality of the natural environment, better the economic situation of those in need and address social development. Charitable giving The majority of the money Amec Foster Wheeler donates to recognised charitable institutions each year is through matching the fundraising activities of our employees. On occasion, Amec Foster Wheeler also provides charitable giving through ‘in-kind’ material donations such as office equipment, unused supplies, obsolete branded items, etc. In 2016, the Amec Foster Wheeler business donated £368,350 to charities in support of worthy causes worldwide, including matching employee volunteer fundraising. Our employees continue to drive our charitable fundraising and community investment efforts. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Community investment amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Community investment 22,240 £20,250 Total hours Value-in-kind volunteered donations 11,090 £368,350 Employees involved donated by in volunteering Amec Foster Wheeler 72% of events for which funds were Community investment technology, engineering and raised and matched are employee In addition to donating money, our mathematics (STEM) programme. personal choice charities, meaning employees support the communities Through school partnerships that they are personal endeavours and the organisations that work with and mentoring programmes, we undertaken by an individual Amec them, by giving time and access to help equip young people to take Foster Wheeler employee in support the resources and expertise within advantage of the opportunities ahead of a legitimate charitable causes. our business. This could be a one-off of them whilst meeting an employers’ Such efforts are rewarded by the activity (e.g. environmental cleanneeds for skills and knowledge. In line business through match funding for up) or a longer term programme with our Diversity & Inclusion agenda, demonstrating our values in action. (e.g. school partnership), and could our STEM programme also focuses For instance, on an annual basis involve one or more employees. on raising the profile and celebrating numerous employees undertake In 2016, a total of 22,240 hours the achievements of women in feats such as running marathons was volunteered by 11,090 engineering, and encouraging and cycling challenges to raise funds employees towards the following more girls to consider engineering for charity. See our community causes amongst others; education as a career. For instance, National roundup for specific examples. and young people; social welfare; Women in Engineering Day (NWED) environmental action; emergency celebrated on 23 June has become An estimated 24% of events for relief, health, and promoting a standing item in our business which funds were raised and diversity. calendar; in 2017 this has been matched are categorised as local rebranded as International Women in strategic partnerships. Our offices A significant amount of time Engineering Day. are encouraged to develop local volunteered by our employees is partnerships with charitable donated in support of education This year we developed a STEM organisations that create real and young people which is largely Toolkit that was made available on social impact on the ground. This attributable to our science, our company Intranet. This takes typically involves offices engaging employees to practical examples and their employees in the selection guidance documents that support of a charity that will be supported them when planning to engage 4% through fundraising activities for an with educational institutions to run extended period of time; usually no programmes that will encourage less than a year. 24 and enthuse future generations about the value of STEM. In addition, our employees are encouraged to network and share community related good practice and resources via yammer and through our 72 Community Initiatives Resources tool also available on our Intranet. Our case studies and Highlighting Employee personal choice STEM factsheet provide a flavour Local strategic partnerships of just some of the activities our Global strategic partnerships employees have taken part in over the past 12 months. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Community investment amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Community investment Global strategic partnerships We are proud to celebrate the tenth anniversary of working with our global strategic partner SOS Children’s Villages. This charity aims to prevent family breakdown and care for children who have lost parental care, or who risk losing it. It works with communities, partners and states to ensure the rights of all children, in every society, are respected and fulfilled. Since 2007, through employee and corporatelevel contributions, we have raised a total of £672,000 and reached over 26,000 beneficiaries in more than 25 countries across six continents. Our partnership has included supporting valuable projects, educational or infrastructure ones, such as solar and water. In addition, on multiple occasions, we actively raised funds for SOS Villages stricken by natural disasters and humanitarian emergencies. Learn more about our global strategic partnership with SOS Children’s Villages factsheet. Our company has also supported The Movember Foundation and men’s health at a global level since 2011, with employees across the business raising over £222,000 to date including match funding from the business. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Community investment amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study Community roundup At Amec Foster Wheeler, we believe that encouraging and supporting community investment activities carried out by our employees is important. Working together for good causes promotes wellbeing, supports our local communities and helps us to demonstrate our values, particularly how we care about our communities. Here is a roundup of Amec Foster Wheeler Albertans were forced to leave their homes in the largest fire-related some of our community supports Alberta Fires evacuation in the province’s history. investment events that took Appeal Over CAD$54,000 was donated Amec Foster Wheeler always aims by employees to the Canadian Red place over the past year. Cross and a further CAD$27,000 to support relief efforts resulting from natural disasters, particularly was provided by the company. in locations where our employees Donations received are being used to and their local communities are provide relief for those affected in the affected. In 2016, Amec Foster form of emergency food, clothing, Wheeler supported the relief efforts shelter, personal services, and in response to the devastating other necessities to help assist with fires surrounding Fort McMurray, recovery and resiliency. Alberta where more than 80,000 Amec Foster Wheeler has a long history in Alberta having worked on almost every mineable lease since development of the oil sands industry in the 1950s. At the time of the fires, we had some 60 people working on assignments in Fort McMurray who we are pleased to report were all safely evacuated. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Community roundup amecfw.com Page 1 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study Community Roundup Local strategic charities December. ‘Stelle di Natale’ (also the children, running costs of the known as poinsettia plants, but centres, social workers, support Milano loves LILT literally meaning ‘Christmas stars’) staff and everything in between that Employees in our Milan office were sold to employees against a contributes to the fantastic services supported their nominated local donation. Almost €1,800 was raised that CHAS offers. strategic charity LILT (Italian and matched by the company. This Association for the Fight Against helped LILT to sustain three critical Cancer) for the second year running. projects at the Istituto Nazionale dei This has resulted in over €8,000 Tumori di Milano (National Cancer raised to date, including corporate Institute of Milan). match funding. National Australian Starlight In October 2016, thirty employees Campaign from the Milan office participated Amec Foster Wheeler held its fifth with great enthusiasm in a nonannual Starlight Campaign in May competitive 40-minute walk (“Milano in our Perth and Brisbane offices. Loves You Run”) that took place at The Starlight Children’s Foundation Glasgow supports MS Society dawn whilst the city was still asleep. main aim is to brighten the lives of Scotland In total, they raised €540 which was seriously ill and hospitalised children Our Glasgow team presented £11,000 matched by Amec Foster Wheeler. and their families throughout to the MS Society Scotland – that is The reasons for attending were Australia. To date, we have donated equivalent to £1 for every sufferer in many, amongst which starting the over AUD$207,000 (including the country. In 2016, the Glasgow staff day with physical activity, or to raise corporate match funding) to this chose the MS Society Scotland as the awareness of the importance of charity that has enabled more than nominated local strategic charity for adopting a healthy lifestyle for cancer 5,060 children to participate in the the office, and set about raising funds prevention. But, above all, it was Starlight programmes whilst in on their behalf. Fundraising activities to raise funds to sustain one of the hospital. A calendar of events held included bake sales, quiz nights and most important projects that LILT in both offices in 2016 raised over raffles, as well as individual donations is carrying out: ‘Case Accoglienza’ AUD$26,000 and included a StarBQ and feats such as running the London run by LILT and targeted at providing breakfast, bake sales, sumo wrestling Marathon. Our Glasgow Office raised children under oncological treatment and a quiz night. a total of £6,000, which Amec Foster with houses located just a short Wheeler boosted with a further distance from hospitals where they £5,000. A year with CHAS can live together with their families. After the run, LILT awarded a food Our Aberdeen Charity Committee Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is a condition hamper to Amec Foster Wheeler raised over £10,000 in aid of its of the central nervous system that is as it was the largest participating nominated local strategic charity for caused when the immune system is group; the hamper was raffled at the 2016, Children’s Hospice Association not working properly. There are over Christmas party. Scotland (CHAS). This was achieved 11,000 people with MS in Scotland, by hosting 11 events and smashed the which makes it more common in fundraising target of £5,000 for the Scotland than most other countries in year. the world. The MS Society Scotland has a network of branches offering CHAS is the only charity in Scotland support and services to people that provides vital hospice services affected by MS, including emotional for children and young people who and practical support, financial help, have life-shortening conditions information events, social events and from referral to bereavement. Their MS support groups. team works across Scotland to deliver a range of services including emergency care, emotional support, symptom management, short breaks for children and their families and In addition, for the second ultimately, end-of-life care. The Christmas, LILT was invited to the money raised will go towards paying Milan office to set up a stand in for nurses, medicines, days out for Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Community roundup amecfw.com Page 2 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study Community Roundup Annual campaigns and funded EcoPass program, Bike • Employees donated over to Work Day Station sponsorship and USD$6,800 to have their local Americas charities challenge Go-Tober Challenge campaign. The executives and managers shine The Americas Charity Challenge Denver office helped to contribute to their shoes in aid of the All-Earth was held to recognise the efforts of a total of 1,395 employee participants Ecobot Challenge, a robotics employees and offices in supporting across the region, making a total competition where local students their local communities. The friendly of 37,843 smarter commute trips, exhibit their programming and competition measures the number of while saving 102.8 tons of CO2. This problem-solving skills that they hours that employees give to charity included 19 Amec Foster Wheeler have learned at events throughout and community initiatives. The top participants who logged 453 trips for the year. five offices with the highest levels of a total distance of 3,537 miles and a • Eleven riders from Amec Foster participation each won an additional reduction in CO2 of almost a ton. Wheeler’s Cycling Community USD$3,000 toward the charity of their participated in the BP MS 150 in choice. The local charities selected Houston community investment April 2016, a two-day fundraising by the winning offices to receive programme bike ride organised by the National additional funding include Florence 2016 was a busy year for community MS (Multiple Sclerosis) Society, Crittenton Services, Prodisee Pantry, investment in our Houston office, with South Central Chapter, raising Mesa County Search and Rescue activities organised by a number of approximately USD$4,000 Ground Team, New Pathways for internal employee networks. towards the cause. Youth and Connecticut Invention • Employees involved other offices, Convention. Highlights include: including Durham office, in a FUNraising programme that raised • Four blood drives were hosted more than USD$2,400 in aid of Red in the Houston office, receiving Nose Day run by Comic Relief, Inc., over 100 donations between a campaign dedicated to having fun plasma and whole blood to help while helping children and young patients in need. Blood donations people in the US and some of the in the summer went to help those poorest communities in the world. affected by extreme flooding in the region. • USD$35,000 was raised through employee pledges and a programme of events in 2016 in aid of the Houston office’s annual United Way Campaign. United Way of Greater Houston brings the community together to ensure a safety net for those The Denver Environment and who are vulnerable, to help our Infrastructure office was the kids succeed in school, to create overall winner of the challenge and a pathway for families to achieve participated in 29 events throughout stability, and to take care of our 2016. Employees were involved in • Eight employees served as neighbours both young and old. STEM outreach events, environmental mentors through mentor2.0, a initiatives and clean-ups, fundraisers, technology-enhanced one-to-one food bank volunteering, and 5k races. mentoring programme facilitated Together, the office raised over by Big Brothers Big Sisters and USD$25,000 for personal choice aimed at providing high school charities. Amongst the activities, students with the support and Amec Foster Wheeler was presented guidance they need to graduate a Colorado Transportation Solutions high school and succeed in college Champion award for excellence in and the workplace. increasing the use of alternative transportation for employees and the community at large through involvement in the office supported Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Community roundup amecfw.com Page 3 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study Community Roundup International Coastal Clean-up 2016 Amec Foster Wheeler offices have been participating in International Coastal Clean-up since 2006, helping to remove almost 19,500lbs (8,845kg) of trash, litter and other debris from the world’s shorelines and coastal areas. This year, five offices across four countries participated in the clean-up: Abu Dhabi; Canada; Kuwait; and Scotland. With a total of 176 employees and their families, we collected 485lbs (220kg) of garbage equating to roughly 32 bags of litter. Our Abu Dhabi office hosted their first International Coastal Clean-up at a local public park. Over 40 employees along with their family and friends gathered in the early hours of a Saturday morning to pick up litter from both the shoreline and inner areas of the park. In just under an hour, nearly 55lbs (25kg) of garbage was collected and bagged for proper disposal. Some of the most common items found included: plastic bottles, shards of plastic, bait containers, plastic bottle caps, take-out food containers and countless cigarette butts! As a token of appreciation, the office treated volunteers to a picnic after the clean-up. Movember 2016 Walktober 2016 been some remarkable achievements Amec Foster Wheeler employees In October 2016, our employees took by some of the participants and have backed The Movember their own steps towards a healthier their feedback reflected this. “This Foundation and men’s health since future. Walktober was a monthchallenge is the single most positive 2011, raising over £222,000 for this long campaign designed to inspire influence a company has ever had charity supported with match funding everyone to make walking a priority on my health. I met objectives from the business. Those who took to help improve physical and mental set by the company; therefore I part in the cause throughout the well-being. Amec Foster Wheeler had averaged over 10,000 steps per month of November 2016 raised over 470 participants from across day during the challenge. Now that £22,300 with match funding by the the UK, Europe and USA. Individuals I have experienced how easy it is business. tracked their steps (using a step to meet the objective of averaging counter) or minutes (dedicated over 10,000 steps per day, I have set walking minutes), aiming for 6,000step goals for my own health,” said 10,000 steps or 30-60 minutes a day. Rebecca Jones, Project Manager, Houston. Our top walker managed an incredible 643,820 steps, probably over 300 miles. Across the business we collectively recorded an amazing 79 million steps – that is greater than the circumference of the earth! This challenge enabled colleagues to connect across geographies and develop new friendships by focusing on something we all value, our health. Beyond the numbers, there have Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Community roundup amecfw.com Page 4 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study Community Roundup Great Cycle Challenge Canada by cycling over 1,838km (1,142 miles) throughout the month of June and raising over CAD$12,500 to help fight kids’ cancer. Thanks to the generous support of friends, family and colleagues, Mark surpassed his modest fundraising goal by a long stretch. Mark’s efforts have placed him third nationally and second overall in Saskatoon. His feat included his longest ride of 206.3km and a 56km midnight ride during the Summer Solstice. Teck Celebrity Pie Throw 2016 The funds will go to support the The Great Cycle Challenge Amec Foster Wheeler participated development of the CAUSES Clinic at encourages people of all ages and this year in Mining for Miracles BC Children’s Hospital Foundation. fitness levels to get on their bikes signature fundraising event – Teck The new clinic will help solve ‘mystery throughout the month of June and Celebrity Pie Throw, where CEOs illnesses’ by providing advanced ride to fight kids’ cancer. Setting and senior leaders from the mining diagnostic DNA testing to support the a personal target for the month, industry were paired up and pitted accurate and efficient diagnosis of participants pedal for a week, two against each other to raise money rare genetic diseases in children who weeks, or the entire month, in order for their respective pies. Those who would otherwise require numerous to achieve their goals whether it’s raised the most money got to toss a tests or might not be diagnosed at all. 10km or 10,000km. pie at their competitor. The event is hosted annually by one of our most Team and personal Melbourne walks to Rio valued customers, Teck. endeavours Employees from our Melbourne office committed to walking Duane Gingrich, President, Mining & Going the distance for children’s enough steps per day to reach the Metals Americas, led the campaign cancer Maracana Stadium in Rio de Janeiro, for Amec Foster Wheeler, supported in time for the Olympics opening by Kris Homer. With the generous ceremony in August 2016. Twentysupport of Amec Foster Wheeler four participants took part, each staff across British Columbia (BC), tracking their steps via a pedometer they raised CAD$35,375, including and contributing AUD$10 towards CAD$15,000 corporate match SOS Children’s Villages in China, our funding. strategic global charity partner. This fundraising event was a true The fantastic news is that the team collaborative effort. Mining for reached their goal, eventually Miracles is a committee made up doing 154,000 steps more than the of mining industry executives and required 16.5 million steps! In order personnel (formed in 1988) to raise to reach their goal, the team had money for BC Children’s Hospital, to adapt some of their daily habits and is a wonderful example of how particularly around commuting. For BC’s mining industry has made a instance, getting on and off train/ positive impact to the health and tram stops one stop early. Fittingly, welfare of children, families, and team members celebrated their communities across BC. Amec Foster achievement with lunch at a Brazilian Wheeler was one of five engineering restaurant. However, the really firms in a showdown to raise the positive news is that post event many most money who collectively raised of the team members have kept up just over CAD$106,000 combined, Mark Ashley from our Saskatoon, their new exercise patterns. exceeding their group fundraising Canada office, participated in the goal of CAD$75,000. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Community roundup amecfw.com Page 5 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study Community Roundup No Strings Attached Employees from our Environment & Infrastructure team in the Louisville, Kentucky office took action to raise both money and awareness for “We did this to bring the water crisis in Flint, Michigan some awareness through their ‘Help the Children of Flint – No Strings Attached’ to the cause and to campaign. Employees held a shoe WaterStep. Just having drive, donating more than 100 pairs those display boxes of shoes that will be repurposed and sold with the money going to aid the prominently along the Flint Child Health and Development wall so our customers, Fund. vendors and employees During 12 days in February, could see helps. An employees partnered with WaterStep, a non-profit dedicated awareness campaign to improving water conditions in goes a lot further than developing countries, and local agencies to raise money for the 120 pairs of shoes.” children of Flint. For almost two Chris Dickinson, Senior years, Flint has been dealing with a Principal water crisis. Contamination in the city’s water came after officials voted to switch its water source from Lake Huron to the Flint River as a means to save money. Corrosive water in the Flint River caused water mains and old pipes to leach both iron and lead. The situation is so bad that the city was declared in a Federal State of Emergency. Flint’s water source was switched back to Lake Huron in October 2015 but residents are still dealing with health consequences. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Community roundup amecfw.com Page 6 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study 10 th e rsary an niv SOS Children’s Villages Celebrating our 10 years of partnership “By connecting our global resources, our experience and energy, we will transform the lives of vulnerable children and help them grow into healthy and able adults.” 26,000 Activities to date In 2007, Amec Foster Wheeler launched a global strategic partnership with SOS Children’s Villages. This charity aims to prevent Total number family breakdown and care for children who have lost parental care, of beneficiaries or who risk losing it. It works with communities, partners and states to ensure that the rights of all children, reached in every society, are respected and fulfilled. Originally founded in Austria £690,000 25+ countries in 1949, SOS has grown remarkably and is now active in more than 130 countries, supporting 82,000 children around the world. donated to date supported What a difference 10 years make Our global strategic partnership Over the past 10 years we have made has four overarching aims a difference to many children at SOS across the world. We have raised a total of £690,000 and reached Respecting and supporting Collaborating effectively over 26,000 beneficiaries in more children’s rights around the than 25 countries. Since 2007, world we’ve supported valuable projects, educational or infrastructure ones, such as solar and water, to mention Creating the right Inspiring and motivating but a few. In addition, on multiple environment and employees occasions, we actively raised opportunity for children funds for SOS Villages stricken by natural disasters and humanitarian emergencies. Sustainability / Date: 05/17/ SOS Children’s Villages amecfw.com Page 1 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study SOS Children’s Villages Celebrating our 10 years of partnership Below is a timeline of some our key 2011 2012 involvement over the past ten years. A devastating drought and famine Our efforts focused on SOS Village in 2007/08 in East Africa, the worst in 60 years, Baku, Azerbaijan to deliver groundfocused the world’s attention on 12.4 breaking solar heating and hot We began our partnership in the million people who were displaced water systems. Using the five-year wake of a devastating earthquake in or without food and water. Our anniversary of our partnership as Chile. Our employees rallied to raise employees raised monies to aid SOS a theme, activities relating to the funds for the emergency relief efforts Children, one of just a few charities number five were undertaken. For in the SOS Antofagasta Village, home with an existing presence in the example, our Baku office set a goal to to over 121 orphaned and abandoned region. In addition, the money we clear five tonnes of rubbish from one children to help them cope with the raised funded a green project at SOS of Baku’s beaches to raise funds. aftermath of the earthquake. Village Gwagwalada in Nigeria. 2013 Our employees raised over £25,000 in 2013 which was matched by the company. We supported SOS Children through local events as well as through a global emergency relief campaign to help people impacted by the natural disaster in the Philippines. Greening Gwagwalada Our employees also collaborated 2009 Village in Nigeria to support the Syrian emergency relief appeal, assisting women and We expanded our level of Amec Foster Wheeler funded a children forced from their homes by involvement and selected four transformational ‘green’ project at SOS Children’s Village Gwagwalada the conflict through the provision countries Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, of baby food, nappies and sanitary in Nigeria. As a result, three of the the Philippines and Peru where we equipment to a growing number of houses became entirely self-suffifunded school fees and equipment to mothers with infant children. cient through the installation of solar help over 480 children attend school, energy, water collection and purificagain education and lead a normal life. tion systems. The project has helped decrease water usage as well as soil 2014 erosion from rain water. Generating Our activities focused on a valuable 2010 water project, voted for by our electricity and saving water have both We continued to raise funds for contributed to reducing Gwagwalada employees, in the SOS Village in educational projects to help children Children’s Village’s dependency on Callao, Peru, where children and in SOS Villages in Pakistan, Nigeria unreliable and costly mainstream families needed a new water pipe and Tanzania. Our employees supplies. The children and families installed. The completion of this sprung to action to support SOS are now benefiting as well as the project helped improve their quality Children’s emergency relief efforts environment. of life and save money in fetching in Haiti following an earthquake that water or paying for its transportation. devastated vast parts of the country. We also supported restoration work carried out after the Peru earthquake, ensuring those most vulnerable and most affected could return to their normal lives. Sustainability / Date: 05/17/ SOS Children’s Villages amecfw.com Page 2 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study SOS Children’s Villages Celebrating our 10 years of partnership 2015-16 93,799,513 steps donations £20,000 30 September days 9 S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 villages 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 Bringing clean water to children in Peru August 2016 marked the completion in the region. Clean drinking water of a two-year water project at SOS was only available by delivery which Children’s Villages in Callao, Peru. This had to be collected by SOS mothers project was made possible through each day. However, children still used our SOS partnership, and the colthe contaminated water supply for 2015 laboration and direct participation everyday activities, like showering and Our annual ‘Steptember’ global of employees from some 17 offices brushing their teeth. This led to health challenge was launched. The across Amec Foster Wheeler. This problems for the children, including month-long campaign takes place effort resulted in donating just over stomach issues and skin rashes. in September and asks employees GBP40,700 to execute the project. to commit to tracking their daily A solution was put forward by our The project has greatly improved the steps, with the purpose of getting employees, involving a topographic quality of life for 150 children and 350 fit while learning more about and study to determine the feasibility of families at SOS Village in Callao, by installing a drain line to the existing supporting SOS Children’s Villages. providing a clean, safe and sustainaexterior. The recommendations from Employees were asked to donate a ble water supply. the study included installing a new registration fee to one of our nine In 2014, Amec Foster Wheeler parttank to pump drinking water to all chosen SOS Children’s Villages to nered with SOS Children’s Villages family houses, using water connected help support vulnerable children and to install a water purification pipeto the houses for garden irrigation families: Baku, Azerbaijan; Chennai line in Callao, Peru. Callao, located and exterior cleaning, and installing a and Kolkata, India; Plaisir, France; west of Lima, is the largest and most drain to channel the Village’s sewage San Lorenzo de El Escorial, Spain; important port and the second most into the public utility system. Ennerdale, South Africa; Surrey industrialised town in Peru. More than (Vancouver), BC, Canada; and Approximately GBP17,650 remained one-third of the population lives withafter completion and was put towards Morosolo, Italy. All donations were out access to clean, drinkable water. funding for educational costs for matched by the company. At the Village, the water supply had children in the Pachacamac Village, been damaged by corrosion and located approximately 30 kilometres contained salts – a common problem to the south of Lima. Sustainability / Date: 05/17/ SOS Children’s Villages amecfw.com Page 3 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study SOS Children’s Villages Celebrating our 10 years of partnership In 2015, our employees also support the Village’s community responded generously to the outreach activities, the Milan office humanitarian crisis following the also invited children at Morosolo to devastating earthquake in Nepal. participate in the Milan office’s Open Day in June 2016. 15 participants from Morosolo joined the children of our employees’ in an interactive STEM Nepal earthquake relief (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) Day aimed at A powerful earthquake measuring introducing them to our company and 7.8 in magnitude struck Nepal’s to what a STEM career can offer. capital, Kathmandu, on 25 April 2015, destroying much of the city and many 2016 surrounding villages. Thousands of In 2016, we continued to support people were killed and injured. On 12 the nine villages nominated in the May 2015, a second 7.3 magnitude previous year. A successful second earthquake claimed more lives and edition of Steptember took place. caused additional damage. This year, we also introduced an Following the devastating earthquake, additional annual global fundraising our employees generously donated event: MUMories. With Mother’s Day almost £50,000 with the help of celebrated in May in many parts of corporate match funding towards the world, there was no better month this humanitarian emergency. to have a mothers’ themed campaign With its long-standing presence to raise awareness of the important in 10 locations in Nepal, SOS role that SOS Mothers who dedicate Children’s Villages was one of the their life to the daily care of children first international aid organisations living in SOS Villages worldwide play. 2017 to come to the aid of children and They are at the centre of our strategic families affected by the earthquakes. charity and what makes this charity I 2017 will see a year of celebrations unique. To celebrate motherhood to mark the 10th anniversary of Since then, SOS Children’s Villages our partnership. We will be raising and raise funds for the challenge, has helped more than 17,000 children funds globally for the SOS Children’s our global headquarters in London and families recover through a range Village in Los Aromos, Santiago, organised a mothers’ themed cookof services, which Amec Foster Chile. Amec Foster Wheeler has off competition. Volunteers brought Wheeler contributed towards: been present in Chile since 1999, in home cooked dishes following a • Care and counselling for recipe that was passed on from their providing engineering services to unaccompanied or separated mothers. Everyone was encouraged to the mining, energy and forestry children make a donation to sample and vote industries. We have chosen to for their favourite dish. The winning support a Family Strengthening • Child Friendly Spaces in more than Programme which is based on dishes included tiffin and dal and 25 locations where children could identifying children outside of villages the recipes were shared online with play, participate in educational who are at risk of abandonment. employees globally. activities, and eat nutritious meals We provide holistic support to their At a local level, our offices in Italy, whole family with the aim of keeping • Reuniting children and young India and South Africa supported that family together, helping them people with their families their local chapters of SOS to become self-sufficient and able to • Rebuilding and repairing schools Children’s Villages through monetary positively impact their community. and providing teaching materials contributions and employee Our fundraising events will once and school supplies volunteering. For instance, in 2016 again include ’Steptember’ and • Food, clothing, hygiene kits and our Milan office initiated a local MUMories. We will round off our financial support to cover basic partnership with SOS Children’s 10-year anniversary celebrations by needs Village Morosolo located in the encouraging our employees to WOW Lombardy region, just over an hour’s their colleagues and participate in the • Shelter and assistance for drive away from Milan. In addition World Orphan Week (WOW). vulnerable families with children in to ongoing charitable donations rebuilding their homes raised through events organised to Sustainability / Date: 05/17/ SOS Children’s Villages amecfw.com Page 4 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study Sustainable community development for Bukid Kabataan Amec Foster Wheeler in the Philippines has a long-standing local partnership with the Bukid Kabataan (BK) Center. Bukid Kabataan, which means The situation children’s farm, is a shelter that Since 2010, Amec Foster Wheeler in the Philippines has helped annually in the serves vulnerable children who have refurbishment of BK’s greenhouses, undertaking repair, painting and cleaning. been physically and sexually abused, These refurbishments have been funded through employee fundraising neglected and abandoned. The 6.5 events, including charity bazaars, food fairs, trash for cash and awareness hectare farm is about two hours’ sessions. Funds raised are then matched by the company. drive from Manila. We have been supporting BK orphanage since 2010, providing funding and managing repairs to the charity’s greenhouses, which were damaged by a number of typhoons in the area. The charity was originally granted 17 greenhouses by the Department of Agriculture with the purpose of providing BK a sustainable income, supporting its vision to be self-reliant, using organic and chemical-free farming. In 2016, Amec Foster Wheeler’s efforts turned towards supporting BK to become a more sustainable community, minimising waste, preventing pollution, promoting efficiency and development of local resources for the community. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Sustainable community development amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study Sustainable community development for Bukid Kabataan Fundraising events The challenge Our key challenge was to better use the funds raised so that they improve the lives of all members of the BK community, instead of just What is Hydroponics? Why Aquaculture-Hydroponics? going towards the annual repairs of the greenhouses. As a result, the Hydroponics is a method of growing • Near zero environmental impact Philippines office chose to focus plants without soil, using mineral • Works without soil efforts on introducing Aquaculturenutrient solutions in a water solvent. Hydroponics Synergy, which has • A level higher than organic become an increasingly popular What is Aquaponics? vegetables technique of sustainable food Aquaponics is a method that • No artificial fertilisers, pesticides, production in the Philippines. This combines conventional aquaculture or herbicides innovative approach is expected (raising aquatic animals such as to produce more than three times snails, fish, crayfish or prawns • 90% less water than conventional the current vegetable harvest of in tanks) with hydroponics in a vegetable gardens 25kg per greenhouse. In addition symbiotic environment. • 97% less water than standard to the multiplication of vegetables aquaculture methods harvested, Aquaculture will also produce various tilapia breeds such • Versatile and adaptable as blue, nile and redhead tilapia. • Less waste than aquaculture and Key actions undertaken: hydroponics alone • Rehabilitate BK’s greenhouse • Three times more production and convert it into a working per square meter than traditional Aquaponics facility. farms • The greenhouse, now the biolab, will feature the AquacultureHydroponics Synergy. • Create a structurally sound biolab for BK, avoiding the need for annual repairs. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Sustainable community development amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study Sustainable community development for Bukid Kabataan Progress The project is being implemented in phases and is fully funded by Amec Foster Wheeler through the efforts of fundraising activities in our Manila office, and matched by corporate giving: Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 The activities in the first phase of Setting up concrete sidings Installation of brackets, grow bed, the project focused on completing and plumbing on the site and grow light, rearing tanks, piping rehabilitation and installation installation of concrete sidings on and afiltration system. of the roofing and external wall site. Target start date: April 2017. sheathing of the biolab, as well as checking the structural integrity of the frames of the current biolab. Completed last October 2016 with a final cost of Php150,000. Phase 4 Phase 5 Install solar power system and Polish fish pond rehabilitation which will cater pond area clearing and pond biolab accessories, such as enclosure. Our employees and the BK residents have received in-depth briefings lighting and ventilation. about Aquaculture-Hydroponics Synergy. Together with the BK children, they participated in aquaponics and hydroponics training in an on-site hands-on workshop, including the maintenance of the solar power system, the bio-filter and the fish tank, enabling BK to sustain their own food and financial needs. The new BK greenhouse, now a biolab! Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Sustainable community development amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 People Highlights Investing for tomorrow by developing a diverse, inclusive and talented workforce which exhibits our values and behaviours. • Hired 221 graduates, trainees and interns across the business • 9,383 people recruited • Utilised employee advocacy social media programme for recruitment • 92% of employees completed a year-end performance review • Employee instigated turnover down to 9.3% • Held a dedicated Diversity & Inclusion week – Thinking differently together • Launch of new network groups aligned with our Diversity & Inclusion approach © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet People Developing full potential Amec Foster Wheeler operates in over 55 countries worldwide and in each location we employ and develop local talent. This makes economic sense and provides us with a sustainable foundation on which to grow our business. Despite the challenging market We actively plan and implement Entry level recruitment conditions throughout 2016, we nationalisation plans to ensure a Despite the challenges continuing have continued to make prudent structured approach that benefits to face our industry, we continued investments building our talent local people, the delivery of the to make investments in entry level pipeline and strengthening our project and in turn, the company. recruitment, offering employment recruitment capability. We have Supporting the Ministry of opportunities to students and designed and implemented a Labor Nitagat programme in the graduates. The table below illustrates consistent global recruitment Kingdom of Saudi Arabia we have new hire graduates and internships process and further leveraged our provided job opportunities for local offered over the 2015 and 2016 technology to improve the efficiency citizens, establishing a robust local periods. of resourcing. We have also created recruitment process, with structured an online recruitment training training and development for our module designed to further improve new hires. In 2016 the Ministry of Number of graduates, the quality of resourcing solutions, Labor awarded us ‘Mid-Green’ status trainees and interns hired while enhancing the experience of placing us near the top of their rating our candidates. system as an employer of local Business In 2016 we increased our social talent. Over 23% of our employee 2015 2016 media presence in relation to population in Kingdom are Saudi Unit recruitment, because we recognise Nationals. This year, we will introduce the growing importance of this a Graduate Development programme Centre 2 0 communication channel in further in the country recruiting five Saudi NECIS 58 13 promoting Amec Foster Wheeler as national graduate engineers. The an employer of choice. objective of the programme is to Americas 205 106 develop Saudi national graduate Building our talent pipeline engineers to the international AMEASE 72 84 standards of the Oil & Gas Industry Developing local talent and support the projects of Amec GPG 18 18 Amec Foster Wheeler is committed Foster Wheeler in the Kingdom of Total 355 221 to developing local talent in the Saudi Arabia. countries in which we operate. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / People amecfw.com Page 1 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet People Developing full potential We continue to forge strong training was designed to ensure Social media and lasting partnerships with managers carefully considered Today, many of us communicate on education facilities close to our hiring needs, prompting them to social media, both professionally operations and across all levels explore the opportunity to move and personally. The fact that our and ages. In Singapore, supporting transaction tasks to our shared employees are no exception led the Government’s call to ‘build a service providers, build diversity to the realisation that they could Singaporean core’ at the heart of local and consider opportunities to realise be a valuable resource for sharing businesses, we hired nine graduate existing employee and team potential business-related news. Therefore, engineers. we forged links with rather than automatically seek to in June 2016 the Corporate Affairs local universities, invited shortlisted replace ‘like for like’. The training team launched the Ambassador candidates to our offices and also provides hiring managers with Programme. showcased our work environment. guidance on interview techniques Candidates met prospective and candidate engagement, including Through the Ambassador managers and recruitment behavioural assessment as well as Programme our global in-house representatives, who promoted our evaluations of technical ability. New recruitment teams have leveraged company and built enthusiasm for hire on-boarding is also included, the use of an employee advocacy engineering more broadly. Upon hire, to ensure selected candidates can platform that empowers employees a structured development programme quickly orientate within our company to share approved company content was established for new graduates culture upon commencement. within their networks via social combining classroom training with media. This enhances our brand, Improving efficiency hands on experience. More of our while raising awareness of the depth STEM activity is highlighted in our In 2016, Amec Foster Wheeler of capability within the company and Highlighting STEM factsheet. implemented a consistent global promoting new job opportunities. The recruitment process and procedure Ambassador gains greater profile as Effective recruitment system, designed to improve a social influencer. We are proud of the strength we have efficiency through work share across Since its inception in June 2016 continued to build in our in-house our Global Business Service teams. we measured the impact of the recruitment team. This means our Deploying our shared service Ambassador Programme (June – talent pipeline is primarily sourced expertise has ensured a consistently December 2016); directly by our own staff who best high standard of advertising through know our standards, culture and • 318 posts were made available to online job boards. Our advertising for business drivers, and are therefore share including media releases, new opportunities has a consistent well placed to identify great people blogs, videos, job openings , ‘look and feel’ that results in who will succeed in our business. industry news, promoting our economies of scale. During 2016, values, capability 2015 2016 our shared service teams started supporting interview scheduling for • These posts were shared c5,900 In-house candidates and hiring managers. times by 78 Ambassadors across 9,281 8,344 In addition to ensuring the efficient LinkedIn, Twitter, Facebook and recruitment collection of pre-hire paperwork, Weibo External this minimises any delay not only 181 406 • Shared posts were clicked/ recruiter in the hiring process but also when expanded 16,500 times mobilising new hires to project Referral 521 308 location, because all necessary • The number of shares resulted paper work for visa attainment is in a potential reach of 5.3 million Alumni 137 325 people served by the shared posts. readily available. Our shared service Total 10,120 9,383 centres are also playing a key role This is an audience that would in the verification of new hires prior remain untapped if it wasn’t for to employment. This global process employee advocacy, with no or creates a cost-effective, efficient very limited potential to reach the Enhancing capability service and a positive candidate same numbers from Amec Foster experience. In the last six months of Wheeler’s corporate social media Staffing solutions require 2016, the global process scheduled accounts. collaboration across entities to best 422 interviews, collected pre-hire We are in no doubt that social media support project delivery. In 2016, paperwork for 455 people and has had a positive impact in building we designed a recruitment training undertook employment verifications the Amec Foster Wheeler brand, module for hiring managers. The for 531 people, all of which increased promoting our values and positioning efficiency and reduced overall costs. the company as an employer of choice. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / People amecfw.com Page 2 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet People Developing full potential Developing the talent pipeline FEEDB In our 2015 ‘Resourcing for G OING AC ON K tomorrow’ factsheet, we outlined initiatives in the areas of performance development, succession management, developing the capabilities of our managers and talent management technology. In 2016 we made significant progress Mid Year Year End on these initiatives as outlined below. Development Performance Global approach to performance development focus focus In 2015, we implemented a Associated review of Associated review of new approach to performance performance progress role-related progress development applied consistently to 30,000 people. The purpose of this was to deliver a globally consistent framework for performance evaluation which included, for the first time, evaluation ON of demonstration of our company GO CK behaviours. IN G FEEDBA In 2016, we continued to embed this approach which meant driving adoption of mid-year and year-end reviews, as well as management capability to give ongoing feedback Pathway to people management Management. The final module, and evaluate performance effectively. ‘Resourcing’, will follow in 2017. Following the pilot in 2015, we rolled To help managers further build To date, 1,486 people managers out our mid-year review globally for their performance development the first time gaining completion have accessed these modules, skills, we began the roll out of a rates of 51%. Encouragingly, 74% of representing circa c 40% of our total training programme for people respondents to our follow up survey people manager population. managers, called Pathway to People reported that they were satisfied with Management consisting of five key Approach to succession the quality of the conversation with modules. In 2016, we launched management their line manager. the first module, Performance and We continued to roll out our new Our year-end review completion Accountability, which is 45 minutes approach to succession, so that rates jumped from 67% in 2015 to of interactive e-learning delivered potential successors are best 92% in 2016, which represents a in bite size chunks, covering the developed to eventually step significant step forward on 2015 . It setting of performance expectations, into those roles. A global key was also encouraging to see 66% of giving feedback and conducting employees responding to our survey performance indicator – Develop a performance and development reported gaining high value from strong pipeline of talent was set and reviews. The training uses fictional their review discussion. monitored throughout 2016 to assess characters in familiar roles on an our success in this area, requiring engineering project, allowing the our business lines to fill between 71 learner to select the way they wish to Annual address the people issues presented and 90% of senior appointments in accordance with the succession plan. performance 2015 2016 and providing feedback on the In 2016, we met this target. review choices he or she has made. % employees A further three modules have subsequently been launched: completing a 67% 92% Engagement, Developing your year-end review people, and Individual and Team Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / People amecfw.com Page 3 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet People Developing full potential High potential We refreshed the way we identify and develop high potential individuals. We now have measures in place to help us identify high potentials earlier in their career so that we can seek to give them the experiences they need to accede to our most senior roles. In addition, refreshed communications have helped managers be clearer on the difference between high potentials and high performers. Both are vital to this business but are developed in different ways. Two cohorts of high potentials were taken through our accelerated development programmes. Talent management system Conexus, our Cornerstone talent system, has been further developed this year to drive our performance evaluation, high potential identification, succession management and learning activities. Development moves and promotions Now, nearly two years since its introduction, we are starting to reap the benefit of robust data relating 2015 2016 to our people processes. This is Business Unit move 226 246 being used to inform and challenge what we do to further drive the Operating Unit move 165 177 talent and performance agenda. For example, we can look at the quality of Country move 380 306 objectives or development activities being agreed, whether review Development assignment (international) 17 29 processes are being embraced fully and which pieces of learning are the most popular. 2015 2016 Development moves and promotion We continued to invest in our Positions filled internally 630 1490 people’s development through a variety of career moves. Grade change promotions 914 736 Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / People amecfw.com Page 4 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet People Developing full potential Employee engagement of Business Conduct and complying One of our nine strategic priorities with policies and procedures. launched earlier this year is to We define engagement as being the improve the engagement of our extent to which people are connected Leaders who effectively listen then people and focus on attracting, and committed to their work, their act build effective, transparent developing and retaining the best manager, their work team and their and trusting relationships with talent globally, therefore it is an area organisations because of their work employees. Gathering the views of we actively monitor regularly. environment. our people was therefore a major part of shaping our transformation Our engagement scores rose In a business that is about people, programme. Nearly 3,000 steadily for several years, however having the right culture is critical. employees responded in detail in 2015 we saw those scores trend The transformation programme to our survey asking for views of downwards. We believe this was we are going through will help us to our organisation, helping us to largely due to ongoing concern about build a real meritocracy, with a highly understand the strengths we need to our performance in tough markets engaged culture focused on safety, make more of and the weaknesses and the obvious implications for collaboration, technical excellence, we need to overcome. job security, compensation and high performance and clear opportunities. Our score in 2016 was accountability. We have established We have committed to continuing calculated using a new methodology a transformation office to ensure to listen to employee views and that does not directly compare to we deliver the cultural elements of to improving communication, prior scores. However we believe our transformation programme, this recognising that good it improved slightly, despite these includes the reinforcement of our communications is fundamental to concerns remaining. commitment to adhering to our Code driving employee engagement. 2013 2014 2015 2016 % employee engagement 70 74 54 61 Employee turnover Collective bargaining We continue to measure our In 2016 the number of employees employee-instigated turnover rate. 2015 2016 covered by collective bargaining As a project based business, we agreements in Amec Foster Wheeler always have projects starting and Employee was 17.14% (5,385 employees). finishing, this is part of our natural instigated 9.4% 9.3% Where our employees are unionised, cycle of work, therefore gross figures turnover we usually work through a sector or for leavers can be misleading. national agreement rather than a Employee instigated turnover i.e. company level agreement. those employees we would like to keep, who choose to leave us, is a more relevant indicator. In 2016 we saw a small reduction in people choosing to leave the company in comparison to 2015. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / People amecfw.com Page 5 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study Highlighting STEM Amec Foster Wheeler aims to promote engineering by inspiring young people through partnerships and events. Working with schools, colleges and groups, people from around the company develop and deliver activities that highlight STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) subjects in fun and engaging ways, while bringing a deeper understanding of the world around us to ensure quality education Our STEM programmes and educational partnerships allow us to support the targets associated with the quality education sustainable development goal, as well as meet our own business and wider industry needs. My Friend the Wind For the eighth year running, our Milan office organised an open day on the Vallesaccarda wind farm, operated by Amec Foster Wheeler Power, to provide students with an opportunity to see the farm and learn more about the production of electricity from this source. The event was attended by 50 children, accompanied by their teachers, from four primary schools in the region. Francesco Capodilupo, plant supervisor, gave a presentation on renewable energy and its contribution to a resilient world. Students also had the opportunity to visit the base of a functioning 1.5 MW wind turbine and electrical substation to understand how it works. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Highlighting STEM amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study Highlighting STEM Zanele’s story Zanele was born and raised in Tembisa, a poor township in Johannesburg, where she lived with her extended family of six people in a single home of two rooms. When she reached Grade 10 she joined the Tomorrow Trust and became part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s programme. Since joining the programme she has improved her scores Tomorrow Trust Ensuring our partnership extends from an average of 35% to beyond financial support, our completing Grade 12 with Our Midrand office in Johannesburg Midrand office has previously a bachelor/university pass has had an education partnership employed one student, who was rate and seven distinctions with Tomorrow Trust since 2010 and with the company for six years. More in Mathematics, Physical to date has donated the equivalent of recently we employed a Graduate Science, Life Science and almost £250,000. This partnership Electrical Engineer who is being English Language. allows us to fulfil our commitment mentored by one of our Principal to furthering the Broad-Based Black Electrical Engineers. The office has Amec Foster Wheeler has Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE) also sponsored learners’ vacation continued its investment in agenda, an initiative of the South work during the holidays, helping Zanele as she pursues her African Government to empower them to gain experience in the field studies at the University of previously disadvantaged groups. they are studying and donated time Pretoria. Zanele is studying to teach classes in informal settlements become a chemical engineer The Tomorrow Trust is a non-profit on weekends. and is in her final year. This organisation based in South Africa investment in her education that works exclusively with orphans, has allowed her to break free vulnerable children and youth to from the poverty cycle and provide integrated education and contribute positively to the holistic support in a sustainable future of South Africa. manner. The trust enables these children and young people to focus on their education and to access opportunities they otherwise would not have. The Trust provides extracurricular academic support to children in school (ages 6-18) via its Holiday and Saturday School Programmes, as well as supporting a Post-Secondary Programme aimed at assisting students in accessing and completing a high school qualification that would enable them to move on to tertiary education. Through its funding, Amec Foster Wheeler has helped 85 high school students, and a further two in tertiary education programmes. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Highlighting STEM amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study Highlighting STEM Westlakes sponsors Amec Foster Wheeler worked with The Centre for Leadership Performance via the ‘Bright Stars’ scheme to support the talents of young people in Cumbria, UK, by encouraging a culture of entrepreneurship and aspiration. The Bright Stars competition is aimed at primary school children across Cumbria and Amec Foster Wheeler teamed up locally with Gosforth Primary School, close to our Westlakes office near Sellafield. Each school received an initial £50, with a simple instruction to make it grow to the highest amount possible by setting up their own mini businesses and then through investment and fundraising creativity, with help and support from local businesses. In addition to the funding “The Centre for Leadership Dalziel speed interviewing we provided, Rob Firby, Operations Manager from our Sellafield Performance would like to Amec Foster Wheeler’s local partnership with Dalziel High School, business, advised and mentored the say a huge thank you to pupils, helping them to develop their established in 2013, has been a huge own ideas and establish and work Amec Foster Wheeler for success. The partnership ensures the together in a team. supporting our Bright Stars school’s pupils take part in a range of STEM-related activities, which The event culminated in a school challenge. We have show them the many exciting careers Presentations Day at the Energus been amazed by the levels of available in engineering. facility in Lillyhall, and the £900 profits made by the Amec Foster creativity, commitment and Continuing our commitment, some Wheeler team were shared between enthusiasm from everyone of our engineers participated in an the school and their chosen charity, innovative speed interviewing event involved. We believe that aimed at inspiring S2 pupils to study Cancer Research. supporting the talents of all science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) subjects. our young people is vital for The event provided an opportunity the future economy here in for approximately 110 students to interview role models, representing Cumbria.” various industries (including Sarah Glass, Bright Stars Scheme, engineering, finance, production Centre for Leadership Performance and IT) in order to gain a better understanding of real life applications for STEM subjects and to help them make informed choices as they select the subjects they will study for their exams. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Highlighting STEM amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Diversity and Inclusion Amec Foster Wheeler is committed to achieving a more diverse workforce and inclusive working environment, where all of our people have a sense of belonging. Greater diversity of thought is both encouraged and enabled throughout our business. Our diversity and inclusion vision is to create a business with genuine diversity of thought where different views and opinions are valued and fostered to help influence our decision making and problem solving. We believe that this will ensure that we are better prepared to understand and deliver to our customers, and in turn we will become a more sustainable and profitable business. Thought processes Functional specialism Geographic location Inclusion Personality Behaviour Work experience Pastimes ity Carer/Caregiver l Personal traits a Thinking style qu Accent Perspectives The range of visible and Skills invisible differences Life that make us the experience Creating and Sexual maintaining a work E Creed orientation Disability individuals that we are Seniority environment and culture where all Language Belief individual differences Gender are respected and the Working style Religion Ensuring equality value of difference is Family Educational not only recognised of opportunity for status Values but positively all our people by Heritage Ancestry Colour Citizenship encouraged eliminating Communication style discrimination, Race Diversity Age bias and prejudice Nationality Gender re-assignment Ethnicity Marital status Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Diversity and Inclusion amecfw.com Page 1 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Diversity and Inclusion To achieve this vision, our Global Diversity and Inclusion Steering Group Sustainability leads and drives our diversity and Appreciated Encouraged Innovation Partnership inclusion strategy globally. It focuses New ideas Understanding on five key areas to influence change Developed Belonging For our Creative customers Solutions and accelerate progress: Valued For our Supported Technical excellence people Communication • Leadership and vision Cost Connected Engaged efficiency Problem solving Create a framework to lead and Diversity Respect drive Amec Foster Wheeler’s Equality Inclusion Involved Opportunities Growth Vision and values diversity and inclusion activities Respected which clearly demonstrate our Market focus commitment. Global brand For Amec Foster Profitability • Communication and engagement Sustainability Wheeler Raise Amec Foster Wheeler’s Corporate social responsibility Employee engagement profile both internally and Productivity Attraction externally as a diverse and Retention inclusive employer. This ensures our definition and vision for diversity and inclusion is clearly understood by our people. Our 20 diversity and inclusion In addition, we held our first Global • Culture and behaviours Diversity and Inclusion Week, themed champions, all senior leaders from Foster a work environment and ‘Thinking Differently, Together’ which across our business, are each culture where diversity and aimed to: responsible for the delivery of a inclusiveness is embedded and diversity and inclusion action plan • Raise awareness of what we mean embraced and diversity of thought for their areas of the business. These is valued within Amec Foster by diversity and inclusion within action plans, centred around the Wheeler. Amec Foster Wheeler. five key areas above, are designed • Recruitment and talent to embed our global diversity and • Promote conversation on diversity management inclusion strategy, as well as address and inclusion across Amec Foster Attract and retain the best local issues and individual operating Wheeler. talent from across the globe unit needs. • Highlight how diversity of thought and deployed in the places that can help us to win work and are best for both them and the In 2016, we focused on delivering against both our global and local execute better delivery. business. diversity and inclusion action plans. • Demonstrate the benefits of • Measurement and evaluation different minds coming together Ensure that there are effective with the right attitude and and reliable methods in place to behaviours. monitor and measure. Diversity and inclusion week 22 – 28 June 2016 • Emphasise the importance of inclusion for better collaboration across business units, operating units, geographies and HVEC. Thinking differently together Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Diversity and Inclusion amecfw.com Page 2 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Diversity and Inclusion Thinking Differently, Each day of the week had its own #dot theme which was sponsored by Together one of our senior leaders through a Creating more innovative solutions personal blog shared on our intranet. for our customers through greater In 2016, Amec Foster Wheeler diversity of thought is one of the key dedicated a week in June for activity These blogs were viewed over 2,500 times and the themes included: aims of our diversity and inclusion to champion diversity and inclusion, activities. specifically centred around ‘thinking • Our diversity and why it is differently, together’. important Diversity of thought fosters greater diversity of ideas and insight, The aim of the week was to raise • Diversity of thought; effective stimulates greater creativity and company wide awareness of what collaboration and creative innovation, actively demonstrates is meant by diversity and inclusion solutions respect and helps guard against the in Amec Foster Wheeler. We wanted • Our diverse customers and their tendency for teams to ‘group think’ to get our people talking about and diverse expectations at the expense of making the best engaging with diversity and inclusion decisions. • Encourage and value difference as a topic, to understand how We can achieve greater diversity through inclusive behaviours diversity of thought can help us to of thought by creating an inclusive win work and execute better delivery, • Our expectations of you environment where peoples’ and highlight the importance of varied ideas, ways of thinking and A ‘Yam Jam’ (focused online inclusion for better collaboration. perspectives, which are all shaped by discussion) was hosted on Yammer for 24 hours, starting in the morning their individual visible and invisible To launch the week, members of differences, are encouraged and for colleagues in New Zealand and our Group Leadership Team shared listened to. finishing at close of business in their thoughts on why diversity Canada. People were encouraged to and inclusion was important to our get together virtually to share ideas, business through filming their own, questions and views on a single personal selfie videos. The collective topic ‘how can thinking differently, video was posted on Amec Foster together ensure the success of our Wheeler’s YouTube channel and has business?’ 454 messages were been viewed over 1,600 times. posted to the dedicated Yammer Our people were also asked to share group and five senior leaders hosted on Yammer ‘why diversity and live web chats during ‘Yam Jam’. inclusion is important to them’ and In addition to the centrally challenge colleagues to do the same coordinated, global activity there throughout the week. was a vast array of local activity that took place across the business. This included town halls, webinars, unconscious bias training, promotion of diverse role models, diversity and inclusion moments with which to start meetings, diversity and inclusion quizzes and debates, supporting employees walking in the Pride parade in London. Other initiatives included supporting the UK National Women in Engineering Day, UK National Armed Forces Day and UK Carers Week. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Diversity and Inclusion amecfw.com Page 3 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Diversity and Inclusion Our performance Gender split – directly employed workers only General split all 2015 2016 2015 2016 Male 77 77 Male 78 79 Female 23 23 Female 22 21 Looking forward Gender diversity by group 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 All All All Senior Management Senior Senior Leadership Leadership Team team teamLeadership Board Board Board management management 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 M F In 2017 our focus will be to ensure our people understand what diversity of thought is, how to encourage it and why it is a critical enabler for our business. To do this we will develop, launch and promote an Amec Foster Wheeler e-learning course specifically on diversity of thought. The learning outcomes of this course will be for the learner to: • Recognise differences and strengths of individuals • Adapt and modify their own behaviours to get the best out of the diversity of thought • Take actions that promote diversity of thought in their everyday activities We will also review and update the Global Diversity and Inclusion procedure and associated action plans to align with the Purple Book, the document which outlines our global operating model. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Diversity and Inclusion amecfw.com Page 4 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study UK network groups Since Amec Foster Wheeler started on its journey to achieve greater diversity and inclusion it quickly became very clear that many of our people were passionate and committed to supporting us some were particularly interested in setting up employee network groups aligned to our diversity and inclusion strategy. The business benefit of network • We Care, which aims to increase • Webinar on ‘We Care’, providing groups is simple. Not only do they awareness of balancing working unique perspectives of the provide a great forum for networking with care responsibilities thousands of colleagues who and peer support, when people feel • Athena, which aims to promote will, at some point in their career, engaged and included they are more gender balance be balancing work with caring/ likely to contribute their diverse caregiving responsibilities. opinions and ideas at work, this All our network groups are fully inclusive and anybody can join them. • Creation of a Diversity and greater diversity of thought will result Inclusion Video Moment to raise in more innovative solutions for our Over 300 people have become members of these network groups awareness of working and caring. customers. on Yammer so far and many more So, in December 2015, the Voluntary have engaged in the groups’ activities Diversity and Inclusion Network over the year. Group Procedure was launched in the UK. This explained what a network Here are just some of the network group was, how employees could groups key achievements to date: establish one and what support Amec Foster Wheeler would provide We Care to the group. As a result, in 2016 four • Development of a UK Carers network groups were established Procedure and associated to help employees connect over Blueprint for Care form designed common issues: to support discussions between employees who have caring • Pride, which aims to promote responsibilities and their Line LGBT equality and inclusion Managers. • Clear Minds, which aims to • Celebration of UK Carers Rights increase awareness of mental Day, UK Carers Week and health Australian Carers Week. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / UK network groups amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study UK network groups Clear Minds Pride Athena We want to help build a work place • Supported Amec Foster Wheeler’s • Raise Amec Foster Wheeler’s whereby anyone can openly talk or first submission to the Stonewall profile as a diverse and inclusive ask for support on mental health Workplace Equality Index as part employer through participation in illnesses and disorders, and to be of a contribution towards a more external events and external and confident that if they tell someone, diverse and fully inclusive work internal communications. they won’t be judged, or treated any environment within the business • Continue to build strong links with differently and that they still feel (ranked 231). Women in Science and Engineering included in all aspects of the work life • Organised Amec Foster Wheeler’s (WISE) and Women Engineering balance. first participation in the Pride Society (WES). parade in London, walking with • Planning to coordinate Amec InterEngineering – who work to Foster Wheeler’s activities in connect, inform and empower recognition of International Women Clear LGBT in engineering. in Engineering Day. Minds Further to signing the UK Government’s Armed Forces Covenant in 2015 we are working with some of our employees to create a network group centered around supporting the UK Armed Forces community in 2017. • Hosted Clear Minds Diversity and Inclusion webinar to discuss the importance of mental health and how no one should suffer in silence. • Raised awareness across the company on different mental health issues and disorders through Yammer posts and discussions. Pride • Raised awareness of the Employee Assistance Programme – a 24hour counselling and advice line. • Raised awareness across the company on LGBT equality and inclusion in Amec Foster Wheeler through both external and internal communications including blogs, role model profiles, Yammer posts. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / UK network groups amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Innovation & Delivery Highlights Embedding sustainability into the delivery of our projects will ensure we appropriately mitigate operational risks, respect and protect the environments and the communities in which we work. Through the delivery of innovative solutions and services we add value to our customers while minimising environmental impacts. • Defined what sustainability on a project means for us • Published a sustainability framework for our projects • Undertook a review of our fundamental and mandatory procedures • Launch of Climate Resilience Integrated Framework for Action • Confirmed partner of 100 Resilient Cities with the Rockefeller Foundation • 10-year focus on delivering solar projects © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Sustainability in projects Amec Foster Wheeler has a number of published strategic priorities, one of which is to provide a safe and sustainable environment for our people and the communities in which we work. The key to the delivery of this strategic priority is to ensure a focus on embedding sustainability into the delivery of our projects, to appropriately mitigate operational risks, and to respect and protect the environment and the communities in which we work. This focus will protect our reputation and licence to operate, supporting the delivery of stronger business performance. Set out in our Resilient World In 2016 we worked to define by sustainability in relation to the strategy, our long term goal for what we meant by sustainability projects they are working on and project delivery is to ensure that on our projects. As a result, we delivering for our customers. This in we respond to our customers and have developed and published a turn will ensure we are able to clearly other stakeholders’ demands for sustainability framework for our show we have considered these key high standards by embedding a projects, each with sub-headings elements at all stages within our consistent sustainability standard clearly defining what is expected project life cycle – from identifying, across our projects. in each area. The framework to acquiring and into delivery and will assist our employees in close out. understanding clearly what we mean Project sustainability framework Human & Labour Rights Environment Anti-bribery & Corruption Community Code of Business Conduct and Diversity & Inclusion Environmental Management Stakeholder Engagement Ethics Human Rights Carbon Management Anti-bribery & Corruption Local Content Health & Safety Efficiency and Innovation Supply Chain Community Resiliency Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Sustainability in projects amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Sustainability in projects Embedding the elements within the Policies and procedures essential part of ensuring we protect project sustainability framework into ourselves and the company. our Operating Model, will ensure that All employees of Amec Foster issues relating to the sustainable Wheeler businesses must comply In 2016, together with the key delivery of a project are core with the Code of Business Conduct, technical functions, we undertook considerations in the way we identify global policies, fundamental a review of fundamental and and win work, and in how we assure procedures and mandatory mandatory procedures in relation effective project execution plans that procedures. Compliance with to bidding, winning and delivering meet customer requirements. our policies and procedures is an our projects. This ensured that the COBC Global Policies & Quality Policy Operating Model (Including the IAD process) Fundamental Procedures Mandatory Procedures (Owned by business and technical functions) Project/Programme Based Quality Mgt System (Specific processes and procedures required for the execution of the project controlled by the PEP and Project Quality Plan) sustainability issues highlighted and opportunities in our identify and Communicating project within the framework were acquire phases, ensuring that we adequately addressed. This review are able to incorporate appropriate sustainability included processes and procedures mitigation measures at the earliest An indicator of success in this area relating to: phases of a project plan. It also will be the effective communication provides us with the opportunity to of key sustainability highlights at the • Tender review process offer value added solutions to our end of a project. All sustainability • Project delivery plan customer’s ie environmental studies, project case studies will include the climate change risk assessment and project sustainability framework • Due diligence resilience modelling for assets etc. table and indicate the key areas Updating of these key processes that the project addressed, and the enables us to implement a consistent Our focus for 2017, is to provide impacts and legacy of the project. approach to how we manage sufficient education and resources to sustainability issues on our projects. the business to enable relevant teams Refer to project case studies for Our fundamental and mandatory to implement the requirements examples of how sustainability has procedures have the triggers to effectively. been embedded within our projects. identify sustainability related risks Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Sustainability in projects amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study Atlanta BeltLine project Image courtesy: Ryan Gravel Cities are hubs for commerce, culture, science, productivity and much more, but they face many challenges such as pollution, lack of services and declining infrastructure. They need to be clean and safe, with good housing and basic services like water and electricity. They also need clean transport systems and green areas for everyone. Addressing a number of the Project aims and highlights Sustainable Development Goal • Economic growth in areas targets for sustainable cities and that have not benefitted from communities (see above), the investment in the past 25 years Atlanta BeltLine is a redevelopment project that is set to transform • Green infrastructure strategies the city by connecting 45 in town that will reduce storm water runoff neighborhoods via a 22-mile loop of and flooding risk while expanding multi-use trails, modern streetcar, urban forest and parks – all based on old railroad • Provision of alternative modes of corridors that formerly encircled transportation (multi-use trails By 2030 Atlanta. and light rail transit) to connect When completed, it will provide 45 neighborhoods, facilitate • Provide universal access to safe, first and last mile connectivity for commuting and reduce emissions inclusive and accessible green regional transportation initiatives. It • Provision of new trails and parks to and public spaces also supports affordable workforce encourage healthy, active lifestyles • Provide access to safe, housing, economic development, job affordable, accessible and creation, public health, streetscapes, • Promoting community sustainable transport systems public art, environmental clean-up, cohesiveness by connecting 45 in for all and historic preservation – all with town neighbourhoods • Ensure access for all to an eye towards sustainability. It adequate, safe and affordable is seen as one of the largest, most housing wide-ranging urban redevelopment programmes currently underway in • Enhance inclusive and the United States. sustainable urbanisation Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Atlanta BeltLine project amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study Atlanta BeltLine project Amec Foster Wheeler has provided Our innovative sustainable design Recognition planning, engineering design, techniques were integrated into the construction materials testing, master plan to reuse infrastructure, The Atlanta Beltline, Inc, Amec geotechnical and environmental reduce energy needs and improve Foster Wheeler team and its partners services to Atlanta BeltLine, Inc. air quality, helping ensure that our have received a number of industry the organisation charged with Atlanta neighbours have access to awards for the project: implementation of the project. The the safest, most sustainable and • In February 2014, The Atlanta project will open in stages up until its highest quality public use areas. Beltline was awarded an anticipated completion in 2030. It is estimated that the BeltLine Engineering Excellence Award Work began in 2004, when Amec project will serve not only as a from by the American Council of Foster Wheeler performed the initial catalyst for new infrastructure Engineering Companies (ACEC) limited environmental assessment of and environmental cleanup and of Georgia and then went on to be the entire 22-mile corridor, followed restoration in Atlanta but it is awarded a National Recognition by the development of a corrective anticipated to be a catalyst for up to Award for Engineer Excellence by action plan that secured approval 10 to 30 billion dollars in combined the America Council of Engineering from federal and state environmental economic development in and Companies (ACEC) in March 2014. regulatory agencies. Recently, around the Atlanta Beltline Corridor • In May of 2014, The Atlanta Beltline Amec Foster Wheeler has completed over the next couple of decades as it was awarded the Prix d’ Excellence environmental remediation and is constructed. by the International Real Estate reporting on three additional Federation (FIABCI) as the World sections of the Atlanta BeltLine Conference focused on Building project including the Southwest Trail, Humanity as one of the best Eastside Trail Extension and the projects in the world. Northeast Corridor. Please see the video for an overview of the Amec • In December of 2015 at the Foster Wheeler team in action from National Brownfields Conference, March of 2016: The Atlanta Beltline was awarded the Phoenix Award for excellence in brownfield redevelopment for EPA Region. • The Phoenix Award is presented to brownfield redevelopment and revitalisation projects that offer an inventive approach to important environmental issues, display innovation and demonstrate excellence in community impact. Project sustainability framework Human & Labour Rights Environment Anti-bribery & Corruption Community Code of Business Conduct and Diversity & Inclusion Environmental Management Stakeholder Engagement Ethics Human Rights Carbon Management Anti-bribery & Corruption Local Content Health & Safety Efficiency and Innovation Supply Chain Community Resiliency Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Atlanta BeltLine project amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study Water resource management Amec Foster Wheeler has been working with the 2030 Water Resources Group (2030 WRG) since 2013 to undertake analyses to support the business case for sustainable water resource management in Tanzania, Peru, Mexico and Mongolia. Water scarcity effects more than Focus on Peru 40 per cent of the global population and is projected to rise, that means Background that there are billions of people over In order to improve resource the world without access to clean availability and secure supplies for water, a human right that many of industry and the general population, us take for granted. Water scarcity the management of water in Peru and inadequate sanitation also needs to be redefined. Whilst at a comes with huge risk of disease, with country level, Peru has plenty of nearly 1,000 children dying from water, with annual renewable water preventable water and sanitation resources of 2,000km3/year, at sub By 2030 diseases every day. country level the position could not be more different. Over 98% of the • Achieve universal and equitable In response to a number of the run-off in Peru flows to the east of access to safe and affordable sustainable development goals the Andes into the Amazon region drinking water for all related to clean water and sanitation, with only 1.8% of run-off flowing into • Substantially increase water use we have been working with the 2030 the arid Coastal region to the west efficiency across all sectors and Water Resources Group (2030 WRG, where over 70% of the population, ensure sustainable withdrawals to undertake analyses to support the contributing 80% of the GDP are and supply of freshwater to business case for sustainable water based. Rapid urbanisation and address scarcity and substantially resource management in Tanzania, increased economic growth are reduce the number of people Peru, Mexico and Mongolia. placing stress on water resources suffering from water scarcity and water quality is being severely Currently active in 11 countries, the • Implement integrated water 2030 WRG is a unique public-privatecompromised from untreated resources management at civil society collaboration which domestic discharge and unregulated all levels including through creates multi-stakeholder platforms mining operations. transboundary cooperation as to drive action on water resources appropriate reform in countries with developing • Support and strengthen the economies with the aim to close the participation of local communities gap between water demand and in improving water and sanitation supply by the year 2030. management Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Water resource management amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study Water resource management Amec Foster Wheeler undertook Most of the projects ranking higher take an active role in this area, targeted hydro-economic analysis in the prioritisation of investments including potential joint funding for of the current situation to deliver are programmes to increase partnership projects. compelling messages to Peruvian water use efficiency in irrigation at Of specific note is the multi criteria private sector companies, public different levels. Also noted are the prioritisation framework that we sector and the public to raise prevalence of major water storage developed has since been formally awareness of the water challenges and inter-basin transfer projects, adopted by the National Water and mobilise new actors to engage in most of which are for irrigation only Authority and the Ministry of activities to improve water resources and others with multipurpose uses. Agriculture. The government has management in Peru to close the gap The concern around surface and adopted the methodology as a legal between projected water demand groundwater quality degradation norm across the whole country, and and a sustainable supply. explains the major effort foreseen the system will be used by private in the country to expand or build Outcome and public sector actors for the wastewater treatment plants and The preliminary stage of the analysis implementation of projects. sewer systems. identified and reviewed proposed Building on this initial project the water resource investments in The outcome of this objective 2030 WRG Peruvian partnership seven catchments. A multi-criteria prioritisation provided key remains very active, recent activities prioritisation framework was then information on project investments include: identifying innovative developed which included criteria for each sector in order for them financial instruments to bring quantifying the financial effort to take an active role in projects more resources to the sector needed to increase water availability that improve water resources and implement more projects; for each project investment, the management to help close the gap instrumental in leveraging $400,000 economic costs and benefits, and the between projected water demand of funding for an agricultural project associated social and environmental and supply for Peru. to improve water use efficiency impacts. This framework and scoring For the Peru government, the output in asparagus production. Amec of individual project investments from this work will help to build Foster Wheeler has been involved was discussed in specifically the group of actors and country in a related follow on project in Peru designed and facilitated stakeholder champions who will subsequently to assist in the development of consultation and engagement groundwater tariffs. workshops. Renewable water resources of 2,000km3/year Over 98% water run-off flows to the mostly 1.8% of the run-off uninhabited supports 70% of the Amazon population of Peru region Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Water resource management amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study Water resource management Project sustainability framework Human & Labour Rights Environment Anti-bribery & Corruption Community Code of Business Conduct and Diversity & Inclusion Environmental Management Stakeholder Engagement Ethics Human Rights Carbon Management Anti-bribery & Corruption Local Content Health & Safety Efficiency and Innovation Supply Chain Community Resiliency Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Water resource management amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study Here comes the sun Celebrating 10 years in solar One in five people still lack access to modern electricity, while three billion people still rely on wood, coal, charcoal or animal waste for cooking and heating. With energy being a dominant contributor to climate change, Sustainable Development Goal 7 underscores the need for clean and renewable energy to help combat climate change while meeting increasing energy demands. In the past ten years Amec Foster Wheeler has built nearly 30 solar energy facilities and installed over 1.6GWdc of solar energy projects across North America, ranging from rooftop solar, remote site solar/diesel hybrid solutions to large utility scale projects: From initial design and permitting through to engineering, procurement and construction (EPC). Installed over 1.6GWdc in less than 10 years in North America Recognised as a top tier By 2030 Solar EPC • Increase substantially the provider in North America by share of renewable energy ENR and Solar World Power in the global energy mix Installed >6 million • Double the global rate of solar panels for 30 energy improvement in energy facilities across efficiency North America • Ensure access to affordable, reliable and modern energy services In less than 10 years Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Here comes the sun amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study Here comes the sun Celebrating 10 years in solar Here is an overview of some of the Indy Solar I, II and III, Mesquite Solar 2 & 3, solar projects we have delivered globally: Indianapolis, Indiana, USA Tonopah, Arizona Amec Foster Wheeler worked Amec Foster Wheeler is constructing as EPC contractor for Dominion a 150 megawatt photovoltaic (PV) Resources on three alternating solar facility situated on 1,000 acres current photovoltaic solar plants with of land. a combined capacity of 28.6 MWac, Responsible for the engineering increasing the amount of energy design, procurement of all materials produced in Indiana more than including solar panels, construction fivefold. and commissioning, the procedure Gemsolar, Seville, Spain The solar plants form the largest will create 600 jobs during the peak installation to date of Array of the construction phase and around The first commercial solar plant with Technologies Dura Rack fixed 50 support staff. Once complete it a central tower receiver and molton group-mount systems. Amec will generate enough electricity to salt head storage technology. The Foster Wheeler was responsible for power around 40,000 homes. plant’s storage system provides the procurement of all materials electricity production for 15 hours including the solar panels, without sunlight and can supply 110 construction and tie in to the local GWh per year – enough to supply distribution system. power for 27,500 homes. Amec Foster Wheeler designed and supplied one 17 MWe steam generating grain consisting of preheater, a kettle type steam generator, superheater and reheater as well as two LP and three JHP feedwater heaters. Foothills Solar Plant, Yuma, Arizona, USA Amec Foster Wheeler provided engineering, procurement and construction services on this 400 acre, 35MWe photovoltaic solar plant. The project was the largest Arizona Public Service owned PV project, featuring more than 150,000 solar modules – enough to generate enough energy to power 8,750 Arizona homes. Amec Foster Wheeler also provided geotechnical, permitting and hydrology services. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Here comes the sun amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study Here comes the sun Celebrating 10 years in solar Focus on Copper Mountain • Training on identification of Environmental management dangerous insects for all workers, Solar 3 & 4 Boulder City, and specific training for designated The design phase considered Nevada, USA installation, operation, and employees on how to safely maintenance in the design. Copper Mountain Solar 3 (CMS3) and relocate protected species from An example outcome of these Copper Mountain Solar 4 (CMS4) are work areas. considerations was to choose utility scale photovoltaic solar plants • Introduction of stretch and flex polycrystalline silicon modules for situated in Boulder City, Nevada for programmes for all workers in the CMS3 and CMS4 project. Along which Amec Foster Wheeler was response to repetitive work-tasks with other factors influencing the responsible for the engineering, and soft tissue injury concerns. decision, polycrystalline panels are procurement and construction. inert and can be recycled at the end Combined, the two plants produce • Cables laid using wire spools of their design life. over 340 megawatts (MW) of clean, on trucks in place of manual emission-free electricity; enough installation to reduce risk of injury Both projects utilised local recycling to power approximately 108,800 associated with laying 290 miles of services: The majority of the homes. cable. cardboard recycled from the project was shredded and repurposed, and Health & Safety Efficiency and innovation the wood pallets reused or recycled The Copper Mountain Solar projects A number of innovative solutions for construction of new pallets. were crowned winner of Amec Foster were incorporated into the design Overall, both projects recycled over Wheeler’s HSSE best practice CEO for Copper Mountain Solar 4, one 700 tonnes of cardboard waste, and awards in 2015 for implementation of which was to overcome the 1,100 tonnes of wood pallets and of best practice techniques and challenge associated with meeting dunnage. working practices to protect workers output requirements in a limited Community in unique and challenging working amount of space. A tracking system environments. These controls was implemented, moving east to At the end of Copper Mountain included: west, tracking the sun to provide 4 project, Amec Foster Wheeler approximately 6% more power per donated approximately 500 solar • Specific weather exposure control unit of area than the fixed tilt solar panels, worth US$25,000, to the city plans to stagger work times, and panels used at Copper Mountain of Boulder City to charge electric provision of portable open-air Solar 3. vehicles in a new covered car port cooling trailers with misting fans to for the city’s electric vehicle fleet. provide cool-down area. The solar panels are capable of producing 118 kW; enough to power approximate 12 US households. Construction of the solar project created roughly 600 jobs, and 12 permanent operations jobs. Project sustainability framework Human & Labour Rights Environment Anti-bribery & Corruption Community Code of Business Conduct and Diversity & Inclusion Environmental Management Stakeholder Engagement Ethics Human Rights Carbon Management Anti-bribery & Corruption Local Content Health & Safety Efficiency and Innovation Supply Chain Community Resiliency Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Here comes the sun amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Climate resilience The World Economic Forum’s recent Global Risk Reports have identified climate hazards as one of the ‘…most impactful risks for years to come and extreme events as the most likely of risks…’. The World Bank has stated that climate resilience must be ‘…integrated into multi-sector and systemswide frameworks for infrastructure…’ and businesses and investors are increasingly recognising climate change as one of the top global risks to assets, commerce and investments. As discussed in Our approach This framework, coupled with the to Sustainability, we recognise Resilience Infrastructure Sustainable the role that business needs to Communities (RISC) programme, play in delivering the Sustainable which is focused on infrastructure Development Goals, and also the and cities allows Amec Foster opportunities for growth that Wheeler to access and integrate they can offer. The Sustainable global experts throughout the Development Goal relating to lifecycle of any project. Our climate Climate Action is one area where our resilience practice embeds climate expertise and innovative services can resilience into any project to manage support the delivery of the targets risk and ensure the long-term By 2030 associated. viability of our clients’ operations and activities. • Strengthen resilience and Recognising that strong climate adaptive capacity to climateresilience strategies and actions are Our approach in this area related hazards and natural critical in delivering these targets, strengthens financial, operational, disasters in all countries; Amec Foster Wheeler has developed social and environmental the Climate Resilience Integrated performance by reducing risk and • Integrate climate change Framework for Action (CRIFA). vulnerability to current and future measures into national policies, The framework provides in-depth hazards. It ensures a structured strategies and planning. analysis, practical implementation approach to engagement of the and development of solutions and key stakeholders and the provision opportunities throughout a project’s of solutions and is applicable to lifecycle and beyond. specific projects, supply chains, investors, government agencies and geographic areas. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Climate resilience amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Climate resilience Discrete decision gates within CRIFA enable entry at any stage of a project lifecycle, and part or all of the framework could be implemented dependent on needs and requirements. Amec Foster Wheeler has an all-encompassing approach to climate resilience. The company provides services across the spectrum, from climate modelling, asset management, business continuity, urban water resilience and risk mapping to economic cost-benefit analysis, resilience engineering and carbon capture and storage. We have seen that incorporating better awareness of, and action on, climate resilience into business, government and infrastructure systems reduces costs via efficiencies such as: • More effective management processes; • More efficient infrastructure design; • Saves money in the future through the protection of assets, faster recovery during and aftershocks; • Infrastructure and supply chains are better equipped to cope with the vast array of global risks and hazards. This framework allows Amec Foster Wheeler to integrate world-class experts and regional resources to support our clients within any stage of a project. By systematically incorporating climate resilience into investments and operations decisions, it ensures a platform from which shocks and stresses can be quickly recovered from. It provides numerous benefits including; • Reduces disruptions to service provision • Minimises potential loss of income • Reduces the risk of environmental and economic damage • Reduces insurance costs, the prospect of litigation and reputational damage • Addresses regulations and due diligence requirements Taking a proactive approach and action to protecting assets and investments reduces the need for additional capital expenditure (CAPEX) and unnecessary increases in operational expenditure (OPEX) in the event of a climate related event. Clients increasingly require climate resilience be part of project delivery. Amec Foster Wheeler provides design, planning, consulting, engineering, procurement and construction services for climate resilience to benefit clients across multiple sectors and economies around the world. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Climate resilience amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Fact sheet Climate resilience Case studies on Lions Gate Secondary program. This leads to resilient Wastewater Treatment PPP infrastructure and sustainable Amec Foster Wheeler’s project, British Columbia projects. Utilising our in-house innovative work on Amec Foster Wheeler is increasingly resilience, infrastructure, asset resilience engineering leveraging its integrated climate management and economics expertise, coupled with world class and climate resilience resilience to win and execute worldpartnerships such as 100 Resilient class infrastructure projects. The Environment & Infrastructure Cities and LRE, we are examining and business line was part of the recently investigating the Resilience Return Performance-based design awarded Metro Vancouver Accionaon Investment (RROI) value for framework to integrate and led-team (ADAPT Consortium) that projects. demonstrate value within was selected for the Lions Gate We are examining applicable infrastructure projects Secondary Wastewater Treatment resilience engineering practices (PERINF) PPP project. Our Environment & with a range of clients that are A project conducted under the Joint Infrastructure business is providing currently integrating elements of Program on Resilience Engineering climate resilience and design resilience into engineering projects. (JPRE) Lloyds Register Foundation services to the team, with anticipated We are outlining best practices for fees of $11.5m. A key component the performance-based design Resilience Engineering is focused of this work will be the ADAPT framework to integrate and on the inherently interconnected design that address both shocks demonstrate resilience value within capacities of systems, businesses, and stresses to the project. This will infrastructure projects. infrastructures, communities, provide the flexibility and innovation required for the asset to return to Some other examples of our projects individuals and institutions to and expertise in this area include: withstand, respond, adapt and grow operations quickly after a disaster in a positive, sustainable manner, and meet post-disaster recovery • Addressing flood events and despite the impacts of short-term requirements. The design meets impacts of climate change in the acute shocks and longer-term these requirements by building in Caribbean chronic stresses. contingencies and redundancy to • Climate focused environmental critical facility components such as impact assessments for housing Amec Foster Wheeler is working communication systems, critical developments, transport networks with the Lloyds Register Foundation facility assets, material supply, and major infrastructure in UK/ in London, conducting a pioneering transportation, utilities and vendors Europe and innovative study to consolidate for future climate shocks and knowledge between and within stresses scenarios. • Working with the City of Paris to critical infrastructure sectors. This address the need for more green will further drive climate resilience spaces in the flood expansion into our projects and align our work zones of the River Seine with the financial sector that are Climate resilience project for • Developing a performance-based funding many of our clients projects. the Greater Toronto Airports design framework to evaluate the Authority (GTAA) rate of return on investment in The project is providing a resilience engineering Amec Foster Wheeler recently performance-based framework to completed a climate resilience • Analysing storm data and updating integrate and demonstrate value project for the Greater Toronto hydrology for USA water resource to accelerate the integration of Airports Authority (GTAA). This projects resilience. It will provide resilience included the integration of climate engineering as the new normal for • Conducting studies on large-scale change vulnerability and future flood infrastructure projects, promoting hydrogen decarbonisation risk into the overall airport master resilience engineering as an essential planning and engineering to align • Addressing climate resilience needs approach with a quantifiable with GTAA strategic initiatives and for health services value. Infrastructure clients are growth. increasingly asking ‘what is the • Working as a Platform Partner with value for integrating resilience into the Rockefeller Foundation’s 100 These examples are just a few that our infrastructure projects?’ and Resilient Cities initiative around highlight how we are integrating this project begins to define that the world climate resilience into projects value within our project delivery and through our Climate Resilience outcomes. Integrated Framework for Action (CRIFA) and Resilience Infrastructure Sustainable Communities (RISC) Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Climate resilience amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study Resilient Cities Helping cities around the world become more resilient to the physical, social, and economic challenges that are a growing part of the 21st century. By 2030, 60 percent of the world’s population will live in cities, up from about 50 percent today. Modern cities face numerous issues, with up to 440 million urban households What is 100 Resilient living in sub-standard housing by Cities? A global program 2025. The world’s cities occupy aimed to provide urban just 3 percent of Earth’s land, but centres across the world account for 60-80 percent of energy with access to groundconsumption and 75 per cent of breaking tools that allow carbon emissions. This pattern them to better plan for By 2030 of rapid urbanisation is exerting pressure on fresh water supplies, potentially destructive • Support positive economic, sewage systems / infrastructure, the weather events. Cities social and environmental links environment and health. in the 100RC network between urban and rural areas are provided with the by strengthening national and Amec Foster Wheeler recognises resources necessary to regional development the role that business needs to play in delivering the Sustainable develop a roadmap to • Substantially increase the number Development Goals. Our expertise resilience along four main of cities and human settlements and experience in climate resilience pathways: adopting and implementing and infrastructure directly supports • Financial and logistical guidance integrated policies and plans the global goal relating to Sustainable for establishing an innovative new towards inclusion, resource Cities and Communities and its position in city government, a Chief Resilience Officer, who will lead the efficiency, mitigation and related targets. city’s resilience efforts. adaptation to climate change, • Expert support for development of a resilience to disasters, and robust resilience strategy. develop and implement holistic • Access to solutions, service disaster risk management at all providers, and partners from the levels private, public, and NGO sectors who can help them develop • Support least developed and implement their resilience countries in building sustainable strategies. and resilient buildings utilising • Membership of a global network of local materials member cities who can learn from and help each other. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Resilient Cities amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study Resilient Cities Amec Foster Wheeler has been Amec Foster Wheeler is providing a partner of 100 Resilient Cities 100RC cities – and cities outside the (100RC), pioneered by the network – with resilience services Rockefeller Foundation, since which include: “At Amec Foster Wheeler, 2015 and has leveraged this global programme to support cities • Critical asset data management we are driven by providing to help cities identify, prioritise, safe and sustainable and clients with our integrated and track critical city assets that sustainability and climate resilient are most vulnerable to shocks and project solutions for services. 100RC is a critical our customers, many of stresses. component within the Amec Foster Wheeler international climate • Green infrastructure planning whom include cities and resilience business and has served and emergency management municipalities worldwide. to drive collaboration, innovation and response. Partnering with 100RC secure work contracts over the past • Water scarcity and security. will enable us to harness year. • Tactical action plans for resilience our worldwide expertise in We are driven to provide safe and sustainable project solutions for implementation and grant sustainability, emergency applications allowing cities to management, weather our customers, many of whom bridge from planning to action include cities and municipalities and obtain funding for specific forecasting, environment worldwide. Partnering with 100 RC resilience projects. and infrastructure to is enabling us to utilise our expertise in sustainability, emergency A key component to the above is enhance cities’ capacity to management, weather forecasting, our provision of highly detailed thrive when experiencing environment and infrastructure to forecasts on extreme weather shock and stress.” enhance cities’ capacity to thrive patterns and the impacts they will have on localised infrastructure. The Jonathan Lewis when experiencing shock and stress. forecasting technology will empower Chief Executive Officer cities to prepare comprehensive Amec Foster Wheeler plans in advance of oncoming tropical storms, blizzards, and other dangerous natural events. With this data, cities will be able to accurately discern which roads will be most impacted in the event of a massive snowstorm or which bridges require additional reinforcement to survive a powerful hurricane. We are also helping cities to develop critical materials for resilience building projects, such as detailed infrastructure project designs and environmental impact assessments. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Resilient Cities amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Case study Resilient Cities The 100RC programme allows us • We are working with the Paris • Through our 100RC Partnership, to further leverage Amec Foster Climate Resilience Officer we were one of only 30 private Wheeler’s expertise to identify and resilience team to model sector firms invited by the climate change impacts, prioritise the capacity of a Seine River Rockefeller Foundation to the projects and complete resilience watershed to develop a natural May 2017 NATO Interdependency programmes to reduce our clients’ flood prevention pilot study. This in Resilience summit. This was risks. In addition to catalysing the will determine the feasibility of attended by 32 countries and Amec Foster Wheeler global climate new vegetation to address flood addressed the resilience agenda resilience segment, our partnership protection and enhance smart-grid within the NATO alliance. has aligned our business with several power redundancy to flood impacts. Additional information on our strategic teaming partners that have • We supported the City of Norfolk projects can be found in our Resilient added value to our projects. with a flood management Cities, Resilient World booklet. Highlights of our 100RC partnership programme that is scalable to Learn more about our Climate projects to date: other city areas, supporting Resilience Framework. neighborhood revitalisation • We have supported City Resilience and can support the City of Workshops in cities around the Norfolk $120M NDRC Watershed world, including London, Mexico resilience programme. City, Bangkok, Boston, Tulsa, and Pittsburgh. • We are completing a pilot feasibility study that will inform • We are supporting OneNYC and an infrastructure vulnerability the NYC Mayor’s Office Recovery framework to assist Los and Resilience. Planning support Angeles and the CRO/Team on in use of the Clean Soil Bank for developing a resilient strategy. implementation of ORR coastal Resilience study incorporates the resilience projects. Amec Foster vulnerability of oil infrastructure Wheeler was recognised as a key throughout the city and its partner in the OneNYC plan for our potential impact on local logistics dashboard programme communities. We will also develop which integrated our logistics, plans to mitigate the vulnerable brownfields and technology leads infrastructure and respond to in the development of a project to potential impacts. simplify soil exchanges through the NYC Clean Soil Bank. Over • We lead a resilience workshop 60% of this clean soil has been for the City of Miami Beach that used to make NYC more resilient identified the high priority shocks to climate impacts and has saved and stresses to support Miamicity government $3.3M in soil Dade County Resilience Plan and purchase costs. Strategy. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Resilient Cities amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Mapping our report Mapping our report Indicators Material aspects Scope and boundaries We have chosen performance This report focuses on material The report incorporates all business indicators that are meaningful to our issues i.e. those that our internal and units plus corporate and shared business. external stakeholders have deemed services. significant in relation to our business and the industries in which we work. This report covers activities from January 1st to December 2016 unless otherwise stated. Our previous report covered 2015 activities. We review and publish a sustainability performance report on an annual basis. Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Mapping our report amecfw.com Page 1 of 13 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Mapping our report UN Global Compact Mapping The table below signposts the reader to sections of the sustainability report where we outline the actions that Amec Foster Wheeler has taken to implement the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. UNGC Principle Factsheet reference 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally Human rights proclaimed human rights HSS management Empowering ethics 2. Ensure we are not complicit in human rights abuses Human rights Empowering ethics 3. Uphold the freedom of association and the effective Developing full potential recognition of the right to collective bargaining Human rights Empowering ethics 4. Eliminate all forms of forces and compulsory labour Human rights Empowering ethics 5. Effective abolition of child labour Human rights HSSE management Empowering ethics 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and Diversity and Inclusion occupation Empowering ethics 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental HSS management challenges Environmental management and performance 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environmental management and performance responsibility Carbon management Minimising resource use Sustainability in projects Climate resilience Resilient Cities 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmental Sustainability in projects friendly technologies Climate resilience Resilient Cities 10. Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion Empowering ethics and bribery Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Mapping our report amecfw.com Page 2 of 13 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Mapping our report Sustainable Development Goals mapping Amec Foster Wheeler recognise the role that buisness has to play in addressing the local and global challenges identified by the goals. We have taken time to review the goals against our Resilient World strategy to identify key areas where we are support their delivery. We understand that we can have a positive impact on some way to all of the goals which are identified below. Those goals where we have the greatest impact are highlighted. Sustainable Development Goal Factsheet / Case study reference No Poverty Community investment Human rights 10 years with SOS Zero Hunger Community investment 10 years with SOS Good health and well-being HSS Management Human rights Community investment Quality education Community investment People – Developing full potential Highlighting STEM Gender equality Diversity and inclusion Empowering ethics Clean water and sanitation Water resource management Affordable and clean energy Here comes the sun Decent work and economic growth People – Developing full potential Human Rights Indigenous Business Initiative Industry, innovation and infrastructure Resilient cities Atlanta BeltLine Reduced inequalities Diversity and inclusion Empowering ethics Indigenous Business initiative Employee network groups Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Mapping our report amecfw.com Page 3 of 13 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Mapping our report Sustainable Development Goal Factsheet / Case study reference Sustainable cities and communities Resilient Cities Atlanta BeltLine Responsible consumption and production Carbon management Minimising resource use 5 star efficiency Hydroponics in manila Climate action Climate Resilience Carbon management Life below water Water resource management Life of land Environmental management and performance Atlanta BeltLine Peace, justice and strong institutions Empowering ethics Human rights Partnerships for the goals 10 years with SOS Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Mapping our report amecfw.com Page 4 of 13 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Mapping our report Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) mapping This report has been prepared in accordance with GRI Standards: Core Option. GRI Disclosure Factsheet Omission Standard General Disclosures GRI 102: 102-1 About Amec Foster Wheeler Name of the organisation General Disclosures 2016 102-2 About Amec Foster Wheeler Activities, brands, products and services 102-3 About Amec Foster Wheeler Location of headquarters 102-4 About Amec Foster Wheeler Location of operations 102-5 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Ownership and legal form pg’s 176-177 102-6 About Amec Foster Wheeler Markets served 102-7 About Amec Foster Wheeler Scale of the organisation 102-8 People – Developing full potential Partial. Information on employees Some data is not and other workers currently available to the split level required. New HR system due to be live late 2017 will support reporting to required granularity. 102-9 Supply chain management Partial. Supply Chain Granularity of data not currently available as consolidated total. 102-10 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Significant changes to pg’s 176-177 the organisation and its supply chain Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Mapping our report amecfw.com Page 5 of 13 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Mapping our report GRI Disclosure Factsheet Omission Standard General Disclosures GRI 102: 102-11 Environmental management and Performance Precautionary Principle or General approach Disclosures 2016 102-12 Our approach to sustainability External initiatives Our commitments 102-13 Information unavailable. Membership of We do not currently report associations this information publically for whole organisation. 102-14 CEO statement Statement from senior decision maker 102-15 Our approach to sustainability Key impacts, risks and opportunities 102-16 Our Values Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 102-17 Ethics helpline Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 102-18 Our approach to sustainability Governance structure 102-19 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Delegating authority pg’s 50-51 102-20 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Executive level pg 63 responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Mapping our report amecfw.com Page 6 of 13 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Mapping our report GRI Disclosure Factsheet Omission Standard General Disclosures GRI 102: 102-21 Materiality Consulting stakeholders General on economic, Disclosures environmental and social 2016 topics 102-22 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Composition of the pg’s 47-50 highest governance body and its committees 102-23 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Chair of the highest pg 47 governance body 102-24 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Nominative and selecting pg’s 59-60 the highest governance body 102-25 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Conflicts of interest pg 56 102-26 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Role of the highest pg 51 governance body in setting purpose, values and strategy 102-27 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Collective knowledge of pg 52 highest governance body 102-28 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Evaluating the highest pg 58 governance body’s performance 102-29 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Identifying and managing pg’s 70-71 economic, environmental and social impacts Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Mapping our report amecfw.com Page 7 of 13 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Mapping our report GRI Disclosure Factsheet Omission Standard General Disclosures GRI 102: 102-32 CEO statement Highest governance General body’s role in Disclosures sustainability reporting 2016 102-33 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Communicating critical pg 55 concerns 102-34 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Nature and total number pg’s 64, 66-69, 71 of critical concerns 102-35 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Remuneration policies pg’s 72-89 102-36 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Process for determining pg’s 72-89 remuneration 102-37 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Stakeholders involvement pg’s 72-89 in remuneration 102-38 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Annual total Annual total pg’s 72-89 compensation reported compensation ratio only 102-39 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Annual compensation Percentage increase pg’s 72-89 reported only in annual total compensation ratio 102-40 Materiality List of stakeholder groups 102-41 People – Developing full potential Collective bargaining agreements 102-42 Materiality Identifying and selecting stakeholders Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Mapping our report amecfw.com Page 8 of 13 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Mapping our report GRI Disclosure Factsheet Omission Standard General Disclosures GRI 102: 102-43 Materiality Approach to stakeholder General engagement Disclosures 2016 102-44 Materiality Key topics and concerns raised 102-45 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Entities included in the pg’s 212-221 consolidated financial statements 102-46 Materiality Defining report content and topic boundaries 102-47 Materiality List of material topics 102-48 Mapping our report Restatement of information 102-49 Mapping our report Changes in reporting 102-50 Mapping our report Reporting period 102-52 Mapping our report Reporting cycle 102-53 Mapping our report Contact point for questions regarding the report 102-54 Mapping our report Claims of reporting in accordance with GRI standards Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Mapping our report amecfw.com Page 9 of 13 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Mapping our report GRI Disclosure Factsheet Omission Standard General Disclosures GRI 102: 102-55 Mapping our report GRI content index General Disclosures 2016 102-56 Mapping our report External assurance 103-1 Health, Safety and Security Management Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Health, Safety and Security Management The management approach and its components 103-3 Health, Safety and Security Performance Evaluation of the management approach GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates Health, Safety and Security Performance of injury, occupations diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Material topics People GRI 103: 103-1 People – Developing full potential Explanation of the Management material topic and its Approach boundaries 2016 103-2 People – Developing full potential The management approach and its components 103-3 People – Developing full potential Evaluation of the management approach Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Mapping our report amecfw.com Page 10 of 13 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Mapping our report GRI Disclosure Factsheet Omission Standard Material topics People GRI 401-1 New employee hires and People – Developing full potential Partial – granularity not employee turnover currently available. New HR system due end 2017 will be able to provide granularity globally. GRI 402-2 Programs for upgrading People – Developing full potential Partial – Some employee skills and information currently transition assistance unavailable currently programs not reporting transition assistance. GRI 402-3 Percentage of employees People – Developing full potential receiving regular performance and career development reviews GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance Diversity and inclusion bodies and employees 2016 Annual Report and Accounts pg 25 Material topics Project excellence and innovation GRI 103: 103-1 Sustainability in projects Explanation of the Management material topic and its Approach boundaries 2016 103-2 Sustainability in projects The management approach and its components 103-3 Sustainability in projects Evaluation of the management approach Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Mapping our report amecfw.com Page 11 of 13 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Mapping our report GRI Disclosure Factsheet Omission Standard Material topics Project excellence and innovation GRI 203-1 Infrastructure Climate Resilience investments and services Resilient Cities supported Here comes the sun Water resource management Atlanta BeltLine Material topics Ethical buisness practices GRI 103: 103-1 Empowering ethics Explanation of the Management material topic and its Approach boundaries 2016 103-2 Empowering ethics The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Empowering ethics management approach GRI 205-2 Communication and Empowering ethics training about anticorruption policies and procedures Material topics Environmental management GRI 103: 103-1 Environmental management and Performance Explanation of the Management material topic and its Approach boundaries 2016 103-2 Environmental management and Performance The management approach and its components Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Mapping our report amecfw.com Page 12 of 13 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 Mapping our report GRI Disclosure Factsheet Omission Standard Material topics Environmental management GRI 103: 103-3 Environmental management and Performance Evaluation of the Management management approach Approach 2016 GRI 302-1 Energy consumption Minimising resource use within the organisation GRI 302-3 Energy intensity Minimising resource use GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy Minimising resource use consumption GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by Minimising resource use All water withdrawal / use source is from municipal source GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Carbon management Emissions GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) Carbon management GHG emissions GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) Carbon management GHG emissions GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Carbon management GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG Carbon management emissions GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with Environmental management and performance environmental laws and regulations External assurance Amec Foster Wheeler last undertook full assurance of its sustainability reporting processes in 2016, since that time no changes to process for collection of data have occurred. We continue to externally assure our greenhouse emissions data, the latest assurance reports are available within the reporting section on the sustainability site at www.amecfw.com/sustainability/ reporting. If you have any questions or comments you can email our Director of Sustainability, Frances Fay frances.fay@amecfw.com Sustainability / Date: 05/17 / Mapping our report amecfw.com Page 13 of 13 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2017 amecfw.com
