MUFG Report 2016 Integrated Report Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Editorial Overview We, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, or MUFG, have compiled our integrated report, MUFG Report 2016, in order to explain our efforts to create sustained value to our investors and other stakeholders. Referencing the framework provided by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC)*, this report introduces our business model through the opening section (“Who We Are”), and explains our methods to create sustainable value through “Corporate Value Initiatives” and “Corporate Value Foundation.” Further detail information on our Corporate Social Responsibility is available on our website. * A private sector foundation established in 2010 by companies, investors, accountant organizations and administrative agencies to develop an international framework for corporate reporting. Who We Are Page 1 Corporate Value Foundation Page 56 In order to convey a full understanding of MUFG’s business We explain our management system, including corporate govermodel, we outline our current situation and give an account of nance and risk management framework, and outline our human our history. resources and our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility. 1 Corporate Vision Strengthening a Governance Structure That Supports 58 Corporate Value 2 MUFG Value Creation Model 64 An Interview with an Outside Director 4 MUFG Value Creation Process 66 Board of Directors 6 Financial Highlights 68 Corporate Executive Officers and Executive Officers 9 Non-Financial Highlights 69 Global Advisory Board 10 Fiscal 2015 Overview 70 Human Resources Strategy 74 Risk Management 78 Compliance Management Message Page 12 79 Internal Audit 80 Responding to Global Financial Regulation Group CEO Nobuyuki Hirano looks back on fiscal 2015, describes 82 Sustainability the operational results of and challenges confronted by MUFG in 86 Supporting SME Growth, Regional Economies the first year of the current medium-term business plan, and outlines the Group’s strategies going forward. Group CFO Muneaki Tokunari explains MUFG’s financial and capital management. 12 Message from the CEO Financial Data / Corporate Data 24 Message from the CFO 88 Five-Year Major Financial Data (FY 2011-FY 2015) 89 Financial Review for Fiscal 2015 96 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Value Initiatives Page 28 100 Company Overview Our vision is to be the world’s most trusted financial group. We explain how we create value in our efforts to reach this vision. Japan: Leveraging Our Comprehensive Group Strengths 30 to Satisfy Customer Needs Disclaimer Becoming a Top Ten Bank in the United States, This report contains forward-looking statements in regard to forecasts, tar34 gets and plans of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. (“MUFG”) and its subthe World’s Economic Powerhouse sidiaries and affiliates (collectively, “the Group”). These forward-looking Securing a Greater Presence in Asia statements are based on information currently available to the Group and 38 —Our Second “Home Market” are stated in this document on the basis of the outlook at the time that this 42 Initiatives Leveraging FinTech document was produced. In addition, in producing these statements certain assumptions (premises) have been utilized. These statements and 44 Business Overview assumptions (premises) are subjective and may prove to be incorrect and may not be realized in the future. The Group has no obligation or intent to 46 Retail Banking Business update any forward-looking statements contained in this document. In 48 Japanese Corporate Banking Business addition, information on companies and other entities outside the Group that is included in this document has been obtained from publicly available 50 Global Banking Business information and other sources. The accuracy and appropriateness of that 52 Asset Management / Investor Services Business information has not been verified by the Group and cannot be guaranteed. All figures contained in this report are calculated according to Japanese 54 Global Markets Business generally accepted accounting principles, unless otherwise noted. Who We Are Corporate Vision The corporate vision serves as the basic policy in conducting our business Our activities, and provides guidelines for all group activities. mission The corporate vision also is the foundation for management decisions, including the formulation of management strategies and management Our vision plans, and serves as the core value for all employees. Our values To be a foundation of strength, committed to meeting the needs of our customers, serving society, and fostering shared and sustainable growth for a better world. Our mission Be the world’s most trusted financial group 1. Work together to exceed the expectations of our customers 2. Provide reliable and constant support to our customers Our vision 3. Expand and strengthen our global presence 1. Integrity and Responsibility 2. Professionalism and Teamwork 3. Challenge Ourselves to Grow Our values Details on our corporate vision are available on our website. http://www.mufg.jp/english/profile/philosophy MUFG REPORT 2016 1 Who We Are MUFG Value Creation Model Group Comprehensive Strength Providing High-Quality Services Strong Customer Global Network Base Sustainable Enhancing Trust Growth Financial Strength Evolution and Reform for Further Growth 2 MUFG REPORT 2016 Group Comprehensive Strategic Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. (MUFG) alliance Strength Holding Company Morgan Stanley* The Bank of Mitsubishi UFJ Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Mitsubishi UFJ Mitsubishi UFJ Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Trust and Banking Holdings Co., Ltd. NICOS Co., Ltd. Lease & Finance Ltd. (BTMU) Corporation (MUTB) (MUSHD) (MUN) Company Limited* MUFG Mitsubishi UFJ Mitsubishi UFJ ACOM Union Bank, Kokusai Asset Morgan Stanley Securities CO., LTD. N.A. (MUB) Management Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. (MUMSS) Bank of Ayudhya Morgan Stanley MUFG Public Company Securities Co., Ltd.* (MSMS) Limited (Krungsri) * Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance, Morgan Stanley and Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities are equity method investees. Global Network Domestic Network: Overseas Network: Approx. 1,100 locations Approx. 1,200 locations in around 50 countries Domestic Employees: Overseas Employees: Approx. 90,000 Approx. 50,000 Financial Strength Strong Customer Base MUFG Capital Ratios and Basel III Requirements Domestic individual accounts: Total Capital Ratio Tier1 Capital Ratio Common Equity Tier1 Capital Ratio 18% MUFG 16.01 40 million 12% 13.24 12.0 11.63 11.0 10.0 10.0 9.0 9.0 6% 8.0 8.5 7.0 6.5 7.5 5.5 0% Domestic corporate accounts: Mar. 31, 2016 Mar. 31, 2016 Mar. 31, 2017 Mar. 31, 2018 Mar. 31, 2019 (Results) Levels required by Basel III regulations* and beyond 400,000 * The capital levels required will be progressively raised up to 2019. Levels shown in the graph show projections as of June 30, 2015. MUFG REPORT 2016 3 Who We Are MUFG Value Creation Process Issues Confronting Society MUFG and the Business Environment Retail Banking Business Domestic Market • Graying of society and declining birthrate • Progress of inter-generation asset succession • Polarization of income and assets Japanese • Advance and popularization of ICT Corporate Banking Business • Acceleration of Japanese corporations’ global expansion • Changes in industrial structure • Aging of corporate managers • Growth in the internal reserves of corporations Global Banking • Shrink in employees’ pension fund Business (EPF) plans and pension system reforms Global Market • Sustained growth of the U.S. economy • Relatively high growth in Asian Asset economies Management / • The tightening and complexation of Investor Services financial regulations Business • Increases in investment money around the world • Growing need for sophisticated and diverse investment products Global Markets Business Current issues • Market stagnation due to negative interest rates in Japan • Slowdown of growth in Asian econoCorporate Compliance mies and plunges in resource prices Governance • Stagnation in commercial financing and money flows Risk Management Internal Audits 4 MUFG REPORT 2016 Value Delivered to Customers Stakeholders • Facilitate a shift from savings to • Provide wealth management, asset succession, investment while stimulating settlement and consumer finance-related prodCustomers personal consumption ucts and services • Provide optimal solutions for cor• Lending, settlement, foreign exchange and asset management porations that are facing ever • Proposal of business strategies and the provicomplicated and diversified chalsion of such solutions as project finance Business lenges and strategies and thereby • Nurture promising companies and assist in partners help them achieve growth business succession and continuation • Assist global corporations in regions around the world • Provide highly sophisticated financial services • Provide retail customers and SMEs such as project finance, M&A finance and cash Monetary in North America and Thailand management services market with high-quality services participants • Assist customers with their asset • Provide investment products, including investformation and administration ment trusts and pension trusts, as well as such asset administration services as foreign invest• Help realize corporate pension ment fund administration and custody services plans in line with customers’ by employing our global network Shareholders human resource and financial • Provide comprehensive support for corporate and investors strategies pension management • Promote transactions involving forex as well as bonds, equities, • Provide products and services related to bonds, derivatives and other marketable forex, equities and derivatives products Employees Sustainability Communities Customers Community Responsible and environment Finance MUFG REPORT 2016 5 Who We Are Financial Highlights Key Financial Performance Indicators EPS* (growth) ¥68.51 ROE*1 (profitability) 7.63% (based on MUFG definition) Earnings per share (EPS) MUFG definition*2 (Yen) Profits attributable to owners of parent (right scale) (Trillions of yen) Tokyo Stock Exchange definition 100 1.2 10.00% 80 1.0 68.51 9.00% 0.8 60 0.6 8.00% 40 7.63% 0.4 7.00% 20 0.2 6.18% 0 0 6.00% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) *1. Figure for fiscal 2011 excludes negative goodwill associated with the application of * Figures for fiscal 2011 do not include one-time effect of negative goodwill associated equity-method accounting on our investment in Morgan Stanley. with application of equity method accounting on our investment in Morgan Stanley. *2. Profits attributable to owners of parent ×100 { （Total shareholders' equity at the beginning of the period + Foreign currency translation adjustments at the beginning of the period） +（Total shareholders' equity at the end of the period + Foreign currency translation adjustments at the end of the period）} ÷ 2 Expense Ratio (profitability) 62.3% Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio*1 (financial strength) 12.1% (full implementation) Expense ratio Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio (full implementation)*2 General and administrative expenses (right axis) Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio Gross profits (before credit costs for trust accounts; right axis) (Trillions of yen) 65% 4.0 12.5% 62.3% 3.0 12.0% 12.1% 60% 11.63% 2.0 11.5% 55% 1.0 11.0% 50% 0 10.5% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) *1. Capital adequacy ratios based on Basel III requirements for fiscal 2011 are not calculated *2. Calculated on the basis of regulations applied at the end of March 2019 The Ratio of the Global Banking Business Ratio of Fee Income*1 34% Segment in the Net Operating Profits from Customer Segments*1 36% Ratio of fee income The ratio of the Global Banking business segment in the net operating profits from customer segments Fee income*2 (right axis) Net operating profits of the Global Banking business segment (right axis) Gross profits (right axis) (Trillions of yen) Net operating profits of customer segments (right axis)*2 (Trillions of yen) 40% 4.0 40% 1.5 36% 3.0 30% 35% 34% 1.0 2.0 20% 30% 0.5 1.0 10% 25% 0 0% 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 (FY) *1. Fee income / gross profits (before credit costs for trust accounts) *1. Comparisons based on managerial accounting principles applied in fiscal 2015 (figures *2. Trust fees + net fees and commissions for fiscal 2012 and before are not calculated); the ratio = net operating profits from overseas operations of customer segments / overall net operating profits from all customer segments *2.Total of net operating profits from Retail Banking, Japanese Corporate Banking, 6 MUFG REPORT 2016 Global Banking and Asset Management / Investor Services business segments Financial Position Compared with Global Peers (G-SIBs) Market Capitalization (Trillions of yen) 25.0 20.0 15.0 10.0 5.0 0 JP Morgan Bank of HSBC Citigroup Goldman MUFG BNP Morgan Barclays Credit Deutsche America Sachs Paribas Stanley Suisse Bank (Exchange rate: ¥112.68 against one U.S. dollar; as of March 31, 2016; source: Bloomberg) Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio (full implementation) * White numbers in the bar chart express each institution’s required ratio. 15.0% 14.0% 12.1% 12.1% 11.9% 11.7% 11.6% 11.4% 11.4% 11.1% 10.9% 10.0% 9.5% 9.5% 9.8% 9.0% 9.0% 9.0% 9.0% 8.5% 8.5% 8.5% 8.5% 8.5% 5.0% Morgan MUFG Citigroup HSBC Goldman JP Morgan Barclays Credit Deutsche BNP Bank of Stanley Sachs Suisse Bank Paribas America (Rates as of December 31, 2015 excluding rate for MUFG as of March 31, 2016; based on data disclosed by each firm) Credit Ratings S&P Holding U.S. Firms European Firms Company Rating A+ A MUFG HSBC BNP Paribas AJP Morgan BBB+ Morgan Stanley Citigroup Goldman Sachs Bank of America Credit Suisse Deutsche Bank BBB Barclays (Rating of issuers of long-term foreign currency denominated debts as of June 30, 2016; source: Bloomberg) MUFG REPORT 2016 7 Who We Are External Recognition for MUFG’s Business Activities Domestic Private Banking Underwriting of Yen-Denominated Bonds Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley PB Securities Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities was choCo., Ltd. was named number one “Japan’s sen as the Yen Bond House of the Year—a title that Best Private Banking Services Overall” in the attests to its strong reputation in the securities 2016 Private Banking Survey undertaken by market—by International Financing Review in recEuromoney, a major financial magazine ognition of its outstanding accomplishments as published in the United Kingdom, for the a lead manager engaged in a variety of important fourth consecutive year. The magazine projects, including multiple large international bond praised Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley PB issuance projects and the issuance of subordinated Securities’ customer-focused sales bonds based on the new Basel III regulations. approach aimed at building long-term customer relationships in addition to its outstanding investment performance. Customer Assessment of Performance on the Tokyo Foreign Exchange Market Project Finance Arrangement Based on surveys undertaken by financial MUFG ranked first in the world on the project magazine J-MONEY, MUFG ranked first in finance arrangement league table for the fourth the comprehensive ranking of the Tokyo consecutive year, thanks to its solid track record in Foreign Exchange Market for the tenth infrastructure, energy and other various projects, consecutive year, thanks to highly favorable which, in turn, contributed to economic developcustomer assessment it has garnered in the ment worldwide. exchange market. Number Number 2014 Millions Rank Score of Rank Share of Rank of US$ Cases Projects 1 MUFG 2,075 326 1 1 MUFG 16,127 5.8% 143 2 Mizuho Financial Group 1,179 115 2 2 Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation 12,832 4.6% 108 3 Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation 539 13 3 3 Bank of Taiwan 12,053 4.3% 1 4 JPMorgan Chase 264 21 4 4 State Bank of India 10,855 3.9% 30 5 Nomura Holdings 223 18 8 5 Mizuho Financial Group 8,730 3.1% 79 (Source: J-MONEY 2015 autumn edition) (Source: Project Finance International, January 27, 2016) Awards for Domestic Investment Trust Funds M&A Advisory Every year, Mitsubishi UFJ Kokusai Asset A Japanese securities joint venture1 between MUFG and Morgan Management receives a number of awards in Stanley has been selected as the winner of the “Best M&A House” the Morningstar Award “Fund of the Year” award in the Japan Achievement Awards by FinanceAsia. program aimed at commending funds with superior investment performances and management track records. 2015 2014 Billions of Rank Rank Funds Rank Funds Yen Mitsubishi UFJ Kokusai Asset Management 1 4 1 6 1 Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities 9,828.1 FIL Investments (Japan) Limited 2 3 2 3 2 Nomura 6,882.2 Daiwa Asset Management 2 3 3 2 3 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group 5,395.3 Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management 2 3 3 2 4 Goldman Sachs & Co 4,763.0 5 Citi 4,252.2 (Source: Morningstar, Inc.) Source: Thomson Reuters (data compiled by Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities) (Based on transaction value handled2) Note: The results of Morningstar Award “Fund of the Year” are based on Morningstar’s Notes: 1. Consisted of Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities and Morgan Stanley analysis and evaluation of the firms’ comprehensive performance. The accuracy or MUFG Securities. integrity of such analysis and evaluation is not guaranteed by Morningstar. 2. Any Japanese involvement announced including property acquisitions. Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities includes deals advised by Morgan Stanley. (Calculation period: April 2015 to March 2016) 8 MUFG REPORT 2016 Non-Financial Highlights Sustainability Initiatives and External Recognition Diversity (workforce composition) Customers—Exceeding Customer Expectations Ratio of female managers in the entire managerial Improvements in products and services reflecting positions in Japan* customer feedback* March 31, 2018: 20% (planned) (Cases) 20.0% 600 562 500 17.4% 458 411 400 15.0% 300 251 200 12.3% 100 10.0% 0 2012/4 2013/4 2014/4 2015/4 2016/4 2017/4 2018/3 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) * Total of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking * Total of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking, and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities, Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS and ACOM Supporting UN Global Compact Winning an “Encouragement Award” under the Career Education Awards Program MUFG has endorsed the United Nations Global Compact, MUFG was chosen to receive an “Encouragement Award” under a principle-based framework of voluntary action aimed at the Sixth Career Education Awards program (Large enterprise encouraging companies and organizations around the world to category) hosted by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and align strategies and operations with universal principles on Industry, for its excellent track record in initiatives to assist human-rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruptions, and career education. MUFG is providing young people with opportake actions that advance societal goals. As a financial group tunities to learn about finance and economics while promoting aspiring to make “contribution to realize sustainable society,” career education by, for example, having them interview its MUFG agrees and supports the principles of the Global Compact employees, so that they can be aware of the significance of and addresses to fulfill our responsibility as a global citizen. having occupations. MUFG Selected to Receive an SRI Index* Label Amid a growing trend toward socially responsible investment (SRI), MUFG was selected as a representative of the domestic financial institutions to receive an SRI index label (as of May 31, 2016). * Index for investment undertaken by giving due consideration to investees’ environmental protection and social contribution initiatives in addition to their financial standing MUFG REPORT 2016 9 Who We Are Fiscal 2015 Overview In fiscal 2015, MUFG celebrated the 10th anniversary of its inauguration. After the launch of a new medium-term business plan in April 2015, we established the MUFG Corporate Governance Policies in May and shifted to the “company with three committees” structure in June. Meanwhile, the Bank of Japan announced a negative interest rate policy in January 2016, enforcing this policy from February onward. MUFG has thus experienced significant changes in its operating environment surrounding it. From Establishment to March 31, 2015 2005 • Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group established 2008 The global financial crisis 2008 • Entered a strategic capital alliance with Morgan Stanley • Made UnionBanCal Corporation, the parent of Union 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake Bank of California, headquartered in San Francisco, a wholly owned subsidiary 2012 “Abenomics,” a government-led economic 2013 • Made Krungsri (Bank of Ayudhya), a major commercial stimulus package launched bank in Thailand, a subsidiary Fiscal 2015 (From April) April Launched a new medium-term business plan Initiated the medium-term business plan under the slogan “Evolution and reformation to achieve sustainable growth for MUFG” BTMU Became the first foreign bank to open a branch in Myanmar since the World War II May Established the MUFG Corporate Governance Policies Repurchased own shares totaling approximately ¥100 billion Launched the Yangon Branch MUTB Entered the index business in collaboration with STOXX Limited, Switzerland June Moved to the “company with three committees” structure Shifted from the “company with a board of corporate auditors” structure to the “company with three committees” structure, with the aim of establishing a more transparent and effective governance structure; increased the number of outside directors from five to seven July Mitsubishi UFJ Kokusai Asset Management Co., Ltd. was inaugurated through the merger of two asset management companies MUTB The balance of assets managed under “NextGeneration Support Trusts” totaled more than Mitsubishi UFJ Kokusai Asset Management inaugurated ¥1 trillion August September 10 MUFG REPORT 2016 BTMU Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ MUTB Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking October November Repurchased own shares totaling approximately ¥100 billion December Mitsubishi UFJ Fund Services, a wholly owned subsidiary of MUTB, acquired Alternative Fund Services business of UBS BTMU Launched “MUFG Regional Revitalization Fund” Began assisting corporations that take on region-specific issues by providing smooth financing as well as an advisory service for optimizing customers’ business strategies January Announced a capital and business alliance with Security Bank Corporation in the Philippines BTMU reached an agreement with Security Bank, a key commercial bank in the Philippines, to form a capital and business alliance, with BTMU acquiring a 20% equity stake in Security Bank (completed in April 2016) A business alliance with Security Bank The Bank of Japan announced a negative interest rate policy and initiated the enforcement of this policy February BTMU and MUTB decreased interest rates for savings accounts MUTB Released “Asset Succession Wrap” March BTMU Hosted hackathon “FINTECH CHALLENGE 2016” Held developers’ event under the theme “creating Hosted “FINTECH CHALLENGE 2016” a new, convenient and easy-to-use service through the combination of IT and finance” BTMU Launched “MUFG FinTech Accelerator Program” Became the first domestic bank to establish an entrepreneur program aimed at assisting venture companies that have superior technologies and innovative ideas Fiscal 2016 Launched “MUFG FinTech Accelerator Program” April Integrated the Global Advisory Board and the Advisory Board The new Global Advisory Board consists of nine members: three from Japan, two from Europe, two from the Americas and two from Asia BTMU Hosted the third round of “Rise Up Festa” business support program Solicited business proposals in various growth fields, with four and seven applicants receiving the grand prizes and excellent prizes, respectively May Announced a capital and business alliance with Hitachi Capital Corporation MUFG, BTMU and Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance Company Limited reached an agreement with Hitachi, Ltd. and Hitachi Capital Corporation to form a capital and business alliance; MUFG announced the acquisition of a 23% equity stake in Hitachi Capital Repurchased own shares totaling approximately ¥100 billion MUFG REPORT 2016 11 Message from the CEO Demonstrating Our Strength by Advancing Decisive Reforms in an Adverse Operating Environment Among the adverse factors the banking sector is now compelled to confront are the deceleration of the global economy, a resulting rise in credit costs, and a lingering worldwide trend toward low interest rates. Against this backdrop, MUFG constantly works to reinforce its position as the reliable financial institution of choice for its customers while progressing toward a new phase of growth. Results of the First Year of exit from the European Union. In sum, in many ways instabilithe Medium-Term Business Plan ty is setting in around the world. —Progressing with Structural Reforms and Facing New Challenges Against this backdrop, the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group (MUFG) launched a new medium-term business plan in In 2015, the global economy was significantly affected by the April 2015 in conjunction with the 10th anniversary of abrupt slowing of once-burgeoning investment-backed its establishment. growth in the Chinese economy and the end of radical monetary easing policies of the United States. These two factors Centered on the theme “Evolution and reform to achieve had been powering the drive to get the economy back on sustainable growth for MUFG,” the plan was formulated on track since its derailment into worldwide recession in the the assumption of various factors affecting our future operwake of the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy in 2008. ating environment. Among these assumptions are the following: • In Japan, the working population will rapidly decrease due With the waning of these driving forces, however, economic to a graying society and a declining birth rate. deceleration has been spreading throughout emerging • The composition of businesses and industries will change nations, and a fall in oil and mineral prices has led to ecoover time. nomic deterioration in resource-exporter countries, with • Under “Abenomics,” an economic stimulus package that market conditions becoming increasingly volatile. Moreover, has entered its second stage under the initiative of the curthe rise of the so-called “Islamic State” and Syrian refugee rent Abe administration, domestic business sectors will see crisis are posing serious geopolitical and social threats to structural reforms. European stability. Meanwhile, in June 2016, the people of • Overseas, although the U.S. economy is improving, Europe the United Kingdom voted in favor of “Brexit,” approving the will face lingering political and economic issues, while the 12 MUFG REPORT 2016 Nobuyuki Hirano Director President & Group CEO MUFG REPORT 2016 13 Message from the CEO deceleration of economic growth in China and other Making Steady Progress, MUFG Meets emerging nations will lead to new developments that Earnings Targets in Every Business Sector require close monitoring. • Furthermore, the advancing “digital revolution” may well Taking a look at the results for the year ended March 31, 2016 evolve into a game changer that impacts industry around (Fiscal 2015), I would like to discuss progress made in our the world at a pace far faster than expected. wealth management business for retail customers in Japan. In a historic move, MUFG, along with Morgan Stanley, made Giving due consideration to such factors, we are continuing a coordinated global offering, simultaneously listing the to ensure that we remain a corporate group boasting strong three previously government-owned Japan Post Group competitiveness and capable of achieving sustainable member companies, with the total value of their shares growth over the next decade. amounting to ¥1.4 trillion. Now I will explain the results of the first year of the mediumTo pull off this major placement project, MUFG fully term business plan and challenges we confronted. employed its broking channels, creating the largest stock Outline of Medium-Term Business Plan (FY 2015-FY 2017) Our Mediumand Long-Term Vision Be the World’s Most Trusted Financial Group Basic Policy Group Business Strategies Customer Perspective / Group-Driven Approach / 1. Support wealth accumulation and stimulation of consumption Evolution and reform to achieve sustainable growth for individuals 2. Contribute to growth of SMEs Contribute to the revitalization of the Japanese 3. Reform the global CIB*2 business model 1 economy and strengthen the business foundations in Japan to support steady growth 4. Evolve sales and trading operations 5. Develop global asset management and investor services operations Enhance and expand global businesses as 2 a driving force for growth 6. Further reinforce transaction banking operations 7. Strengthen commercial banking platforms in Asia and Productivity Improvements the United States 3 Upgrade and reform our business model and explore new business areas and customer segments Administrative Practice and Business Foundation Strategies Maintain a strong capital base and improve ROE 4 with sophisticated financial and capital management 1. Enhance Group administration practices and integrated risk management 2. Strengthen and streamline the Group business platform Build administration practices appropriate for 3. Upgrade Group financial and capital management 5 a G-SIB*1 4. Promote MUFG global-based corporate communication *1 G-SIB: Global Systemically Important Bank *2 CIB: Corporate Investment Banking 14 MUFG REPORT 2016 subscription it has offered since launching a securities joint Meanwhile, the global banking business has seen deceleraventure with Morgan Stanley. In the process, we strove to tion in growth, particularly in Asia, amid the slowing of cultivate an even broader investor base and, to this end, growth in economies worldwide. However, our steady efforts focused on winning customers who have not used securito develop and upgrade our business foundation made ties-related services by fully leveraging our customer conprogress. We appointed Mr. Stephen Cummings as BTMU’s tacts at bank counters. This, in turn, helped facilitate a shift CEO for the United States (U.S. CEO). Under his leadership, in an ongoing customer trend from savings to investment. BTMU hired experienced senior employees in the United Our efforts have thus yielded a new securities business States and integrated key management personnel at MUFG model that only MUFG is capable of operating. Union Bank, N.A. (Union Bank), a local Group subsidiary based on the West Coast, and BTMU’s U.S. branch network. In the domestic corporate banking business, loans increased steadily. Also, we have seen significant results in asset manIn Asia, the Thailand-based Bank of Ayudhya Public agement services for corporate customers with abundant Company Limited, which we acquired in 2013, and Vietnam cash reserves and the real estate brokerage business, which Joint Stock Commercial Bank for Industry and Trade entails the collaboration of banking and trust bank units to (VietinBank), an equity-method affiliate, recorded firm perfortake the advantage of the burgeoning market environment. mances. In April 2016, we acquired a 20% equity stake in We became the industry leader in terms of M&A advisory Security Bank Corporation, the fifth-largest private bank in service for domestic and cross-border deals and bond the Philippines, where economic growth has been remarkunderwriting service in Japan. We also ranked second in able. In these ways, we stepped up initiatives to seize growth equity underwriting. At the same time, we were able to opportunities arising from burgeoning Asian economies. secure such robust ancillary business as loans and foreign exchange, suggesting that our unique business model bring In the global markets business, we have seen instability and us huge advantages. the tightening of relevant regulations, which have prompted restructuring and downsizing among some major global In May 2016, MUFG agreed to form a strategic capital and financial institutions. Nevertheless, collaborative efforts business alliance with Hitachi Capital Corporation (HC). With between MUFG’s banking and securities units yielded favorMUFG acquiring a 23% equity stake in HC from its parent, able results. Specifically, our sales and trading (S&T) operaHitachi, Ltd. Together, Hitachi, HC, MUFG, The Bank of Tokyotions, backed by customer flows, recorded firm results in Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (BTMU), and Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Japan and overseas. In our Asset Liability Management Finance Company Limited (MUL), will work to strengthen the (ALM) operations, we began to place a greater emphasis on operations of HC and MUL while establishing a comprehenforeign-currency-denominated assets in response to lower sive financing platform capable of supporting the social interest rates on the yen. By doing so, we were able to post infrastructure business in Japan and its expansion overseas. sufficient valuation gains while securing profit in excess of In addition, HC and MUL plan to initiate discussions aimed at initial forecasts, although it was down year on year. We are stepping up their partnerships, with an eye to the possibility also steadily moving toward the upcoming integration of our of business integration. MUFG REPORT 2016 15 Message from the CEO Digital Strategies regulations (RegTech), the application of blockchain technology to enhance trade and settlement infrastructures, In line with its digital strategies, MUFG’s Digital Innovation and the significant automation of back-office work. In Division is charged with the R&D of new digital financing other words, financial business as we know it today can technologies and business models on an across-thebe changed significantly by new technologies. board basis for a range of Group companies engaged in the banking, trust, and securities businesses. Overseas, On the other hand, increased digitization is bringing with our representatives in Silicon Valley, New York, and it serious cybersecurity problems. In February 2016, for Singapore support a global network that enables us to example, a fraudulent money transfer perpetrated against swiftly introduce cutting-edge technologies and busithe Bangladesh Central Bank sent a wake-up call to banknesses and make investment decisions. In addition, we ers around the world regarding the dire threat of cyber have launched the MUFG FinTech Accelerator Program theft. MUFG is not immune to the danger of such an aimed at nurturing FinTech entrepreneurs, and we host attack. Therefore, we are taking lessons from our overseas “hackathon” events. These and other proactive initiatives counterparts and continuously updating our security are expected to bring future benefits, for example, measures to secure our ability to counter every new allowing lower-cost cross-border bank transfers and an maneuver that cyber attackers may make. We are also AI-based investment advisory service. Furthermore, techaware of the importance of relevant international publicnological breakthroughs may enable the drastic streamlinprivate initiatives. ing of processes to ensure compliance with complicated S&T business, consolidating our banking and securities units, expanded our global network in specific areas, including scheduled for fiscal 2016 or later. hedge funds and private equity, through such means as acquiring a business from the Switzerland-based UBS Group In the asset management and investor services business, we AG. As a result, MUFG is now ranked among the top ten firms established Mitsubishi UFJ Kokusai Asset Management Co., worldwide in terms of the value of fund assets under adminLtd. in July 2015 through the merger of Mitsubishi UFJ Asset istration in these fields. Management Co., Ltd. and KOKUSAI Asset Management Co., Ltd. This merger was intended to reinforce our investment In fiscal 2015, we faced severe conditions in the second half, management structure. Bringing together the strengths of thus posting a year-on-year decrease in profit. However, the two merged companies, which lie in product developthanks to the success of the aforementioned initiatives, we ment and sales channels, the new company will be even were able to meet our target for profit attributable to sharequicker to create and deliver products finely tuned to cusholders, set at ¥950 billion, as announced at the beginning tomer needs. In the field of investor services, we continually of the fiscal year. 16 MUFG REPORT 2016 Addressing Three Adverse Factors and each market region as well as local laws and regulations, Assuring Secure Global Governance while while ensuring that an integrated approach is maintained on Disseminating a Corporate Culture that a global basis. In sum, we need a flexible yet solid goverValues Principles nance system. The past has shown us that a worldwide financial crisis can force even prominent global financial Now, let me shift our sights to some of the challenges congroups to downsize or even withdraw from a given market fronting us. when stress reveals governance-related vulnerabilities. We cannot fail to learn from their experience. First, we must address external adverse factors affecting the operating environment. As I mentioned above, the deceleraMUFG has a number of measures in place to realize solid tion of the global economy and a resulting rise in credit governance at both the local and global levels. For example, costs, as well as a lingering worldwide trend toward low our U.S. Risk Committee supervises overall risk management interest rates—and in some cases, negative interest rates— activities undertaken with regard to our U.S. operations, are together posing difficult challenges. MUFG has enjoyed reporting to MUFG’s Risk Committee, which itself reports to steady growth in the past several years under a policy of the Board of Directors. The creation of an effective internal maintaining a strong domestic base while seeking out control system capable of governing wide geographical growth opportunities overseas. However, this growth can be regions and business areas is challenging. We believe that stalled by economic deceleration overseas, especially in what matters most is management’s determination to keep Asia—our second “home market.” Also, net credit costs that our organizational structure simple and not tolerate the exishad been benefits due to a reversal of the provision for credit tence of blind spots. To that end, we must maintain focus on losses in the past few years have become a factor that eats our core businesses and market regions. into profit, even though the current net credit cost ratio is still lower than the average for the past 10 years and has Third, we recognize that compliance and corporate culture remained low for some time. In fiscal 2015, we saw an are becoming ever more important to our business. Since upsurge in credit costs, especially in the U.S. petroleum the worldwide recession, financial institutions have been exploration and production sector, due to a steep decline in embroiled in a series of enforcement actions and legal oil gas prices, in addition to rating downgrades for some scandals. These incidents include serious LIBOR violations, major borrowers. Above all, the central-bank driven negative the manipulation of exchange rates, the inappropriate marinterest rate policy is putting downward pressure on net keting of securitized paper, sanctions and money laundering, interest income. As the positive impact of this policy on the and assisting in tax evasion. As a result, the moral bearings economy is not yet clear, a sense of uncertainty about the of financial institutions and their employees have come economic outlook is engendering caution about making under scrutiny. new investments in the household and corporate sectors, significantly affecting the operation of financial institutions. Financial institutions have also made significant expenditures to resolve these liabilities and to strengthen their comSecond, we are striving to secure solid global governance. pliance programs. As regulations vary by country, Our operations presently encompass broad geographical conducting business beyond borders requires that we painsareas, with more than 140,000 employees working in approxtakingly ensure compliance with multiple sets of rules for imately 50 countries around the world. Therefore, our govermultiple countries. This is a heavy burden on management, nance system needs to be tailored to the characteristics of but there must be no deficiency in legal compliance. MUFG REPORT 2016 17 Message from the CEO Accordingly, MUFG’s management has made ensuring compliance in global business a key internal control issue. Even when there are no concrete rules for a specific business field, we will not tolerate actions that go against our principles. To prevent illegal or unethical actions, we must have a corporate culture that discourages any motivation to carry out such actions. Discussions at recent Board of Director meetings have focused on the issue of our corporate culture. MUFG’s management, including me, will disseminate a clear message to raise the compliance awareness of all employees. At the same time, we will remain attentive to problems perceived by frontline colleagues while persistently working to resolve such problems. Results of Our Corporate Governance Reforms and Future Initiatives We are relentlessly striving to improve our corporate governance, clarifying the roles of the Board of Directors and securing competent and diverse individuals as our outside directors, with each director, and the management team as a whole, strongly committed to this pursuit. Having shifted its governance structure from a conventional Japanese system to a “company with committees” system in June 2015, MUFG has until now been striving to build an even more sophisticated governance system. When it comes to governance systems, I adhere to the principle of substance over form. Even the United States, where many corporations have been in the vanguard of corporate governance systems, saw a case of major corporate accounting misconduct in the early 2000s. This was followed by the global financial crisis, one of the causes of which is a financial institution’s failure to implement solid governance. Obviously, adherence to “form” doesn’t guarantee “effectiveness.” 18 MUFG REPORT 2016 MUFG formed a dedicated Board Governance Committee. Last, we are aware of the importance of communicating Over the course of a year, this committee was able to estabpoints raised at the Board of Directors meetings with each lish the current governance system, and we are continually business division and Group operating company. Securing working to make improvements to this system. such smooth communication across the board is key to creating new value, which will, in turn, be delivered to our stakeWe believe that a solid governance system requires: 1) holders, including our customers. I am serving concurrently defined roles for the Board of Directors, 2) the provision of as a director at Morgan Stanley, and I’ve seen remarkable resources necessary to facilitate active discussions at the progress in that company’s efforts to improve corporate Board of Directors meetings, and 3) the clear awareness and governance over the past several years. We will remain quick commitment of each director and management team to to incorporate their best practices to improve our own. effective corporate governance. Committed to Securing Sustainable The Board of Directors’ role is to formulate basic strategies, Growth in an Evolving Business establish internal control systems, appoint key personnel, Environment and monitor business execution. We believe that all these functions should be reinforced by competent and diverse Facing arduous conditions, we will demonoutside directors. With this in mind, our outside directors strate our true strength by accelerating include individuals who have held CEO or CFO positions in evolution and reforms, holding strong against different sectors, an expert in international corporate three adverse factors. accounting, a lawyer who is well versed in governance issues, and a university professor specializing in finance. Amid a drastically changing management environment, our Each of these individuals contributes to discussions based basic strategy of maintaining a strong domestic franchise on experience and knowledge. In addition, our Outside while seeking growth opportunities overseas remains Director Meeting, chaired by Mr. Tsutomu Okuda, convenes unchanged. To overcome current adversities, we will acceladditional sessions to deliberate on such important manageerate our initiatives to achieve evolution and reforms by ment issues as capital policy. In these ways, we have been focusing on the customer perspective, taking a Groupstriving to better reflect the opinions of outside directors driven approach, and making productivity improvements in in management. line with the current medium-term business plan. We grow when we are able to recognize the opportunity offered by Looking ahead, we will facilitate outside directors’ underchange, however unfavorable it may first seem. It is often standing of MUFG operations by, for example, hosting an said that trials reveal your true strength. We believe that now off-site meeting to discuss strategies. We will also better use is the time to do our utmost and prove our true strength. our succession plans to nurture the next generation of management personnel. MUFG REPORT 2016 19 Message from the CEO Accordingly, I’ll explain specific initiatives for growth by preUnion Bank, based on the U.S. West Coast. Specifically, we vailing in the face of the three main adverse factors before invested in VietinBank (Vietnam), Bank of Ayudhya (Thailand), us. We have formulated these initiatives for “accelerating and Security Bank (the Philippines). The home countries of evolution”—an expression purposefully used in the mediumthese three banks are now developing economic ties with term business plan. Japan and boast burgeoning growth potentials. We intend to strategically seize growth opportunities resulting from rising First, we are committed to tackling the impact of the deceldomestic demand in these countries. By bringing to bear eration of growth in economies around the world, which has our knowledge, financing techniques, and management led to the slowing of growth in our existing overseas operamethodologies to help these companies enhance their cortions. Our overseas business consists of three core segporate value, we will step up mutually beneficial collaboraments: corporate finance, commercial banking (retail and tion and eventually develop an MUFG version of the SME business), and asset management / investors services trans-pacific partnership. Since the current showings of business. We pursue these core businesses with due considthese Asian partner banks are favorable, we are confident eration given to the geographical distribution of our global that they will become significant contributors to our efforts network encompassing Asia, the Americas, and Europe. to overcome the adverse factors. As for corporate finance, we have been engaging in this In addition, our existing operations related to corporate business since we began to expand overseas. Today, virtually finance, along with Union Bank, are facing the challenge of all our international footholds, in approximately 50 countries enhancing top-line revenues while reining in rising expenses, around the globe, provide this service. Although we began including those necessary to secure responsiveness to new by serving mainly Japanese companies, our current customregulations. To resolve this challenge, Union Bank and BTMU er portfolio consists mainly of major foreign companies, in integrated their U.S. branches, while in Europe BTMU branchfact, they now account for around 70%. In Asia, growth in es are being merged into the Dutch subsidiary. BTMU also this field has slowed down due to shrinking trade and investplans to establish an administrative center in Manila, the ment, despite initial expectations. But our operations in the Philippines, to consolidate the back-office operations of its United States and Europe have seen progress in line with Asian offices. In these ways, we are implementing a variety projections. Breaking away from a business model that is of reform measures. overly dependent on lending, we will pursue a shift to a cross-selling business structure involving transaction bankAs for the asset management business, we are aspiring to ing, including cash management; market products; and capexpand these operations in the face of growing wealth accuital market transactions, thereby enhancing RORA. mulation in terms of both household and corporate savings despite the deceleration of growth in economies around the As for commercial banking, we began entering ASEAN world and anxieties over long-term stagnation. In addition, nations over the past several years, successfully expanding the international financial industry is now seeing a growing an overseas network that had previously consisted only of presence of asset management companies, which have 20 MUFG REPORT 2016 been picking up business as banks and securities firms downsizing of its domestic workforce, looking to decrease under tighter regulations have gradually lost financing brothe number of career track employees by 3,500 (or approxikerage abilities. Of course, in the field of pension and investmately 21.1%) over the next 10 years. ment trusts, MUFG is one of the largest players in Japan. Overseas, however, we’ve not been fully venturing beyond The second initiative is enhancing risk-return management. our alliance with equity-method affiliates, such as the We are striving to increase “hybrid loans” —with higher marUK-based Aberdeen and the Australia-based AMP. We will gins and a limited range of eligible borrowers—, certain prostep up our efforts to boost revenues from commission fees portions of which are recognized by rating agencies as in this business, with an eye to diversifying our profit base. capital. Simultaneously, by distributing financial products backed by these loans, we will earn fees while satisfying the Second, we are determined to not allow rising credit costs to unmet needs of investors favoring higher returns. We also undermine our operations. Although our domestic business are discussing the revisions of service fees, which had been is not expected to suffer from an immediate rise in credit set by taking deposit revenues for granted. costs, we are highly vigilant to cyclical changes in the environment and the possibilities of bubble economies resulting The third initiative is reducing our strategic equity holdings. from radical monetary-easing policies across the globe. In response to the enactment of Japan’s Corporate Overseas, we will reduce our total credit exposures for the Governance Code and from the perspective of risk mitigaresource and energy sectors while abstaining from credit tion, we began divesting such stocks since last year. So far, concentration in other cyclical industrial segments. our strategically held stocks have sold at a level exceeding Simultaneously, we will enhance our responsiveness to drasour projections. We will continue to sell these stocks in a systic changes in the market environment. tematic manner while consulting with our corporate clients to gain their understanding. Third, we are implementing multiple countermeasures against the effect of the negative interest rate policy. We are In addition, in June 2016, younger business leaders at MUFG also striving to leverage the advantageous aspects of this launched an intersectional task force aimed at deliberating policy through the stimulation of potential funding demand measures to improve productivity. Without exceptions, the and the development of investment products. To these task force is actively scrutinizing every aspect of our operaends, we are implementing three initiatives, as follows. tions, ranging from corporate functions and distribution channels to the back office, with an eye toward remaining The first initiative is curbing expenses while improving proon-trend with digitization of the industry. ductivity. For example, we have reviewed overlaps of functions across our organization. As I mentioned previously, we Meanwhile, Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS Co., Ltd recorded a loss in are integrating BTMU’s overseas banking footprints while the first half of fiscal 2015. This was mainly attributable to the integrating S&T business currently conducted separately by posting of additional allowance for the refunding of interest banking and securities entities. BTMU is also pursuing the overcharges and the reversal of deferred tax assets due to a MUFG REPORT 2016 21 Message from the CEO downward revision in future taxable income resulting from key leadership positions?” In 2016, BTMU appointed two the formulation of system upgrade plans. Currently, the female corporate executive officers to supervise its overseas renewal of systems is positioned as a key project affecting operations, while Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking the company’s future performance, which had been operatCorporation (MUTB) appointed one female corporate execuing three separate systems for three separate card brands— tive officer for domestic operations. At BTMU, the number of an unfavorable situation requiring emergency stopgap domestic employees taking maternity or childcare leave solutions over the years. By integrating these systems into a reached 1,500 (or approximately 9.7% of female colleagues), single sophisticated system, this project is expected to realreflecting efforts to help employees strike an optimal workize more cost-competitive operations. As a core MUFG sublife balance. BTMU has 47 women in general manager or sidiary in the field of payment services, Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS branch manager positions. However, they are mainly in our will contribute to Group performance through the developretail banking business. There is much more to be done ment of cutting-edge digital payment and new B-to-B-to-C regarding gender equality. We will strive to assist women businesses in collaboration with BTMU. with their career development in a broader range of business fields. Nurturing Globally Capable Human Resources by Imbuing All Employees with At BTMU and MUTB, we also have raised the number of corMUFG Values and Culture porate executive officers hired overseas to 11. Not being content with the current status, we will accelerate our diversity Last, I would like to comment on the nurturing and promoinitiatives by, for example, appointing a foreign national as tion of our human resources. a candidate for independent director of our board in the near future. I believe that for a financial business, its human resources are its most essential resources. Although the advance of We are also aware of the importance of nurturing globally digitization may change the nature of the roles that human capable human resources. We launched the Global Leaders’ beings play in business, I am pretty sure that machines will Forum, an across-the-board initiative aimed at nurturing the never be able to take over such functions as strategic decinext generation of MUFG leaders; and expanded the scope sion-making, leadership, and building bonds of trust with of the forum’s activities to encompass the entire Group. customers. Moreover, in step with the expansion of our busiAlthough I’ve been impressed by participants’ growing leadness fields and geographical areas of operations, nurturing ership competencies every time I attend a forum to comthe next generation of leaders and employees is becoming ment on their final reports, I have repeatedly communicated an issue of critical importance. the importance of spreading MUFG values and culture. Leaders are expected to seize every opportunity to dissemiWhen it comes to nurturing human resources, diversity will nate clear messages about the Group’s mission, vision, and be key to securing competence. Although female colleagues values among employees through the various channels currently account for nearly half of MUFG’s workforce in available to them while ensuring that the principles they Japan, I often find myself questioning the barriers that conshare are put into practice. As always, I’m fully committed to tinue to hinder them in realizing their full potential. More communicating this message, as are all other top managethan 40,000 employees work at overseas Group companies, ment personnel. but I would ask, “How many of them have been promoted to 22 MUFG REPORT 2016 In Conclusion For fiscal 2016, we have set our target for profit attributable to shareholders at ¥850 billion. This figure is down ¥100 billion compared with fiscal 2015. Although we will post a decrease in annual profit for the second consecutive year, we believe that, by meeting adversity head on, MUFG will be able to demonstrate its true strength. Now is the time for decisively taking a step forward, taking on new challenges and proving ourselves a corporate group worthy of the trust of our stakeholders. With all Group employees committed to this endeavor and with a shared sense of urgency, in fiscal 2016 MUFG will rally its strengths to execute the initiatives discussed above, blazing a path toward fiscal 2017, the final year of the current medium-term business plan. We sincerely ask for your continued understanding and support. July 2016 Nobuyuki Hirano Director President & Group CEO MUFG REPORT 2016 23 Message from the CFO July 2016 Muneaki Tokunari Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, Group CFO Fiscal 2015 Business Results Credit costs amounted to ¥255.1 billion, reflecting increased costs attributable to a fall in resource and energy prices and In fiscal year 2015, which ended March 31, 2016, the yen conthe downgrade of ratings for some major clients. tinued to appreciate even as the low interest rate environment was prolonged. In the second half of the fiscal year, Earnings from equity method investees increased, thanks to factors such as the deceleration of growth in China and the favorable performance of Morgan Stanley, our strategic other emerging economies and the interest rate hike in the partner in the United States. United States led to a volatile market environment. Loans and deposit revenues affected by these circumstances Taking all this data into account, profit attributable to owners decreased in both Japan and the rest of the world, while fee of the parent totaled ¥951.4 billion, which represents an and commission income increased. Gross profits were down approximately 8% year-on-year decrease but slightly approximately 2% year on year to ¥4,143.2 billion. exceeds the previously announced target of ¥950.0 billion. (For more details, refer to the “Financial Review for Fiscal 2015” on page 89.) Overall expenses stayed virtually unchanged compared with the previous fiscal year, thanks to the success of our cost In the current medium-term business plan, MUFG is aiming control efforts, which offset an increase in expenses associto achieve financial targets for the four metrics presented ated with measures implemented to respond to global finanbelow, representing growth, profitability, and financial cial regulations. strength. Although the operating environment surrounding MUFG has been getting harsher since the announcement of As a result, net business profits decreased approximately 5% the medium-term business plan a year ago, we will continue year on year to ¥1,557.9 billion. to strive to achieve these targets by the end of the final year of the plan. Financial Targets in the Medium-Term Business Plan Metrics FY 2014 (Results) FY 2017 (Targets) FY 2015 (Results) Increase 15% or more ¥68.51 Growth EPS (Yen) ¥73.22 from FY 2014 (6%) from FY 2014 ROE (MUFG definition)*1 8.74% Between 8.5%–9.0% 7.63% Profitability Expenses ratio 61.1% Approx. 60% 62.3% Common Equity Tier1 Financial Strength Capital Ratio 12.3% 9.5% or above 12.1% (Full implementation)*2 *1 For details on calculation methods, please also see descriptions on ROE featured in “Financial Highlights” on page 6. *2 Calculated on the basis of regulations applied at the end of March 2019 24 MUFG REPORT 2016 Forecasts of Fiscal 2016 Operating Impact of Negative Interest Rates Environment and Countermeasures Due to the negative interest rate policy introduced by the Three Adverse Factors Bank of Japan in February 2016, we are seeing downward pressure on our interest income in Japan. Having embarked on the year ending March 31, 2017, we To address the situation, our Retail Banking Business Group have identified three adverse factors, namely, the deceleraand Asset Management / Investor Services Business Group tion of growth in the global economy, credit costs, and are collaborating to facilitate a shift of financial products a prolonged global environment of low interest rates, all of owned by our customers from savings to investment which place burdens on the operations of financial institutions. through initiatives such as enhancing our lineup of investment products. To overcome these factors, MUFG will demonstrate the comprehensive strengths of the MUFG Group as much as possiAt the same time, we are promoting housing loans and ble by providing our customers with truly valuable services apartment loans in response to growing demand in these and solutions to meet their needs. We are confident that by markets due to the lower interest rates. doing so, we can expand transactions while securing more diverse revenue sources. Regarding large deposits, we have set limits on balances in yen banking accounts for inter-bank settlement services In addition, we will progressively implement a number of held by overseas financial institutions and have begun other initiatives aimed at curbing costs and improving procharging additional fees on over-limit balances. ductivity while maintaining stringent credit risk management. Details of the initiatives follow. We are actively exploring the potential loan demand of domestic corporate customers by leveraging favorable Status of Credit Costs aspects of the low-interest-rate policy. We are also monitoring the balances of large deposits and developing more Credit costs currently account for around 0.2% of total loan sophisticated methods to manage the comprehensive profbalances, indicating that overall asset quality is strong. itability of customer transactions. The credit balance in energyand resource-related sectors Improving Productivity totaled ¥10.4 trillion at the end of fiscal year 2015. After deducting exposures backed by collateral and guarantees To offset a decrease of profits due to the aforementioned pledged by such institutions as the Export Credit Agency, three adverse factors, it is essential to improve productivity the credit balance amounts to ¥6.9 trillion. More than 90% of and further curb costs. this amount consists of exposures to normal borrowers. Non-performing loans are only approximately ¥120 billion, With this in mind, we are implementing Groupwide initia90% of which has already been secured by collateral. tives, including the reorganization of our network in the Looking ahead, we will implement more stringent credit risk Americas and Europe and the integration of our sales & management. trading business that the commercial bank and securities company are currently undertaking to streamline their over(For more details, refer to descriptions of the credit balance of resource-related clients featured in the “Financial Review for Fiscal 2015” on page 95.) lapping functions. In addition, we will steadily implement measures aimed at the appropriate allocation of human resources, including downsizing the number of career-track employees, to effectively use talent within the Group and Total credit costs*1 Credit cost ratio*2 improve productivity. (Billions of yen) (%) 800 1.2 600 0.9 400 0.6 200 0.3 0 0 –200 –0.3 (FY) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 *1 Consolidated. Including gains on loans written-off (Negative figure represents profits) *2 Total credit costs / loan balance as of end of each fiscal year MUFG REPORT 2016 25 Message from the CFO Capital Management Basic Policy Enhance further MUFG maintains a focus on capital management that shareholder returns appropriately balances the maintenance of solid equity capital, strategic investments for sustainable growth, and further enhancement of shareholder returns. MUFG’s Our capital management policies have been regularly Corporate and consistently discussed as one of our most imporValue tant management themes by the Board of Directors, Maintain solid Strategic investments equity capital for sustainable growth which includes a majority of non-executive directors. Maintenance of a Solid Capital Base We need to comply with these regulations while enhancing our ROE. From this point of view, it is important to create an As a Global Systemically Important Bank, MUFG is subject to optimal capital structure, which we call “the best capital the Basel III international rules that require financial institumix,” by appropriately combining Additional Tier1 Capital tions to solidify their capital base. As of March 31, 2016, (e.g., perpetual subordinated debt), Tier2 Capital (e.g., suborMUFG’s capital adequacy ratio (Common Equity Tier1 Capital dinated term debt), and TLAC-eligible senior debt. ratio), an indicator of the soundness of its capital base, was more than 11%, well exceeding the Basel III minimum requireIn fiscal year 2015, therefore, we implemented a capital raise ment of 8.5%. As such, MUFG is maintaining the adequate in multiple layers and channels as stated below. MUFG capital ratio level required by current financial regulations. became the first issuer in Japan engaged in multiple fields, and as a result, MUFG was selected to receive the awards listToday, however, relevant authorities across national bounded below in recognition of its efforts “to play pioneering roles aries are engaging in international discussions aimed at in price formation of the notes issued for the first time in the introducing new capital regulations. Moreover, regulations market and the nurturing of the investor base, as well as its on Total Loss Absorbing Capacity (TLAC) requirements are significant contributions to the development of the market.” expected to be enacted in March 2019. (For more details, refer to “Responding to Global Financial Regulation” on page 80.) Procurement Results (Total in fiscal 2015) Notes Capital Market Media Award AT1 perpetual ¥450 The first public issuance in Japan THOMSON REUTERS Bond Issuer of the Year subordinated debt billion ¥383 The first issuance for individual Tier2 subordinated debt BEST ISSUER OF 2015 billion investors in Japan CAPITAL EYE TLAC-eligible senior US$5 The first issuance by a financial holding BEST DEALS OF 2015 debt billion company in Japan Use of Capital to Strengthen Profitability investments such as M&A and require return from the investment to exceed the cost of capital within a certain period of Strategic investment with excess capital is a key driver for time after the investment. We ensure financial discipline by achieving sustainable growth, as well as organic growth periodically monitoring the result of investments and estabbased on our existing customer base and businesses. We lishing internal rules to cope with investments that missed place our priority on capital productivity in strategic return targets. Outline of Latest Investments Business Group Investees Investment Amount Notes Japanese Acquired a 23% equity stake as part of Corporate Hitachi Capital ¥91.4 billion (planned) policy of strengthening leasing and Banking social infrastructure business Fifth-largest commercial bank in the Global Banking Security Bank (the Philippines) US$792 million Philippines in terms of total assets Asset UBS’s alternative fund services business Expanding operations in the global fund Management / (Not disclosed) U.S. Private equity fund administration business administration market Investor Services 26 MUFG REPORT 2016 Further Enhancement of Shareholder Returns Toward Sustainable Growth Our basic strategy on shareholder returns is to achieve staRisk Appetite Framework ble and sustainable increases in dividends per share through the growth of our profits. MUFG has introduced a risk appetite framework to provide a common linguistic platform on which the Chief Strategy On two occasions in fiscal year 2015, we repurchased our Officer, Chief Risk Officer, and CFO, as well as their staff, can own shares, with the value of each transaction amounting to discuss business strategies and financial plans. approximately ¥100 billion each, as part of our efforts to enhance shareholder returns. This framework is designed to clarify risk appetite, which means the types and amount of risk that MUFG is willing to We will continue to work toward the enhancement of sharetake. The framework helps us better control risk while holder returns, while keeping capital ratios at an appropriate enabling us to achieve sustainable growth by pursuing as level to comply with capital regulations and maintain our ratmany business opportunities as possible. ings while taking into account the possible use of capital for (For more details, refer to “Risk Appetite Framework Management Process,” further growth. featured in “Risk Management” on page 75.) Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors Dividend per common stock Dividend payout ratio* and Information Disclosure (Yen) (%) 22 30 As the CFO of MUFG, I believe it’s important to continue constructive dialogue with stock and bond investors and to 18 25 further enhance information disclosure. For MUFG as a finan14 20 cial institution, raising capital and debt from capital markets is important in order to comply with financial regulations, 10 15 maintain our ratings, and ensure foreign currency liquidity. From this point of view, we engaged in dialogue with share0 0 (FY) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 holders and investors in fiscal year 2015 as listed below, in (Forecast) addition to the appropriate disclosure of financial informa* FY 2011 figures do not include one-time effect of negative goodwill associated tion based on Japanese and U.S. GAAP. with the application of equity method accounting on our investment in Morgan Stanley Opinions of shareholders and investors attending dialogue events are periodically reported to the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee and are shared among all management team members. We will continue to have constructive dialogue with shareholders and investors. Your continuing support will be very much appreciated. Fiscal 2015 Dialogue Counterparts Events Number of Attendees or Meetings General Meeting of Shareholders (GMOS), seminars for shareholders GMOS: Approx. 11,000 attendees Shareholders (twice a year in Tokyo, Nagoya and Osaka, respectively) Seminars: 3,404 attendees in total Individual Seminars for individual investors (Tokyo and Osaka), presentation 2,007 attendees in total Investors meetings at securities firm and security exchanges Earnings briefings, investors’ day, business strategy seminars, online Individual meetings: 592 occasions Institutional conferences following the announcement of M&A, individual meetings in (including 393 occasions with Investors Japan and overseas and conference calls overseas investors) MUFG REPORT 2016 27 Corporate Value Initiatives Our vision is to be the world’s most trusted financial group. We explain how we create value in our efforts to reach this vision. 28 MUFG REPORT 2016 Japan: Leveraging Our Comprehensive Group Strengths 30 to Satisfy Customer Needs Becoming a Top Ten Bank in the United States, 34 the World’s Economic Powerhouse Securing a Greater Presence in Asia 38 —Our Second “Home Market” 42 Initiatives Leveraging FinTech 44 Business Overview 46 • Retail Banking Business 48 • Japanese Corporate Banking Business 50 • Global Banking Business 52 • Asset Management / Investor Services Business 54 • Global Markets Business MUFG REPORT 2016 29 Corporate Value Initiatives Japan: Leveraging Our Comprehensive Group Strengths to Satisfy Customer Needs To satisfy ever more diverse and complex customer needs, MUFG is providing services employing its unique and comprehensive strengths, with its Group companies, including a commercial bank, trust bank and securities companies, acting in strategic collaboration. Asset Management Services for of satisfying diverse needs thanks to the collaborative efforts of Group companies. Individual Customers For beginners, we offer relatively low risk investment products In the retail business segment, MUFG is pursuing the longthrough such outlets as our commercial bank and trust bank. term vision of becoming the top financial group chosen by The Nippon Individual Savings Account (NISA) is handled by a wide variety of customers with a business that spans the the commercial bank, trust bank and securities companies, generations. Despite the harsh investment environment which together engage in Groupwide efforts to broaden the reflecting negative interest rates, we are convinced that our investor base. MUFG also offers a variety of products, including comprehensive strengths will be up to the task. Employing investment trusts, foreign currency deposits and insurance these strengths, we will strive to satisfy customers’ asset to assist in asset formation over the mediumand long-term. management needs. Moreover, for customers with a higher risk appetite, we have such proposals as stock investments and structured bonds Satisfying Individual Customer Needs that leverage our financial products intermediation functions. Needs for asset management services vary largely by cusThanks to these and other initiatives, the balance of NISA tomer. Some customers may be just looking for an investaccounts at MUFG totaled approximately ¥400 billion as of ment opportunity. Some may be focusing on modest yields March 31, 2016. In addition, the balance of our financial instruand stable returns. And others may be open to aggressively ments intermediary business account is also firm and stable. taking risk for the chance of high returns. MUFG is capable Asset Balance of NISA Accounts Customer Account Balances*1: Equity Investment Trusts, Insurance annuities, Financial Products Intermediation*2 왎 Financial products intermediation 왎 Insurance annuities 왎 Equity investment trusts (MUMSS) 왎 Equity investment trusts (MUTB) 왎 Equity investment trusts (BTMU) (Billions of yen) (Trillions of yen) 450 20 406.8 16.8 16.4 16.7 16.2 322.7 15 300 284.1 10 150 105.3 5 0 0 Sep. 30 /2014 Mar. 31 /2015 Sep. 30 /2015 Mar. 31 /2016 Sep. 30 /2014 Mar. 31 /2015 Sep. 30 /2015 Mar. 31 /2016 *1 Financial products intermediation balance includes referrals *2 The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (BTMU) + Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation (MUTB) + Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd.(MUMSS) (excluding PB securities) 30 MUFG REPORT 2016 Releasing New Products and Services Institute Co., Ltd., a Group R&D organization. In February 2016, MUTB released the “Asset Succession Wrap,” which MUFG is constantly developing new products and services combines the aforementioned wrap account with an asset tailored to latest customer needs. succession rider that allows a pre-designated successor to swiftly receive wrap account assets in the form of cash after In September 2015, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking going through a simple application procedure. Corporation (MUTB) began handling the wrap account* * A set of services ranging from investment management to asset manage“Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Fund Wrap.” This product ment under discretionary investment contracts in which individual customoffers various investment options optimized to customer ers entrust such financial institutions as trust banks and securities firms to needs thanks to robust investment know-how MUTB has handle investment decisions based on their specialist expertise in financial instruments acquired through the corporate pension administration and technologies of Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Investment Technology Assisting in the Simultaneous Listing of Three Toshihiro Tomita Manager, Securities Business Promotion Office, Japan Post Group Companies Retail Banking Business Promotion Division, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. In November 2015, three Japan Post Group companies, namely, Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd., Japan Post Bank Co., Ltd. and Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd. were listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. With the value of shares offered totaling ¥1.4 trillion, this unprecedented transaction consistMUFG is a unique financial group that boasts the distinctive ing of three concurrent IPOs was supported by Mitsubishi lineup of financial products, such as IPO stocks, that can be UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities (MUMSS) and Morgan purchased through its financial products intermediation Stanley. The former served as a joint global coordinator and service. Having offered stocks listed via the recent IPO projdomestic lead manager while the latter served as an overect to a number of customers who visited our branches, we seas lead manager, with the assistance of other securities are pleased that many were open to the idea of buying firms in Japan and abroad. stocks at their familiar bank counter. We are confident that the creation of this new business model is contributing to MUMSS was one of the top two bookrunners in terms of the shift from savings to investment in Japan. value of shares underwritten for domestic tranche, backed by MUFG’s Groupwide sales efforts and comprehensive strengths, including BTMU’s financial products intermediation. In addition, such Group subsidiaries as kabu.com Securities Co., Ltd., a dedicated online stock trading service company, contributed to the project. MUFG REPORT 2016 31 Corporate Value Initiatives Japan: Leveraging Our Comprehensive Group Strengths Services for Corporate Customers management strategy each corporation should choose. To provide services tailored to the needs of such corporate cusOur corporate customers, many of which are prominent tomers, MUFG is promoting a “sector-by-sector” approach. Japanese companies, are confronting ever more diverse and This business model employs MUFG’s capability to propose complex management issues while striving to devise sophisticomprehensive financial solutions backed by an array of cated strategies. To accommodate their needs for optimal soluGroup companies, each of which is equipped with expertise tions, MUFG will leverage collaborations among the Group’s in a different sector. Moreover, with the aim of satisfying the commercial bank, trust bank, securities company and leasing needs of customers in their drive to globalize, staff at MUFG’s company, as well as strategic alliances with external partners. In key domestic bases are engaging in close collaboration with these ways, MUFG will help its customers succeed. their overseas counterparts. Employing our business network in Japan and overseas, we are striving to help customers enhance their competitiveness through the proposal of Promoting a Sector-by-Sector Approach highly-value-added solutions. The operating environment surrounding major corporations varies by business sector and category as does the optimal Promoting Deal-Creating Business Model Expanding Oversea Business with Global Co-Operating Structure � � � � Global co-operation to cover the various customers’ needs Finding sector Writing Finding Providing environment sector customers’ solution BTMU & issues scenario business Overseas offices Domestic offices issues Customers MUFG groupwide operation Large Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries corporations MUTB BTMU MUSHD Japan Asia Americas Europe, etc. • Providing solutions to customers’ management issues by sector • Providing solutions to various customers’ business issues globally with coapproach (Finding M&A deals to enlarge value chain, matching customoperation by domestic and global offices ers’ global CRE*1 supply-demand along with their strategies, etc. * The corporate real estate (CRE) strategy aims to ensure the optimal handling of CRE and encompasses utilization, replacement and off-balance-sheet strategies for such assets. Fiscal 2015 Achievements cross-border M&A as well as global IPO deals, thanks to synergies attributable to the strategic alliance with In the field of investment banking, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Morgan Stanley. Stanley Securities boasts an industry-leading track record in League Table (April 2015 – March 2016) Japanese Domestic Debt*1 Japan Equity and Equity-Linked*2 M&A Advisory ranking based on Rank Value*3 Share Share Rank value Ranking Securities firm Ranking Securities firm Ranking Financial advisor (Billions of (%) (%) yen) 1 Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley 26.8 1 Nomura 32.7 1 Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley 9,828.1 2 Nomura Securities 17.5 2 Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley 15.6 2 Nomura 6,882.2 3 Mizuho Securities 17.2 3 Mizuho Financial Group 14.5 3 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group 5,395.3 4 SMBC Nikko Securities 16.8 4 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group 13.2 4 Goldman Sachs & Co. 4,763.0 5 Daiwa Securities 15.8 5 Daiwa Securities Group 10.1 5 Citi 4,252.2 6 Tokai Tokyo Securities 2.0 6 Goldman Sachs & Co. 4.3 6 Rothschild 3,705.4 7 Goldman Sachs Japan 1.0 7 JPMorgan 4.0 7 Mizuho Financial Group 3,464.8 8 Merrill Lynch Japan Securities 0.8 8 UBS 1.1 8 JPMorgan 3,023.0 9 Shinkin Securities 0.5 9 Bank of America Merrill Lynch 0.8 9 Bank of America Merrill Lynch 2,755.1 10 Citigroup Global Markets Japan 0.4 10 Citi 0.5 10 Evercore Partners 1,812.8 *1. Source: Thomson Reuters, Thomson Reuters DealWatch (data compiled by Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley) Includes Japanese Straight Bonds, Ex-FILP Agency Bonds (including Expressway company’s Bonds) and Municipal Bonds Related. Based on lead manager’s credit *2. Source: Thomson Reuters (data compiled by Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley) Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley includes domestic offerings of Japanese issuers underwritten by Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities as well as global offerings of Japanese issuers underwritten by Morgan Stanley. Based on underwriting amount *3. Source: Thomson Reuters (data compiled by Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley) Any Japanese involvement announced including property acquisitions. Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley includes deals advised by Morgan Stanley 32 MUFG REPORT 2016 to Satisfy Customer Needs Strategic Capital and Business Alliance with Hitachi Growing Infrastructure Demand around the World Capital Power: ¥990 trillion In May 2016, MUFG, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance Company Limited (MUL) Estimated total investment agreed with Hitachi, Ltd. and Hitachi Capital Corporation amount for infrastructure: Airports and Water: ¥4,510 trillion on a global basis ports: (HC) to form a capital and business alliance.* ¥2,486 trillion (¥180 trillion/year; ¥176 trillion from 2005 to 2030) * On the premise that the alliance is approved by relevant authorities and terms and conditions stipulated in the alliance agreement are met; Plans Railroads and call for initiating the alliance in August 2016. roads: ¥858 trillion Today, international competition over orders for new infrastructure development projects is intensifying in markets around the world. When taking on large and Rapid Growth in the Market for Infrastructure Financing Solutions long-term projects, which often require the incorporation of financing packages, developers are increasingly in (Trillions of yen) CAGR 11.1% 39 40 need of optimal solutions for funding infrastructure devel34 32 33 opment. In these circumstances, financial institutions 30 25 23 must collaborate with developers to create synergies by 20 bringing together the former’s finance arrangement expertise and the latter’s technologies. 10 0 (FY) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Against this backdrop, to secure the business growth and enterprise value improvement of both parties, MUL and Transaction Structure HC have agreed to pursue specific discussions as follows: (i) the reinforcement of existing business by leveraging 2. Business alliance in social infrastructure each other’s business franchise, (ii) the creation of new business opportunities by applying both parties’ knowhow and network, and (iii) the development of new soluHitachi MUFG tions by combining their strengths. In addition, with the aim of accommodating infrastructure sector needs for 33.4% 23.4% financing solutions, the five companies are scheduled to 23.0% advance consultations with an eye to the embodiment of 4.2% the open financial platform run mainly by MUL and HC. Mitsubishi UFJ Lease Hitachi Capital & Finance 3.0% 1. Business alliance in leasing business Build an open financial platform to support Japanese infrastructure industry Improve global competitiveness of Japanese infrastructure industry MUFG REPORT 2016 33 How We Create Sustainable Value Becoming a Top Ten Bank in the United States, the World’s Economic Powerhouse Since the financial crisis and economic stagnation triggered by the Lehman Brothers’ bankruptcy in 2008, the U.S. economy has regained strength and continues to play a leading role on the global economic and financial fronts. The Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group (MUFG), which can trace its U.S. heritage in San Francisco back to the 1860s and, in New York, the 1880s, has long pursued a steady course of expansion in this market. Today, MUFG’s U.S. operations comprise a range of services—from retail banking for individuals and small businesses, to corporate banking for major companies—and they constitute one of the main business pillars bolstering the Group’s corporate foundation globally. Tailored Retail and Commercial Banking the locally based Southern California First National Bank in 1975, and Union Bank in 1988, to expand its scope of operaServices for Local Individuals and tions in the local business community. Small and Medium-Sized Companies on the West Coast In 1996, in conjunction with the merger of The Mitsubishi Bank and The Bank of Tokyo, The Bank of California, which The foundations of MUFG Union Bank, N.A. in the U.S. were was a subsidiary of Mitsubishi Bank, merged with Union laid by three companies: The Bank of California, established Bank, thereby forming Union Bank of California. In 2008, in 1864; Union Bank, established in 1918; and The Bank of Union Bank of California became a wholly owned subsidiary Tokyo California, established by The Bank of Tokyo, and local of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (BTMU) and went on to Japanese interests in 1952. When it first opened its doors, the promote the integration of Group operations in the U.S. latter’s customer base was limited somewhat to Japanese Following consolidation with the branch-related operations companies and individual customers from the local Japanese of BTMU, in July 2014 it was renamed MUFG Union Bank. community. However, The Bank of Tokyo California acquired The Bank of California 1864: 1984: Established Acquired by Mitsubishi Bank 2014: Integrated operations in the U.S. and Union Bank 1996: 2008: renamed 1918: Formed Union Bank Became a wholly MUFG Union Established of California, owned subsidiary of Bank 1988: through merger BTMU and renamed The Bank of Union Bank Acquired Union Bank Tokyo and renamed Union Bank California (1886: Launched the San 1952: 1975: Francisco Representative Established Acquired Southern California First National Bank Office of Yokohama and renamed California First Bank Specie Bank) Established in 1864 The Bank of California’s Contributions to Celebrated the 150th anniversary in 2014 Japan’s development In 1872, The Bank of California signed an agreement with Japan’s Meiji regime regarding the advance of pure gold needed to mint coins. 34 MUFG REPORT 2016 Highlights for the Americas Business*1 Net Operating Profit Average Loan Balance Average Deposit Balance Left: Based on local currency*2 Left: Based on local currency*2 Left: Based on local currency*2 Right: Based on exchange rates at fiscal year-end*3 Right: Based on exchange rates at fiscal year-end*3 Right: Based on exchange rates at fiscal year-end*3 (Billions of yen) (Trillions of yen) (Trillions of yen) 250 20 20 232.7 233.1 231.5 218.2 220.6 17.8 18.0 17.0 16.3 200 194.8 15.4 15.6 15 14.3 15 14.5 13.9 12.9 12.5 150 11.4 10 10 100 5 5 50 0 0 0 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 * 1 Operations handled by the Global Banking Business Group (consolidated basis of MUFG) *2 Calculated based on foreign exchange rate projections adopted when devising the medium-term business plan (¥115/US$) *3 Calculated based on the actual foreign exchange rates as of the close of each fiscal year Meeting the Financial Needs of Large In addition, BTMU is currently working to strengthen its securities-related operations, such as corporate bond underwritCorporate Customers Who Pursue ing, as well as its lending operations. In April 2016, BTMU, its Regional Expansion Worldwide subsidiary MUFG Securities Americas and MUFG Union Bank integrated some financial products operations in order to be MUFG’s East Coast operations targeting major corporate able to provide one-stop banking and securities services. customers date back to 1880 when Yokohama Specie Bank, Offering both lending and corporate bonds—instruments Ltd. opened a New York representative office. Since then, BTMU that previously had been obtainable only from separate has steadily expanded its businesses in the Americas with a conventional banks—the Group strives to meet a wide varifocus on serving such corporate customers as Japanese comety of needs for financial products and services, becoming panies and other global enterprises. Today, BTMU is among a comprehensive debt house. the top listed banks in the league tables for syndicated loans and project finance and has gained significant recognition Our Position in the Americas as a leading investment bank. In terms of project finance (arranger ranking) No. 1 In terms of syndicated loans (bookrunner ranking) No. 6 The U.S. Business Network of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and MUFG Union Bank MUFG Union Bank 370 locations Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ 11 locations (as of March 31, 2016) Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ 쎲 Branch 왖 Office MUFG Union Bank 쎲 Branch 왖 Office * The business network in the Americas includes 12 bases in the United States, four bases in Canada and 11 bases in Latin America. MUFG REPORT 2016 35 How We Create Sustainable Value / Becoming a Top Ten Bank in the United States, Securing Our Position among the Top Hiring Experienced Management Ten Banks in the U.S. Market MUFG is looking to expand its U.S. operations by promoting Integrating U.S. Operations comprehensive financial services ranging from retail banking to corporate banking for major companies. To accomplish In July 2014, BTMU and Union Bank integrated portions of the Group understands that a management team with requitheir operations. This move combined the former’s branch site experience in the U.S. financial sector is crucial. Such operations, handling sophisticated financial services targetexpertise is particularly important given the growing rigor of ed at major corporations; and the latter’s retail banking financial regulations and concurrent need for risk management. and other business functions, targeting mainly small and medium-sized businesses (SMBs) based on the West Coast. Having appointed a new U.S. CEO in May 2015, MUFG welThen, in October 2015, MUFG reorganized its commercial comes professionals in such fields as risk management and banking functions, serving mainly West Coast-based SMBs, IT wishing to join its management team. Eleven of 16 senior with the aim of providing services better tailored to the executives recruited to serve at regional Americas headquarnature and scale of its customers’ operations and structuring ters have been hired in the U.S. Seven of these also hold the a more efficient organization. These functions were eventualtitle of corporate executive officer at BTMU (as of July 2016). ly reorganized into the Regional Banking and U.S. Wholesale Banking departments. The Group is now better positioned to accommodate customer needs for financial services and has tightened risk management and compliance while ensuring stricter adherence to relevant regulations. Reorganization to Integrate U.S. Operations and Step Up Segment Strategies As of July 1, 2014 (prior to the integration of the U.S. Operations) Present (following the reorganization in October 2015) MUFG Union Bank BTMU U.S. Branch MUFG Union Bank Secure a more robust customer 쎲 Retail base via services closely tailored Retail Regional to community needs Small-sized Banking Small-sized companies 쎲 companies Boost revenues from commission Medium-sized fees through sophisticated finanMedium-sized companies 쎲 쎲 companies U.S. Wholesale cial services based on accumuLarge-sized Banking lated expertise on industry-specific business conditions and optimal Large-sized companies 쎲 쎲 companies strategies Members of the Executive Committee for the Americas (as of July 1, 2016) Kanetsugu Mike Stephen Cummings Masato Miyaji Group Head of Global CEO for the U.S., President & CEO Deputy Regional Business Group A managing executive officer of BTMU, Mr. Stephen Cummings Executive for Regional Executive for was appointed BTMU CEO for the United States (U.S. CEO) in May the Americas 2015, in the process becoming the Group’s first top American the Americas executive. Leveraging his vast experience in the U.S. investment Executive Chairman banking sector, he is leading the Group’s U.S. operations to secure diverse profit sources and greater revenues. Kevin Cronin Satoru Nakayama Johannes Worsoe Toshihiro Sasaki Ranjana Clark Timothy Wennes William Mansfield Head of U.S. Head of Asian Head of Investment General Manager of Head of Transaction Head of Regional CEO of MUFG Wholesale Banking Corporate Banking Banking & Markets MUTB NY Branch Banking Banking Securities Americas Inc. John Woods Donna Dellosso Christopher Perretta Michael Coyne Annemieke van der Werff Koji Asada Chief Financial Officer Chief Risk Officer Chief Information & General Counsel Chief Human Resources Chief of Staff Operations Officer Officer 36 MUFG REPORT 2016 the World’s Economic Powerhouse Growth Strategies U.S. Deposit Ranking (March 31, 2016) (U.S.$ billion) Ranking Financial Institution Balance MUFG believes that securing diverse profit sources and 1 JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association 1,392 2 Bank of America, National Association 1,298 robust deposits is crucial to becoming one of the top ten 3 Wells Fargo Bank, National Association 1,285 banks in the United States. Based on this recognition, 4 Citibank, National Association 947 Regional Banking plans call for a deposit growth strategy 5 U.S. Bank, National Association 315 that combines the launch of a nationwide direct bank with 6 PNC Bank, National Association 254 the deployment of smaller branches in out-of-network mar7 The Bank of New York Mellon 250 8 TD Bank, National Association 214 kets and re-entering the credit-card business. 9 Capital One, National Association 209 10 State Street Bank and Trust Company 191 The Group also considers non-organic measures, including 11 Branch Banking and Trust Company 158 M&A, as viable options. However, MUFG will carefully assess 12 SunTrust Bank 155 if non-organic opportunity will address key strategic objec13 HSBC Bank USA, National Association 145 14 Charles Schwab Bank 136 tives—increasing liquidity, income growth, and lending diver[15] BTMU + MUB 135 sification, scales/franchise expansion, as well as potential 15 Morgan Stanley Bank, National Association 120 revenue and cost synergies. 21 MUFG Union Bank, National Association 90 [38] BTMU* 45 Source: U.S. deposit rankings announced by Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Strictly Complying with U.S. Financial (IHC) over U.S. subsidiaries they own or control, by July 1, 2016. Upon the announcement of this requirement MUFG Regulations quickly launched a project team. The team has prepared establishment of the IHC and the U.S, Risk Committee Drawing lessons from financial crisis triggered by the which oversees and monitors overall risk management in bankruptcy of the Lehman Brothers in 2008, U.S. financial the U.S. and completed necessary actions. Going forward, authorities have taken decisive steps to secure financial cooperating globally according to the characteristic of stability through various rules collectively referred to as each business, the MUFG Americas Holdings Corporation “prudential regulations.” In accordance with these regulawill manage the Group’s U.S. subsidiaries as an IHC and is in tions, foreign banking organizations with US$50 billion or charge of submitting capital plans, managing liquidity and more of both consolidated gross assets and gross U.S. responding to other regulations, thereby helping maintain assets (excluding those of their U.S. branches) are sound operations. required to establish a U.S. intermediate holding company Organizational Structure of Americas Operations MUFG Japan BTMU MUSHD MUTB BTMU branches MUFG Americas Holdings Corporation MUTB NY in the U.S. (Intermediate Holding Company (IHC)) Branch Americas BTMU branches/ Subsidiaries in Canada, MUFG Union Other MUS MFS Latin Americas Bank, N.A. subsidiaries (USA) (USA) BTMU: Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ MUS (USA): MUFG Securities Americas Ownership/Same Entity MUSHD: Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings MFS (USA): MUFG Fund Services (USA) Control MUTB: Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking MUFG REPORT 2016 37 How We Create Sustainable Value Securing a Greater Presence in Asia—Our Second “Home Market” With a robust demographic base, comparatively youthful working-age populations and rich reserves of natural resources, Asian countries are seeing ongoing economic growth. A number of corporations hailing from points around the globe are expanding into these countries, seeking not only to establish production bases but to secure market footholds in light of their burgeoning promise and significant potential for consumer demand growth. In addition, all of Asia is seeing a boom in largescale undertakings, including infrastructure development projects. Accordingly, MUFG has positioned Asia as its second “home market” next to Japan. The Group is steadily implementing strategies aimed at fully leveraging economic growth in this market area to drive its corporate expansion. Serving Asian Markets for More Than growth while contributing to the development of the countries in which they operate through such financial solutions a Century as project and trade finance. Having positioned Asia as its MUFG’s century-long business track record in Asia dates second “home market,” the Group is now actively enhancing back to the establishment of a Beijing representative office its service lineup by, for example, acquiring a majority of by Yokohama Specie Bank in 1893. After the end of World Krungsri (Bank of Ayudhya) and forming capital and business War II, the Group expanded its regional network as its alliances with VietinBank in Vietnam and Security Bank in the Japanese corporate customers made forays into markets Philippines. In this ways, MUFG is providing comprehensive elsewhere in Asia. Over the years, MUFG and its precursors financial services tailored to the needs of local customers provided financial services to support customers’ business ranging from individuals to companies. MUFG Network in Asia Representative office, Sub-Brunch Branch Subsidiary Region/Country 1890 1900 1910 1920 1930 1940 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 China 1893 1900 1945 1980 1995 2007 Hong Kong 1896 1900 1945 1952 1953 East Asia Taiwan 1990 1993 Korea 1966 1967 Mongolia 2013 Singapore 1916 1919 1941 1954 1957 Thailand Integration 1936 1940 1945 1952 1962 2013 Acquisition of Krungsri 2015 Indonesia 1918 1919 1957 1968 ASEAN Malaysia 1957 1959 1994 Vietnam 1956 1962 1975 1993 1996 1920 1942 1945 Philippines 1918 1919 1945 1953 1977 Myanmar 1918 1919 1945 1954 1984 1995 2015 Cambodia 1956 1967 2012 India 1894 1900 1941 1953 Pakistan 1925 1941 1953 South Asia Sri Lanka 2016 Bangladesh 1990 Australia 1915 1919 1941 1957 1985 2006 Oceania New Zealand 1972 1996 2006 Source: History of Yokohama Specie Bank and History of The Bank of Tokyo 38 MUFG REPORT 2016 Growth Rate of Nominal GDP (2010 levels set as 100) Gross Profit*1 Trends in Asia Left: Based on local currencies*2 Forecast Right: Based on exchange rates at fiscal year-end*3 (Billions of yen) Krungsri became a subsidiary of MUFG 300 China 300 265.6 257.5 250 235.1 250 Emerging countries in Asia 217.1 (excl. China) 200 200 150 143.5 128.3 U.S. 150 100 Eurozone 100 Japan 50 0 0 (CY) 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 (Source) IMF “World Economic Outlook April 2016” *1 Gross profits from businesses handled by the Global Banking Business Group (including those in Oceania; consolidated basis of MUFG) *2 Calculated based on foreign exchange rate projections adopted when devising the medium-term business plan *3 Calculated based on the actual foreign exchange rates as of the close of each fiscal year Management Strategies Attuned to renminbi, BTMU set up the RMB Internationalization Business Promotion Office in Shanghai in May 2016, stepping up operRegional Characteristics ations related to this up-and-coming global currency. Asia encompasses diverse cultures and political systems, and the degree of economic development and financial Meanwhile, in the ASEAN region, which expects to see an regulations differ widely by country. With the aim of impleexpansion of local corporations, a burgeoning of the middlementing region-specific strategies in a flexible and agile class and an overall rise in population, there is considerable manner, MUFG has defined “East Asia,” “Asia Oceania” and potential for growth in conventional commercial banking for “Krungsri” as key market segments and, has established both individual and corporate customers, including deposit, three headquarters to oversee operations in each of loan and settlement services. Furthermore, due to a robust these regions. labor force and ongoing economic growth, ASEAN countries are attracting a growing number of foreign corporaIn the East Asian region, the economic ties between China, tions seeking to secure production bases and penetrate Hong Kong and Taiwan have become stronger in recent promising local markets where demand potential is high. years, in effect creating a robust “Greater China” market MUFG is therefore strengthening its local needs-oriented boasting growing demand for renminbi-denominated setcommercial banking business by expanding its business tlement services. The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (BTMU) network while acquiring, investing in and pursuing alliances has been quick to respond, becoming the first bank to exewith local banks. In sum, the Group is tirelessly striving to cute a transfer of renminbi between China and Japan in seize growth opportunities arising in the burgeoning 2010. Moreover, in step with the internationalization of the economies of ASEAN countries. MUFG’s Average Loan Balance in Asia MUFG’s Average Deposit Balance in Asia Left: Based on local currencies Left: Based on local currencies Right: Based on exchange rates at fiscal year-end Right: Based on exchange rates at fiscal year-end (Trillions of yen) Krungsri became a subsidiary of MUFG (Trillions of yen) 20 12 Krungsri became a subsidiary of MUFG 17.4 17.4 10.7 17.0 16.5 10.2 10 9.4 9.1 15 12.4 8 11.4 5.9 10 6 5.4 4 5 2 0 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 MUFG REPORT 2016 39 How We Create Sustainable Value / Securing Greater Presence in Asia— MUFG Deepens Banking Partnership Leveraging the Strengths of Both BTMU and Krungsri in Thailand Report from the Risk Management Frontlines Tomo Kobayashi Creating Synergies through Vice President of BTMU, seconded Collaboration between Krungsri to Krungsri in 2014 and BTMU Risk management group staff (Mr. Kobayashi is the third person In December 2013, Krungsri (Bank of Ayudhya), the fifth largest from the right) commercial bank in Thailand, became a subsidiary of MUFG. BTMU’s risk management group consists of three Japanese and Since its integration with a BTMU branch, Krungsri has been 208 Thai staff. working to realize synergies, playing an ever greater role as a platform for the Group’s the Mekong business* operations. Looking back at my footsteps since I was transferred three years ago, the most challenging but rewarding project I was * Economic area bound together by the Mekong River, centered in Thailand involved in was the integration of the BTMU Bangkok branch and Krungsri. We struggled to iron out the substantial differences between our two organizations’ credit examination systems Helping Customers Create New Businesses and relevant rules in the face of a one-year deadline. Through it via “Business Matching” all, we endeavored to preserve Krungsri’s strengths as a locallyrooted bank while aligning it with in-house BTMU rules that corSince 2014, BTMU and Krungsri have fostered new business respond to global standards. creation through the organization of “business matching” Currently, Krungsri’s business is growing thanks to the success events that introduce Japanese companies to their Thai counof integrated operations that draw on the strengths of both terparts. Successful participants include ABC Cooking Studio companies, and we are maintaining the non-performing loan Co., Ltd., a BTMU customer that operates cooking studios ratio at a relatively low level. Although we have number of challenges going forward, we will strive to achieve the goal of throughout Japan. In 2014, ABC Cooking Studio opened its becoming one of Thailand’s top-tier banks. first cooking studio in Thailand in Central World Plaza Bangkok, a commercial complex owned by major department Comparison of Non-performing Loan (NPL) Ratios (%) store operator the Central Group. Although food stalls are a 4.0 perennial favorite among locals, there has been a more recent 3.5 trend toward home cooking, contributing to the roaring suc3.0 cess of the studio. “Business matching” has also helped build 2.5 bonds of partnership between ABC Cooking Studio and 2.0 Krungsri, which now serves as the former’s main bank in Dec. 2012 Dec. 2014 Mar. 2016 Thailand and provides such services as wage transfers. Krungsri Kasikorn Siam Bangkok Krung Thai Assisting M&As by Global Companies Based in Thailand With Thailand-based major corporations actively pursuing overseas expansion, the global network and sophisticated product lineup available through BTMU offers great advantages ABC Cooking for Krungsri. For example, in 2015, Krungsri and BTMU assisted Studio in Bangkok Krungsri at a Glance Net Profit, Loan Balance Loan balance (Left axis) Net profit (before non-controlling interests) (Right axis) • The fifth largest commercial bank in Thailand, Krungsri (Trillions THB) (Billions THB) offers a range of financial services for individual and cor1.5 18.85 20 porate customers and handles securities business as well 1.2 14.67 14.32 1.31 16 as leasing. 11.98 0.9 12 • Ranked first in the personal loan and credit card businesses 9.30 0.95 1.02 8.82 0.87 and boasts a leading track record in consumer finance. 0.6 8 0.65 0.72 Financial Results Highlight 0.3 4 Steady growth in the loan balance and profit thanks to the integration with BTMU Bangkok branch and business 0 0 synergies with BTMU. (FY) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Based on accounting standards in Thailand) 40 MUFG REPORT 2016 Our Second “Home Market” a major Thai beverage company with the acquisition of an Corporation, making it an equity-method affiliate, with the equity stake in a major Vietnamese listed food company. goal of strengthening its commercial banking business in Collaborating with BTMU’s Asia and Oceania headquarters in that country. Singapore and its Ho Chi Minh branch, BTMU and Krungsri are serving as facility agents, with the former providing In recent years, the Philippine economy, particularly domesbridge finance totaling $700 million. tic demand, has been burgeoning. Moreover, the archipelago expects further growth in the long-term, thanks to the Seizing Opportunities from the second largest ASEAN population, totaling around 100 million. At the same time, as financial services have not adeGrowing Philippine Economy quately penetrated the market, there is considerable room for expansion in the banking sector. MUFG will seize growth Capital and Business Alliance with opportunities arising from this dynamic economy, with the Security Bank in the Philippines aim of ensuring a greater presence both in the Philippines and in Asia by helping Security Bank realize its growth strategy. In April 2016, BTMU acquired an approximately 20% equity stake in Philippines-based universal bank Security Bank Attractiveness of the Philippines (1) Steady economic growth It has achieved steep economic growth driven by considerable domestic demand and expects further growth backed by a robust population of native English Speakers totaling 100 million with an average age of 23. (2) Growth potential of banking sector Because financial services have not yet penetrated the market, the banking sector is expected to grow in step with economic expansion. (3) Ties with Japan Signing ceremony in January 2016 While Japan serves as the Philippines’ key trading partner, a growing number of Japanese corporations are expanding into the country due to its geographic proximity to other ASEAN nations. Security Bank at a Glance • A universal bank providing a wide array of services for customers ranging from individuals to large corporations as well as securities business. The fifth largest bank in the Philippines, Security Bank boasts high profitability. • It is striving to expand its branch network and loan volume by utilizing capital from BTMU, aiming to become a top-tier bank. ROE Mediumand Long-Term Targets of Security Bank Security Bank Banking industry average in Philippines Prior to investment by BTMU After investment by BTMU The Group expects Security Bank to record a temporary decline Branch network Loan balance Net income (%) in ROE due to the infusion of capital from BTMU. Nevertheless, (Billion PHP) (Billion PHP) 34.6 500-600 35 600 1,000 981 25 the Group anticipates a subsequent turnaround and is targeting 22.6 an ROE of around 15% for fiscal 2019 – 2020. 30 500 800 20 24.6 25 22.0 400 400 660 600 15 15.6 20 16.3 300 15.2 258 15 12.7 12.1 12.7 12.9 13.7 400 10 11.0 200 10 9.4 130 217 7.2 7.2 200 5 100 5 75 0 0 0 0 Dec. Sep. 2020 Dec. Sep. 2020 (FY) 2010 2014 2020 (FY) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2015 (plan) 2010 2015 (plan) (plan) MUFG REPORT 2016 41 Corporate Value Initiatives Initiatives Leveraging FinTech FinTech can be a formidable competitor to existing financial institutions, but the institutions themselves can co-opt this technology to deliver novel services to customers. In this section, we introduce MUFG’s initiatives to leverage FinTech. Creating New Dedicated Organizations Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd., Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS Co., Ltd., and ACOM CO., LTD., as well as kabu. to Promote FinTech com Securities Co., Ltd., a securities company dedicated to online transactions, and Jibun Bank Corporation, a company FinTech was first conceived of in Silicon Valley, the United dedicated to online banking, are rallying their strengths. States. Since then, a number of venture companies based in this technological powerhouse, including PayPal, Square and Furthermore, in January 2016 MUFG opened an “Innovation Wealthfront, have launched their own FinTech-based financial Labo,” a key base in charge of bringing to life unprecedented services. This prompted MUFG to establish an innovation center ideas and creating a novel business. Moreover, with its faciliin 2014 to carry out research on the feasibility of a new business ties physically isolated from the bank organization and other leveraging FinTech. Having begun collecting the latest informaGroup business units, this laboratory is expected to be an tion and networking with FinTech ventures, MUFG quickly incubator for open innovation with external partners. earned expertise, joining the blockchain*1 consortium R3 and becoming a participant in Distributed Ledger Group (DLG).*2 *1 A new technology derived from the Bitcoin encrypted currency platform, blockchain enables ledger data to be stored separately on the network and is attracting great interest for its capability to make it extremely difficult to The Digital Innovation Division was launched by The Bank of falsify transaction data Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (BTMU), with MUFG establishing its *2 An international partnership as part of blockchain consortium, R3 was formed by 42 major financial institutions (as of June 2016) with the aim of counterparts at each subsidiary and affiliate in July 2015. developing, evaluating and popularizing what it calls “distributed ledger Groupwide efforts are now under way to step up FinTech initechnology.” R3 is now striving to establish standards for financial services based on blockchain technology. tiatives, and Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation, Current Themes Big data Security Analyze customer data Fraud detection Biometric authentication for mobile banking Artificial Intelligence (AI) Use AI for such applications as operational assistance Robot and customer handling through websites, call centers Install “Nao,” a humanoid robot capable of engaging in and branches by leveraging the technologies of the conversation in 19 languages, at the Narita Airport “Watson” computer system created by IBM in the Branch. Plans call for utilizing this robot to offer the United States products best suited to customers based on their profiles and preferences by coordinating with customer Wealth Management database. Household budget management and advisory service to assist the formation of an optimal asset portfolio via Blockchain Technology a robot advisor In September 2015, MUFG participated in a DLG consortium alongside the principal financial institutions of Settlement Services Europe and the United States. MUFG will take part in Mobile settlement and digital wallet discussions on the utilization of blockchain technology in financial services and the establishment of technoSocial Media logical standards. • Utilization as a new channel • A place to collect customer voices 42 MUFG REPORT 2016 Open Innovation As part of its ICT strategies, MUFG is focusing on open innovation. MUFG has accumulated financial business expertise and a track record in providing customers with safe and secure services. Bringing together these strengths and external input, MUFG will implement a variety of initiatives to deliver unconventional services with superior customer convenience and transaction safety. Launching Japan’s First FinTech Accelerator Program To assist companies with their entry into the FinTech business, MUFG launched the “FinTech Accelerator Program.” Rallying its Groupwide strengths, MUFG is hosting this comprehensive incubation program to assist participants with such processes as business planning and prototype development as well as partner selection and alliance forming that is consistent with business strategy. The first round An Interview with welcomed five companies, including those taking on the the Prize-Winning business development utilizing AI-based investment algoCompanies rithm and those aiming to create a “point” business based on blockchain technology. Ms. Kadowaki, Netnative Inc. (right) Holding Hackathon “FINTECH CHALLENGE 2016 Bring Mr. Matsue, Housmart Inc. (left) Your Own Bank” Our “Petty Pay” service, which won the grand prize, proToday, a number of software companies are making their provides the settlement of petty cash for corporate customgrams available online through Application Programming ers. Curious about how banking API works, we were Interface (API). This trend has led to a growing movement to looking forward to seeing its functions being demonstratcreate new programs through ad-hoc projects in which develed at this event. We are sure that this API has great possiopers reach past their organizational boundaries to work bilities after using it ourselves. together. The financial business is a willing participant. With this in view, BTMU hosted a “hackathon” (an event in which Although we have some challenges going forward, we will software developers collaborate intensively on development strive to commercialize our service by overcoming them projects aimed at creating new programs and designing innoone by one. vative services, with competitive elements often being incorporated). BTMU is the first to sponsor the event of this kind using banking API. Under the theme of “creating a new, convenient and easy-to-use service through the combination of IT and finance,” 12 companies participated in this hackathon. FINTECH CHALLENGE 2016 Bring Your Own Bank award ceremony MUFG REPORT 2016 43 Business Overview The five business groups established under the holding company manage the relevant subsidiaries and promote horizontal initiatives across the Group. We explain each business segment. 44 MUFG REPORT 2016 Business Overview Corporate Value Initiatives Net Operating Profits by Business Segment*1 Retail Banking Business Japanese Corporate ¥286.6 billion Banking Business ¥460.3 billion 17% 27% Net Operating Profits ¥1,551.0 billion*2 25% 4% 27% * Percentage represents share of each business segment’s net operating profits to simple sum of those of the five business segments. Global Banking Business Asset Management / Global Markets Business ¥426.7 billion Investor Services Business ¥464.2 billion ¥70.2 billion *1 All figures presented in the Business Overview section are on a managerial accounting basis. Figures are based on exchange rates at fiscal year-end, unless otherwise noted. Local currency base represents foreign exchange rate applied to medium-term business plan (¥115/US$). *2 In addition to the net operating profits of the five business segments, figures include profits or losses of headquarters and other elements. MUFG REPORT 2016 45 Business Overview Retail Banking Business To meet the needs of individual customers, we provide a wide range of products and services from housing loans to wealth management, inheritance and consumer finance. Composition of Gross Profits* Gross Profit Breakdown 30% 쏋 Consumer finance and card 쏋 Loans and yen deposits 41% 23% ¥1,259.2 billion 쏋 Investment product sales 13% 쏋 Securities business* 10% 쏋 Inheritance and real estate 1% 쏋 Other 12% * Gross profit total for five business groups * Fees and commissions on stocks and bonds, etc. Mediumto Long-Term Strategy • Promote the wealth management and asset succession businesses to facilitate a shift from savings to investment while stepping up the consumer finance business, as well as credit card and other settlement services, to stimulate personal consumption • Ensure sustainable growth in wealth management business by pushing forward with the three-step maneuver of securing a broader customer base, stepping up the stock business (enhancing the assets under management) and boosting profit Key Operating Companies • The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (BTMU) boasts a robust retail banking network consisting of 665 bases nationwide. Employing this platform, BTMU provides a wide variety of financial services, ranging from deposits, housing loans and investment products to “BANQUIC,” a consumer finance product. • Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Retail Banking Network (MUTB) handles investment trust products aimed at assisting customers with inheritance, living bequests and other asset succession issues. MUTB also engages in the real estate brokerage business. • Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. (MUMSS) markets investment East Japan products, bonds and stocks. 410 Meanwhile, kabu.com Securities Co., Ltd. provides highly conveC Central Japan nient online securities transacWest Japan tion services. 148 • Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS Co., Ltd. 229 Atsushi Murakami and ACOM CO., LTD. engage in Managing Executive Officer the credit card and consumer Group Head, Retail Banking Business Group finance (card loan) businesses, Note: Figures comprise business bases of The respectively. Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation and Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings Co., Ltd. 46 MUFG REPORT 2016 Fiscal 2015 Review Fiscal 2015 Earnings Summary Gross Profits and Net Operating Profits Gross profits decreased 3.1% (¥40.2 billion) year on year to Gross profits (left axis) Net operating profits (right axis) ¥1,259.2 billion. Net operating profits fell 15.9% (¥54.1 billion) year on year to ¥286.6 billion. The decrease in profit is attributable to (Billions of yen) 1,299.4 (Billions of yen) 1,300 1,283.6 340.6 350 a decline in revenues from investment products due to the 331.4 1,259.2 deterioration of the stock and foreign exchange markets since summer 2015 as well as a decrease in loan and deposit 1,200 286.6 300 revenues resulting from lower interest margins. 1,100 250 Wealth Management Business 0 0 The listing of the three Japan Post Group companies was (FY) 2013 2014 2015 successful, resulting in expansion of our customer base. Specifically, while securities companies marketed stocks, the commercial bank utilized its brokerage function to offer stocks Assets Under Management* to bank customers. Thanks to these Groupwide efforts, a number of securities accounts were newly set up at MUFG. In (Trillions of yen) addition, we have been receiving steadily growing customer 30 requests for opening NISA accounts. 27 25 25 25 The fair value of assets under management decreased due to conditions in the stock and foreign exchange markets. However, the balance of inflows and outflows of assets yielded a rise in 20 net inflow of ¥0.9 trillion compared with the end of the previous fiscal year. 0 (Mar. 31) 2014 2015 2016 * Total for The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Consumer Finance and Settlement Business Banking Corporation and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities. Excludes yen deposits. Thanks to the success of marketing strategies playing into the latest consumer spending trends, BTMU and ACOM enjoyed Consumer Finance and Card Business Revenue growth in the balance of and revenues from card loans, with the former promoting a card loan product under the “BANQUIC” brand. In addition, ACOM serves as a credit guarantee company (Billions of yen) to support financial institutions’ consumer finance businesses 550 by employing its accumulated know-how in credit examination. 520.3 As for this credit guarantee business, balance of loans guaran500 493.2 teed has grown steadily. Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS saw increases in 469.1 card business transaction value and revenues. 450 0 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 FOCUS: Rolling Out a Preliminarily Housing Loan Examination System Using Tablet Terminals To enhance customer convenience and operational efficiency, BTMU rolled out a preliminarily examination system for housing loan applications to all branches, having conducted a trial-basis installation at some BTMU business bases. The rolling out of the system helped streamline the examination process considerably. Using tablet terminals, the system eliminates the need for signing, using a seal or doing any other paperwork. It automatically transfers input data from terminals to examination system database, with necessary documents being scanned using a tablet camera and securely transmitted. MUFG REPORT 2016 47 Business Overview Japanese Corporate Banking Business We provide lending, settlement, forex, and asset management services through our domestic and overseas networks to meet the diverse needs of our clients. We also utilize our Groupwide expertise to propose solutions for client’s business strategies and challenges. Composition of Gross Profits* Gross Profit Breakdown 21% 쏋 Investment banking and securities business 쏋 Deposit and lending 44% 33% ¥911.2 billion 쏋 Settlement 20% 쏋 Other 3% * Gross profit total for five business groups Mediumto Long-Term Strategy • Secure sustainable growth by strengthening our domestic business foundation and establishing a new business model for corporate customers • Boost corporate customer transactions through such key services as loans and settlement while stepping up services aimed at supporting business succession and continuation with an eye to changes in economic and social structures in Japan Establish an asset management business model targeting corporate customers; and adopt a more sophisticated approach for the overseas business Key Operating Companies • The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (BTMU) is a core bank supporting MUFG’s corporate banking business. BTMU boasts more than 400,000 corporate customers, providing them with such commercial banking services as loans and settlement. Moreover, BTMU offers a variety of other services through collaboration with Group companies. • Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation (MUTB) provides commercial banking services while handling real estate, pension and asset management. • Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. (MUMSS) provides bond and stock underwriting as well as M&A advisory services. MUMSS leverages a strategic alliance with Morgan Stanley. • Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance Company Limited provides a finance scheme employing leasing. • The Mitsubishi UFJ Factors Limited provides customers with factoring services to meet their need for commercial financing solutions. • In addition, Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting Co., Ltd. (MURC) provides consulting services to help resolve various management issues, while Mitsubishi UFJ Capital Co., Ltd. assists start-up businesses with their fund-raising needs. Saburo Araki Senior Managing Executive Officer Group Head, Corporate Banking Business Group 48 MUFG REPORT 2016 Fiscal 2015 Review Fiscal 2015 Earnings Summary Gross Profits and Net Operating Profits Gross profits (left axis) Net operating profits (right axis) Gross profits decreased 4.0% (¥38.1 billion) year on year to ¥911.2 billion. Net operating profits fell 7.0% (¥34.5 billion) to (Billions of yen) 949.3 (Billions of yen) ¥460.3 billion. Amid intensifying market competition, net inter950 600 est income attributable to loans and deposits decreased year 912.5 911.2 494.8 on year, reflecting a prolonged trend toward lower market inter900 467.9 460.3 500 est rates. However, the average loan balance rose 3.9% compared with the previous fiscal year, enjoying firm growth. 850 400 Large Corporate Business 0 0 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 Leveraging know-how accumulated by the commercial bank, trust bank and securities company, MUFG offers a range of solutions capable of enhancing corporate value of customers. Domestic Corporate Average Loan Balance* As a result, MUFG ranked top in the league table in terms of M&A advisory and bond underwriting. Moreover, MUFG ranked (Trillions of yen) second in stock underwriting, thanks to the success of a major 50 listing project. (For details, please see page 32.) 44.9 43.2 41.2 40 SME Business 30 Our proposals are meticulously designed to meet customers’ fund raising needs and help them pursue management strategies for business growth and sales channel expansion. In fiscal 0 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2015, we succeeded in making a number of effective proposals aimed at assisting the smooth succession of business as well as * Excludes loans to government proposals related to capital strategies, resulting in growth in the loan balance. We are continuously striving to help customers achieve business growth by, for example, holding large-scale Average Loan Balance for SMEs business matching meetings and hosting the “Rise Up Festa” business support program aimed at nurturing up-and-coming businesses. (For details, please see page 86.) (Trillions of yen) 14.5 14.4 14.3 Creating a Financing Platform Supporting the Infrastructure Sector 14.0 In May 2016, MUFG announced a capital and business alliance 13.5 with Hitachi, Ltd. and Hitachi Capital Corporation, which, working together, have created a specialized business serving the 0 social infrastructure industry. This alliance aims to create (FY) 2014 2015 a financing platform for supporting Japan’s infrastructure sector and to help domestic players achieve global expansion. (For details, please see page 33.) FOCUS: Nurturing CEO Candidates Capable of Supporting Future Key Industries Our Value Chain for Nurturing New Businesses Looking to realize a next-generation business, we are 햲 햳 햴 Offer 햵 striving to create a value chain encompassing all aspects Discover Develop opportunities Close of the business development process, including discoverMajor ing up-and-coming businesses, devising optimal financial Management Support for corporations’ M&A solutions to assist commercialization, offering business Support R&D g global growth opportunities, and closing IPO and M&A deals. Industrial business Venture innovation/ expansion In November 2015, BTMU and MURC launched “M-EIR,” IPO Business Growth capital outlook a human resource development program aimed at nuranalysis y Nurture top management turing CEO candidates capable of taking up the reins of candidates Business industry leadership. Two participants who demonstrated Rise Up partner Festa* matching unique business concepts during the selection process are learning corporate management expertise and know* Please see page 86 for details. how for commercializing new technologies at MURC. MUFG REPORT 2016 49 Business Overview Global Banking Business We respond to the funding needs of corporate customers around the world while providing cash management and advisory services. We also provide retail services in the United States and Thailand. Composition of Gross Profits* Gross Profit Breakdown 30% 쏋 Americas 쏋 Asia 53% 18% ¥1,279.2 billion 쏋 Krungsri (Bank of Ayudhya) 19% 쏋 Europe, Middle East, Africa 10% * Prior to adjustment for other business and overlap between regions * Gross profit total for five business groups Mediumto Long-Term Strategy • Aim to become the “First Call Bank” for customers around the world by leveraging region-specific advantages while strengthening the product and service capabilities of the entire Group • Strengthen the business model to be less dependent on lending by boosting non-interest income through transactions with global companies. Step up commercial banking business in the U.S. and Thailand Key Operating Companies • MUFG boasts approximately 1,200 overseas bases spanning some 50 countries around the world. • The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (BTMU) is engaged in commercial banking services around the world. Employing its global network, BTMU is striving to meet diversifying customer needs. • MUFG Union Bank N.A. and the Bank of Ayudhya Public Company Limited (Krungsri) are involved in corporate banking and retail banking business in the U.S. and Thailand, respectively. • Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings Co., Ltd. (MUSHD) has securities subsidiaries operating in the U.S. as well as in such major cities as London, Singapore and Hong Kong. Kanetsugu Mike Senior Managing Executive Officer Group Head, Global Business Group and Regional Executive for the America 50 MUFG REPORT 2016 Fiscal 2015 Review Fiscal 2015 Earnings Summary Gross Profits and Net Operating Profits Gross profits (left axis) Net operating profits (right axis) Gross profits decreased 1.2% (¥15.1 billion) year on year to ¥1,279.2 billion. Net operating profits declined 7.1% (¥35.4 billion) (Billions of yen) Local currency basis (Billions of yen) Actual exchange rate basis year on year to ¥464.2 billion. After deducting the effect of for1,500 600 1,294.3 1,279.2 1,252.8 1,315.8 eign currency exchange, however, gross profits and net operat499.6 995.3 492.8 ing profits were up ¥63.1 billion and ¥9.7 billion year on year, 1,000 916.4 464.2 483.1 500 respectively. Performance for fiscal 2015 was affected by the deceleration of growth in Asian economies, particularly China, 395.8 500 400 356.6 which resulted in declines in trade transaction volume in emerging nations, and a worldwide plunge in resource prices. 0 0 These factors, in turn, slowed the pace of profit growth com(FY) 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 pared with the previous fiscal year. Fiscal 2015 Average Loan Balance and The average loan balance edged up 0.7% year on year (6.7% on Average Deposit Balance a local currency basis), while average deposit balance rose 9.4% Americas Asia Bank of Ayudhya (Krungsri) (15.2% on a local currency basis). Europe, Middle East, Africa (Trillions of yen) Average loan balance Average deposit balance 50 Boosting Non-Interest Income to Secure Sustainable Growth 41.0 42.4 40 29.0 29.5 We focused on developing competitive products and strengthen30 ing our client coverage model. These efforts have yielded high20 value-added solutions, such as M&A-related finance, in line with the 10 corporate reorganization in some sectors in the U.S. and Europe, resulting in an increase of non-interest income. 0 Local Actual Local Actual currency exchange currency exchange basis rate basis basis rate basis Going forward, we will strive to develop a balanced-profit portfolio while boosting non-interest income. Non-interest Income from Transactions with Strengthening the Commercial Banking Business in the U.S. Global Corporates* and Asia (Billions of yen) BTMU has signed a capital and business alliance agreement 250 227.3 with Security Bank Corporation, a commercial bank based in 217.0 the Philippines, a country boasting remarkable potential for 200 future economic growth. Meanwhile, Krungsri in Thailand enjoyed stable growth in loans and revenue. (Please see pages 150 38 to 41 for details.) 0 In the U.S., our investment banking business and derivative (FY) 2014 2015 transactions performed well. In addition, we carried out an organizational reform that included establishing an intermediate * Including Non-Japanese business profit, fees FX and derivatives. Excluding MUFG Union Bank and Krungsri. Local currency basis holding company to comply with new U.S. financial regulations enacted in July 2016. (Please see pages 34 to 37 for details). FOCUS: Global Coverage Structure Backed by MUFG’s Unique Strengths CIB Business Service across Regional Boundaries Cooperate with Krungsri The parent controls Consulted by representatives of a certain European major to provide a variety of fund-raising for support services the subsidiary corporation with regard to raising funds for capital expenditure in Thailand, the BTMU London branch staff Corporate client (parent) began working with the Krungsri staff to formulate a fundraising scheme. Krungsri thus became a bond underwritCorporate client (subsidiary) er for this client and provided a commitment line for the raising of funds for capital expenditure. Attracted by growth opportunities in Asia, a growing Collaboration beyond Provide solutions regional boundaries number of European and U.S. corporations are setting out to expand into the region. MUFG will satisfy the needs of those and other corporate customers, employing its superior product and service capabilities in Asia. MUFG REPORT 2016 51 Business Overview Asset Management / Investor Services Business We provide asset management and fund administration services: pensions, investment trusts, global asset management and investor services. Composition of Gross Profits* Gross Profit Breakdown 4% 쏋 Pensions 쏋 Investment Trust Management 37% 24% ¥172.2 billion 쏋 Investment Trust Administration 11% 쏋 Global Asset Administration* 17% 쏋 Other 11% * Services provided under the MUFG Investor Services brand, custody and fund administration services, etc. * Gross profit total for five business groups Mediumto Long-Term Strategy • Respond accurately to changes in domestic pension market structure while expanding revenues from the overseas business, thereby driving growth • Overseas: step up asset management and investor service businesses by leveraging capital and business alliances • Japan: in the investment trust business, focus on providing high-value-added services while enhancing the product lineup for the customer generation just entering the asset building stage. In the pension business, strengthen our consulting and solution proposal capabilities in response to the changes in pension system Key Operating Companies • Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation (MUTB) is a top domestic asset manager that provides various investment products in Japan and overseas. MUTB is addressing customers’ complex and diversifying asset management needs in the face of growing investment opportunities overseas in tandem with Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. MUTB provides comprehensive services ranging from pension system planning and asset management to administration services while striving to enhance its global competitiveness by forming capital and business alliances with overseas counterparts. • Mitsubishi UFJ Kokusai Asset Management Co., Ltd. is taking advantage of its broad sales channel to provide customers with mediumand long-term asset formation solutions backed by its strengths and expertise in product development, asset management and customer support. • MUFG Fund Services (Bermuda) Limited (the former Butterfield Fulcrum Group), which became a wholly owned subsidiary of MUTB in 2013, is providing customers with one-stop services under the new brand name “MUFG Investor Services.” Junichi Okamoto Senior Managing Executive Officer Group Head, Trust Assets Business Group 52 MUFG REPORT 2016 Fiscal 2015 Review Fiscal 2015 Earnings Summary Gross Profits and Net Operating Profits Gross profits (left axis) Net operating profits (right axis) Gross profits increased 0.4% (¥0.7 billion) year on year to ¥172.2 billion. Net operating profits rose 2.8% (¥1.9 billion) year on year (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) to ¥70.2 billion. Despite a decline in revenues from the pension 180 75 business due to a shrink in employees’ pension fund (EPF) 171.5 172.2 70.2 plans, we recorded increases in both revenues and profits 170 68.3 70 thanks mainly to growth in domestic and overseas asset administration balance. 160 159.0 63.6 65 Global 0 0 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 The fund administration market has become a promising growth field against a backdrop of worldwide trend toward the Foreign Investment Trust Balance tightening of regulations. To secure competitiveness and a foothold for future expansion, we acquired the Alternative Fund Services business of UBS, through subsidiary MUFG Fund Services. (Billions of U.S. dollars) 300 In the field of asset management service, MUTB agreed to col251 laborate with STOXX Limited, the top European investment 200 index developer and provider, thereby entering the index business. (Please see “FOCUS” for details). 123 100 Investment Trust 0 (Mar. 31) 2015 2016 Mitsubishi UFJ Kokusai Asset Management is putting its extensive product lineup and robust MUFG sales network to work to meet the wide-ranging asset management needs of its customNet Operating Profit of Mitsubishi UFJ Kokusai ers. Following the merger of Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Asset Management and KOKUSAI Asset Management, operating profits rose thanks to the merger’s positive effects on gross profits and expenses. (Billions of yen) 19.9 In addition, we established an advisory committee consisting of 20 18.6 external specialists, with the aim of promoting business operations based on the customer’s perspective. 15 Pensions 10 As of March 31, 2016, MUTB’s pension trust balance totaled ¥14.7 0 trillion, remaining secure with one of the top shares in Japan. (FY) 2014*1 2015*2 Moreover, the defined contribution (DC) pension administration *1 Sum of the figures of Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management and balance amounted ¥3.4 trillion. The DC pension investment KOKUSAI Asset Management *2 Net operating profits for FY15H1 was the sum of the figures of product sales balance was ¥2.1 trillion. As such, MUTB is enjoy2 AM companies. ing steady growth in these pension categories. FOCUS: Taking on New Challenge by Entering the Index Business through Collaboration with Switzerland-Based STOXX Business Scheme In order to expand its profit sources, MUTB launched the MUTB Group STOXX Limited index business through a collaboration with STOXX Limited, a subsidiary of Deutsche Börse AG, entering the Co-develop a new index rapidly growing “smart beta*” index business market. Mitsubishi UFJ Kokusai Asset Management In August 2015, MUTB and STOXX released the co-developed Develop a new index-based Calculate and publicize iSTOXX MUTB JAPAN Quality 150, an investment product investment product new index figures based on a smart beta index, with the aim of satisfying the investment management needs of customers around Provide investment products Provide index the globe. * Offering an alternative to such traditional indices as TOPIX, smart beta Domestic Domestic and Domestic and indices aim for higher investment efficiency through the application of individual overseas institutional overseas asset nontraditional investment theories for stock selection and weighing customers investors managers value, thereby realizing value-added investment products. MUFG REPORT 2016 53 Business Overview Global Markets Business We promote market-related business (bonds, forex, equities, derivatives) and are responsible for Asset Liability Management (ALM).* * ALM: Integrated management of liquidity risk and interest rate risk inherent in assets (loans, etc.) and liabilities (deposits, etc.) Composition of Gross Profits* Gross Profit Breakdown 15% 쏋 Sales & Trading* 쏋 ALM, Others 45% 55% ¥633.8 billion * Collective term for sales operations that provide financial products and solutions, such as foreign currency exchange and derivatives, as well as trading operations to trade market products on inter-bank markets or at exchanges * Gross profit total for five business groups Mediumto Long-Term Strategy • Secure a global presence for the MUFG brand and become a strong market player boasting distinct competitive advantages in Japan and Asia • Optimize global markets business functions throughout the Group to strengthen S&T operations. In particular, we will integrate domestic and overseas trading functions and sales functions at The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (BTMU) and subsidiaries of Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings Co., Ltd. (MUSHD), providing one-stop services for customers. • Adopt a more sophisticated balance-sheet management method encompassing yen and foreign currencies globally Key Operating Companies • Operating globally, BTMU maintains bases in major trading centers, such as Tokyo, London, New York, Singapore and Hong Kong. • Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation (MUTB) and MUSHD also employ a robust international network encompassing Japan, Europe, the Americas, Asia and Oceania. Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd., (MUMSS); a core subsidiary of MUSHD is operating in Japan. • MUFG Union Bank N.A., the Bank of Ayudhya Public Company Limited (Krungsri) and BTMU’s Chinese subsidiary are also involved in the global markets business. Naoto Hirota Senior Managing Executive Officer Group Head, Global Markets Business Group 54 MUFG REPORT 2016 Fiscal 2015 Review Fiscal 2015 Earnings Summary Gross Profits and Net Operating Profits Gross profits (left axis) Net operating profits (right axis) Gross profits decreased 4.2% (¥27.9 billion) year on year to ¥633.8 billion. Net operating profits declined 6.7% (¥30.6 billion) (Billions of yen) (Billions o year on year to ¥426.7 billion. 700 661.7 600 633.8 604.7 In the S&T business, we improved our sales structure while 600 500 457.3 enhancing our product lineup, achieving our initial profit tar419.7 426.7 get with steady growth in transactions with investors and 500 400 non-Japanese corporations. 0 0 In ALM operations, we focused on the integrated management (FY) 2013 2014 2015 of yenand foreign currency, minimizing the negative impact of U.S. interest rate hikes, including the rise in USD funding costs. Our balance of net unrealized gains on available-for-sale Sales and Trading Gross Profits* securities improved considerably. Sales and Trading (Billions of yen) 495.1 481.7 500 In fiscal 2015, we steadily pushed forward with the develop450 ment of an optimal Groupwide operating strucure. In February 2016 we integrated a London subsidiary of MUSHD and a local 400 BTMU dealing room as part of initiatives to consolidate dealing 350 rooms at various locations. (Please see “FOCUS” for details). 0 (FY) 2014 2015 We will continuously advance our integrated S&T business to * Total of S&T business related gross profits in all business units of The Bank provide one-stop high-quality services capable of fulfilling cusof Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation and tomers’ expectations by enhancing our capabilities to offer Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings Co., Ltd. Local currency basis competitive prices, propose sophisticated solutions and provide a wide range of products. Unrealized Gains or Losses on JGB and Foreign Bonds* JGB Foreign bonds ALM (Billions of yen) We were able to improve profitability and the sustainability of 1,200 1,142.8 liquidity risk through integrated balance-sheet management encompassing yen and foreign currencies. Also, we posted 870.8 800 record-high unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities by taking advantage of lowering interest rates. 400 Going forward, the environment surrounding our ALM operations is expected to remain harsh due to such factors as a negative interest 0 (FY) 2014 2015 rate policy. However, we will overcome these adverse factors by drawing on our robust funding platform and applying a more * JGB and foreign bonds included in Securities available for sale category sophisticated balance-sheet management approach. FOCUS: Development of Optimal Groupwide Operating Structure In London, New York and Hong Kong, MUFG integrated the dealing rooms of BTMU and MUSHD subsidiaries. In Tokyo, the dealing rooms of BTMU and MUMSS were relocated to the same building in August 2016. In fiscal 2016, we expect the full-scale optimization to be completed, thereby helping MUFG provide more sophisticated one-stop service to our diverse customers. Dealing Room (London) MUFG REPORT 2016 55 Corporate Value Foundation We explain our management system, including corporate governance and risk management framework, and outline our human resources and our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility. 56 MUFG REPORT 2016 Strengthening a Governance Structure 58 That Supports Corporate Value 64 An Interview with an Outside Director 66 Board of Directors 68 Corporate Executive Officers and Executive Officers 69 Global Advisory Board 70 Human Resources Strategy 74 Risk Management 78 Compliance 79 Internal Audit 80 Responding to Global Financial Regulation 82 Sustainability 86 Supporting SME Growth, Regional Economies MUFG REPORT 2016 57 Strengthening a Governance Structure That Supports Corporate Value MUFG Board of Directors Meeting held on June 29, 2016 Fundamental Concepts Steps to Improve Our Governance Structure MUFG will aim for sustainable growth and the increase of corporate value over the mediumto long-term, in considerSince its establishment, MUFG has worked to build a stable ation of the perspectives of its stakeholders, including and effective corporate governance structure, putting shareholders as well as customers, employees and local emphasis on ensuring external oversight. In June 2015, communities. MUFG will aim to realize effective corporate MUFG transitioned to the “company with three committees” governance through fair and highly transparent management governance structure. The functions of oversight and execubased on the guidance provided by MUFG Corporate tion in the holding company are separated, thereby strengthGovernance Policies established in May 2015. ening the oversight function of the Board of Directors and the committee system has also been reorganized for more effective governance. We are aiming for a governance Corporate Governance Development October 2005 June 2013 June 2014 June 2015 May 2016 Establishment of MUFG Governance Company with Three Company with a Board of Corporate Auditors Structure Committees Outside 2005 2006 2012 Three Five Seven Directors Four Three Two Governance Nominating and Committee Governance Committee 2005 Nomination (statutory Nominating Committee Committee) 2008 Nomination and Compensation Committees 2005 Compensation Committee Compensation under the Board Committee Committee (statutory) of Directors Audit Committee 2005 Internal Audit and Compliance Committee (statutory) Risk Committee U.S. Risk Committee 2005 Advisory Board Integrated into the Global Advisory Board Advisory Board Global Advisory Board Evaluation of Board of Directors Board of Directors Independent Outside Operations Directors Meeting/ Appointment of Lead Independent Outside Director MUFG Corporate Policy Governance Policies 58 MUFG REPORT 2016 framework that will be more familiar and transparent to overNominating and Governance Committee seas stakeholders, in line with our status as a G-SIB (Global Systemically Important Bank). The Committee is composed of outside directors and the President & CEO, with an outside director as Chairperson. In May 2016, MUFG established the U.S. Risk Committee, and The Committee decides on proposals for the appointment in June, three of its core subsidiaries, namely, The Bank of or dismissal of directors that are submitted to the General Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Meetings of Shareholders. It also discusses matters related Corporation and Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings Co., Ltd., to the Chairman, Vice-Chairman, President, and other major transitioned to the “company with audit and supervisory management positions in the holding company or major committee” governance structure. In the same month, subsidiaries and makes recommendations to the Board of MUFG Corporate Governance Policies were formulated to Directors. It examines corporate governance policy and provide an overarching philosophy and framework guiding framework and makes recommendations to the Board corporate governance at these and all other Group compaof Directors. nies. Compensation Committee Outline of Board of Directors and The Committee is composed of outside directors and the Committees President & CEO, with an outside director as Chairperson. The Committee decides the compensation policy for direcThe Board of Directors is composed of 17 members, of tors and corporate executive officers and also decides the whom 7 (over one third) are outside directors with a high details of individual compensation. It examines the compendegree of independence. Of the 17 directors, the majority (9) sation systems for senior management at the holding comare non-executive directors. pany and major subsidiaries and makes recommendations The outside directors are a balanced group (corporate manon establishment and reform to the Board of Directors. agement, a university professor, a lawyer and an accountant) with a diverse range of experience and expertise. Committee Membership 쎲: Chairperson 쎲: Member Nominating and Compensation Audit Risk U.S. Risk Governance Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Yuko Kawamoto Outside Director 쎲 쎲 쎲 Haruka Matsuyama Outside Director 쎲 쎲 Kunie Okamoto Outside Director 쎲 쎲 Tsutomu Okuda Outside Director 쎲 쎲 쎲 Hiroshi Kawakami Outside Director 쎲 쎲 쎲 Yukihiro Sato Outside Director 쎲 Akira Yamate Outside Director 쎲 Nobuyuki Hirano President & Group CEO 쎲 쎲 Senior Managing Executive Officer, Tadashi Kuroda Group CSO & Group CHRO 쎲 Senior Managing Executive Officer, Kanetsugu Mike Group Head, Global Business Group, 쎲 Regional Executive for the Americas Managing Executive Officer, Masamichi Yasuda Group CRO 쎲 Takashi Mikumo Non-executive Director 쎲 Takehiko Shimamoto Non-executive Director 쎲 Outside expert, Akira Ariyoshi graduate school professor 쎲 Kenzo Yamamoto Outside expert 쎲 Christine Garvey MUAH* Outside Director 쎲 Dean A. Yoost MUAH Outside Director 쎲 Ann F. Jaedicke MUAH Outside Director 쎲 Stephen Cummings MUAH President & CEO 쎲 * MUFG Americas Holdings Corporation (MUAH; U.S. intermediate holding company) (As of July 1, 2016) MUFG REPORT 2016 59 Strengthening a Governance Structure That Supports Corporate Value Audit Committee that need to be examined by the Risk Committee and makes recommendations to the Board of Directors. The Committee is composed of outside directors and nonexecutive directors, with an outside director as Chairperson. U.S. Risk Committee The Committee examines the execution of business by directors and corporate executive officers and prepares In May 2016, MUFG established the U.S. Risk Committee auditing reports. It also examines the business and financial under the MUFG Risk Committee in order to comply with the situation of the holding company and subsidiaries, conductEnhanced Prudential Standards. The U.S. Risk Committee is ing fieldwork where necessary. composed of the members of MUFG Americas Holdings Corporation (MUAH) Risk Committee, delegate(s) from Risk Committee MUFG, Regional Executive for the Americas and MUAH CEO. The Committee is composed of internal directors, outside The U.S. Risk Committee shall deliberate on all types of risk in directors and outside expert members, with an outside directhe U.S. on a group basis, report and make recommendator as Chairperson. The Committee examines matters related tions to the MUFG Risk Committee as well as oversee the to Groupwide risk management and reports to the Board of status, control and management of the material risks to Directors. It examines important issues of the overall risk manwhich MUFG’s operations in the U.S. may be exposed and agement matters and issues relating to the top risk matters overall risk management framework in respect of MUFG’s (including critical compliance matters), as well as other issues operations in the U.S. General Meeting of Shareholders Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Oversight Statutory Committees Nominating and Governance Committee Compensation Committee Board of Directors Audit Committee Risk Committee U.S. Risk Committee* Execution Executive Committee President & Group CEO Global Advisory Board C-Suite Officers in Charge Planning and Administration Divisions Business Groups The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. General Meeting of Shareholders Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Cooperation Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Committee Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings Co., Ltd. 왎 Membership includes outside directors and committee members * Established based on the U.S. Prudential Regulations 60 MUFG REPORT 2016 Strengthening the Function of the at Board of Directors meetings while examining the operation of Board of Directors the Board (including the frequency of such meetings). As a result, the number of meetings was decreased by half, and Having transitioned to the “company with three committees” the number of agenda items was cut by approximately 60%. structure in 2015, MUFG is striving to strengthen its corporate On the other hand, the duration of regular Board of Directors governance and the function of the Board of Directors. meetings increased from 2.5 hours to 5 hours due to a longer time being allocated to discussions. Operational Status of the Board of Directors Status of the Board of Directors’ Operations The Board of Directors decides on basic management policies Fiscal 2015 (June 2015 to while taking on the supervision of management activities. In Fiscal 2014 March 2016) (June 2014 to After a transition principle, business matters other than those reserved for the March 2015) to the “company Board of Directors in accordance with the law are delegated with three committees” system to and decided on by corporate executive officers. However, Number of meetings held 14 7 particularly important matters (listed below) are discussed Number of agenda items 210 86 and decided on solely by the Board of Directors. Average duration of regular 2.5 hours 5 hours Board of Directors meetings • Management strategy, risk management policy, capital Volume of pages included in policy, resource allocation and other basic management Approx. 1,200 Approx. 300 meeting materials (annual total) policies for the entire Group Board of Directors meetings are followed by Independent • Supervision of directors and corporate executive officers Outside Directors Meetings attended only by outside direcwho take on business execution tors. At these meetings, attendees engage in deliberations • Internal control systems for the Group and the monitorregarding such matters as the operation of the Board of ing of the development and operation of such systems Directors and committees, collaboration between the Board • Appointment of corporate executive officers and corporate executive officers, and possible measures to • Oversight of initiatives to develop a corporate governance enhance the function of outside directors. Conclusions structure and to facilitate a sound corporate culture reached at this meeting are reported to the chairman, who Having transitioned to the “company with three committees” heads the Board of Directors, and the president by a Lead structure in June 2015, MUFG reviewed the agenda discussed Independent Outside Director. MUFG REPORT 2016 61 Strengthening a Governance Structure That Supports Corporate Value The Board of Directors’ Annual Meeting Schedule April May Jun. Jul. Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. 쎲 쎲 쎲 쎲 쎲 쎲 쎲 Appointments / dismissals Financial results Regular meetings Regular meetings Financial results Regular meetings Regular meetings of directors to be submitted to General Meetings of Shareholders Example of Timetable for a Regular Board of Directors Meeting Topics Presenter or Attendees Topics Presenter or Attendees 10:00 CEO Report Group CEO Specific issue (1) Officer in charge of the issue CSO Report Group CSO Specific issue (2) Officer in charge of the issue CFO Report Group CFO Specific issue (3) Officer in charge of the issue Lunch break Specific issue (4) Officer in charge of the issue CRO Report Group CRO 16:30 Independent Outside All outside directors Directors Meeting Risk Committee Report Chairperson of Risk Committee Report on the conclusions Lead Independent Outside reached at the aforemenDirector, Chairman of CCO Report Group CCO tioned meeting the Board and President, Audit Committee Report Chairperson of Audit Group CEO Committee 17:30 Close (7.5 hours in total) Nominating and Governance Chairperson of Nominating Committee Report and Governance CEO: Chief Executive Officer CCO: Chief Compliance Officer Committee COO: Chief Operating Officer CLO: Chief Legal Officer CSO: Chief Strategy Officer CAO: Chief Audit Officer Compensation Committee Chairperson of CFO: Chief Financial Officer CIO: Chief Information Officer Report Compensation Committee CRO: Chief Risk Officer CDO: Chief Data Officer Break CHRO: Chief Human Resources Officer Stepping Up Support for Outside Directors Evaluation Framework of the Working Practices of the Board of Directors’ Operations Board Educational Sessions are held to support independent outside directors by providing necessary information beyond Since 2013, with the aim of enhancing the function of its the scope of the discussion agendas of the Board of Directors Board of Directors, MUFG has introduced a framework to meetings. Outside directors attend these sessions to be regularly evaluate the Board of Directors’ working practices apprised of MUFG’s business operations and the management through implementation of a PDCA cycle. environment surrounding it, immediately after their appointment and on a regular basis during the term of their service. External consultants interview each director on the composition of the Board of Directors, the content of agendas, the In fiscal 2015, MUFG held four such sessions. Themes for discussions at Board Directors meetings, the operations of these sessions were selected based on opinions voiced at the Board, and the Board’s contributions. Results of these the Board of Directors meetings and Independent Outside interviews and assessments by consultants are reported and Directors Meetings and included such matters as MUFG’s discussed by the Nominating and Governance Committee strategies for the Americas business, the operations of and the Board of Directors. Morgan Stanley and the Bank of Ayudhya and the outline of IT systems as well as business plans for fiscal 2016. Interviews with direcThe Nominating and The Board of Separately, MUFG held a Board Educational Session for tors carried out by Governance Directors receives external consultants Committee receives newly appointed outside directors in July 2015 under such report and deliberand the preparation report and deliberates ates on it of report on it themes as MUFG’s governance structure, management vision and its medium-term business plan. 62 MUFG REPORT 2016 Measures Aimed at Securing Responsiveness to Japan’s Corporate Standards with respect to the exercise of voting rights Governance Code (Excerpts) • In order to ensure the appropriate exercise of voting rights of shares held for MUFG has determined that the design and operation of a corporate goverthe purpose of strategic investment, MUFG and Group banks will make comnance framework based on the concepts outlined above is one of its most prehensive decisions on every proposal for the agenda of a shareholders important issues. MUFG implements all of these individual principles in commeeting after confirming the following two points: pliance with MUFG Corporate Governance Policies. (1) Will it increase the mediumto long-term corporate value and lead to continuous growth of the relevant corporate business client? [Disclosure Based on the Principles of the Corporate Governance Code] (2) Will it increase the mediumto long-term economic profits of MUFG and [Principle 1-4] Group banks? Strategic shareholdings policy • The status of the exercise of voting rights of the most important strategic • The circumstances surrounding strategic shareholdings*1 have changed shareholdings will be reported to MUFG’s Board of Directors. greatly in recent years due to, among other things, the tightening of international financial regulations and the introduction of the Corporate [Supplementary Principle 4.11.3] Governance Code in Japan. Evaluation of the board of directors • Based on these changes, MUFG has adopted a basic policy that its Group • Every year, MUFG analyzes and evaluates the effectiveness of the Board of banks,*2 taking into account shareholding risk, capital efficiency and internaDirectors, and then reviews and implements measures against any issues tional financial regulations, shall reduce the amount of shares held for the discovered. By using a PDCA cycle to review the progress in improvement, purpose of strategic investment,*3 following sufficient consultation with the MUFG is engaged in the continual enhancement of the abilities of the Board relevant corporate business clients. of Directors. • Shares held for the purpose of strategic investment will be examined for • Following the advice of a third-party external consultant, MUFG conducted their significance and economic rationale from the perspectives of our corinterviews of all directors on issues relating to the Board of Directors, includporate business clients’ growth and earnings and the strengthening of busiing its structure, management, and contributions made, as well as how it ness relations. We shall proceed with selling those shareholdings for which conducts proposals and discussions. there is insufficient rationale, after securing an understanding of the relevant • The summary of the results of the evaluation of the Board of Directors for fiscorporate business clients. Even where there is sufficient rationale, we may cal year 2015 is as follows: sell those shareholdings in accordance with our basic policy of reducing (1) As an evaluation of the first year of MUFG’s transition into a company with strategic shareholdings, taking into account, among other things, the market three committees, the Board of Directors and Committee Members were environment and our business and financial strategy. evaluated to have appropriately established a system that leverages man• In fiscal year 2015, MUFG reduced its strategic shareholdings by approxiagement oversight functions. They are also deemed to have made steady mately 120 billion yen (simple combined revenue of Group banks, acquisition improvements to the management of the Board of Directors, such as the cost basis), and its ratio of equity holdings at acquisition price over Tier1 capway it conducts proposals and discussions, contributions made from direcital declined from 19.7% to 17.9% as of March 31, 2016. MUFG aims to lower tors, and the progress of reform. this to around 10% by the end of the next Medium-term Business Plan (March (2) In enhancing its monitoring model, MUFG recognizes that flexible 31, 2021). response by the Board of Directors to environmental changes that affect management, such as further changes to the environment which enhance *1 “Strategic shareholdings” refers to shares excluding trading investments (shares of subsidiaries and affiliates are not included). These are classified into three categories: fundamental discussion, as well as events such as negative interest rates and 1. strategic investments, 2. business strategy and 3. revitalization support, with most irregularity in the global economy, is an important issue. falling under 1. *2 “Group banks” refers to The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. and Mitsubishi UFJ Trust [Principle 5.1] and Banking Corporation, consolidated subsidiaries of MUFG. *3 “Shares held for the purpose of strategic investment” refers to shares held for the purPolicies for dialogue with shareholders pose of increasing the mediumto long-term economic profits of MUFG and Group • Through dialogue with shareholders, MUFG seeks their understanding of banks through maintaining and expanding comprehensive business relations with our MUFG’s business strategy and so forth and strives to take appropriate actions corporate business clients. based on an understanding of shareholders’ perspectives. • Dialogue with shareholders is achieved via appropriate exchange of informaExamination of significance and economic rationale of shareholdings tion and organized cooperation between the divisions, such as Financial • At each Group bank, all shares held for the purpose of strategic investment Planning Division, Corporate Administration Division, Corporate Planning are being confirmed for their significance and economic rationale (riskDivision, and Corporate Communications Division Media Relations Office. As return) over the mediumto long-term from the perspectives of our corpothe director responsible for the Financial Planning Division, Group CFO exerrate business clients’ growth and earnings and the strengthening of business cises comprehensive oversight over Investor Relations Office, which generalrelations. Based on Principle 1-4 of the Corporate Governance Code, the ly handles investor relations activities, Office of the CFO, which generally most important strategic shareholdings*4 are examined by MUFG’s Board of handles matters on financial policies, and Financial Accounting Office, which Directors. generally handles settlement and accounting. • Economic rationale is examined based on MUFG’s overall business RORA, • MUFG carries out the following initiatives in order to encourage constructive which is based on its ROE target, as a target value. The results of the March dialogue with shareholders: 31, 2016 validations are as follows. • Issuance of an Integrated Report to aid deeper understanding of • We confirmed the validity of the significance of these shareholdings as MUFG’s strategy and values all of the validation targets were held with the aim of enhancing the • Individual visits to major institutional investors, both domestic and mediumto long-term economic interests of MUFG and Group banks. overseas, after the announcement of financial results Regarding economic rationality, the overall business RORA of all of the • Provision of additional explanation on specific agenda items to major verification targets as a whole exceeded the target value. institutional investors, both domestic and overseas, before general • By company, approx. 80 percent of business partners exceeded the tarmeetings of shareholders get value.*6 The approx. 20 percent that fell below the target value are • Periodic explanatory sessions for individual investors, attended by the aiming to improve profitability, but if they do not improve within a set President & CEO, etc. period, we will consider selling. • Biannual meetings to explain financial results to analysts and institutional *4 The aggregate market value of validation targets held as of March 31, 2016 was investors, conducted by President & CEO and Group CFO approx. 3.2 trillion yen (book value: approx. 1.8 trillion yen), covering approx. 70 per• Comments and requests provided by major shareholders and investors cent of the total market value of the (listed) equities held by Group banks for the in the course of dialogue are reported to the board of directors and to purpose of strategic investment. management. *5 *6 In the previous fiscal year, whether a business partner exceeded the target profitability value was determined on either a parent company basis or a group basis, but • MUFG seeks to ensure that information is disclosed in a fair and timely manfrom this fiscal year it is being determined on a group basis for each business partner. From the perspective of ensuring the fairness and soundness of the ner. As a result, both this fiscal year and last fiscal year approx. 80 percent of busisecurities market, MUFG recognizes the importance of managing the securiness partners exceeded the target value, but for listed equities that were not validation targets, last fiscal year approx. 80 percent of business partners exceeded ty of undisclosed material information that would influence investment the target value, and this fiscal year approx. 70 percent exceeded the target value. decisions and practices strict information security. MUFG REPORT 2016 63 An Interview with an Outside Director After joining The Daimaru, Inc. in 1964, Mr. Okuda assumed the office of presiTsutomu Okuda dent at Daimaru in 1997 and was appointed chairman & CEO in 2003. Having Outside Director, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. spearheaded the merger of this reknowned department store group with its Senior Advisor, J. Front Retailing Co., Ltd. rival Matsuzakaya, he took the office of president & CEO at J. Front Retailing Co., Ltd., the merged entity, in 2007, becoming chairman & CEO of that firm in 2010. Since 2014, MR. Okuda has served as a senior advisor of J. Front Retailing. In the same year, he was appointed as an outside director at MUFG (current position). Question: meeting to the chairman and president. I report our concluWhat is your evaluation of MUFG’s corporate sions in detail. Also, I sometimes request briefing sessions for governance? outside directors so that we may gain deeper understanding of specific problems. Thankfully, both chairman and president are quite open to our ideas and they quickly decide on Upon the approval of the General Meeting of Shareholders concrete steps to be taken in response to our suggestions. held in June 2015, MUFG transitioned from a “company with The way the opinions of outside directors are reflected in a board of corporate auditors” to a “company with three management is impressive. I also admire that MUFG’s top committees” governance system. In addition to the three leaders take corporate governance very seriously. statutory bodies, namely, the Nominating and Governance, Compensation, and Audit committees, MUFG voluntarily established the Risk Committee, a move that distinguishes Question: its governance system. The outside directors appointed to As Chairperson of the Nominating and its Board of Directors consist of three business managers, Governance Committee, what roles are a lawyer, a corporate and tax accountant and an academic you playing? expert, ensuring the Board is well-balanced. Collectively, the membership boasts extensive experience and expertise in When it was inaugurated in 2005, MUFG adopted a “compavarious fields of specialty. At Board of Directors meetings, ny with a board of corporate auditors” governance system every member of the Board actively engages in discussions while also appointing three non-mandatory committees. with an open-minded attitude. I believe that the outside Moreover, MUFG has been performing the evaluation of the directors, with their diverse backgrounds and perspectives, Board of Directors’ effectiveness since 2014. Our experience are ensuring that the Board maintains lively discussions and in operating three committees and performing such evaluaexecutes a solid supervisory function. tion enabled MUFG to execute a smooth transition to the “company with three committees” system. Because of this, Usually, Board of Directors meetings are followed by I am convinced that the Nominating and Governance Independent Outside Directors Meetings that all outside Committee has functioned very well from the first year of its directors attend. At these meetings, attendees engage in the inception. frank exchange of opinions regarding such matters as the content of and progress in discussions held at the preceding As for management succession, we have been selecting Board of Directors meeting and executive members’ briefcandidates by focusing on personality, competence and ings on agenda and materials used for such briefings, in background. Since its inception, the Nominating and addition to any forthcoming management issues. I am in Governance Committee has been engaged in exhaustive charge of communicating conclusions reached at this discussions to define the personal traits of ideal candidates 64 MUFG REPORT 2016 and to clearly describe their core duties. In April 2016, the In the third round, we have been deliberating on how to committee nominated top management leaders of The Bank upgrade our monitoring system to better adapt to the evolvof Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking ing operating environment surrounding MUFG. Specifically, Corporation, along with key personnel who support them, in we are looking to establish clearer monitoring targets to accordance with prescribed procedures. We are confident ensure that the Board of Directors has as accurate a picture that our selection process is transparent, and every detail as possible of the status of operations. Such targets will can be explained in a concrete manner. Moreover, not have include the monitoring of quantitative changes in managewe developed rules and procedures, we’ve appointed candiment indicators over the course of business execution, spandates and now are seeing the results of nomination. The ning formulating strategies and implementing business committee has thus experienced a fruitful year, with a PDCA plans to reaping operating results. cycle being implemented to improve its operations one year after initiation. On the other hand, as we confront the rapidly changing business environment, discovering potentially critical issues that may affect future operations is as important as assessQuestion: ing current events. As some Board members have suggestWhat challenges are you facing in executing ed that we need to allocate more time to deliberate on succession plans? future issues, we will improve how we handle these matters. Priorities in and schedules for addressing such issues will be As for the selection of candidates, we must identify who is subject to discussion going forward. We will also consider capable of pushing forward with aggressive expansion and the best way to glean input from every Board member, takwho is excellent in enforcing protective measures. We also ing advantage of their individual interpretations of the busigive consideration to whether a candidate is good at tackness environment and awareness of potential problems. ling major adversity or if their forte lies in building a long track record in stable circumstances. As MUFG employs In addition, our corporate culture has been a prevailing suba wealth of human resources with widely varying competenject at many sessions of Board of Directors meetings. cies and backgrounds, we are confident that we will be able Corporate culture plays a key part in supporting the reliability to discover appropriate candidates. In line with a succession and traditions of a company. On the other hand, an overly plan spanning five to ten years going forward, we are looking conservative corporate culture can present a barrier for for ideal candidates throughout the Group and encourage those taking on ambitious challenges or striving to realize said candidates to acquire additional business experience to innovation. After all, the corporate culture has to be aligned best bolster their own competencies. to the objective of management. Although MUFG has a strong brand capability, the Group needs to enhance the Of course, we are also aware of the need for a succession positive aspect of its corporate culture to achieve sustainable plan aimed at securing outside director candidates. growth into the future. I recognize this is one of important Previously, discussions for appointing outside directors have management issue. centered on merely listing the names of promising available candidates. However, I believe that criteria for candidates’ I believe that corporate governance has twofold objectives. backgrounds and career accomplishments have to be On the one hand, businesses are expected to ensure “prodefined in the upcoming discussions and applied to this tective” governance to avoid risk, misconduct and operaselection process, just as when we are selecting executive tional mistakes. The appointment of outside directors is successors. In addition, because MUFG is a global financial intended to support this. On the other hand, businesses institution, we see the promotion of diversity as an important have a duty to stakeholders to achieve sustainable growth issue and are considering choosing those who have nonand improved corporate value over the medium to long Japanese cultural backgrounds as candidates for both inside term, this calls for “aggressive” governance. This is also a key and outside director positions. factor stated in Japan’s growth strategies. As a financial group engaged in operations in regions throughout the world, MUFG is clearly aware of its significant social responsiQuestion: bilities. Therefore, with a view to benefiting the greater public, The Board of Directors will soon complete we will endeavor to strike the optimal balance between its third round of self-evaluation. What securing shareholders’ and other stakeholders’ interests. discussions have been under way? Although we feel some pressure as we face new challenges We are confident that our evaluation skills have been one after another, we are determined to fulfill our roles as improved by the experience of the preceding two rounds. outside directors by employing unbiased and broader viewEvery member of the Board is committed to relentlessly points to monitor MUFG’s operations. enhancing corporate governance by employing this evaluation system. MUFG REPORT 2016 65 Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 As of July 15, 2016 Director, Chairman Director, President & Group CEO Director, Managing Executive Officer, Group CRO Kiyoshi Sono 1 Nobuyuki Hirano 4 Deputy Chairman, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ President & Group CEO, Masamichi Yasuda 7 Mr. Sono joined Sanwa Bank in 1976. In 2012, he Chairman, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Mr. Yasuda joined the Bank of Tokyo in 1983. In 2014, became group head of MUFG’s Integrated Corporate Mr. Hirano joined Mitsubishi Bank in 1974. In 2012, he he became Managing Officer of Bank of TokyoBanking Business Group, and he was made Chairman was appointed as President of Bank of TokyoMitsubishi UFJ. In June 2015, he was appointed as in 2014. He was appointed Director, Representative Mitsubishi UFJ, and a year later, in 2013, he became Managing Director of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Corporate Executive Officer and Chairman of MUFG in President of MUFG. In June 2015, he was appointed as (incumbent) and Director and Managing Executive June 2015 (incumbent). Director, Representative Corporate Executive Officer Officer of MUFG (incumbent). and President of MUFG (incumbent). In April 2016, he Director, Deputy Chairman became Chairman of BTMU (incumbent). Director Takashi Nagaoka 2 Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, Takashi Oyamada 8 President & CEO, Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings Group CSO & Group CHRO President & CEO, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Company Mr. Oyamada joined Mitsubishi Bank in 1979. In June President & CEO, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Tadashi Kuroda 5 2015, he was appointed Director, Representative Securities Company Mr. Kuroda joined Sanwa Bank in 1981. In 2014, he was Corporate Executive Officer, and Deputy President & Mr. Nagaoka joined Mitsubishi Bank in 1976. In 2011, he appointed Managing Director of MUFG and in the Group COO of MUFG. In April 2016, he was appointed became Deputy President of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi same year a Director of Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and President & CEO of BTMU, and Director of MUFG UFJ. In 2014, he became President & CEO of Mitsubishi Banking (incumbent). In June 2015, he was appointed (incumbent). UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Company and President as a Director and Senior Managing Executive Officer of & CEO of Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings Company MUFG (incumbent) and a Senior Managing Director of (incumbent). In the same year, he was appointed as Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (incumbent). Director (non-executive) a Director of MUFG. In June 2015, he was appointed as Takashi Mikumo 9 Director, Representative Corporate Executive Officer and Deputy Chairman of MUFG (incumbent). Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, Mr. Mikumo joined Toyo Trust Bank in 1980. He became Group CFO a Senior Managing Director of Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Director, Deputy Chairman Banking in 2012, and in June 2013, he was appointed Muneaki Tokunari 6 as Corporate Auditor of MUFG. In June 2015, he was Mikio Ikegaya 3 Mr. Tokunari joined Mitsubishi Trust and Banking in appointed as a Director of MUFG (incumbent). President & CEO, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking 1982. He became Senior Managing Director of Corporation Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking in 2013 and in 2014 Mr. Ikegaya joined Mitsubishi Trust and Banking in 1981. Managing Officer of MUFG. In June 2016, he was Director (non-executive) In June 2015, he became Senior Managing Director of appointed as Director and Senior Managing Executive Takehiko Shimamoto 10 MUTB, and Managing Officer of MUFG. In April 2016, Officer of MUFG (incumbent) and Senior Managing he was appointed President & CEO of MUTB Director of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (incumbent). Mr. Shimamoto joined Mitsubishi Bank in 1982. In 2012, (incumbent). In June 2016, he became Director and he became a Managing Officer of MUFG and a Deputy Chairman of MUFG (incumbent). Managing Director of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ. In June 2015, he was appointed as a Director of MUFG (incumbent). 66 MUFG REPORT 2016 Corporate Value Foundation 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director Yuko Kawamoto 11 Kunie Okamoto 13 Yukihiro Sato 16 Professor, Waseda Graduate School of Business Chairman, Nippon Life Insurance Adviser, Mitsubishi Electric and Finance Mr. Okamoto joined Nippon Life Insurance Company Mr. Sato joined Mitsubishi Electric Corporation in 1969, After working at Bank of Tokyo from 1982 to 1986, Ms. in 1969 and became President in 2005. In the same and was appointed Director, Representative Executive Kawamoto joined McKinsey & Company in 1988. At year, Mr. Okamoto was appointed as a Corporate Officer, and Executive Vice President in 2007. In 2009, McKinsey, she was promoted to Senior Expert of the Auditor of MUFG. He continues to serve as Chairman he became Senior Corporate Adviser. From 2013, he Tokyo branch in 2001. After leaving McKinsey, she took of Nippon Life Insurance, a position he has held since served as Special Adviser of Mitsubishi Electric. In up a professorship of the Waseda Graduate School of 2011. In June 2014, Mr. Okamoto was appointed as an 2014, he was appointed as a Corporate Auditor of Finance, Accounting and Law (current name: Business Outside Director of MUFG (incumbent). MUFG and in the same year an Adviser to Mitsubishi and Finance) in 2004 (incumbent). From 2006, Ms. Electric. In June 2015, he became an Outside Director Kawamoto has served as an Audit and Supervisory Outside Director of MUFG (incumbent). Board Member of Tokio Marine Holdings, Inc. In 2013, Tsutomu Okuda 14 she became an Outside Director of MUFG (incumbent). Senior Advisor, J. Front Retailing Outside Director Outside Director Akira Yamate Mr. Okuda joined The Daimaru, Inc. in 1964. In 1997, he 17 Haruka Matsuyama 12 was named President of Daimaru and in 2003 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. In 2007, he Certified Public Accountant Partner, Hibiya Park Law Offices assumed the Office of President and Chief Executive Mr. Yamate joined Price Waterhouse in 1977, becoming Ms. Matsuyama became an Assistant Judge to the Officer of J. Front Retailing Co., Ltd., where he became a certified public accountant in 1983. In 1991, he Tokyo District Court in 1995. Upon becoming an Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in 2010. Since became a Representative Partner of Aoyama Audit attorney-at-law and joining the Daini Tokyo Bar 2014, he has served as a Senior Advisor of the Corporation and a Partner of Price Waterhouse. In Association in 2000, she joined Hibiya Park Law company. In 2014, Mr. Okuda was appointed as an 2000, he became a Representative Partner of Chuo Offices, where she was promoted to a Partner in 2002. Outside Director of MUFG (incumbent). Aoyama Audit Corporation and a Partner of Ms. Matsuyama has also been serving as a Corporate Pricewaterhouse Coopers. From 2006 to 2013, he was Auditor of Vitec Co., Ltd. since 2012, a Director of T&D Outside Director a Representative Partner of Pricewaterhouse Coopers Holdings, Inc. since 2013, and a Corporate Auditor of Hiroshi Kawakami 15 Aarata. In 2013, he was appointed as a Corporate Mitsui & Co., Ltd. since 2014. In 2014, she became an Auditor of Nomura Real Estate Holdings and Nomura Senior Advisor, Central Japan International Airport Outside Director of MUFG (incumbent) and in 2015, Real Estate. In June 2015, he was appointed as an became a Director of VITEC HOLDINGS CO., LTD Mr. Kawakami joined Toyota in 1972. He became Outside Director of MUFG and in the same year (incumbent). Managing Executive Officer of Toyota in 2003, and appointed as a Director of Nomura Real Estate Senior Managing Director in 2007. In 2008, he became Holdings, and a Corporate Auditor of Prudential Vice President of Toyota Tsusho Corp. and in 2009 he Holdings of Japan (incumbent). was appointed President of Central Japan International Airport Co., Ltd. In June 2015, he became a Senior Advisor of Central Japan International Airport and also an Outside Director of MUFG (incumbent). * Ms. Yuko Kawamoto, Ms. Haruka Matsuyama, Mr. Kunie Okamoto, Mr. Tsutomu Okuda, Mr. Hiroshi Kawakami, Mr. Yukihiro Sato and Mr. Akira Yamate are outside directors defined in Article 2, Item 15 of the Companies Act. MUFG REPORT 2016 67 Corporate Executive Officers and Executive Officers (As of July 15, 2016) Corporate Executive Officers Kiyoshi Sono Naoto Hirota Eiichi Yoshikawa Director Senior Managing Executive Officer Senior Managing Executive Officer Chairman Group Head, Global Markets Business Group Deputy Group Head, Global Business Group Takashi Nagaoka Tadashi Kuroda Akira Hamamoto Director Director Managing Executive Officer Deputy Chairman Senior Managing Executive Officer Group CCO & Group CLO Group CSO & Group CHRO Mikio Ikegaya Masamichi Yasuda Director Saburo Araki Director Deputy Chairman Senior Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Group Head, Corporate Banking Business Group Group CRO Nobuyuki Hirano Director Kanetsugu Mike Atsushi Murakami President & CEO Senior Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Group CEO Group Head, Global Business Group and Regional Group Head, Retail Banking Business Group Executive for the Americas Satoshi Murabayashi Shigeru Yoshifuji Senior Managing Executive Officer Muneaki Tokunari Managing Executive Officer Group CIO Director Group CAO and General Manager, Senior Managing Executive Officer Internal Audit Division Junichi Okamoto Group CFO Senior Managing Executive Officer Group Head, Trust Assets Business Group Executive Officers Managing Officers Executive Officers Hiroshi Naruse Kazuo Koshi Shuichi Yokoyama Shigeru Asai Ritsuo Ogura Takenobu Inaba Hironori Kamezawa Kazuto Uchida Masatsune Okada Koji Nishimoto Randall Chafetz Toshikazu Mukohara Takami Onodera Makoto Kobayashi Yukihiro Yamamoto Akihiko Nakamura Hiroki Kameda Ichiei Kuki Iwao Nagashima Toshiya Kaneko Junichi Narikawa Makoto Hayashi Takanori Sazaki Eiji Ihori Masahiro Hosomi Naomi Hayashi Sunao Yokokawa Hisashi Ito Yasushi Itagaki Junichi Hanzawa Akio Ninomiya Hideki Kishimoto Atsushi Miyata Yukio Yahagi Yasushi Ishikawa Koji Ishizaki Toshihiko Mori Masaki Miyazaki Hisashi Kanamori Takayoshi Futae Tsuyoshi Nakagawa Kazuji Tanikawa Naoki Hori Kazuaki Tanaka John Woods Hidekazu Horikoshi Hiroshi Takekawa Johannes Worsoe Masahiro Kuwahara Minoru Soutome Tsutomu Sambai Tetsuya Nakamura Hiroyuki Ogata Satoshi Matsumura Tetsuro Shinohara Yutaka Miyashita Shuji Umabayashi Satoshi Takizawa Yoshiaki Nakajima Michael Coyne Hitoshi Usui Shigeharu Sanada Masaki Enomoto Tetsuya Yonehana Hiroyuki Seki Jiro Omori Masato Miyachi Jun Togawa Masayuki Tanaka Stephen Cummings Takayuki Yasuda Toshihiro Sasaki 68 MUFG REPORT 2016 Global Advisory Board In April 2016, MUFG integrated its Global Advisory Board, With the interrelationship of domestic and overseas operawhich comprises specialists from abroad, with the Advisory tions gaining in importance, MUFG will proactively solicit Board, which comprises Japanese external experts. The new suggestions and advice from the newly established Global Global Advisory Board consists of nine members: three from Advisory Board in its Group operations to strengthen its govJapan, two from Europe, two from the Americas and two ernance structure while stepping up its business strategies. from Asia. Members of the Global Advisory Board (As of July 1, 2015) Mr. John C. Dugan Dr. Victor K Fung Ambassador John V. Partner, Covington Burling LLP Group Chairman, Fung Group, Roos Former Comptroller of the Currency, Hong Kong Former United States Ambassador United States Treasury Department Former Honorary Chairman, the to Japan International Chamber of Commerce Lord (James) Associate Professor Dr. Gertrude Sassoon, Kt Simon S.C. Tay Tumpel-Gugerell Director, Jardine Matheson Holdings Chairman of the Singapore Institute Member of Supervisory Board, Limited of International Affairs Österreichische BundesbahnenFormer Commercial Secretary to Former Member of Parliament, Holding AG the Treasury, United Kingdom Singapore Former Member of Executive Board, European Central Bank Mr. Toshio Iwamoto Mr. Toru Nagashima Mr. Akio Mimura Representative Director, Senior Advisor, Senior Advisor, Honorary Chairman, President and Teijin Limited Nippon Steel & Chief Executive Officer, Sumitomo Metal Corporation NTT DATA Corporation MUFG REPORT 2016 69 Human Resources Strategy Implementing various human resource development programs and personnel system reforms, we are striving to ensure that all 147,000 employees, who have diverse nationalities and values, remain highly motivated and can constantly develop their skills. By doing so, we are nurturing employees capable of providing high-value-added services to customers. Human Resources Strategy HR Vision The MUFG Human Resources Principles serve as the basic Be the industry leader in HR management to help MUFG policy to enable the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group (MUFG) realize its Corporate Vision: Be the world’s most trusted to build a human resources management platform that financial group. aligns with MUFG’s Corporate Vision. HR Philosophy As we work to create one MUFG globally, the MUFG Human Resources Division has developed these Principles to provide Leverage the following HR philosophies to create consistent the framework for delivering consistent, industry-leading HR management practices across all MUFG entities: Human Resources management practices across our entities around the globe. Talent Acquisition The goal is for every colleague to experience employment with Globally attract and recruit diverse talent that share and live MUFG in the same way, no matter where they may be located in OUR VALUES as members of MUFG. Create a strong the world. The MUFG Human Resources Principles provide the Employer Brand that fosters recognition of MUFG as an foundation for establishing an inclusive, global team. Employer of Choice. Shared Values Performance Evaluation The MUFG Human Resources Principles will be implemented Evaluate performance fairly and objectively, considering not globally across MUFG in alignment with our shared organizaonly the goals achieved, but also the competencies demontional VALUES: strated to get the job done. Recognize the importance of factors, such as customer-centric focus, global mindset, and 1. Integrity and Responsibility teamwork, to balancing short-term results with sustained Strive to be fair, transparent, and honest. Always act long-term performance. Provide feedback and coaching on responsibly in the best interest of customers and society an ongoing basis to each colleague to foster ongoing develas a whole, building long-term stakeholder relationships opment. and giving back to our communities. 2. Professionalism and Teamwork Total Rewards Respect the diversity of our fellow workers and foster a strong spirit of teamwork. Expect the highest levels of proReward colleagues competitively and appropriately in alignfessionalism. ment with their contributions to MUFG’s growth and suc3. Challenge Ourselves to Grow cess—in effect, pay for performance. In addition to colleague Adopt a global perspective to anticipate trends and performance, rewards will be reflective of the overall stability opportunities for growth. Create and sustain a responsive of the company and the economy. and dynamic workplace where everyone can focus on providing outstanding customer service and embrace Talent Management new challenges. Assess the capabilities and career path of each colleague to HR Mission place the right person in the right job, to maximize colleague and MUFG success. Develop strong succession plans and The MUFG Human Resources Principles support the build a pipeline of inclusive leadership to appoint and proachievement of the following HR mission: mote our diverse colleagues from within. 1. Create a corporate culture that provides colleagues with Learning and Development opportunities for career growth, challenging them to perform well in a professional environment, where the highest Provide ongoing learning and development opportunities to standards of integrity are expected. help each colleague enhance his/her knowledge, skills and 2. Appointing the right person to the right job, in the right experience and improve his/her capability to impact place to allow each colleague to maximize his/her career achievement of the Corporate Vision. potential. 3. Develop talent capable of contributing to the long-term and sustainable growth of our global society. 70 MUFG REPORT 2016 Human Resource Development each participant is facing and the stage of his/her growth, the Extended Learning Program (ELP) is in place for domesAt MUFG, each Group company is striving to help employees tic employees, with sessions covering such subjects as basic achieve growth in their careers by implementing a variety of financial knowledge and management skills being hosted in training programs tailored to participants’ job roles and qualweekday nights as well as on Saturdays and Sundays throughifications, including skills and leadership programs. out the year. From fiscal 2016, ELP sessions are rolled out in multiple companies within the Group. In March 2015, we established the MUFG Global Learning Center as a core human resource training facility for promoting MUFG’s Groupwide training initiatives for employees Responding to Globalization from locations around the world. Optimal Staffing on a Global Basis The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (BTMU) implements joblevel based training on a Companywide basis to develop As of March 31, 2016, MUFG has approximately 147,000 trainees’ interpersonal capabilities while executing departemployees, with around 57,000, or nearly 40%, being ment-specific training programs aimed at imparting skills assigned to locations overseas. and expertise necessary to provide sophisticated financial services. For employees hired overseas, we established the BTMU is endeavoring to ensure optimal staffing on a global Relationship Managers Academy, a program for junior and basis and to foster a sense of unity among Group employees mid-level employees from locations worldwide, and the through human resource exchange. To this end, BTMU proGlobal Analyst Program, designed for new graduates who vides employees who were hired overseas with opportunihave just entered workforce, while providing leadership ties to work at locations other than those where they joined training for managerial persons. the Company via, for example, its Global Job Posting Framework, an in-house job posting scheme specially In addition, we encourage self-motivated learning by designed for overseas employees. Currently, more than 80 employees who want to continue developing their skills employees have taken on assignments in other countries outside of working hours. Optimized to address challenges and regions. Of those, 30 employees are working in Japan. MUFG’s Human Resource Development and Training Systems Number of Group Employees Those hired in Japan Those hired overseas Yvonne Corpuz Global Human Resources Office Global Chief Learning Officer 150,000 147,056 118,734 120,000 56,593 38.5% The establishment of Global Learning demonstrates the 31,220 26.3% strong commitment to employee development and to 90,000 creating a culture of personal and professional growth that will enable MUFG to succeed in its business aspirations. Globalization, technological advancements and an 60,000 increasingly complex marketplace have transformed the 87,514 90,463 financial industry worldwide, placing greater demands 30,000 on the knowledge and skills of our staff. We are committed to providing practical and relevant learning opportunities that support business priorities and staff 0 Mar. 31 /2013 Mar. 31 /2016 development needs. MUFG REPORT 2016 71 Human Resources Strategy Nurturing Globally Capable Management Candidates Assisting Women with Their Career MUFG recognizes that nurturing those who have manageDevelopment ment know-how in the area of international business as well as highly specialized expertise is key to the success of its global Removing the career restrictions imposed on women is one of business strategy. To select candidates for key managerial our most urgent diversity issues. MUFG has set the goal of positions, MUFG Global Talent Review, a council headed by raising the ratio of female managers for the Group in Japan to the human resources division of the holding company, is 20%* by the end of March 2018. Furthermore, each Group engaged in Groupwide discussions to determine if we have company has set its own numerical target for the active prosufficient human resources for implementing our current busimotion of its female workers. Thanks to these efforts, the ratio ness strategies while formulating succession plans and other of female managers at MUFG improved to 17.4% as of April countermeasures. 2016. As part of this initiative, in June 2016 Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation (MUTB) appointed its first female corporate executive officer (concurrently serving as the General Facilitating a Diversity-Oriented Manager of the Corporate Consulting Services Division) in Japan. Corporate Culture At the same time, BTMU appointed a female corporate executive officer to both its U.S. and Hong Kong operations. MUFG has established the Principles of Ethics and Conduct and compliance manuals that clarify its commitment to nonTo help women develop their potential and find success in discrimination no matter the race, nationality, belief, religion, their careers, each Group company is implementing a variety gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or other grounds, of supportive initiatives, for example, providing opportunities and to abstaining from human rights violations. Guided by this to interact with executives and build networks with fellow commitment, MUFG recognizes the creation of a diversity-orifemale employees, implementing career development trainented corporate culture as key to ensuring that employees ing and mentoring support for women, and adopting personwith diverse values, backgrounds and perceptions of work, nel systems allowing women to convert job categories and have appreciation for their jobs and the organization and that helping those who left workforce to get reinstated. they can realize their full potential. We also provide managers with dedicated training programs To create such a corporate culture on a Groupwide basis, to impart methods regarding the oversight of diverse human MUFG issues the annual Diversity Report, featuring messages resources, including working mothers, aiming at raising from top management and diversity initiatives and best pracemployees’ awareness of the career development assistance tices undertaken by Group companies. Moreover, we host the that those in managerial positions can provide. MUFG Global Diversity Forum in which Group employees with diverse nationalities, ages, genders and fields of expertise * Combined target of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and convened from locations around the world with the aim of Banking Corporation and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities (MUMSS) enhancing their understanding of diversity and globalization. Targeted Ratio or Number of Female Managers and Executives (domestic Group companies) March 31, 2015 March 31, 2016 Targets Executive officer 0 0 At least 1 Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ General Manager 4.9% 4.5% At least 6% (BTMU) Chief/Senior Manager 10.9% 14.2% At least 14% Ratio of female managerial staff 16.4% 18.1% At least 22% Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Line manager 4.3% 6.1% At least 8% Corporation (MUTB) Managerial Staff 19.3% 20.5% At least 22% Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Section Manager Class or Above 62 71 At least 120 Securities (MUMSS) Assistant Manager Class or Above 9.3% 10.9% At least 13% Note: Target figures for BTMU, MUTB and MUMSS are set to be achieved by March 31, 2018, 2019 and 2021, respectively. 72 MUFG REPORT 2016 Work-Life Balance ~Promoting Male Participation in Child Rearing~ MUFG believes that higher employee satisfaction is reflected In general, few men choose to take long-term childcare in work performance and leads to increased customer satisleave in Japan. Nevertheless, each MUFG Group company faction. MUFG also believes that an employee’s job fulfilloffers male workers short-term paid childcare leave to ment is reflected in society and at home, fostering better encourage them to participate in child rearing. We also discommunities. Therefore, MUFG is striving to help employees tribute tips for and benefits of child rearing so that men can strike a good work-life balance in order to create an even play significant roles. As such, we are actively helping them more rewarding workplace environment. take childcare leave. Helping Strike a Balance between Work and Child Rearing Helping Strike a Balance between Work and Nursing Care Each MUFG Group company is working to help employees With the rapid aging of Japan’s society, nursing care is an strike a balance between work and child rearing by, for issue that any employee might one day confront. To help example, providing reinstatement support programs, such employees strike a balance between work and nursing care, as training and counseling sessions for employees prior to MUFG holds seminars aimed at raising their awareness of taking maternity or childcare leave and for employees who the importance of being ready to prepare for this issue even are about to be or have been reinstated to the workforce. before it emerges and imparting basic knowledge on nursEach Group company also provides subsidy for childcare ing care. By doing so, we help employees smoothly engage and babysitter expenses while enhancing its personnel sysin nursing care whenever necessary. tems, such as a system to allow eligible employees to shorten working hours. Working Style Reforms Thanks to these and other initiatives, each MUFG Group Each MUFG Group company promotes Working Style company has obtained the Kurumin Certification, a symbol Reforms employing feedback from employees gleaned in of authorization under Japan’s Act on Advancement of town meetings and working group meetings. Specifically, we Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children. are striving to realize more flexible working styles, including Employers satisfying certain requirements such as putting earlier shifts, flextime and staggered working time, while a proper employer action plan in place and supporting the allowing eligible employees to work at home. By doing so, work-life balance of employees, are able to obtain certificawe strive to improve productivity and prevent long working tion from the directors general of prefectural labor bureaus. hours at the same time. In addition, BTMU has acquired the Platinum Kurumin Certification, a special labeling for Kurumin-certified corporaEmployment for People with Disabilities tions that engage in more advanced initiatives, in February 2016. Utilizing its special subsidiary, MUFG is proactively hiring people with disabilities. At each MUFG Group company, people with disabilities are actively working in various offices. As for staffing these people, we work closely with them in order to match their duties to the capabilities and aptitudes of each according to their individual circumstances. BTMU MUTB MUMSS Ratio of employees with disabilities 2.09% 2.22% 2.03% (As of April 1, 2016) MUFG REPORT 2016 73 Risk Management Introduction Risk Appetite Framework Since the 2008 financial crisis, financial institutions have The Risk Appetite Framework aims to clarify MUFG’s risk been compelled to adopt more comprehensive and sophisappetite (types and amount of risks that it is willing to ticated risk management systems. This risk management accept) as it works to achieve its business strategy and function has also grown in importance for MUFG as a global financial plan. The framework is designed to increase manbank with subsidiaries spanning the commercial, trust and agement transparency and generate more profit opportuniinvestment banking sectors. ties in an environment where risk is properly controlled. MUFG aims to strengthen its group risk management through the diffusion of a Risk Culture which is unified, global and preventive in its approach. Our goal is effective risk governance which is consistent across regions, subsidiaries and the holding company. The new Risk Appetite Framework provides a guideline for effective risk management to support our business strategy and will strengthen the Group’s overall risk-return management. Risk Management Overview Risk Appetite Framework Recognition of Environment Basic Policy Strengthened global financial Promote enterprise risk management throughout the Group regulations Unified approach The holding company will adopt a unified Higher market volatility due to approach across business groups, regions heightened market uncertainties (US, EMEA, and Asia), subsidiaries and affiliates. Internal and Create a global governance structure founded external Response to conduct risk* on business domains and regions environment * Risk of damage to corporate value as a result of Global negative impact on the public interest, effective Comply effectively with international (MUFG focus) competition, market integrity, or customer protecregulations which mutually interact tion, due to inappropriate response to laws and regulations or insufficient attention to the viewpoint of customers Avoid unexpected losses through forwardlooking risk recognition Preventive Maximize risk-return through risk manageRapid expansion of global business ment based on business strategy Strengthen risk management framework Diffusion of Risk Culture, develop Management Information Systems, maintain effective data governance Overview of Risk Appetite Framework Management Plan Financial Plan Risk Appetite Organic Correlation • Capital allocation plan and RWA plan • Net operating profit Capital strategy and distribution based on risk • Net income • Liquidity risk • ROE Risk appetite for difficult-to-quantify risk • RORA Business Strategy • Risks associated with the implementa• Expenses ratio tion of business strategies • Common equity Tier 1 • Group business strategy Profit downside risk 74 MUFG REPORT 2016 Risk Appetite Framework Management Framework, risk evaluation and verification procedures Process (capital allocation system, stress tests, Top Risk management) will be applied at every stage of the management In the formulation and execution of its business strategy planning process. and financial plan, MUFG will set the appropriate level of risk appetite and proceed to monitor and analyze risk volume. The process to set and manage risk appetite is set out below. In order to effectively implement the Risk Appetite Risk Appetite Setting and Management Process Before formulating the overall business plan, assess pressure points for business strategy and financial and capital operations based on the internal and external environment � Confirming assumptions for • Future balance sheet simulation based on macroeconomic scenarios business plan formulation In pursuing management’s vision, formulate a business plan proposal based on business strategy, financial plan and risk appetite. � Formulate business plan • Clarify risks to be accepted and risks to be avoided on the basis of Risk Culture proposal Revise strategy based on results The risk management divisions will mainly assess the appropriate level of risk appetite. The strategy proposal will be amended if the stress tests indicate that the maximum level of acceptable risk � Risk appetite assessment will be exceeded. and verification • Evaluation of strategy profitability and soundness based on stress tests • Evaluation of risks associated with the implementation of business strategies (quantitative, qualitative) The Executive Committee and Board of Directors discuss and subsequently make decisions based on an integrated view of business strategy, the financial plan and risk appetite. � Business plan decision • On the basis of the capital allocation system, capital is allocated to subsidiaries and operational divisions in accordance with the level of risk. The risk management divisions of the holding company and subsidiaries monitor risk volume in relation to allocated capital and risk appetite. � Risk monitoring • Forward-looking valuation of internal and external environment based on Top Risk management • Assess overall risk for individual business strategy based on monitoring of risk appetite results and predictive control Cases where risk volume exceeds upper limit The risk appetite plan will be revised if monitoring reveals that risk appetite and actual levels of risk diverge, or if environmental factors increase the level of risk. � Revision of risk appetite • Stress tests may be conducted again in order to reset risk appetite. MUFG REPORT 2016 75 Risk Management Enterprise Risk Management Top Risk Management The potential losses that emerge from scenario analysis are MUFG makes every effort to recognize the risks that emerge classified as risks and then their relative importance is in the course of business execution, assessing them according weighed according to degree of impact and probability to uniform criteria. Enterprise risk management is then con(internal and external factors). The risks that need to be ducted while maintaining business stability and striving to watched most closely over the next year are classified as maximize shareholder value. Enterprise risk management is Top Risks* and a risk map is created to allow preventive risk a dynamic approach, promoting stable profits commensurate management. with risk as well as the appropriate allocation of resources. By identifying Top Risks, MUFG and its affiliates can discuss Enterprise risk management is composed of three main countermeasures to mitigate the potential impact and then strands: the capital allocation system, stress tests and Top respond dynamically when they actually emerge. As Top Risk management. Risks are discussed Groupwide, including management, consistent risk recognition is maintained widely throughout Capital Allocation System the Group and effective solutions implemented. As an example, in the Top Risk report submitted to our Board of In this framework, latent losses associated with risk are conDirectors via the Corporate Risk Management Committee in verted to a required capital amount, and capital is then alloMarch 2016, “Lower Net Interest Income (NII)” was cited as cated across group companies and between different risk a major Top Risk. categories according to business strategy and the profit plan. The framework is intended to allow the appropriate distribution of capital throughout the Group as MUFG monitors to preserve financial soundness, evaluate capital adequacy versus risk, and judge impact on overall capital strategy. Stress Tests Stress tests for capital adequacy assessment In formulating its business strategy, MUFG regularly assesses its internal capital adequacy through stress tests based on two perspectives: regulatory capital, based on capital adequacy regulations (Basel III), and its own economic capital, based on internal risk assessment. Stress tests analyze both the internal and external environment, and use three-year-period preventative scenarios. Liquidity stress test In liquidity stress tests, the impact of MUFG-specific or overall market stress on the balance sheet is assessed so as to implement MUFG’s business strategy and financial plan. Various options are examined to respond to short term fund outflows or long-term structural changes in the balance sheet with a view to ensuring there is no funding shortage. 76 MUFG REPORT 2016 Establishment of Risk Committee in 2013, the Company established the Risk Committee, composed of independent external directors and external In enhancing its corporate governance and risk managespecialists, which reports directly to the Board of ment, MUFG places a special emphasis on stakeholders Directors on Groupwide risk management matters. who can view the Company from the outside. To that end, Enhancing the Effectiveness of Risk Risk Appetite Statement Management The Risk Appetite Statement elucidates the Risk Appetite Effective risk management and a strong Risk Appetite Framework which embodies MUFG’s attempts to achieve an Framework depend on a Risk Culture which enables meaningintegrated group strategy along with effective risk manageful discussion and clear communication throughout the Group. ment. The Risk Appetite Statement contains an overview of the Risk Appetite Framework (basic policy and management Developing and diffusing a Risk Culture process) as well as specific business strategies, financial plans and risk appetite details. MUFG defines a Risk Culture as the basic approach which specifies how to take risks and risk management for MUFG’s A summary of the Risk Appetite Statement is distributed organizational and individual behaviors. This standard of throughout the Group in an effort to spread the basic phiconduct on risk taking is then spread throughout the losophy behind the Risk Appetite Framework. Company. A Risk Culture is established for credit business, market business and overall business and then formulated in the Risk Appetite Statement. In order to share this Risk Culture throughout the Company, management issues regular strategic messages and schedules regular global meetings. Risk Culture Outline Points of view to keep in mind in taking on risk Credit business Market business Overall business • Stability • Secure earnings based on fair transactions • Sincerity • Profitability • Contribute to maintenance of soundness of the market • Accuracy • Growth • Pursue adequate risk management • Promptness • Public nature • Efficiency MUFG REPORT 2016 77 Compliance Basic Policy Compliance System We have clarified our Group mission, long-term vision and Compliance management divisions have been established at shared values in the Corporate Vision and expressed our the holding company Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, and at commitment to meeting the expectations of customers and Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and society as a whole. Furthermore, we have established the Banking, and Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings (referred to Principles of Ethics and Conduct as the guidelines for how as the three companies below). Each compliance managethe Group’s directors and employees act to realize the ment division formulates compliance programs and organizCorporate Vision. This expresses our commitment to comes training courses to promote compliance, and regularly plying with laws and regulations globally, to acting with honreports to each company’s board of directors and Executive esty and integrity, and to behaving in a manner that supports Committee on the status of compliance activities. and strengthens the trust and confidence of society. The holding company has the Group Compliance In addition, as we expand our business globally, we are Committee while the three companies have Compliance committed to keeping abreast with developments in the Committees which deliberate important matters related to laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which we opercompliance. Additionally, the holding company has the ate, including those targeting money laundering and bribery, Group Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) Committee comas well as competition laws, while paying attention to trends posed of the CCO of the holding company and CCOs of the in financial crimes. three companies. This committee deliberates important matters related to compliance and compliance-related issues for which the Group should share a common understanding. Compliance System* Holding Company (Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc.) Board of Directors Executive Committee Audit Committee Group Compliance Committee CCO Group CCO Committee (Chief Compliance Officer) Compliance Division (Coordinates compliance issues) Consultation and report Guidance, advice and instruction Group Companies FOCUS: Fostering a Compliance-Oriented Corporate Culture As a financial institution, MUFG is well aware of its obligaamong employees, these training sessions are designed tion to strictly comply with corporate ethics and to to encourage participants to allow such vision and princiabstain from business conduct that goes against its prinples to guide every action they make. To that end, particiciples, even when clearly defined rules are not provided. pants are asked to reflect on their own experience. At the MUFG is therefore striving to foster a corporate culture same time, they hear their peers’ views on the subject and that does not tolerate unjust behaviors by periodically take time to think about what they learn. Often, these sesholding training sessions aimed at instilling its Corporate sions involve lively discussions that, in turn, afford them Vision and Principles of Ethics and Conduct. Not merely valuable insights into what is it like to apply compliance lectures to facilitate the understanding of in-house rules principles in the course of day-to-day operations. 78 MUFG REPORT 2016 Internal Audit Role of Internal Audit internal audit divisions undertakes direct audits of their respective subsidiaries, and monitors and oversees the sepInternal audit functions within MUFG seek to verify the adearate internal audit functions established within them. This quacy and effectiveness of internal control systems from helps to evaluate and verify the adequacy and effectiveness a standpoint independent of the operating functions. This of internal controls within MUFG on a consolidated basis. includes monitoring the status of risk management and compliance systems, which are critical to the maintenance Implementing Effective and of sound and appropriate business operations. Internal audit Efficient Internal Audits results are reported to senior management. An additional role of internal audit is to make suggestions to help improve To ensure that internal audit processes use available or rectify any issues or specific problems that are identified. resources with optimal effectiveness and efficiency, the internal audit divisions implement risk-focused internal Group Internal Audit Framework audits in which the nature and magnitude of the associated risks are considered in determining audit priorities and the The holding company has instituted MUFG’s internal audit frequency and depth of internal audit activities. The internal policy to define the policy, function, and organizational posiaudit divisions ensure that audit personnel attend key meettion of internal audits. Separate internal audit divisions have ings, collect important internal control documents and been created within the holding company and certain subaccess databases to facilitate efficient off-site monitoring. sidiaries. Through close cooperation and collaboration among the internal audit divisions of the holding company Reports to the Internal Audit and these subsidiaries, these internal audit divisions provide Committee coverage for the Group and also support the board of directors in monitoring and overseeing all MUFG operations. The holding company has an audit committee within its board of directors as required by the Companies Act of In addition to having primary responsibility for initiating and preJapan, and each of the major subsidiaries has an Audit & paring plans and proposals related to internal audits of the Supervisory Committee or a voluntarily established internal Group, the internal audit division at the holding company moniaudit and compliance committee. tors and, as necessary, guides, advises, and administers the internal audit divisions of subsidiaries and affiliated companies. Within each of the holding company and the major subsidiaries, the internal division reports to the committee on The internal audit divisions within the major subsidiaries important matters including the results of the internal audits conduct audits of the respective head office and branch and basic policies for planning internal audits. operations of these companies. In addition, each of these Internal Audit Framework Holding Company (Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc.) Board of Directors Internal Audit Committee (Chairman: Outside Director) Executive Committee Reporting Internal Audit Division MUFG, Each Division Auditing Guidance, advice and Consultation and report management Group Companies FOCUS: Enhancing the Quality of Internal Audits Affected by the introduction of international financial regsecurity countermeasures and financial regulation trends, ulations and the emergence of new risk factors, the operwith external specialists serving as lecturers. We also ating environment surrounding MUFG is rapidly changing. encourage employees to acquire such international certifWith this in mind, a variety of initiatives are being carried icates as Certified Internal Auditor (CIA) and Certified out by the internal audit divisions within the Group to Information Systems Auditor (CISA), with the aim of constantly upgrade their auditing structure. For example, enhancing the specialist skills of members of these we hold periodic training sessions for internal audit dividivisions and accumulating relevant expertise. sion members under such themes as the latest cyber MUFG REPORT 2016 79 Responding to Global Financial Regulation Since the global financial crisis of 2008, financial institutions have been required to hold to stricter standards of financial soundness and management discipline. New regulations have been introduced and existing regulations, including capital adequacy ratios, have been tightened in the quest to establish a more stable financial system. At the same time, new challenges and issues have been thrown up in the process. In this section we look at the trend for global financial regulation and our response. Trend in Global Financial Regulation 2007 Fragility of financial system spurred stronger global regulation • US housing bubble bursts As subprime loans to low-income households in the US went bad, Lehman Brothers (which held a large number of subprime-related finan2008 cial products) filed for bankruptcy. This caused a sharp contraction of • Lehman Brothers collapse credit in the global financial markets and exposed the fragility of the financial system. 2010 • European sovereign debt crisis • Announcement of Basel III New regulations to ensure the soundness of banks engaging in international business 2013 In 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (composed of rep• Start of application of capital adequacy resentatives from the main bank supervisory agencies around the world) ratio requirements introduced Basel III, designed to ensure the continued soundness of major (to be phased in up to 2019) banks engaging in international business. It has three main elements. 2015 Capital ratio requirements Banks must keep their capital adequacy ratios above a certain • Start of application of Liquidity level in relation to risk-based exposure (risk-weighted assets). Leverage ratio Banks must keep their capital adequacy ratios above a certain Coverage Ratio (LCR) level in relation to non-risk-based exposure (total assets shown on financial statements and off-balance-sheet assets). 2018 Liquidity requirements This is composed of the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) and the • Start of application of leverage Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR). LCR: Banks must keep liquid assets that can be converted easily ratio requirements and immediately into cash above a certain level in order to • Start of application of Net Stable cover any fund outflows. NSFR: Banks must maintain stable funding sources (which can Funding Ratio (NSFR) effectively respond to stress for one year) above a certain level. MUFG’s Response MUFG has already achieved levels Results Required level required by the end of March 2019 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2019 As the table at right shows, MUFG is in comCommon Equity Tier1 Capital 11.63% 5.5% 8.5% pliance with the levels required by endRatio March 2016 and it has already reached the Tier1 Capital Ratio 13.24% 7.0% 10.0% levels required by end-March 2019. Total Capital Ratio 16.01% 9.0% 12.0% Liquidity Coverage Ratio 130.0% 70.0% 100.0% Results Required level In addition, calculation methodologies for March 31, 2016 From 2019 onward capital and leverage ratios are at the center Leverage Ratio 4.79% 3.0% of global discussion. (See also the next page for details.) Note: Surcharges on G-SIBs’ required leverage ratios are being discussed internationally. (See also the next page for details.) 80 MUFG REPORT 2016 G-SIBs Facing Demand for Ever More Stringent Compliance 1. Surcharge on required capital ratio Bucket 5 Bucket 2 Bank of America (U.S.) (3.5% capita Empty (1.5% surcharge) capital Credit Suisse (Switzerland) G-SIBs refer to Global Systemically Important Banks, institusurcharge) tions whose failure would have a major impact on the global Bucket 4 HSBC (U.K.) Goldman Sachs (U.S.) (2.5% capital financial system according to the Financial Stability Board surcharge) JP Morgan Chase (U.S.) MUFG (Japan) whose membership derives from financial supervisory Bucket 3 Barclays (U.K.) Morgan Stanley (U.S.) authorities around the world. Basel III stipulates a surcharge (2.0% on the required capital ratio of G-SIBs (from 1.0% to 3.5%) to capital BNP Paribas (France) Bucket 1 surcharge) (1.0% be phased in from 2016. This would represent a surcharge of Citigroup (U.S.) capital 19 Banks 1.5% for MUFG up to 2019 under the current bucket allocation surcharge) Deutsche Bank (Germany) 2. Requirement to secure greater Total Loss Absorbing From 2019 From 2022 Capacity (TLAC) onward onward TLAC risk-weighted asset minimum 16% 18% In addition to Basel III capital requirements, the upcoming reguTLAC leverage ratio exposure minimum 6% 6.75% lations, which will be enforced in 2019, will oblige G-SIBs to acquire additional capital and liabilities that meet certain subordinated conditions (TLAC-eligible liabilities). These regulations are intended to ensure orderly resolution without injecting public funds when G-SIBs fail. Key Issues Going Forward The following regulatory revisions are at the center of the global discussion: 1. Review of risk-weighted asset measurement methodologies 2. Review of regulatory framework for leverage ratio The following two points are being reviewed with a view In step with the review of risk-weighted assets measureto restoring trust in regulatory capital and to improving ment methodologies stated on the left, discussions are comparability. now under way to revise calculation methodologies for (1) Measurement methodologies for credit, market and determining the ratio’s denominator (exposure). These operational risk discussions also address the possible enforcement of (2) Capital floor leverage ratio requirements on G-SIBs that are stricter than those imposed on other firms (3%). Capital ratio = capital / risk-weighted assets Leverage ratio = capital / exposure (total assets shown on the balance sheet and off-balancesheet assets). Review of measurement methodologies for each risk Review of measurement methodologies for denominator (exposure) Review of capital floor Surcharge on the required leverage ratio of G-SIBs MUFG Stance In order to avoid a reprise of the financial crisis, reform and between different sets of regulations, all in the context of the globstrengthened regulations are required both for individual institual regulatory framework. MUFG believes the fundamental mission tions and the system as a whole. On the other hand, we must of a financial institution is to support economic growth. To realize ensure that the new regulations do not bring uncertainty to both that goal, we engage in proactive advocacy for the development financial markets and the real economy or hamper healthy develof a global regulatory framework based on international cooperaopment and innovation. It is therefore necessary to carefully tion and public/private partnerships. consider the impact of new regulations, as well as the coherence MUFG REPORT 2016 81 Sustainability MUFG’s Goal in CSR CSR Materiality Financial institutions have a responsibility to help stabilize and maintain financial systems and contribute to the sound Customers growth of society. Our goal in CSR is to contribute to solving Responding to customer feedback and providing products and services that exceed customer expectations social issues through our core financial businesses as well as to fulfill our inherent social mission as the foundation of society and realize a sustainable society. Community * Detailed information on our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities Supporting the development and invigoration of local can be seen at http://www.mufg.jp/english/csr/ communities CSR Strategy and CSR Materiality Responsible Finance The environment surrounding financial institutions is conContributing to the resolution of environmental and social problems through our core business stantly changing along with evolving social trends in Japan and overseas and the rapid globalization of corporate activities. As it aims to flexibly address these changes and contribute to the sustainable development of society, MUFG has identified the following three priorities of its CSR Materiality: “Customers” “Community” and “Responsible Finance.” Customers—Exceeding Customer Expectations We continue to attract new customers and establish lasting MUFG Feedback Monitoring System relationships with them by quickly responding to a diverse range of needs and opinions while making continuous Customers efforts to reflect this feedback in our products and services. (1) Changes in the external Improvements in Products and Services Reflecting Collect Branches, call centers, postcards, environment websites and questionnaires Customer Feedback (2) In-house policies Analyze customer feedback Group companies Enhancing our system for collecting customer feedback Analyze Identify issues Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Improve products & services; Improve reform business processes; Banking, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities , Mitsubishi conduct employee training Monitor UFJ NICOS and ACOM, have been collecting, analyzing and Verify Report sharing customer feedback and requests to make improveimprovements ments in their products and services. Management, committees, etc. In fiscal 2015, the number of such comments and requests Report received by these five companies totaled approximately 275,000. Corporate Social Customer MUFG Responsibility Complaint Committee Monitoring Meeting Customer comments and requests: 275,000 cases 82 MUFG REPORT 2016 In fiscal 2015, we made 458 improvements based on cusCreating Safe Branches for Peace of Mind tomer feedback. Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking have been increasing the number of barrier-free Improvements: branches with such features as warning tile blocks for the visually impaired persons, automated doors and wheelchairs 458 cases for visitors’ use. We post barrier-free information on our corporate website so that customers can check out branch *Total for Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities, Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS and ACOM facilities before visiting. between April 2015 and March 2016. Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS employs off-site videophone operators to aid in communication with customers with hearing or speaking disabilities via sign language or writing, taking the Issues on which we received substantial feedback needs of such customers into consideration. Customer Feedback Ensuring That All Customers Can Use Our Services The content listed in the “Passbook Summary” column (section with Ease where customers can take notes) is difficult to understand. Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking have reduced over-the-counter transaction fees to Details of Improvements Made the same level as ATM transfer fees for customers who have Posted a “view applicable main transaction” option in the FAQ visual disabilities or use wheelchairs. section for passbooks on our website, elaborating on how the column indicates type of transaction being processed. Each Group company implements countermeasures against malicious financial crimes that target elderly customers. At branches of Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities and Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking, warning flyers are handed out to elderly customers and informative booklets are in Customer Feedback place to raise their awareness of the increasingly sophisticatIt is difficult to prepare the large number of documents that are ed maneuvers used by those who aim to exploit them necessary for inheritance procedures. through fraudulent transactions. Details of Improvements Made It is now no longer necessary to redo procedures even if the validity period of certain document, such as your family register, has expired. Striving to Ensure That All MUFG Outlets Are Universally Accessible and Welcoming To ensure our preparedness in the face of a rapidly aging society and the enforcement of Japan’s Act on Elimination of Discrimination against People with Disabilities in April 2016, we are increasing the number of barrier-free branches, enhancing reception and response, and simplifying procedures by giving due consideration to the needs of the elderly and people with disabilities. MUFG REPORT 2016 83 Sustainability Community—Supporting Community A total of more than Development 6,000 employees in 35 countries and regions participated We plan to raise our values as a corporation by strengthenin the campaign ing our bonds with local communities and endeavoring to build trust and confidence, not only with customers, but also with regional societies in Japan and overseas. Initiatives in Japan and Overseas Global Volunteer Month “MUFG Gives Back” New York (the United States)/ London (the United Kingdom)/ We established Global Volunteer Month to encourage the Americas EMEA employees around the world to engage in community contribution activities simultaneously. This campaign is subtitled “MUFG Gives Back,” reflecting our aspiration to communicate our gratitude to people all around the world who generously supported Japan’s reconstruction efforts after the Great East Japan Earthquake. Yangon (Myanmar)/ Chengdu (China)/ East Asia Asia and Oceania Mediumto Long-Term Initiatives to Support Reconstruction in Areas Affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake From a mediumto long-term perspective, we are supporting reconstruction efforts in areas devastated by the earthquake through financial support in collaboration with public agencies and municipal governments, thereby conTokyo (Japan) tributing to society as a whole. Total balance of loans made by Bank of TokyoMitsubishi UFJ utilizing an interest subsidy program for the special reconstruction zone* (financial support) ¥27.7 billion (As of April 30, 2016) * For funding core projects as part of reconstruction plans in designated Special Zones for Reconstruction in the disaster areas (in 227 municipalities), the national government subsidizes up to 0.7% of the interest for five years. Participation in the TOMODACHI Initiative (Social contribution) We established the TOMODACHI MUFG International The fourth TOMODACHI MUFG International Exchange Exchange Program for students and educators from the Program (Kesennuma City, Miyagi Prefecture) disaster-affected areas in Japan and their counterparts in the United States. Through this program, we work to support the healthy growth of children in both Japan and the United States. MUFG has received the Encouragement Award in the Sixth Career Education Awards Category of Large Enterprises from the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry MUFG provides children with opportunities to learn about finance and economics through workplace experience proWorkplace experience (Photo provided by Yomiuri program Educational Network) grams and classes held by our employees in schools. To help Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Class held by our employees children become independent and productive member of Hiratsuka Branch Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ society and realize visions for their own lives, MUFG is Corporate Communications Division enhancing the content of its programs. 84 MUFG REPORT 2016 2015 project finance league table (renewable energy category) Responsible Finance—Contributing to Credit the Resolution of Environmental and Rank Organization (Millions Table Share (%) of US$) Social Problems 1 Banco Santander 3,158.5 6.26 2 MUFG 2,639.1 5.46 From a long-term perspective, we are implementing initiatives 3 KFW 2,356.2 4.87 to assist in the sound growth of corporate customers and soci4 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group 1,884.6 3.90 ety. These initiatives include support for corporate procurement 5 Rabobank 1,881.8 3.86 activities that give due consideration to environmental risk and 6 Mizuho Financial 1,560.9 3.23 the promotion of investment management that focuses on the 7 Nord/LB 1,510.2 3.12 environment, society and governance (ESG). 8 BNDES 1,461.9 3.02 9 HSBC 1,272.7 2.63 Ranked No. 2 in the Global Project Finance Lead Arranger 10 ING 1,127.0 2.33 for Renewable Energy Operations Source: Bloomberg New Energy Finance Drawing on its solid track record and abundant experience, MUFG will continue to lead the dissemination of renewable An example of project finance for renewable energy project energy by arranging and financing solar, wind and geothermal heat power generation projects globally. Environmental and Social Risk Assessment and Management Based on the Equator Principles To address potential adverse impacts of large infrastructure and natural resources development projects on the environment and local communities, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ has adopted the Equator Principles (EP), a framework for determining and assessing such environmental and social impacts. This framework helps us support customers’ environmental and social risk management while contributing to the realization of a sustainable society. The EP Association Pacifico Energy Hosoe Mega-Solar Power Project consists of 84 Equator Principles Financial Institutions (Miyazaki City, Miyazaki Prefecture) around the globe (as of June 30, 2016). Elected as one of the 12 EP Association Steering Committee members, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ is an active advocate for EP implementation and outreach in Japan and overseas. Promotion and Dissemination of ESG Investment Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking is focusing on stepping up efforts to create and manage an investment portfolio of funds The Sustainability Assessment Process that give due consideration to ESG concerns. To this end, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking also strives to promote corporate evaluation methodologies using non-financial information. Financial data-based ESG assessment-based + analysis analysis In addition, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking has announced its endorsement of the Japanese Version of the Stewardship Code, agreeing with the code’s objective of facilitating constructive dialogue between institutional investors, which will, Selection of candidates for investment based in turn, help the latter grow their corporate value and busion long-term perspectives ness operations. Note: Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking’s policy on initiatives to secure responStable investment performance over siveness to the Japanese Version of the Stewardship Code is disclosed the mediumto long-term on the following website. http://www.tr.mufg.jp/cgi-bin/english/ourservices/management/ asset_management_02.cgi?page=investment.html MUFG REPORT 2016 85 Supporting SME Growth, Regional Economies Regional Revitalization, Revitalizing Interview with a Fund User Local Communities and Economies Mr. Ryoichi Mori, Corporate Executive Officer, General Manager of MUFG offers financial support to its customers who are tackthe Accounting and Finance Department; Mr. Mitsuru Kozawa, ling region-specific issues while collaborating with adminisAssistant Manager; trative organizations and local financial institutions to create Washington Hotel Corporation employment and vitalize local communities. In the face of burgeoning tourism from China and ASEAN nations, the Nagoya region is confronting a chronic shortFinancially Supporting Customers Tackling age of hotel rooms coupled with a lack of land for hotels. Region-Specific Issues Amid these circumstances, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ provided us with business matching opportunities and real estate brokerage services through its banking-related MUFG Regional Revitalization Fund companies. Thanks largely to support from Bank of TokyoMitsubishi UFJ, we were able to acquire a building and Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ launched “MUFG Regional land for commercial use in front of Nagoya station for Revitalization Fund” aimed at providing customers with a new hotel. smooth financing for facility procurement and working capital as well as advice to help customers get their projects on Finance Using the Government Subsidized Interest track. Our efforts focus on helping customers meet four Payment Program basic targets under Japan’s plan for the Dynamic Engagement of All Citizens covering community, people and employment. In fiscal 2015, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking invested a total of ¥29.4 billion in 41 Having started out with a maximum solicitation amount of projects using the government’s subsidized interest pay¥100 billion in January 2016, this fund has increased its total ment program for regional revitalization. Since the inception cap to ¥200 billion in April, with more than 40 companies of this program, we have provided these loans to more than using this fund.*1 (As of June 2016) 200 projects*2 in regions around Japan. *1 The list of companies using the fund can be seen at http://www.bk.mufg.jp/ *2 Please see the map at right for a breakdown by prefecture. houjin/chihousousei_fund/index.html (Japanese only) Supporting the Growth of SME Customers Using its nationwide network, MUFG provides various services to SMEs in accordance with their stage of growth and development. Foundation Growth Phase Business Support for Potential Growth Areas Business Support Program “Rise Up Festa” This program aims to fully utilize the Group’s business network and know-how to assist SMEs and growing companies engaged in novel and creative segments as well as those trying to extend the boundaries of existing business, with MUFG serving as their longterm business partner. The third “Rise Up Festa” awards In April 2016, MUFG hosted the third round of “Rise Up Festa,” recThe 13th Business Link “Shobai ceremony ognizing four outstanding companies and seven excellent compaHanjo” Conference was a roaring nies in four growth fields: bio and life science; robotic and other success cutting-edge technologies; information and internet services; and social business. MUFG offers various forms of support to these companies. Corporate Reconstruction 86 MUFG REPORT 2016 Supporting Municipal Governments by Providing Services Aimed at Vitalizing Local Communities Collaborating with Local Financial Institutions—Agreement with Entered a partnership agreement with: THE TOTTORIBANK Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ is partnering with Yokohama City (Kanagawa Prefecture) TOTTORIBANK, which boasts a robust network serving local corporations, in the formulation of concrete business plans aimed at vitalizing Entered partnership agreements with: the sightseeing industry and addressing the Aichi Prefecture, Ichinomiya City, problem of vacant housing. This partnership is Komaki City, Owariasahi City, Inuyama City, expected to help vitalize the communities of Shinshiro City, Kiyosu City and Handa City Tottori. With the prefectural government actively supporting child raising and welcoming immigration from other regions, there has been growth in birth rates and the Held a Local Public number of migrants. To help prefecture build Body Forum in: on these results, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Osaka Prefecture has committed itself to this partnership with a focus on regional revitalization in an innovative manner. Entered a partnership agreement with: Public-Private Initiative—Agreement with Osaka Prefecture Kyoto Prefecture Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and Bank of Ayudhya have entered an agreement with Osaka Prefecture with regard to the provision of assistance to Osaka-based corporations looking to expand overseas and the facilitation of economic exchange between Osaka prefecture and Thailand. Under this agreement, both companies will hold business matching meetings in Thailand to which they invite Osaka-based Entered a partnership corporations while providing them with information on the Thai economy agreement with: and the local investment environment and other high-value-added Kuwana City services to help vitalize economies of both locations. (Mie Prefecture) (As of June 2016, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ entered partnership agreements with 11 counterparts excluding those stated above.) Hosting a Local Public Body Forum—Nagoya Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ held a forum themed on regional revitalization and the role of local government in the face of population decline. With Mr. Hiroya Masuda, an adviser for Nomura Research Institute, Ltd., serving as a lecturer, approximately 180 representatives from municipal governments spanning four prefectures in the Tokai area attended the Finance Using the Government’s Subsidized Interest Payment event to learn about best practices undertaken by other prefectures and Program acquire new insights. As such, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ is striving to help municipal governments address region-specific issues they are now Number of projects by prefecture confronting. We held a similar forum in Osaka Prefecture, as well. 왎 10 or more 왎 Five to nine 왎 One to four Developing Cashless Settlement Platforms [Examples of targeted sightseeing locations] Regions around Onuma Quasi National Park (Hokkaido Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS is promoting the introduction of Prefecture), Ise-Shima region (Mie Prefecture), Kinugasa “J-Mups Cloud-Based Multi-Payment System,” capable of shopping street in Yokosuka City (Kanagawa Prefecture) handling multiple settlement methods, including credit cards, the China Union Pay card, and electronic money, targeting commercial facilities in rural regions and sightseeing hotspots. It also accommodates foreign currency-denominated settlement, thereby enabling businesses to meet the diverse settlement needs of domestic sightseers, foreign tourists and other guests. In this way, we are contributing to J-Mups Cloud-Based Multi-Payment System the vitalization of the tourist industry in regions around Japan. Mature Phase Providing Smooth Financing and New Opportunities Ensuring Smooth Business Succession Business Link “Shobai Hanjo” Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ has developed a service structure to This is a large-scale business matching conference we have orgaassist customers in undertakings ranging from urgent stock acquinized annually since 2005. In February 2016, we held the 13th sitions to determining long-term succession strategies. Under this Business Link “Shobai Hanjo” Conference under the themes “Act structure, we deploy business succession specialists who provide Globally” and “Get Innovation” in Nagoya. With representatives from customers with optimal advice in accordance with their circumapproximately 3,400 companies attending this event, the number of stances and management plans. business matching negotiations totaled around 8,300, which is almost double the number recorded at the ninth round held in the Meanwhile, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking offers a wide range of same city. consulting services, from corporate business succession to individual asset transfer. Our management financial diagnosis program (the “ownership” program) is used to analyze a client’s current asset and business situation and identify key issues to address to ensure a smooth succession. It helps corporate clients clarify crucial issues affecting their business. Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking offer consultation in a timely and appropriate manner for customers facing challenges in borrowing conditions and other management issues. When necessary, we introduce experts from inside and outside our organization to customers. MUFG REPORT 2016 87 Five-Year Major Financial Data (FY 2011-FY 2015) (Billions of Yen) FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 Currency exchange rate (USD/JPY) (yen) 82.19 94.05 102.92 120.17 112.68 Statement of income data: Gross profits before credit costs for trust accounts 3,502.0 3,634.2 3,753.4 4,229.0 4,143.2 Net interest income 1,840.5 1,816.8 1,878.6 2,181.6 2,113.5 Trust fees excluding credit costs 96.9 95.1 108.4 111.4 117.0 Net fees and commissions 964.2 1,042.2 1,160.3 1,308.6 1,320.5 Net trading profits 225.5 288.2 362.0 352.9 306.3 Net other business profits 374.7 391.7 244.0 274.3 285.6 Net gains (losses) on debt securities 270.3 336.7 142.8 115.1 132.9 General and administrative expenses 1,994.5 2,095.0 2,289.3 2,584.1 2,585.2 Expenses ratio 56.9% 57.6% 60.9% 61.1% 62.3% Net business profits before credit costs for trust accounts 1,507.4 1,539.2 1,464.1 1,644.9 1,557.9 and provision for general allowance for credit losses Total credit costs 193.4 115.6 (11.8) 161.6 255.1 BTMU and MUTB combined*1 134.5 65.3 (35.1) 71.1 103.7 Net gains (losses) on equity securities (88.6) (53.6) 144.5 93.1 88.3 Gains (losses) on sales of equity securities (9.4) 33.6 157.5 97.9 113.6 Losses on write-down of equity securities (79.2) (87.3) (12.9) (4.8) (25.3) Profits (losses) from investments in affiliates 377.5 52.0 112.4 159.6 230.4 Other non-recurring gains (losses) (130.8) (77.7) (38.2) (23.0) (82.0) Ordinary profits 1,471.9 1,344.1 1,694.8 1,713.0 1,539.4 Net extraordinary gains (losses) (23.8) 9.6 (151.7) (98.2) (40.7) Total taxes 376.4 395.7 439.9 467.7 460.2 Tax burden ratio 26.0% 29.2% 28.5% 28.9% 30.7% Profits attributable to non-controlling interests 90.2 105.3 118.1 113.2 87.1 Profits attributable to owners of parent 981.3 852.6 984.8 1,033.7 951.4 Balance sheet data: Total assets 218,861.6 234,498.7 258,131.9 286,149.7 298,302.8 Loans and bills discounted 84,492.6 91,299.5 101,938.9 109,368.3 113,756.3 Securities 78,264.7 79,526.8 74,515.5 73,538.1 69,993.8 Total liabilities 207,185.8 220,979.0 243,019.0 268,862.2 280,916.1 Deposits 124,789.2 131,697.0 144,760.2 153,357.4 160,965.0 Negotiable certificates of deposit 12,980.6 14,855.0 15,548.1 16,073.8 11,591.5 Total net assets 11,675.7 13,519.6 15,112.8 17,287.5 17,386.7 Total shareholders’ equity 9,909.5 10,578.3 11,346.2 11,328.6 11,855.8 Retained earnings 5,602.3 6,267.9 7,033.1 7,860.4 8,587.5 Total accumulated other comprehensive income 83.4 1,158.2 1,709.7 3,989.2 3,602.1 Non-controlling interests 1,674.8 1,774.1 2,048.1 1,961.3 1,920.5 Financial Ratios Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio*2 — 11.60% 11.18% 11.09% 11.63% Tier 1 Capital ratio*2, 3 12.15% 12.63% 12.37% 12.58% 13.24% Total Capital ratio*2, 3 14.72% 16.53% 15.43% 15.62% 16.01% (Fiscal 2011 is capital ratio) Dividends per share (DPS) (yen) 12.0 13.0 16.0 18.0 18.0 Dividend payout ratio 17.6% 22.0% 23.4% 24.6% 26.3% Book-value per share (BPS) (yen) 678.25 800.95 893.77 1,092.75 1,121.07 Earnings per share (EPS) (yen) 68.09 58.99 68.29 73.22 68.51 ROE MUFG definition 11.10% 8.77% 9.05% 8.74% 7.63% ROE TSE definition 10.60% 7.96% 8.05% 7.38% 6.18% Total number of ordinary shares (excluding 14.144 14.155 14.161 14.017 13.788 own shares) (billion shares) Share price (fiscal year-end) (yen) 412 558 567 743.7 521.5 Market capitalization (trillions of yen) *4 5.8 7.8 8.0 10.4 7.1 PBR*4 (times) 0.60 0.69 0.63 0.68 0.46 PER*4 (times) 6.0 9.4 8.3 10.1 7.6 *1 The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (non-consolidated) + Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation (non-consolidated) (without any adjustments) *2 The risk-adjusted capital ratios and the amounts of components thereof prior to FY 2014 reflect corrections of errors discovered in the risk weighting applied to certain assets, mostly residential mortgage loans, and certain other adjustments made under Basel I standards to obtain amounts that were used for floor adjustments in determining the amounts of riskweighted assets under Basel III standards. *3 FY 2011 is under Basel II standards *4 Figures based on fiscal year-end share price 88 MUFG REPORT 2016 Financial Review for Fiscal 2015 Financial and Economic Environment Growth Rate of Real GDP (Annual Rate, Quarter on Quarter) In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, economy outlook has become increasingly clouded, even as the global econo(%) 10 my – especially developed countries – remained on a gradual recovery course. Share prices around the world dropped 5 owing to concerns surrounding China, weak oil and other resource prices. However, US domestic demand, in particu0 lar, remained on a path of self-sustained recovery as the -5 employment picture steadily improved, despite weakness in the energy industry and some other sectors. Europe’s econ-10 omy continued to pick up, propelled by the weak EUR and (CY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 cheap oil, in spite of the Greek debt issue and NPLs in southSource: Compiled by Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Economic Research Office from ern countries. In Asia, while China continued to slow due to Cabinet Office data suppressed investment, while weak exports weighed on other Asian economies, private consumption remained firm throughout the region, bolstered by lower inflation. Against this backdrop, Japan’s economy continued on a gradual recovery trajectory, even with some apparent weak Employee Income* (Year on Year) spots. The warm winter dampened private consumption, Wages per person Employment Employee income which remained fairly flat overall despite higher incomes. (%) Exports to the US and Europe were strong overall, but 2.5 exports to China and other emerging economies were weak, 2.0 including resource-producing countries. On the other hand, 1.5 capital expenditures continued to rise gradually due to 1.0 0.5 robust corporate profits as the glut of capital stock was erased. 0 -0.5 With regard to the financial situation, in U.S., the Federal -1.0 Reserve Board raised interest rates for the first time in nine-1.5 (CY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 and-a-half –years in December, as employment conditions improved. In the Eurozone, on the other hand, the ECB bol* Employee income is the number of employees multiplied by wages per person Source: Compiled by Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Economic Research Office based on stered monetary easing, including cutting the deposit rate in MIC and MHLW data December and again in March. The Bank of Japan commenced a policy of “Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing with a Negative Interest Rate” in January 2016, and the benchmark yield turned and stayed CAPEX (Real GDP base*, Forecast) negative through to the end of the fiscal year. Share prices have fallen and the Japanese yen has rallied since early 2016, primarily reflecting heightened risk aversion around the globe. (Trillions of Yen) (Forecast) 80 70 60 50 0 (FY) 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 * Based on 2005 prices Source: Compiled by Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Economic Research Office from Cabinet Office data MUFG REPORT 2016 89 Financial Review for Fiscal 2015 Consolidated Earnings Summary Ordinary Profits Consolidated Net Business Profits Ordinary profits fell ¥173.5 billion to ¥1,539.4 billion on a rise of ¥70.7 billion in profits from investments in affiliates to Consolidated gross profits for the fiscal year ended March ¥230.4 billion that was mainly attributable to growth in earn31, 2016 decreased ¥85.8 billion from the previous fiscal year ings at Morgan Stanley and was partially offset by an to ¥4,143.2 billion. This was mainly due to the appreciation of increase in other non-recurring losses of ¥58.9 billion. the Japanese yen against other currencies a decrease in net interest income from domestic loans and deposits and a fall Profits Attributable to Owners of Parent in gains on ALM, whereas an increase in overseas profit from MUFG’s group collaboration businesses in the U.S. and overseas Net extraordinary losses decreased ¥57.5 billion from the subsidiaries’ businesses contributed to increase gross profits. previous fiscal year. Although a ¥40.7 billion loss was posted due mainly to losses on change in equity (in relation to General and Administrative expenses for the fiscal year Morgan Stanley; ¥36.0 billion), the improvement was largely ended March 31, 2016 increased ¥1.1 billion from the previous attributable to the absence of legal settlement fees paid by fiscal year to ¥2,585.2 billion, mainly due to higher regulatory The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in the United States in the costs in overseas despite MUFG’s cost-cutting efforts and previous fiscal year. As a result, profit attributable to owners the positive impact from the improved yen-dollar exchange of parent decreased ¥82.3 billion to ¥951.4 billion, somewhat rate. As a result, consolidated net business profits decreased exceeding the previously announced target of ¥950.0 billion. ¥87.0 billion from the previous fiscal year to ¥1,557.9 billion. Net Operating Profits by Business Segment Credit Costs Consolidated net operating profits*1 fell ¥112.4 billion to Total credit costs increased ¥93.5 billion from the previous ¥1,551.0 billion. Asset Management / Investor Services fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, to ¥255.1 billion. This was Business Group, profit increased mainly due to an increase in mainly due to an increase in the provision for specific allowthe value of assets under management both Japan and overance for credit losses on the back of such factors as a fall in seas. Meanwhile, in Retail Banking, Japanese Corporate resource prices. Banking, Global Banking and Global Markets Business Groups, profits decreased due to the appreciation of yen, Net Gains (Losses) on Equity Securities plunging stock markets and the low interest rate environment affected by Negative Interest Rate policy. Net gains on equity securities fell ¥4.8 billion to ¥88.3 billion. This was mainly attributable to write-offs of equity securities, which outweighed an increase in gains on sales of equity securities. History of Profits Attributable to Owners of Parent Breakdown of Profits Attributable to Owners of Parent*1 First half Second half Morgan Stanley (Billions of Yen) (Billions of Yen) 146.8 Negative MUFG 1,200 Consolidated goodwill* 290.6 951.4 1,033.7 Krungsri MUSHD Others *3 981.3 984.8 (Bank of 43.2 1,000 951.4 ACOM (55.4) Ayudhya) 5.8 42.3 852.6 MUAH*2 285.2 MUN MUTB 57.2 800 455.0 (34.7) 454.6 352.0 Non-consolidated 159.9 600 583.0 562.1 BTMU 226.3 Non-consolidated 388.7 586.0 400 599.3 578.7 530.2 247.7 200 356.7 405.4 290.4 140.9 0 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 FY2015 * One-time effect of negative goodwill associated with the application of equity method *1 The above figures reflect the percentage holding in each subsidiaries and equity method accounting on our investment in Morgan Stanley investees *2 MUFG Americas Holdings Corporation *3 Including cancellation of the amount of inter-group dividend receipt and profits (losses) related to transfer of equity securities within MUFG and other expenses, etc. 90 MUFG REPORT 2016 With regard to the net operating profits in the customer segrevenues from the sale of investment products due to the ments, 36% of profits were earned from overseas business.*2 deterioration in the market environment and a decrease in *1 All figures are on managerial basis loan and deposit revenues resulting from lower interest *2 Global Banking Business Group margins, led to a net decrease in net operating profits for this segment. Retail Banking Business Group Japanese Corporate Banking Business Group In Retail Banking Business Group, net operating profits decreased ¥54.1 billion to ¥286.6 billion for the fiscal year In Japanese Corporate Banking Business Group, net operatended March 31, 2016. The customer base were expanded ing profits decreased ¥34.5 billion to ¥460.3 billion for the through the project of initial public offering involving the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. Large IPO project boosted three Japan Post Group operating companies, and the conrevenues from securities business, while loans for SMEs sumer finance business contributed profits. However, a fall in grew thanks to the success of capital strategy proposals. Despite this, the absence of major M&A deals, which yielded significant revenues in the previous fiscal year, and a fall in Net Operating Profits by Business Segment interest income from loans and deposits due to the ongoing Retail Banking Japanese Corporate Banking Global Banking low interest rate environment, led to a net decrease in net Asset Management / Investor Services Global Markets operating profits. (Billions of Yen) 1,663.4*1 Global Banking Business Group 1,551.0*1 457.3 426.7 In Global Banking Business Group, net operating profits 68.3 decreased ¥35.4 billion to ¥464.2 billion for the fiscal year 70.2 499.6 ended March 31, 2016. Although the M&A-related business 464.2 posted firm results thanks to initiatives aimed at seizing Customer opportunities arising from a trend toward reorganization Customer segments*2 494.8 segments*2 among European and U.S. corporations, the segment was 84% 460.3 82% affected by the slowing pace of growth in the Chinese economy, a plunge in resource prices around the world and unfa340.6 286.6 vorable foreign exchange rates, resulting in a net decrease in (FY) 2014 2015 net operating profits. *1 Total net operating profits includes net operating profit for “Other” segment (FY2014: Asset Management / Investor Services Business Group (¥197.2 bn), FY2015: (¥157.0 bn)) *2 Ratio of customer segments = net operating profits from customer segment / total net operating profits (*1) In Asset Management / Investor Services Business Group, net operating profits increased ¥1.9 billion to ¥70.2 billion for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. This was mainly attributable to firm results recorded by the investment trust manBreakdown of Changes in Net Operating Profits agement services and growth in the value of assets managed in the global business, both of which helped coun(Billions of Yen) 1,663.4 ter the negative impact of a decline in employees’ pension fund plans. Asset Management / Retail Investor Banking Japanese Services Others 40.2 1,551.0 Global Markets Business Group (54.1) Corporate 1.9 Banking Global Banking (34.5) (35.4) Global Markets In Global Markets Business Group, net operating profits (30.6) decreased ¥30.6 billion to ¥426.7 billion for the fiscal year Sum of customer ended March 31, 2016. Despite the strong showings of S&T segments operations and the solid investment management revenues (122.0) attributable to our taking a flexible approach to handling securities, a deceleration of Asia’s economic growth and extreme fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and stock markets led to a net decrease in net operating profits. (FY) 2014 2015 MUFG REPORT 2016 91 Financial Review for Fiscal 2015 Consolidated Balance Sheet Summary Net Assets (Billions of Yen) Change Shareholders’ equity grew ¥527.1 billion year on year to from Mar 31, Mar 31, ¥11,855.8 billion on a rise in retained earnings and other posiMar 31, 2016 2015 2015 tive factors that offset dividend payments (¥251.3 billion) and [% change] the repurchase of treasury stock (¥200.0 billion). Total accu12,153.1 Total assets 298,302.8 286,149.7 [+4.2%] mulated other comprehensive income declined ¥387.1 billion to ¥3,602.1 billion due mainly to decreases in net unrealized Loans (Banking + Trust accounts) 113,906.8 109,480.7 4,426.1 gains (losses) on other securities and foreign currency transLoans (Banking accounts) 113,756.3 109,368.3 4,387.9 lation adjustments. Domestic corporate loans* 1, 2 43,804.4 42,456.7 1,347.6 Housing loans*1, 15,570.7 15,879.1 (308.3) Loans Overseas loans*3 43,045.4 41,701.7 1,343.7 Investment securities 69,993.8 73,538.1 (3,544.3) Loans increased ¥4,426.1 billion from the previous fiscal year Domestic equity securities 5,573.5 6,323.6 (750.1) ended March 31, 2015, to ¥113,906.8 billion on increases in Japanese government bonds 28,357.1 35,210.6 (6,853.5) domestic corporate and overseas loans. Foreign bonds 27,883.7 23,571.5 4,312.1 12,053.8 Total liabilities 280,916.1 268,862.2 Loans (Period end balance)*1 [+4.4%] Deposits 160,965.0 153,357.4 7,607.6 Housing loan Domestic corporate*2 Government Overseas*3 Others BTMU and MUTB combined 145,331.9 137,332.3 7,999.6 (Trillions of Yen) 111.9 113.9 Individual 109.4 71,068.6 70,415.1 653.4 120 102.0 102.6 1.3 1.3 (Domestic branches) 95.3 1.5 1.3 1.3 100 1.3 Corporations and others 52,782.3 47,449.1 5,333.1 42.4 43.0 41.7 80 28.8 34.4 36.1 Overseas branches 21,062.4 18,958.3 2,104.0 8.6 7.6 7.9 9.7 10.1 60 8.2 99.2 Total net assets 17,386.7 17,287.5 [+0.5%] 40 41.3 41.5 42.4 42.7 43.8 40.4 Total shareholders’ equity 11,855.8 11,328.6 527.1 20 8,587.5 7,860.4 727.1 16.3 16.3 15.9 15.8 15.6 Retained earnings 0 15.5 Total accumulated other Sep. 30, 2013 Mar. 31, 2014 Sep. 30, 2014 Mar. 31, 2015 Sep. 30, 2015 Mar. 31, 2016 3,602.1 3,989.2 (387.1) comprehensive income *1 Sum of banking and trust accounts Net unrealized gains (losses) 2,486.6 2,835.0 (348.4) *2 Excluding loans to government and government institutions on other securities *3 Loans booked in overseas branches, MUAH, Krungsri (Bank of Ayudhya), BTMU (China), BTMU (Holland), BTMU (Canada) and BTMU (Malaysia) Foreign currency translation 791.4 951.5 (160.1) adjustments *1 BTMU and MUTB combined + Trust accounts *2 Excluding loans to government and government institutions Although the risk-monitored loans based on Banking Act *3 Loans booked in overseas branches, MUAH, Krungsri (Bank of Ayudhya), BTMU (China), BTMU (Holland), BTMU (Canada) and BTMU (Malaysia) decreased in Japan, it increased overseas, especially in the Americas. As a result, the risk-monitored loans ratio increased 0.04 percentage points from the previous fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, to 1.45%. Balance of Risk-Monitored Loans*1 (Left axis) Domestic Asia Americas*2 EMEA*2 (Right axis) % Risk-monitored loans ratio*3 (%) 2.24 2.20 2.12 2.5 2.08 1.80 1.66 1.67 2.0 1.44 1.40 1.45 1.5 (Billions of Yen) 1,864.1 1,944.4 1.0 2,000 1,766.0 1,792.5 1,705.5 1,655.8 1,530.8 1,529.7 1,539.9 1,500 1,276.6 1,000 500 0 Mar. 31, 2007 Mar. 31, 2008 Mar. 31, 2009 Mar. 31, 2010 Mar. 31, 2011 Mar. 31, 2012 Mar. 31, 2013 Mar. 31, 2014 Mar. 31, 2015 Mar. 31, 2016 EMEA 18.1 21.2 42.6 136.3 121.2 127.2 122.0 126.3 88.2 133.9 Americas 54.9 24.8 81.2 147.3 110.3 89.2 125.0 114.9 100.7 199.4 Asia 13.5 13.1 15.4 14.4 9.4 14.4 17.0 89.0 108.8 145.3 Domestic 1,444.2 1,217.3 1,390.5 1,467.9 1,551.5 1,633.2 1,680.3 1,375.2 1,242.0 1,177.1 *1 Risk-monitored loans based on Banking Act. Regions are based on the borrowers’ location *2 Figures of EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Other) and Americas before March 2012 are previously disclosed as Other and United States of America, respectively *3 Total risk-monitored loans / Total loans and bills discounted (Banking accounts as of period end) 92 MUFG REPORT 2016 Deposits Investment Securities Deposits increased ¥7,607.6 billion from the previous fiscal Despite an increase in foreign bonds, investment securities year ended March 31, 2015, to ¥160,965.0 billion mainly due fell ¥3,544.3 billion year on year to ¥69,993.8 billion mainly to an increase of domestic corporate deposits. due to a decrease in Japanese Government Bonds and domestic equity securities. Deposits (Period end balance) Domestic individual Domestic corporate, etc. Overseas and others Net unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities fell ¥647.9 billion compared with the previous fiscal year to ¥3,485.2 bil(Trillions of Yen) lion due to a decrease in domestic equity securities. 200 160.9 144.7 153.3 154.4 With regard to the balance of Japanese Government Bonds, 150 136.1 144.1 30.1 29.6 35.4 36.2 37.1 by maturity, those due within five years or less were down 24.9 100 47.4 52.7 due to such factors the low interest rate environment affect43.1 45.7 45.1 47.4 ed by Negative Interest Rate policy while those due within 50 69.2 70.4 70.7 71.0 five years or more increased. Duration increased to 4.0 years. 68.0 68.8 0 Sep. 30, 2013 Mar. 31, 2014 Sep. 30, 2014 Mar. 31, 2015 Sep. 30, 2015 Mar. 31, 2016 Available-for-sale Securities with Fair Value (Billions of Yen) Balance Unrealized gains (losses) Domestic Deposit / Lending Rates Change Change Mar 31, from Mar 31, from Domestic deposit / lending spread excluding loans to gov2016 Mar 31, 2016 Mar 31, 2015 2015 ernment decreased 0.07 percentage points from FY 2015 4Q Total 65,518.4 (3,817.7) 3,485.2 (647.9) mainly due to a decline in lending rates reflecting lower market interest rates. Domestic equity 4,873.2 (848.1) 2,205.4 (724.5) securities Domestic bonds 30,322.4 (6,197.7) 718.2 391.8 Japanese Changes in Domestic Deposit / Lending Rates government 27,255.9 (6,828.4) 631.9 358.4 (Excluding loans to government) bonds Deposit rate Deposit / lending spread Lending rate Others 30,322.7 3,228.1 561.6 (315.1) (%) Foreign equity 149.0 (42.3) 23.8 (34.6) 1.5 securities 1.31 1.25 26,650.4 4,085.4 510.9 (86.3) 1.23 1.20 1.19 1.16 Foreign bonds 1.2 1.13 1.10 1.09 1.06 1.04 1.03 1.24 1.01 3,523.2 (814.9) 26.8 (194.1) 1.19 1.18 1.15 Others 1.14 1.11 1.09 1.05 1.04 0.9 1.02 1.00 0.98 0.97 0.6 0.3 Balance of Japanese Government Bonds (JGB) Portfolio by Maturity 0.06 0.06 0.05 0.05 0.05 0.05 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.03 (BTMU and MUTB combined)* 0 4Q 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q (Left axis) ｗithin 1 year 1 year to 5 years 5 years to 10 years 2012 2013 2014 2015 over 10 years (Right axis) Duration (JGB, non-consolidated) (Trillions of Yen) (Year) 50 5.0 (Reference) Market Interest Rates 41.1 40.4 0.5 39.6 4.0 3M JPY TIBOR 5Y JPY Swap Rate 40 0.7 4.0 2.1 5.5 5.3 35.1 5.0 3.3 2.5 (%) (Interest rates as of the end of each month) 3.2 30.2 0.6 30 2.8 5.7 28.3 3.0 2.7 2.4 2.5 3.2 16.1 5.4 21.4 0.4 19.3 5.7 20 14.1 2.0 11.0 0.2 8.6 10 1.0 14.9 16.2 0 13.5 12.7 11.3 10.7 -0.2 0 0 (End of month) 12 3 6 9 12 3 6 9 12 3 6 9 12 3 Sep. 30, 2013 Mar. 31, 2014 Sep. 30, 2014 Mar. 31, 2015 Sep. 30, 2015 Mar. 31, 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 * Available-for-sale securities and held-to-maturity securities Source: Bloomberg (duration is for securities available for sale only) MUFG REPORT 2016 93 Financial Review for Fiscal 2015 Capital Adequacy Shareholder Returns (Billions of Yen) Change MUFG considers the return of earnings to shareholders to be Mar. 31, Sep. 30, from 2016 2015 Sep. 30, one of the most important management priorities and 2015 makes it a basic policy to aim for a stable and continuous Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio 11.63% 11.23% 0.40% increase in dividends per share through growth in profits. Tier 1 Capital ratio 13.24% 12.73% 0.50% Total Capital ratio 16.01% 15.69% 0.31% With respect to the year-end dividend for common stock for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, MUFG plans to pay ¥9 Tier 1 Capital 14,839.2 14,254.1 585.1 per share. As a result, the annual dividend for the fiscal year, Common Equity Tier 1 Capital 13,039.8 12,571.9 467.9 including the interim dividend of ¥9 per share, is expected to Retained earnings 8,587.5 8,358.0 229.5 be ¥18 per share, which is the same amount as the annual Other comprehensive income 2,161.2 1,356.2 805.0 dividend of ¥18 paid for the previous fiscal year. Regulatory adjustments (1,100.4) (693.3) (407.1) Additional Tier 1 Capital 1,799.4 1,682.2 117.1 In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, we repurchased own Preferred securities and subordishares on two occasions (approximately ¥100.0 billion each 1,544.5 1,260.2 284.2 nated debt time) in May and November 2015 as part of our strategy to Foreign currency translation 316.5 588.4 (271.9) enhance shareholder returns, improve capital efficiency and adjustments conduct capital management flexibly. Tier 2 Capital 3,102.5 3,308.6 (206.1) Subordinated debt 2,060.5 2,110.4 (49.8) Amounts equivalent to 45% of unrealized gains on 633.8 838.3 (204.5) available-for-sales securities Results and Forecasts of Shareholder Returns 17,941.8 17,562.8 378.9 Dividend payout ratio (%) Profits attributable to owners of parent (Billions of Yen) Total Capital (Tier 1+Tier 2) Dividend per common stock Interim dividend Year-end dividend Risk weighted assets 112,064.3 111,925.3 139.0 Figures on bar graph shows DPS (yen) Credit risk 95,372.3 95,274.0 98.2 — 40.6 30.0 25.2*1 22.0 23.4 24.6 26.3 29.2 (256.9) 388.7 583.0 690.6*1 852.6 984.8 1,033.7 951.4 850.0 Market risk 2,198.7 1,989.1 209.5 (Billions of Yen) Operational risk 6,581.1 6,635.4 (54.2) 300 ¥18 ¥18 ¥18 Transitional floor 7,912.1 8,026.6 (114.4) 250 ¥16 ¥13 * The risk-adjusted capital ratios and the amount of components thereof as of September 200 ¥12 ¥12 ¥12 ¥12 ¥9 ¥9 ¥9 30, 2015 reflect corrections of errors discovered in the risk weighting applied to certain 150 ¥9 assets, mostly residential mortgage loans, and certain other adjustments made under ¥6 ¥6 ¥7 Basel I standards to obtain amounts that were used for floor adjustments in determining ¥6 100 ¥5 the amounts of risk-weighted assets under Basel III standards. ¥9 ¥9 ¥9 50 ¥6 ¥6 ¥6 ¥7 ¥7 ¥6 Total Capital 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) (forecast) Common Equity Tier 1 Capital increased by ¥467.9 billion and * FY 2011 figures do not include one-time effect of negative goodwill associated with application of equity method accounting on our investment in Morgan Stanley Total capital increased by ¥378.9 billion from the end of September 2015, mainly due to increases in retained earnings and other comprehensive income, as well as subordiOutline of Repurchase of Own Share nated debt funding. May 2015 Type of shares to be repurchased Ordinary shares of MUFG Risk Weighted Assets (RWA) Aggregate amount of repurchase price ¥99,999,972,728 Aggregate number of shares repurchased 111,151,800 shares RWA was relatively unchanged, mainly due to an increase in From May 18, 2015 to June 16, loans balance, offset by a decrease in equity balance and the Repurchase period 2015 (Contract base) appreciation of the Japanese yen against the other currencies. November 2015 Type of shares to be repurchased Ordinary shares of MUFG Risk-Adjusted Capital Ratio Aggregate amount of repurchase price ¥99,999,982,169 Aggregate number of shares repurchased 121,703,700 shares The Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio was 11.63%, the Tier 1 Repurchase period From November 16, 2015 to December 8, 2015 (Contract base) Capital ratio was 13.24% and the Total Capital ratio was 16.01%. The provisional figure for the Common Equity Tier 1 (Reference) Number of shares outstanding as of March 31, 2016 Capital ratio, calculated on the basis of regulations applied Total number of ordinary shares (including own shares): 14,168,853,820 shares at the end of March 2019, is 12.1%. Number of own shares: 378,088,933 shares 94 MUFG REPORT 2016 Energy and Mining Credit Exposure Credit Exposure*1 As of the end of March 2016, total credit exposure in the energy related sector, including oil, gas and mineral resources, was ¥10.4 trillion (¥6.2 trillion after deducting the undrawn commitment). Net exposure, deducting the collateral and guarantee (e.g., ECA), was ¥6.9 trillion. Credit Exposure, Collateral and Guarantee Breakdown by Sector / by Region Net exposure Collateralized or guaranteed (Trillions of Yen) (Trillions of Yen) by Sector by Region 15 Credit exposure: Mining 1.2 Integrated Structured Americas ¥10.4 trillion 1.7 finance (BTMU) 10 Related 2.5 3.0 3.5 industry 0.6 Japan Americas 5 1.3 (MUAH) 6.9 Upstream Mid/ 3.0 0.8 downstream Asia, 3.9 Oceania EMEA 0 1.4 1.4 Mar. 31, 2015 Sep. 30, 2015 Mar. 31, 2016 US$/¥=120.17 US$/¥=119.96 US$/¥=112.68 Credit Quality With regard to energy and mining credit exposure, more than 90% is categorized normal (borrowers classified as maintaining strong results and no particular problems with its financial position by the Inspection Manual for Deposit-Taking Institutions), while more than 60% is equivalent to investment grade. Credit deterioration has been observed principally in the upstream part of oil and gas related exposure, and in terms of regions, mostly in the Americas. Non-performing Loans (NLP) in the mining sector were incurred in Asia / Oceania and structured finance schemes. Total NPL amount is approximately ¥120 billion at March 31, 2016, of which 90% are covered with collateral, guarantee or allowance. Credit Exposure and Non-Performing Loans by Sector and Region (Billions of Yen) Total Americas Americas Asia/ Structured EMEA Japan (BTMU) (MUAH) Oceania finance Integrated (Integration of Upstream and Mid/downstream) Credit exposure 1,690 523 0 542 626 0 0 Loans outstanding 1,011 274 0 246 491 0 0 NPLs 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Upstream (Exploration, development and production of oil and gas) Credit exposure 2,984 637 683 201 192 138 1,133 Loans outstanding 1,591 97 347 34 136 121 855 NPLs 99 A 15 62 0 0 0 B 22 Mid/downstream and related industry (Storage, transport, refining, sales and other) Credit exposure 4,555 1,353 120 331 437 1,118 1,195 Loans outstanding 2,271 258 30 106 380 657 840 NPLs 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 Mining (Mineral resources other than oil and gas) Credit exposure 1,175 478 0 373 180 0 143 Loans outstanding 613 283 0 123 95 0 113 NPLs 20 0 0 0 C 15 0 D 6 Credit Exposure, Collateral and Allowance in the Sectors and Regions with Higher NPL Ratio (Billions of Yen) Upstream Mining A Americas Americas B Structured C Asia/ D Structured (BTMU) (MUAH) finance Oceania finance Credit exposure (1) 637 683 1,133 180 143 Collateralized or guaranteed (2) 121 540 408 44 46 Uncollateralized or 517 144 725 136 98 unguaranteed (3) = (1)-(2) Total NPLs NPLs (4) 15 62 22 15 6 120 Collateralized or guaranteed (5) 0 42 19 0 0 Total NPLs Allowance (6) 8 20 3 11 3 (net) NPLs (net) (7) = (4)-(5)-(6) 7 0 0 4 3 14 *1 Including undrawn commitment and excluding market exposure *2 Subject to the relevant criteria applying to each subsidiary. For example, risk-monitored loans based on Japanese Banking Act Note: All figures are on managerial basis MUFG REPORT 2016 95 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheets (Millions of Yen) (Millions of Yen) Mar 31, 2016 Mar 31, 2015 Mar 31, 2016 Mar 31, 2015 Assets: Liabilities: Cash and due from banks 49,158,293 40,488,318 Deposits 160,965,056 153,357,410 Call loans and bills bought 660,015 604,625 Negotiable certificates of deposit 11,591,578 16,073,850 Receivables under resale 7,466,633 7,342,335 Call money and bills sold 1,360,238 3,600,104 agreements Payables under repurchase 23,515,240 21,899,506 Receivables under securities 6,041,983 4,633,544 agreements borrowing transactions Payables under securities lending 4,710,407 8,205,350 Monetary claims bought 4,733,393 4,570,712 transactions Trading assets 20,460,863 20,810,617 Commercial papers 2,292,282 2,179,634 Money held in trust 679,678 700,218 Trading liabilities 17,251,302 15,521,917 Securities 69,993,869 73,538,191 Borrowed money 12,482,277 13,866,196 Loans and bills discounted 113,756,325 109,368,340 Foreign exchanges 2,054,937 1,496,476 Foreign exchanges 1,792,888 2,187,311 Short-term bonds payable 752,492 789,512 Other assets 12,255,764 10,119,936 Bonds payable 9,190,542 8,141,713 Tangible fixed assets 1,362,044 1,352,727 Due to trust accounts 13,296,033 3,183,295 Buildings 349,761 333,430 Other liabilities 10,834,564 9,530,371 Land 730,130 744,416 Reserve for bonuses 90,219 90,360 Lease assets 10,856 11,181 Reserve for bonuses to directors 396 454 Construction in progress 38,494 35,774 Net defined benefit liabilities 62,791 62,121 Other tangible fixed assets 232,801 227,924 Reserve for retirement benefits 1,113 1,086 to directors Intangible fixed assets 1,254,727 1,297,277 Reserve for loyalty award credits 15,971 15,375 Software 570,884 552,345 Reserve for contingent losses 210,087 204,790 Goodwill 278,628 309,119 Reserves under special laws 4,232 3,771 Lease assets 648 730 Deferred tax liabilities 866,815 988,550 Other intangible fixed assets 404,566 435,082 Deferred tax liabilities for 127,237 138,669 Net defined benefit assets 377,955 504,761 land revaluation Deferred tax assets 125,739 114,919 Acceptances and guarantees 9,240,310 9,511,714 Customers’ liabilities for Total liabilities 280,916,129 268,862,234 9,240,310 9,511,714 acceptances and guarantees Net assets: Allowance for credit losses (1,057,585) (995,784) Capital stock 2,141,513 2,141,513 Capital surplus 1,425,637 1,428,403 Retained earnings 8,587,578 7,860,410 Treasury stock (298,922) (101,661) Total shareholders’ equity 11,855,806 11,328,666 Net unrealized gains (losses) on 2,486,627 2,835,091 other securities Net deferred gains (losses) on 337,297 83,194 hedging instruments Land revaluation excess 176,364 172,350 Foreign currency translation 791,401 951,547 adjustments Remeasurements of defined (189,526) (52,909) benefit plans Total accumulated other 3,602,163 3,989,274 comprehensive income Subscription rights to shares 8,260 8,271 Non-controlling interests 1,920,538 1,961,322 Total net assets 17,386,769 17,287,533 Total assets 298,302,898 286,149,768 Total liabilities and net assets 298,302,898 286,149,768 96 MUFG REPORT 2016 Consolidated Financial Results Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Millions of Yen) (Millions of Yen) FY 2015 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2014 Gross profits 4,143,202 4,229,501 Profits 1,038,565 1,146,970 Gross profits before credit costs for 4,143,202 4,229,030 Other comprehensive income trust accounts 2,113,564 2,181,637 Net unrealized gains (losses) on (346,220) 1,595,505 Net interest income other securities Trust fees 117,046 111,916 Net deferred gains (losses) on 252,671 77,367 Credit costs for trust accounts 0 471 hedging instruments Net fees and commissions 1,320,554 1,308,604 Land revaluation excess 7,055 14,149 Net trading profits 306,354 352,950 Foreign currency translation (214,273) 442,466 Net other business profits 285,682 274,393 adjustments Net gains (losses) on debt securities 132,928 115,162 Remeasurements of defined (141,896) 27,880 benefit plans General and administrative expenses 2,585,279 2,584,104 Share of other comprehensive Amortization of goodwill 16,931 17,787 24,759 150,891 income of associates accounted for Net business profits before credit costs using equity method for trust accounts, provision for 1,574,853 1,662,713 general allowance for credit losses Total other comprehensive income (417,903) 2,308,260 and amortization of goodwill Comprehensive income 620,662 3,455,231 Net business profits before credit costs for trust accounts and provision for 1,557,922 1,644,925 (Comprehensive income attributable to) general allowance for credit losses Comprehensive income attributable 556,163 3,313,220 Provision for general allowance for to owners of the parent 175,712 (86,849) credit losses Comprehensive income attributable 64,498 142,011 Net business profits*1 1,733,635 1,558,547 to non-controlling interests Net non-recurring gains (losses) (194,148) 154,454 Credit costs (491,503) (141,486) Losses on loan write-offs (143,946) (144,845) Provision for specific allowance for (305,131) 17,700 credit losses Other credit costs (42,425) (14,342) Reversal of allowance for credit losses — — Reversal of reserve for contingent — 1,504 losses included in credit costs Gains on loans written-off 60,645 64,735 Net gains (losses) on equity securities 88,306 93,109 Gains on sales of equity securities 145,347 114,477 Losses on sales of equity securities (31,656) (16,532) Losses on write-down of equity (25,384) (4,836) securities Profits (losses) from investments 230,415 159,637 in affiliates Other non-recurring gains (losses) (82,012) (23,045) Ordinary profits 1,539,486 1,713,001 Net extraordinary gains (losses) (40,717) (98,244) Net gains (losses) on change in equity (36,013) (23,648) Settlement package — (37,097) Income before income taxes and others 1,498,769 1,614,757 Income taxes–current 424,814 421,941 Income taxes–deferred 35,389 45,845 Total taxes 460,204 467,786 Profits 1,038,565 1,146,970 Profits attributable to non-controlling 87,162 113,211 interests Profits attributable to owners of parent 951,402 1,033,759 *1 Net business profits = Banking subsidiaries’ net business profits + Other consolidated entities’ gross profits – Other consolidated entities’ general and administrative expenses – Other consolidated entities’ provision for general allowance for credit losses – Amortization of goodwill – Inter-company transactions (Reference) FY 2015 FY 2014 Total credit costs *2 (255,145) (161,624) *2 Total credit costs = Credit costs for trust accounts + Provision for general allowance for credit losses + Credit costs (included in non-recurring gains / losses) + Reversal of allowance for credit losses + Reversal of reserve for contingent losses included in credit costs + Gains on loans written-off MUFG REPORT 2016 97 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets (Millions of Yen) Accumulated other Shareholders’ equity comprehensive income FY 2015 Net unrealized Net deferred gains Total shareholders’ Capital stock Capital surplus Retained earnings Treasury stock gains (losses) on (losses) on hedging equity other securities instruments Balance at the beginning of the period 2,141,513 1,428,403 7,860,410 (101,661) 11,328,666 2,835,091 83,194 Changes during the period Dividends from retained earnings (251,392) (251,392) Profits attributable to owners of parent 951,402 951,402 Repurchase of treasury stock (200,077) (200,077) Disposal of treasury stock (1,182) 2,815 1,633 Reversal of land revaluation excess 3,042 3,042 Change of application of equity method 24,394 24,394 Changes in subsidiaries’ equity (1,584) (1,584) Changes in foreign affiliates’ interests in their subsidiaries (278) (278) Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity (348,464) 254,103 Total changes during the period (2,766) 727,168 (197,261) 527,140 (348,464) 254,103 Balance at the end of the period 2,141,513 1,425,637 8,587,578 (298,922) 11,855,806 2,486,627 337,297 (Millions of Yen) Accumulated other comprehensive income Total accumulated Subscription rights Non-controlling Foreign currency Remeasurements Total net assets Land revaluation other to shares interests translation of defined excess comprehensive adjustments benefit plans income Balance at the beginning of the period 172,350 951,547 (52,909) 3,989,274 8,271 1,961,322 17,287,533 Changes during the period Dividends from retained earnings (251,392) Profits attributable to owners of parent 951,402 Repurchase of treasury stock (200,077) Disposal of treasury stock 1,633 Reversal of land revaluation excess 3,042 Change of application of equity method 24,394 Changes in subsidiaries’ equity (1,584) Changes in foreign affiliates’ interests in their subsidiaries (278) Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity 4,013 (160,146) (136,616) (387,110) (10) (40,783) (427,904) Total changes during the period 4,013 (160,146) (136,616) (387,110) (10) (40,783) 99,236 Balance at the end of the period 176,364 791,401 (189,526) 3,602,163 8,260 1,920,538 17,386,769 (Millions of Yen) Accumulated other Shareholders’ equity comprehensive income FY 2014 Net unrealized Net deferred gains Total shareholders’ Capital stock Capital surplus Retained earnings Treasury stock gains (losses) on (losses) on hedging equity other securities instruments Balance at the beginning of the period 2,140,488 2,174,384 7,033,125 (1,699) 11,346,299 1,218,397 8,295 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting policies (346,454) 57,909 (288,545) Restated balance 2,140,488 1,827,929 7,091,035 (1,699) 11,057,754 1,218,397 8,295 Changes during the period Issuance of new shares–exercise of subscription rights to shares 1,024 1,023 2,048 Dividends from retained earnings (263,959) (263,959) Profits attributable to owners of parent 1,033,759 1,033,759 Repurchase of treasury stock (490,045) (490,045) Disposal of treasury stock 68 82 150 Retirement of treasury stock (390,000) 390,000 — Reversal of land revaluation excess (424) (424) Changes in subsidiaries’ equity (10,617) (10,617) Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity 1,616,693 74,898 Total changes during the period 1,024 (399,526) 769,374 (99,962) 270,911 1,616,693 74,898 Balance at the end of the period 2,141,513 1,428,403 7,860,410 (101,661) 11,328,666 2,835,091 83,194 (Millions of Yen) Accumulated other comprehensive income Total accumulated Subscription rights Non-controlling Foreign currency Remeasurements Total net assets Land revaluation other to shares interests translation of defined excess comprehensive adjustments benefit plans income Balance at the beginning of the period 157,776 407,229 (81,937) 1,709,760 8,732 2,048,101 15,112,895 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting policies (219) (152) (371) (14,360) (303,277) Restated balance 157,776 407,010 (82,090) 1,709,388 8,732 2,033,741 14,809,617 Changes during the period Issuance of new shares–exercise of subscription rights to shares 2,048 Dividends from retained earnings (263,959) Profits attributable to owners of parent 1,033,759 Repurchase of treasury stock (490,045) Disposal of treasury stock 150 Retirement of treasury stock — Reversal of land revaluation excess (424) Changes in subsidiaries’ equity (10,617) Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity 14,574 544,537 29,180 2,279,885 (461) (72,419) 2,207,004 Total changes during the period 14,574 544,537 29,180 2,279,885 (461) (72,419) 2,477,916 Balance at the end of the period 172,350 951,547 (52,909) 3,989,274 8,271 1,961,322 17,287,533 98 MUFG REPORT 2016 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Millions of Yen) (Millions of Yen) FY 2015 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2014 Cash flows from operating activities: Cash flows from investing activities: Income before income taxes 1,498,769 1,614,757 and others Purchases of securities (86,422,400) (138,305,190) Depreciation 298,527 300,163 Proceeds from sales of securities 60,274,528 110,348,143 Impairment losses 13,415 11,487 Proceeds from redemption of 28,452,434 34,682,841 Amortization of goodwill 16,931 17,787 securities Equity in losses (gains) of affiliates (230,415) (159,637) Increase in money held in trust (641,740) (479,026) Increase (decrease) in allowance for 71,084 46,037 credit losses Decrease in money held in trust 672,854 576,140 Increase (decrease) in reserve for 955 10,321 Purchases of tangible fixed assets (116,931) (176,368) bonuses Increase (decrease) in reserve for Purchases of intangible fixed assets (231,615) (223,581) (58) (172) bonuses to directors Proceeds from sales of tangible Decrease (increase) in net defined 35,494 12,393 (88,908) (62,696) fixed assets benefit assets Proceeds from sales of intangible 166 19 Increase (decrease) in net defined (2,255) (1,601) fixed assets benefit liabilities Increase (decrease) in reserve for Decrease related to purchases of 27 (115) subsidiaries’ equity affecting — (1,015) retirement benefits to directors Increase (decrease) in reserve for the scope of consolidation 1,313 969 loyalty award credits Increase related to purchases of Increase (decrease) in reserve for subsidiaries’ equity affecting 218,639 — 5,572 (43,807) contingent losses the scope of consolidation Interest income recognized on (2,769,248) (2,806,238) Increase related to sales of statement of income subsidiaries’ equity affecting — 67,952 Interest expenses recognized on 655,735 624,743 the scope of consolidation statement of income (221,235) (208,271) Others (1,221) (619) Losses (gains) on securities Losses (gains) on money held in trust (10,689) 639 Net cash provided by (used in) 2,240,209 6,501,689 Foreign exchange losses (gains) 1,439,205 (1,213,235) investing activities Losses (gains) on sales of fixed assets (9,171) 4,926 Cash flows from financing activities: Net decrease (increase) in 49,544 (1,337,542) Increase in subordinated borrowings 38,000 55,000 trading assets Net increase (decrease) in Decrease in subordinated borrowings (92,500) (74,800) 1,980,093 1,181,142 trading liabilities Increase in subordinated bonds Adjustment of unsettled trading 793,218 190,000 (821,034) 889,029 payable and bonds with warrants accounts Net decrease (increase) in loans and Decrease in subordinated bonds (294,460) (284,324) (4,990,628) (5,909,031) payable and bonds with warrants bills discounted Net increase (decrease) in deposits 7,888,704 6,793,900 Proceeds from issuance of common 1,081 2,949 Net increase (decrease) in stock to non-controlling shareholders (4,482,406) 488,549 negotiable certificates of deposit Decrease in redemption of — (137,400) Net increase (decrease) in borrowed preferred stocks money (excluding subordinated (1,362,550) 3,247,294 Dividend paid by MUFG (251,497) (263,978) borrowings) Net decrease (increase) in due from Dividend paid by subsidiaries to (94,825) (106,964) 80,699 (13,003,581) banks (excluding cash equivalents) non-controlling shareholders Net decrease (increase) in call loans (633,599) 261,206 Repayments to non-controlling and bills bought and others — (17,602) shareholders Net decrease (increase) in receivables under securities (1,438,094) (370,559) Purchases of treasury stock (200,053) (490,044) borrowing transactions Proceeds from sales of treasury stock 1 2 Net increase (decrease) in call (435,883) (350,881) money and bills sold and others Decrease related to purchases of Net increase (decrease) in subsidiaries’ equity not affecting (4,572) (29,463) 119,203 667,730 the scope of consolidation commercial papers Net increase (decrease) in payables (3,446,893) 2,657,417 Others 3 4 under securities lending transactions Net cash provided by (used in) (105,602) (1,156,621) Net decrease (increase) in 380,193 (137,770) financing activities foreign exchanges (assets) Net increase (decrease) in Effect of foreign exchange rate 544,080 375,867 changes on cash and (115,214) 252,797 foreign exchanges (liabilities) Net increase (decrease) in short-term cash equivalents (37,019) 353,597 bonds payable Net increase (decrease) in cash and 8,773,820 3,502,117 Net increase (decrease) in issuance cash equivalents and redemption of unsubordinated 649,951 906,637 bonds payable Cash and cash equivalents at 9,990,035 6,487,918 the beginning of the period Net increase (decrease) in due to 10,112,737 1,238,144 trust accounts Cash and cash equivalents at 18,763,856 9,990,035 Interest income (cash basis) 2,897,378 2,917,319 the end of the period Interest expenses (cash basis) (654,026) (636,368) Others 175,151 (26,303) Sub-total 7,245,155 (1,658,147) Income taxes (537,036) (463,446) Refund of income taxes 46,308 25,845 Net cash provided by (used in) 6,754,428 (2,095,748) operating activities MUFG REPORT 2016 99 Company Overview Major MUFG Group Companies (As of July 1, 2016) 왎 Consolidated subsidiary 쎲 Equity method investee Holding Company Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group (MUFG) Commercial Bank Asset Management 왎 Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (BTMU) 왎 Mitsubishi UFJ Kokusai Asset Management 왎 MU Investments Trust Bank 왎 Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking (MUTB) Venture Capital 왎 The Master Trust Bank of Japan 왎 Mitsubishi UFJ Capital 쎲 Marunouchi Capital Securities 왎 Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings (MUSHD) Factoring / Debt Collection 왎 Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities 왎 Mitsubishi UFJ Factors 왎 Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley PB Securities 왎 MU Frontier Servicer 왎 kabu.com Securities Research / Consulting 쎲 Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities 왎 Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting Credit Cards / Consumer Finance / Installment Credit Real-Estate Brokerage 왎 Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS 왎 Mitsubishi UFJ Real Estate Services 왎 ACOM 쎲 JACCS Software Development / Information Technology 쎲 JALCARD 쎲 Mitsubishi Research Institute DCS Leasing Internet Bank / Regional Banks 쎲 Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance 쎲 Jibun Bank 쎲 BOT Lease 쎲 The Chukyo Bank Overseas 왎 Bank of Ayudhya Public Company (Commercial Bank) 왎 MUFG Securities EMEA plc (Securities) 왎 MUFG Americas Holdings Corporation 왎 MUFG Securities Americas Inc. (Securities) (Commercial Bank Holding Company) 왎 MUFG Securities Asia Limited (Securities Holding Company) 왎 PT U Finance Indonesia (Consumer Finance, Leasing) 왎 MUFG Securities Asia (Singapore) Limited (Securities) 왎 PT. BTMU-BRI Finance (Consumer Finance, Leasing) 왎 Mitsubishi UFJ Wealth Management Bank (Switzerland) 왎 BTMU Capital Corporation (Leasing) (Commercial Bank, Securities) 왎 BTMU Leasing & Finance (Leasing) 쎲 Vietnam Joint Stock Commercial Bank for Industry and Trade 왎 Mitsubishi UFJ Trust International (Securities) (Commercial Bank) 왎 Mitsubishi UFJ Fund Services Holdings 쎲 Security Bank Corporation (Commercial Bank) (Fund Administration Holding Company) 쎲 Dah Sing Financial Holdings 왎 MUFG Capital Analytics LLC (Fund Management) (Commercial Bank Holding Company) 왎 Mitsubishi UFJ Investor Services & Banking (Luxembourg) 쎲 Aberdeen Asset Management S.A. (Commercial Bank) (Asset Management Holding Company) 왎 Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management (UK) Ltd. 쎲 AMP Capital Holdings (Asset Management) (Asset Management Holding Company) 왎 Mitsubishi UFJ Baillie Gifford Asset Management (Investment Advisor) 100 MUFG REPORT 2016 Corporate Information (As of March 31, 2016) Company Name Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. Head Office 7-1, Marunouchi 2-Chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8330, Japan Date of Establishment April 2, 2001 Amount of Capital ¥2,141.5 billion Common Stock (Issued) 14,168,853,820 Stock Listings Tokyo Stock Exchange, Nagoya Stock Exchange, New York Stock Exchange Ticker Symbol Number 8306 (Tokyo Stock Exchange, Nagoya Stock Exchange) MTU (New York Stock Exchange) Number of shareholders 782,622 Stock Price* Tokyo Stock Exchange Ownership and Distribution of Shares* 140 MUFG Government and Nikkei 225 local governments: Securities: 0.02% 120 2.45% Corporations: 100 14.14% Foreign institutions, 80 etc.: Individuals 37.92% and others: 14.33% 60 Financial 0 institutions: 2015/3 2015/6 2015/9 2015/12 2016/3 31.11% * Note: Share index (2015/3E = 100) * Excludes treasury shares and fractional shares 新FSCマーク（フル）ミックス【英語】 Website For more detailed information, please refer to our website. About MUFG Investor Relations Sustainability http://www.mufg.jp/english/ (English) http://www.mufg.jp/english/ir/ (English) http://www.mufg.jp/english/csr/ (English) This integrated report was printed in Japan on FSC® paper with vegetable oil ink. MUFG REPORT 2016 101 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. 7-1, Marunouchi 2-Chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8330, Japan Telephone: 81-3-3240-8111 Issued September 2016 Website: www.mufg.jp/english/ Printed in Japan
