SUSTAIN Elif Plastik Ambalaj San. ve Tic. A.Ş. ABILITY Orhangazi Mahallesi 1652 Sokak No:2 Esenyurt 34538 Istanbul, Turkey T: +90 212 622 06 22 F: +90 212 622 06 77 REVIEW www.elif.com 2015-2016 About the Cover: Packaging for Life Our packaging reaches millions of people all around the world everyday, helping to create a happier and healthier life. We exist for People in every sphere of life. TABLE OF Our business is ‘Packaging for Life’. CONTENTS We are ‘Packaging for Life’ Introduction 1 Responsibility is our key value. We behave responsibly within the ecosystem of society, Our Journey Forward 3 environment and our business partners. This Our Approach to Reporting 5 value articulates our unique approach in every decision we make and every step we take. About Elif 7 We serve for People in every sphere of life. When you are making fun with your friends, when you Our Business Model 9 are taking care of your baby, when you are away Our Comittments 11 from the city for a piece of freedom, packaging solutions of Elif is always there to serve you for Neo-Eco Forward 13 what you need every day across the world. Environment 19 Innovation for Life Producing packaging for life and acting with the Society 21 same vision of sustainable future for environment and human, Elif continuously works on Economy 23 innovative packaging solutions for better and Workplace 25 sustainable business results. Parallel to this approach, Elif will continue to Marketplace 27 develop new innovative solutions and create „Packaging for Life‟. 1 | Elif Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Elif Sustainability Report 2015-2016 | 2 Elif Sustainability Report 2015 2016 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace OUR JOURNEY FORWARD A letter from our CEO, Selçuk OUR VALUES Yarangümelioğlu Our work on sustainable business Elif continued to demonstrate an Elif created more the 200 new job 3 years can be found in the practices helps to strengthen the outstanding performance in GHG opportunities in 2016 which are Marketplace section of this connections between our brand emissions with its new benchmark mainly located in Middle East and sustainability update. and the people who touch our projects like tri-generation and Africa region. Know-how and As the contribution of products billions of times every new generation air conditioning expertise transfer to the region technological innovations to year in more than 50 countries. system. Elif achieved 10% also continued intensely. sustainability and efficiency This is fundamentally important to reduction in GHG emission in For more than a decade, increases, the new industry us as we know our business 2016. packaging has become a key revolution Industry 4.0 accelerates thrives and grows sustainably Safety is a key focus area for Elif. focus area for the brands to its entrance to our business when life quality of the society is We are working relentlessly to communicate their sustainability transformation. Elif's journey in also thriving. To this end, we‟ve reach our goal of “No Injuries”. credentials. With packaging being Packaging 4.0. started in 2008 established a set of priorities that Investing in new systems, tools such a visual and tactile touchwith data collection for analysis A leter from our CEO Woman Empowermant in Progress are intimately connected to our and programs, we target to point between consumer and and information. After full scale A letter from Elif CEO, Selçuk Selçuk businessYarangümelioğlu, Chairman and for providing high-quality Chief continue Executiev improving our brand, innovations have come transformation and integration of Yarangümelioğlu, on our packaging materials for happy and performance in the coming years. Officer, celebrating 8 March International Woman‟s Day with thick and fast. Elif systems into ERP in 2013, the healthy moments of the life. This is journey speeded up. With the sustainability journey. co-workers We have completed 4 years as a Neo-Eco is the next evolutionary why we reconstructed our brand step in how sustainability is recent implementation of PLCs supporter of United Nations Global with “Packaging for Life” concept, Compact and 6 years as a addressed in packaging, with new and OLC servers, machine a unique B2B2C approach in the member of SEDEX. We will innovations empowering communication has enriched PACKAGING FOR packaging industry that puts instant data flow into ERP which DEAR FRIENDS, consumers and life at the heart of continue to participate in new consumers with the ability to lead has resulted effective control of LIFE organizations and programs to their lives in a more COLLEAGUES packaging. environmentally positive way. the system over the machines and exchange and develop our AND PARTNERS Elif targets being a pioneer in approach of sustainability the operations for higher  Environment Elif's latest neo-eco innovations productivity. packaging sector in terms of the management. Elif is committed to creating strategic trends as well as the next are ElifHybr and ElifHepta. These I would like to thank all of our  Society sustainable value for wellbeing of Elif continues its 12% CAGR new printing and color generation of packaging. Our business partners and co-workers the earth and the society. Our growth rate for the last 5 years. Elif technologies enable our  Economy packaging reaches millions of corporate responsibility projects customers to serve their for their ongoing commitment to achieved a growth of 10% in 2016 people all around the world every and activities are focused on the with the refreshing effect of Egypt consumers with a more diverse achieve our vision. We will  Workplace day, helping to create a happier pillars of the society, women and product and campaign portfolio. maintain our focus on our operation. Our investment for and healthy life. We exist for children. We do plan and realize industry 4.0, innovation and More information about Elif‟s neosustainability objectives and  Marketplace People in every sphere of life. Our projects supporting women and eco innovations developed in last targets for the coming year. capacity has continued. business is “Packaging for Life”. children rights. 3 | Elif Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Elif Sustainability Report 2015-2016 | 4 Elif Sustainability Report 2015 2016 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace OUR APPROACH TO REPORTING Introducing our live sustainable reporting OUR SUSTAINABILITY structure APPROACH Elif prepares and presents its COVERAGE HOW TO NAVIGATE THIS  Sustainability Approach Sustainability Report in In this review, „Elif‟ refers to Elif REPORT accordance with the Global  Sustainability Holding Inc. Co. and its Sustainability Review 2015-2016 Reporting Initiative‟s (GRI) Framework subsidiaries; Elif Plastik Packaging is prepared parallel to Elif‟s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (2006). Industry and Commerce Inc.Co., sustainability framework and Prior Reviews Questions  Sustainability Elif Global Packaging Industry and covers activities under 5 key Click here to view our Contact us for your Achievements Sustainability Review 2015-2016 Commerce Inc.Co. and Elif Global areas: is Elif‟s third review on prior sustainability reports. questions and feedback Packaging S.A.E. • Environment sustainability and provides • Society about this report. The sustainabilty activities in this summary of its management report represent the 18-month • Economy approach and operational period between 01 July 2015 to • Marketplace performance for year 2015-2016. 31 December 2016 for operations • Workplace Details regarding the information owned totally by Elif during that In each chapter of this review, you given in the review can be period while statistics represent an can find key progress from the provided online at Elif‟s corporate annual data from 1 January to 31 past year, key partnerships and website and at the section December of the related year highlighted activities. dedicated for sustainability unless otherwise stated. activities Our new review also enables OUR APPROACH readers to learn more about the The online content provides higlighted stories in German, further information about Elif‟s Elif is moving forward along the sustainability journey with its Turkish and Arabic languages. management systems and Please follow the link related with processes, as well as additional dynamic and proactive culture. The projects and existing project the topic of interst to find more and update information about the information and/or update or to Sustainable Packaging issues covered. roll-outs as well as project updates read it in your local language. Read more on how we does not always fit in a single document. That is why, this year, understand packaging we have shared links in our sustainability. sustainability report which will help reader reach Elif‟s updates and news online. Read More Access to our sustainability activities can be found here in this Sustainability Report and on Elif website. 5 | Elif Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Elif Sustainability Report 2015-2016 | 6 Elif Sustainability Report 2015 2016 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ABOUT ELİF Moving with a clear vision of where we are going in every aspect of our business Elif has a full awareness of being benchmark factories in Turkey and synergy of Elif's customers, world-class and a clear vision of Egypt, Elif has a production suppliers, professional human capacity over 1000,000 tons per resources and management team in every aspect of its business. year. Elif‟s international operations with innovative approach. Elif will continue to be pioneer by empowering initiatives and network is strategically structured Continuously improving its service setting worldwide standards to offer both worldwide supply and quality standards, Elif has flexibility and a global localized been authenticated as the market through leadership, service for its customers. Offering leader for setting high standards in responsibility, passion to create the flexible packaging industry by value, integrity and diversity. services to many major brands, its multinational customers with These values are the basis of both domestic and global, Elif leading brands. Elif‟s commitment to deliver exports in excess of 50% of its production to more than 50 Elif is committed to work benchmark results. relentlessly to deliver value adding countries worldwide. Our Brand Story Read More About Elif Elif is an authenticated supplier flexible packaging solutions With its ISO 22000 and BRC/IoP through leadership, responsibility, Our logotype tells our Access to our catalog in order to get more detailed of flexible packaging solutions, especially, for the sectors where Grade A certification as well as passion to create value, integrity passion for packaging. information regarding Elif and its operations. ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 27001 and diversity. market dynamics change quite and OHSAS 18001, Elif is rapidly and, therefore, speed of For Elif, sustainable development committed to provide exceptional means the combination of long new product to the market, service and highest quality quality of material and print as term oriented economic success products tailored to the unique with environmental protection and THE COMPANY well as service flexibility and needs of each customer through social responsibility. Elif realized excellence have critical collaboration and innovation. The many best in class projects for importance. Providing solutions Company, not only advocates  Vision, Mission and sustainability which are awarded for food & beverage, household good corporate governance but by its customers and authenticated Strategy and fabric care, consumer tissue, also promotes long-lasting authorities. Sustainable practice is baby and adult care, industrial cooperation as well as open an integral part of Elif‟s corporate  Corporate Policies and communication with customers culture and, therefore, Elif will Standards and retail sectors, Elif and suppliers to uphold the continuously search for new continue to be a leader in 45 Years of Experience Packaging Solutions principles of mutual trust and sustainable development with new  Global Presence Elif is celebrating its 45th Elif‟s solutions include concepts and packaging ideas fundamental human values as a investments and initiatives year. Click to see Elif‟s year together with its customers and part of its code of conduct and strengthening its sustainability  Information Society packaging films, pre-made suppliers. ethics policy. by year progress. abgs and technical films. approach. Services Elif owns leading flexible Elif continues to target tomorrow's packaging production facilities in excellence to keep its global the world with architecture of benchmark company position in the flexible packaging industry. construction, infrastructure and This has been achieved with the high technology of production enthusiasm generated by the and scale. With its worldwide 7 | Elif Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Elif Sustainability Report 2015-2016 | 8 Elif Sustainability Report 2015 2016 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace OUR BUSINESS MODEL Successful transformation of business into a global benchmark company HORIZON OF IMPROVEMENT minimization of risks by DIVERSITY diversification of growth sources, Elif‟s successful transformation We leverage diversity to create and disciplined management of of business into a global maximum value for our business capital by benefiting our cash flow, benchmark company is using the colors of diverse ideas, productivity and cost lowering leveraged buy its value chain needs, talents, geographies, methods, we achieve sustainable and growth strategies based on cultures and capabilities of our growth and successful its corporate values. With the organization, customers, business transformation of business into a well management of change, partners as well as communities. Global Benchmark Company. risks and capital basing on its INTEGRITY value, Elif‟s sustainable growth Our core values also map our We build trust in our relationships Leadership model targets long term business strengths and priorities. through honest and ethical economic success in LEADERSHIP behavior . We uphold the values combination with environmental We will continue to be pioneers by and principles of Elif in every Responsibility and social responsibility both in empowering initiatives and setting action and decision. As a vital the workplace and marketplace worldwide benchmarks. We are asset of our corporate of Elif. top-notch in the way we design, responsibility, we operate within Our Sustainable Business Model For the last 45 years, we have produce and serve our products, integrity, respect and the sprit of Passion to Create Elif‟s value chain and growth strategy are the drivers of the come along a long way through leader in management law. Value company‟s successful business transformation. challenges to reach our goals. In performance and committed to this long journey, we recognize deliver leadership results. that the horizon of improvement RESPONSIBILITY Integrity never comes closer, thanks to Elif is serving over our vision of being a global We act responsibly toward the benchmark flexible packaging environment and the society and 50 COUNTRIES company. In every phase of our aim to make a positive impact Diversity with transformation we target to through our brands, activities, achieve higher standards for our resources and assets. 2 BENCHMARK sustainability framework (society, environment & economy). This is PASSION TO CREATE VALUE SITES & the source of our never ending We are passionate about Our Values enthusiasm and passion for our intelligent packaging solutions and Elif offers responsible and 1300 COhelping to shape the next business. generation of our customers‟ innovative solutions through WORKERS Through change management Elif values for the society. products. using “Elif DAA (Define-ApplyAdopt) Transformation Method”, 9 | Elif Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Elif Sustainability Report 2015-2016 | 10 Materials on Reel Elif Sustainability Report 2015 2016 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace OUR COMMITMENTS FOR SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS GOAL STRATEGY ACHİEVEMENTS 2015-2016 2014-2015 2012-2013 • Recognition of 3 awards for • Recognition of 2 awards for sustainability Drive process, product and sustainability. • GHG emission is reduced by 27.3%. Reduce natural resource • Energy efficiency programs resulted • Trigeneration project resulted in • Direct waste to landfill is recorded as policy initiatives in the in 3% decrease in energy ENVIRONMENT usage continuously and sector related to reduction 42,8% calculated and 36,1% efficiency consumption and 17% reduction in 0. globally. in electricity usage. • Water consumption is decreased by of natural resource usage. natural gas consumption • 9,9% GHG emission reduction 4.4%. • Re-Water projects lowers water achieved in 2016. consumption by 6% • 6 corporate social responsibility • 4 corporate social responsibility projects. • 7 social responsibility projects projects. • Millions of people in contact with Elif completed in 2012. Sponsor education of • Signed United Nations Women Create value for the every day • Direct Positive effect on 4870 SOCİETY communities we touch. future . generations for Empowerment Principles • Planted more than 10.000 trees • 3rd consecutive «Human Respect» children’s life standard. sustainable development. award • Amenity of 1000 trees is saved against • Support for animanl sheplters and • 30% increase in number of co-workers global warming. Children with Leucemia continues • 3rd year as a member of UNGC Perform sustainable Promote efficient, • «Elif» brand is accepted to Turquality • 12% CAGR in last 5 years. • Over 11% CAGR in last 5 years. solutions for our productive and cost saving program. • 25.000 tonnes capacity plant in MEA • 12.3% increase in total export in 2012. • 12% growth and 15% capacity region ECONOMY business framework to methods, technology and • 10% capacity increase achieved in increase in 2016. • 10% capacity increase achieved in achieve sustainable investments for and with 2012 with new investments in • Cairo factory doubled its capacity and Istanbul plant together with production line. growth. the business framework. increased work force by 43%. production lines for new technologies Develop an equal Elif is committed to deliver • Workplace Conditions Assessment • Average weight of cases decreased by • Lost days due to injuries decreased opportunity diverse any legal, organizational or Achievement Award 17.3% by 26.1%. workforce, engaged to • UNGC supporter for last 5 eyars • 14 hours of training per co-worker • Average lost time weight reduced by WORKPLACE functional requirement • R&R System launched in 2 plants • Know-how transfer to new plant (180 29.0%. work in a safe workplace related with labor rights • 12 hours of training per co-worker qualified new co-workers, 350 • 11.6 hours of education per co-worker with no injuries. and safety. • Stable case weight and frequency* planned) achieved. • Packaging 4.0 in progress in concept • 4 innovative products launched to the • Project for new production facility in factory market Develop intelligent Cairo, Egypt has kicked off. Help shaping the next • 91 existing product developments • 54 existing product developments • 2 years of SEDEX membership has packaging solutions for achieved achieved MARKETPLACE generation of our consumer, environment, • New innovation concept: Neo-eco • Enlarging geographical effectiveness completed successfully. customers’ products. • 64 new product developments customer and economy. packaging by reaching new markets achieved. • 6 years of SEDEX membership • 4 years of SEDEX membership has • ElifHybr hybrid printing technology completed successfully. 11 | Elif Sustainability Report 2014-2015 Elif Sustainability Report 2014-2015 | 12 Elif Sustainability Report 2015 2016 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ENVIRONMENT Elif inspires organizations with its projects for protection of the environment INVESTING IN FUTURE WITH recovery from the natural gas industrial organizations with its TRIGENERATION generator systems. Elif uses the sustainability efforts. system to Adding a new solution everyday Basing all its projects on use of to those it creates both for people • produce low-carbon electricity minimum natural resources since and environment basing on • recover energy to obtain the beginning, Elif continuously “Packaging for Life”, Elif invested thermal oil works to reach its vision, in future again with its project “Packaging for Life”, by adding a • recover energy to obtain chilled new solution everyday to its “Trigeneration” put into effect in water October. environment-friendly solutions as well as its projects in the field of Greenhouse Gas Trigeneration system started to With an intention to meet run for test purpose in early 2016. sustainability. Elif will go on putting Emissions sustainable and quality energy into effect its projects contributing requirement of its production Early results of the test run performs 42,8% calculated and to protection, improvement and decreased by plant in Istanbul, Elif put into effect its project “Trigeneration” in October that was launched 36,1% efficiency in electricity usage. While trigeneration project sustainability of human life and environment and working for sustainable future with its new 10% Trigeneration for Energy Efficiency under „NOsume Energy‟ Program, taking a further step in enhances energy efficiency and investments. compared to the Elif invested in trigeneration project in order to minimize the the way of sustainability. results in considerable improvement in the sustainability The first year GHG emission results of Elif after implementation previous year. energy loss and raw material waste during its manufacturing Innovative project of Elif was processes. performance, it also minimizes of trigeneration system shows a targeted to ensure energy is possible quality related problems 10% decrease and expected to produced from the same system with the materials and, reach the targeted levels after the simultaneously by a yield of consequently, waste of materials authorizations are compelte. The RESULTS 180% both in form of electric that may occur as a result of full year results will be shared in used for production and the power outage. Additionally, the next issue of the Sustainability  Produce 4MW lowheating and cooling. project also allows reduction of the Report. Elif will continue to invest Furthermore, with its low carbon carbon energy maintenance costs by improving in the trigeneration systems in emission, the Trigeneration system allows clean, production efficiency. Thanks to 2017.  Recover 3.2MW energy the trigeneration project launched environment-friendly and local for thermal oil and chilled by Elif, which represents an power generation, thus reducing initiative for energy efficiency and water generation greenhouse gas emissions. sustainability in the industrial Designed to generate 4MW sector and setting a worldwide  180% energy efficiency power, the project also targeted example, Elif continuous to be a to ensure 3.2MW heat energy source of inspiration for all 13 | Elif Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Elif Sustainability Report 2015-2016 | 14 Elif Sustainability Report 2015 2016 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ENVIRONMENT 2012 2014 2016 Elif gets recognition and award form Green Dot -9,9% and Healthy Cities Association -9,5% ON STAGE FOR GREEN DOT ago at the initiative of the Turkish growth, Elif, possesses ISO 14001 -27,3% Healthy Cities Association Certificate for the last 10 years. Elif has taken its place on the pioneering cities to create healthy Elif is also the first packaging stage participating in Green Dot environments and aimed at company to obtain the new EU Awards with its project of encouraging model business complied Environment Permission. “Succeed More With Less” in the organizations. The fact that the category of “Prevention WORLD ENVIRONMENT DAY companies possessing ISO 14001 Applications Reducing Taking a further step in have carried out social Resources in Packaging Design”. environmentalist activities as part responsibility projects with regard Increasing performance of to environment has also been of its program to increase the packaging materials in hygiene, taken into consideration when awareness of environmental detergent and consumer tissue determining facilities to be problems and struggle against segments by reducing their awarded in the organization where climate change, Elif distributed thickness at the rate of average companies with effective 10,000 pinus pinea seeds to its 40% in its studies of last 25 permission and license employees in the scope of “June 5 years, Elif has reduced energy certifications, possessing first – World Environment Day” consumption, increased class GSM licenses in celebrations. Elif achieved high performance in GHG emission World Environment Day productivity, and decreased metropolitans and provinces have reduction Elif celebrated World waste and wastage rates in been investigated. Having used Elif continues its investments for reducing natural source Environment Day by giving logistic and resource productive and economical consumption in parallel with usage. Elif achieved to reduce its emission by 10% in 2016. away seeds to co-workers. methods and technologies and reduced raw material usage. improved itself consistently in this loss and raw material waste during its manufacturing matter since 1972, Elif has gained provcesses. Continuing its R&D studies within its place as the only member of Green Dot Sector the framework of “Packaging for Life” approach, Elif works flexible packaging sector. Elif has Award Leader unceasingly to leave a healthy minimized the level of direct waste In the last 25 Healthy future for next generations with to the nature maintaining high years, Elif Cities Ass. projects reducing natural level waste recycling and/or awarded reutilization by certificated reduced film resources usage. thickness up to Elif for companies. In parallel with its ENVIRONMENTALIST sustainable 40% with being the FACILITY AWARDS ”Succeed More green “Environmentalist Facility With Less” leader of its Awards” commenced 3 years program. sector. 15 | Elif Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Elif Sustainability Report 2015-2016 | 16 Elif Sustainability Report 2015 2016 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace SOCIETY Women empowerment in progress Women Economic Empowerment Elif signed WOMEN’S ECONOMIC INCREASING THE Elif believes that women must be UNWEP and EMPOWERMENT AWARENESS OF UN WEP at least as strong as men both economically and socially, have an acts Elif, which constantly Elif expresses its belief in the accordingly to active role in the business life and emphasizes the importance of strength and importance of empower take part in all dimensions of life. the equality of women and men equality of women and men at every opportunity by putting new The company calls everyone on woman in and the difference made by the duty, free of gender, for eliminating economy.. touches of women in every field projects into effect, and as it does the barriers on this way. of life, has actualized one more every year, the company project to include the power of celebrated the March 8 Embracing “Respect to the housewives in the national International Women‟s Day with Human” as an indispensable economy. the participation of its all dimension of its management UN WEP STATEMENT employees – women and men. approach, Elif is aware of the fact Elif acts with passion and aims to do the best for “human” in every Elif has acted on the principle of that more than being a demand, «As Elif Holding group of companies, we improvement of the position of Woman at Elif relentlessly emphasize our belief in the power corporate decision made and cultural diversity and employment women in the community and their step taken. Accordingly, Elif has and continuously expressed its participation in the business life is Click to watch the career of „equality of man and woman‟ through the offered job opportunities to belief in the strength of equality development paths of Elif housewives in tying operations of among people in terms of religion, among the highest needs of our light of our diversity and equal employment society. The company will co-workers. principles. We assimilate and apply an hundreds of thousands of bags language, race and gender. The continue to display activity in line produced by the company in company attaches great with these principles and carry out approach empowering women's presence in 2015 and 2016, which in turn has importance to provide the the economy. new projects which add value in created a total women participation of the power of the life. employment of 235 working women in the economy. “Respect to the Human” is the core of Elif days. In 2017, job opportunities Elif signed United Nations Women In this direction, Elif gave Empowerment Principles in 2016 values. Elif does support improvement of for housewives is planned to be succulent flowers to its all increased by 25%. and acts accordingly. women position in the community and business employees in a project aiming to Being conscious about the fact raise social awareness about the life as a crucial need of our society. Therefore, that achieving higher level of equal representation of women we are committed to integrate the Women‟s development requires increased and men in the political, social and Empowerment Principles into our business woman involvement in the business life and equal International Woman’s model and continue its activities leveraging economy, bigger share from opportunities to exercise legal development pie for woman and rights. Day these principles.» improvement of their position in Elif celebrated International the family, Women‟s Day with all of its Elif CEO, Selçuk Yarangümelioğlu co-workers. 17 | Elif Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Elif Sustainability Report 2015-2016 | 18 Elif Sustainability Report 2015 2016 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace SOCIETY Giving the value back! A New Year with New Hopes Flourish NEW YEAR WTH NEW EMBRACING ANIMAL adoption or protection system. The Elif celebrated HOPES SHELTERS Aniaml Sehelter is the largest in teh region and also works to Christmas wih As in 2005, Elif continued to Elif took another big step in its planting spread zoolatry among the future celebrate Christmas by corporate social responsibility projects. In 2016 Elif continued its generations with well-organized saplings in the supporting TEMA with sapling student visit programs. name of its donation in the names of its support for animal shelters to customers. TEMA, Turkey protect street animals. Elif will continue to support animal customers. Foundation for Fighting Erosion, protection organizations have an Elif, acting based on the principles Reforestation and Preservation active role in generalization of of social responsibility and of Natural Assets has been such projects to produce producing “Packaging for Life” working for 22 years to raise “Packaging for Life”. since its establishment and awareness about fighting extends the scale of its social PACKAGING FOR CHILDREN erosion, protecting soil and responsibility projects for a brigter WITH LEUCEMİA natural beings. The most future. Considering the fulfillment Elif continuously works in close important supporters of TEMA's of the needs of street animals that relationship with LÖSEV, the World Environment Day afforestation work are donors. are desperate for help and Elif celebrated World Foundation for Children with In 2015 and 2016, Elif donated protection, Elif donated 1,000 kg of Environment Day by giving Leukemia. On top of its donations over 1,000 seedlings donated on cat and dog food to Yedikule for LÖSEV and LÖSEV shop, this away seeds to co-wrkerss. behalf of customers for Animal Shelter. As an important year, Elif organized a 2017 new Christmas greeting, planting an part of its “Corporate Citizenship” year surprise for the children with area about half a football field. responsibilities, the company visits leucemia. Details will follow on With its afforestation activities animal shelters to cover their next year‟s Sustainability Report. supported by its foundation from neeeds. now on, Elif is constantly Yedikule Animal Shelter, as a supporting the enrichment of the voluntary-basis operation, is home nature and protection of the to thousands of cats and dogs. All environment by planting trees medicine and pet food needs of over 10,000. the animals in the shelter are Elif also celebrates the special fulfilled by the donation and efforts days like World Environment of shelter volunteers. Yedikule New Year with Children Day, and International Woman‟s Animal Shelter also offers visitors Embracing Animal Shelters Day with pine seeds, plants and the opportunity to adopt cats and with Leucemia Elif donated 1,000 kg of cat ad dog food for Yedikule similar environment presents. dogs through a meticulous Elif prepared a 2017 surprise Animal Shelter. Yedikule Animal Shelter hosts more than for children with leucemia. 2,000 cats and dogs. 19 | Elif Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Elif Sustainability Report 2015-2016 | 20 Elif Sustainability Report 2015 2016 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ECONOMY Transformation continues with Global Corporate Governance Model TURQUALITY Preliminary review of Elif for REVITALIZATION OF VISION, Turquality program is made by MISSON & STRATEGY Elif has started its globalization McKinsey Consultancy in August literally with its overseas STATEMENTS 2016. As a result of the preliminary Strategy investments for expanding its audit, Elif took an important step Elif management reviewed the production and distribution towards ensuring continuous and positioning of the «Elif» brand as Workshops facilities. In order to reach its world-class institutional well as the the brand's vision, Elif co-workers vision of becoming a global development and achieved to be a mission and main strategies as a leader in the flexible packaging took active role part of Turquality program on part of the Turquality program. industry, Elif has started its in revitalization October 18th, 2016,. Elif announced its new vision, transformation through global of the Elif The Turquality program will be mission and strategy statements corporate governance model by revitalized as a result of a series of brand regathering its legal entities in launched in Elif with a 5-year workshops organized by Elif positioning. Switzerland, Turkey and Egypt development roadmap aiming to improve Elif's global corporate management together with counder Elif Holding roof. In 2015, governance in the following 10 workers from all functions and Elif initiated a corporate areas: levels of the organization. governance development project to identify critical processes in 1. Strategic Planning and While «well-being of the society» corporate governance, to Corporate Performance becomes the core of mission improve / improve these Management statement, innovation and processes, and to ensure leadership values are empowered 2. Brand Management continuity of this improvement / in the vision with «shaping the development as part of corporate 3. Brand Performance future of packaging for the focused culture. 4. Supply Chain Management customer segments» statement. Elif‟s main strategy is revitalized In order to strengthen the 5. Marketing, Customer and Trade as «Geographical prevalence and leadership position in the global Management leadership in sustainability, flexible packaging industry, Elif 6. Product Design / Research and innovation, quality and has adopted the need to Development technological primacy». continually upgrade its corporate governance standards. In the 7. Financial Performance final quarter of 2015, Elif started 8. Human Resources its studies in order to participate Management Mission, Vision and Strategy Revitalized in the Turquality program, a Elif revitalized its mission and vision statements as well as its core strategy as a part of its guiding tool for corporate 9. Corporate Governance studies for Turquality. governance developped by 10. Information Systems Deloitte strategic management Management consultancy. 21 | Elif Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Elif Sustainability Report 2015-2016 | 22 Elif Sustainability Report 2015 2016 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ECONOMY Growing business targets pulls up the investments 15,0 % 2016 SUCCESSFUL BUSINESS customer needs through in With the new investments, RESULTS IN 2016 strategic and innovative more than 130 production lines investments, Elif increased its 10,1 Sales growth is enabled by our are running under Elif roof in % capacity parallel to the mid-term B2B2C business approach, by Istanbul and Cairo plants. In growth targets of the company. winning with the customer by 2016, Elif‟s capacity reached focusing on the consumer, and 15% CAPACITY EXPANSION IN 100,000 tonnes with more than driven by both Elif‟s sustainable ISTANBUL PLANT 1,500,000 MM printing and business model and expanding In paralel with its growth strategy around 2.5 million bag-making packaging solution portfolio and capacity policy, Elif grew its capacity. strengthening efforts that are production capacity by 15% with 20,0 underway. Business objective of existing and innovative EGYPT ON THE GO % 2015 Elif is to consistently deliver capabilities. Elif‟s capacity policy is Elif‟s Cairo plant in Egypt has organic sales growth ahead of an obligation for its investment and started operation in early 2015 underlying growth of the growth strategy to keep its with 350 planned co-workers and 13,7 segments in which the markets it flexibility and respond to the peak 25.000 tons of production % competes. Elif targets high level demands from the customers. capacity. The new Middle East Elif Cairo Palnt of top-line growth running According to Elif‟s capacity policy, Africa packaging hub of Elif is Elif‟s Cairo plant has doubled its together with consistent bottomthe necessary additional capacity constructed considering further capacity in its fist year with 65% line growth. This target has set investments are placed when the extension of the facility for future by Elif to deliver leadership levels production demand reaches 75% capacity requirements parallel to increase in head count. of value creation for Elif and its of the capacity. Infrastructural the raising packaging needs of the business partners. investments of Elif will continue in region. 2017 to cover the mid-term growth Our Progress 2016 9,0% 2016 has been a dynamic year 2014 In 2016, Elif doubled the capacity inside Elif. While expanding our targets of the company. of Elif Cairo plant and reached a investments to cover capabilities Elif added new production lines headcount of 333 qualified coParallel to its growth strategy and essential to its customers‟ 3,1% and systems to its operations workers equipped with know-how capacity policy, Elif made infrastructure 15% success, Elif also continued its including the new generation transfer from Elif‟s global talent investments and increased its capacity growing business results. With extrusion lines, Elif‟s new printing pool. the leveraging effect of Egypt technology «ElifHybr» and the for its mid-term growth targets. operation, Elif has closed year «ElifHepta» color management 2016 with 12% growth versus the system . -5% 5% 15% 25% Business continued to grow in 2016 with previous year. Enhancing its 12% ability to serve changing the power of new Egypt caior plant. Capacity Growth Revenue Growth 23 | Elif Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Elif Sustainability Report 2015-2016 | 24 Elif Sustainability Report 2015 2016 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace WORKPLACE Elif values embraced by co-workers bring Elif As A Co-Worker achievement in workplace Brand In 2016, Elif co-worker satisfaction is calculated WCA (WORKPLACE and Hours, (3) Health and ELIF AS A SUCCESSFUL COas 60% while brand CONDITIONS ASSESSMENT) Safety, (4) Management WORKER BRAND loyalty is 65%, well above ACHIEVEMENT AWARD System and (5) Environment. In 2016, Elif performed its first cosector and region Elif Istanbul plant has undertaken REWARD AND worker satisfaction and brand average. an internationally recognized RECOGNITION SYSTEM IN loyalty survey. On the first year, audit focusing on working PRACTICE the survey is launched as a pilot conditions within the company. survey in Istanbul plant. According Elif is moving forward with its The results achieved by Elif was vision to be a global benchmark to the results of the first year SEDEX UNGC outstanding. The Achievement survey, Elif co-worker brand 6 years of SEDEX Supporter of UNGC for packaging company for the wellloyalty is calculated as 69,05%. Award was awarded with top being of the society by offering membership the last 4 years marks in all areas. Considering the sector and the responsible and innovative The main focus of the audit was packaging solutions based on region, Elif co-worker satisfaction the legal framework, payment universal principles and Elif and brand loyalty is well above the Elif is committed to continuously enhance and working hours, health and values. Together with all of its coaverage ratings. the workplace conditions for better working safety, the management system workers, Elif is working In 2017, Elif plans to roll-out the and environmental concerns. WCA Achievement environment and provide a safe and healthy relentlessly to create value in a survey in the whole organization of Intertek has assessed the spirit of leadership, through Istanbul plant as well as Elif Egypt Award work environment for its co-workers, diversity and integrity and with a plant. Intertek has recognized Elif practices of Elif according to the clear awareness of our contractors and visitors . WCA scope, which resulted in with WCA score of 98%. performance criteria required for responsibility. «Achievement Award». With the Elif‟s corporate values reflect the overall rating across all behaviors shaping the future. In Elif categories of 100%, Elif was far order to leverage this approach by Reward & above global comparisons and recognizing co-workers‟ well above the national average. Recognition achievements Elif launched a Elif is aware that the good Reward and Recognition System. System performance of our co-workers System aims to motivate coElif launched also depends to a great extent worker attitudes, behaviors, efforts Reward & on the necessary framework and actions contributing these Recognition conditions. The presentation of values. the award is an incentive for Elif System in Elif‟s Reward and Recognition 2016 in its to continue to focus on the topics System forms a base for of WCA: (1) Labor, (2) Wages, Istanbul and Performance Reviews and highly appreciated by the co-workers. Cairo plants. 25 | Elif Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Elif Sustainability Report 2015-2016 | 26 Elif Sustainability Report 2015 2016 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace WORKPLACE Improving performance by finding safer ways to manufacture and distribute our products OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH • Replacing standard visitor MORE THAN 200 JOBS cards with multilingual safety AND SAFETY instruction integrated visitor Elif has generated more than 200 Elif is certificated with OHSAS cards employment opportunities in 2016. 18001 supported by a variety of • Demonstrating a safety film on Bringing individuals from different programs. The goal of Elif's the screens of visitor changing backgrounds, cultures, occupational health and safety rooms perspectives and career programs is to achieve greater • Use of preventive ruler in preexperiences together, Elif is Stable case protection for the welfare of press preparation department committed to create a winning weight and employees, contractors and team with a winning culture where • “Drive Safely” training for forklift frequency  visitors. operators co-workers, colleagues and managers diversify and have For Elif, occupational health and • “First Aid Training” for all equal employment opportunity. safety is a cross-disciplinary area process control engineers and 12  concerned with the safety, health department occupational health 12 HOURS OF EDUCATION and welfare of people under its and safety responsibles hours of training Elif is aware that the quality and roof. Activities covered can be In 2016, Elif has experience 76 listed as: service which Elif promise can cases due to snap blade cuts only be achieved through More than 200  • Implementation of automatic and/or in cutting department. After continuous development of CO2 fire extinguishers in restrictions and limitations applied qualified co-workers. Therefore, new job printing department on the cause reason, Elif has decided to use a new type of snap Elif selects high quality employees opportunities • 7/24 medical healthcare and invests in human resources by blade knife and non-deplatable personnel deployment. building capability through 'on the glove. Use of these new gloves Application of shift system for and blades will start in 2017 and it job learning' as well as formal medical healthcare personnel is expected to decrease the programs, trainings and • Conditioning system for plate number of related cases development tools. cleaning system in the printing significantly. department The training, education and With the exclusion of the above orientation programs covered by • Smoke and flame detector mentioned cases, Elif remained implementation on distillation Elif in 2016 are 12 hours per costable in the frequency and weight machines of the cases. worker in total. Elif plans to increase the training programs for • Increasing recycling activity of wasted paper and cardboard career and co-worker Mission, Vision and Strategy Revitalized by 10% development. Elif revitalized its mission and vision statements as well as its core strategy as a part of its studies for Turquality. 27 | Elif Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Elif Sustainability Report 2015-2016 | 28 Elif Sustainability Report 2015 2016 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace MARKETPLACE Elif continues pioneering technology from Industry Industry 4.0 to Packaging 4.0. 4.0 Overview PACKAGING 4.0 AT ELIF With the effective use of APO, Elif of the INDUSTRY 4.0 VISION has started to control and analyse strategic Industry 4.0 is a vision that Elif targets to achieve flexibility, quality and cost efficiency at the all inputs and outputs of the platform for machines and systems independently monitor all of the same time with Packaging 4.0. system. Implementation of the new Elif‟s The new industrial approach system resulted in harmonization connected important process and system allows Elif to answer new strategic of the production with the states, share information with plant in trends of: variations in the inputs. Live data each other and optimize the Istanbul. • Convergence of applications for enables diagnosis and analysis of production processes throughout Data initiating new advancements the deviations in the outputs the entire process chain. • Greater business focus on instantly, making it possible to feeding Industrial Revolutions 1.0 to 3.0 interfere the system on time. ERP MII energy efficiency and took the industrial advancements through mechanised processes, sustainability The strategic platform of enables • Greater presence of mobility Packaging 4.0. enables live mass production and production and web-based information manufacturing integration and management automation. Today Industry 4.0 systems intelligence and plant connectivity. pursuits product innovation, of increased collaboration, Elif started to move forward into The increasing intelligence of the performance operational process Industry 4.0 in 2008 with machines through the integrated datamaster software enabling automation and intelligent resulting in enhancement and cyber-physical production. definition of production phases of operation increase the level of increased machines, identifying stops and control over the machine which flexiility, However, the road to completely downtimes, live data collection lead an increase in flexibility, cost quality and implementing this vision is a long from the systems and efficiency and quality of the cost term evolution for Ellif. This is instantaneous sharing of the production at the same time. why it is important to specifically efficiency. collected data for analysis. define Industry 4.0 for flexible Packaging 4.0 is being packaging market: Packaging After transformation of Elif‟s ERP implemented in Elif plants and 4.0. system into a full scale ERP, Elif business units in multiple started to use MII module with geographies and will be Packaging Packaging 4.0 refers to intelligent machines with integrated integration of PLC devices on all developped with the 4.0 at Elif machines. PLCs enabled data advancements of the technology. processes and intuitive Upgrades at flow into operator computers and operation. recording. Elif Istanbul plant for Packaging 4.0 29 | Elif Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Elif Sustainability Report 2015 2016 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace MARKETPLACE The future of sustainable packaging is about being smarter and more adaptive NEO-ECO PACKAGING FOR Being functional with reclosability ELIFHYBR – NEW HYBRID FUTURE for hygiene and, at the same time, PRINTING TECHNOLOGY attracting consumer with its chic Neo-Eco is the next evolutionary design makes ElifCotty and Elif Elif‟s latest neo-eco innovation is step in how sustainability is Ribbon good examples of eco-neo ElifHybr. ElifHybr is Elif‟s stateaddressed in packaging, with packaging. of-art printing technology using WorldStars from Elif new innovations in material combination of different ink Elif honored with 4 World technology improving the product ElifHolo, holographic printing transfer systems around a CI solution of Elif eliminating metal Star awards in different experience. Neo-Eco packaging drum together with electron categories. can improve both the substrate usage is another beam (EB) curing and ElifHepta functionality and ecological example for neo-eco packaging. color system. ElifHybr is unique credentials at the same time While ElifHolo eliminates the metal by offering high cost efficiency through the use of new substrate substrate usage for creation of and more sustainable prosess at ElifCare ElifFine technology, not just by reducing holographic effects, it also the same time. Elif‟s new solution offering provides cost benefit compared Biodegradability with material usage. ElifHybr enables customers unlimited shelflife and new tactile experience for the traditional hologram The future of sustainable applications. diversifying their product and stable properties. consumers. packaging will not just be in campaign portfolio by increasing material usage, light weighting ElifCare and ElifFine are Elif‟s eco the cost efficiency of short runs and recycling – it will be about packaging solutions. ElifCare by eliminating the high plate and empowering consumers with the offers 100% biodegradability and cylinder costs. ElifHybr also ability to lead their lives in a more compostability with unlimited shelf optimizes the lost time due to set life stable optical and mechanical environmentally positive, up by lowering the time spent properties and optimum cost convenient and functional way. In structure. between two jobs thanks to the that way packaging should robot technology used for enable people to use the product ElifFine is another example for changing plates and easy to more responsibly and efficiently. neo-eco packaging. This new clean EB inks. In recent years, innovations of packaging solution of Elif, is a EB curing method used in hybrid Elif are focused on neo-eco natural material based film offering printing enables sharp and high packaging concept. Elif paper like natural touch. ElifFine quality printing results, lowering completed 91 NPD and EPD provides stiffness, high strength, energy consumption and projects in 2016. Reclosable and tear resistance, barrier properties eliminating solvent. ElifHepta ElifHybr ElifHepta ElifHolo chic wicket bags, ElifCotty and like plastic films and presents a Color System also leverages Holography that eliminates natural texture with deadfold Elif‟s new neo-eco printing Elif‟s new color system ElifRibbon are launched vibrant print results. metal substrate and consequently in 2014 and 2015. property of paper due to its unique solution enabling cost and enabling more than 92% formulation. energy efficiency. of pantones. reduces total cost. 31 | Elif Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Elif Sustainability Report 2015-2016 | 32
