International SOS Communication on Progress September 2017 1 CONTENTS Introduction Statement from Co-Founders 1 About This Report 2 About International SOS 3 Human Rights Principles 4 Labour Principles 5 Environmental Principles 6 Anti-Corruption Principles 7 2 1 Statement of Continued Support from Our Co-Founders 3 About this Report 2 Our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is the world’s largest voluntary corporate citizenship initiative to promote Our COP is shared with all our stakeholders by detailing our practical actions and outcomes within the area of corporate responsibility. Our COP will be shared via sustainable development, with over 12,000 our company website as well as in our CSR corporate participants and other report. stakeholders from over 160 countries. It is a strategic policy initiative for companies to We are an improvement driven company; embrace ten universal principles in the therefore, we welcome all feedback. areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption, by partnering with the United Nations. The Global Compact incorporates an accountability and transparency policy, which is known as the Communication on Progress (COP). This report is the International SOS Communication on Progress for the UNGC for 2017. It demonstrates our commitment to the UNGC and its principles. This is a public disclosure to our stakeholders on the progress made by our company as a result of the implementation of these principles. 4 About International SOS International SOS is the world’s leading medical and travel security risk services company. We care for clients across the globe, from more than 1,000 locations in 90 countries. Our expertise is unique: More than 11,000 employees are led by 1,400 doctors and 200 security specialists. Teams work night and day to protect our members. We pioneer a range of preventive programmes, strengthened by our in-country expertise. We deliver unrivalled emergency assistance during critical illness, accident or civil unrest. We are passionate about helping our clients put ‘Duty of Care’ into practice. With our expertise, care and global capability, multinational corporate clients, governments and NGOs can mitigate risks for their people working remotely or overseas. 5 A quick overview Principle Highlights 1. Businesses should Key Human Rights are contained in support and respect the the Declaration and are included in protection of our Code of Conduct. We respect internationally these principles and enforce them in Human proclaimed Human our workplace. We ensure that the Rights Rights; and protection of Human Rights is 2. Make sure that they are carried throughout our company. not complicit in Human Rights abuses. 3. Businesses should At International SOS, we do not use uphold the freedom of forced or compulsory labour and association and the under no circumstances does the effective recognition of company approve the use of child the right to collective labour. bargaining. 4. The elimination of all International SOS is committed to Labour forms of forced and providing equal opportunities to all compulsory labour; employees. We recruit based on 5. The effective abolition merit and provide a work of child labour; environment free of discrimination 6. And the elimination of and harassment, where diversity is discrimination in respected via a range of policies and respect of employment practices. and occupation. 6 Principle Highlights 7. Businesses should We have made significant efforts to support a precautionary create sustainable operations approach to worldwide. All our practices are environmental aligned with our Environmental challenges; Policy, in which we are committed to 8. Undertake initiatives to meet international environmental promote greater best practices that are consistent Environment environmental with our business activities and responsibility; and operations worldwide for our 9. Encourage the employees, customers, and other development and stakeholders. We encourage the diffusion of development of environmentally environmentally friendly friendly technologies. technologies. 10. Businesses should We have zero tolerance for work against corruption corruption, and this is communicated in all its forms, to employees on a regular basis. We Antiincluding extortion and are committed to applying our Corruption bribery. professional expertise and highest ethical behaviour to deliver outstanding quality of service to our clients. 7 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in Human Rights abuses. 8 Providing equal opportunities to 3 our employees International SOS is proud of our cultural, racial and gender diversity. It is one of our main strengths as a company that reflects the wide and diverse population we serve. We therefore remain committed to creating an environment which is free from discrimination and bias, wherein people can fulfil their potential. Equal employment opportunity International SOS is committed to providing equal opportunities for all individuals. All employees are treated fairly and have equal access to resources. We are committed to working proactively to provide a discrimination and harassment free environment to ensure that all our employees are treated with dignity, courtesy and respect to enable everyone to reach their full potential. International SOS actively supports and respects the Universal Human Rights, Equal employment opportunity for including the right to work, to just and women in the workplace favourable conditions of work, to equal pay We recognise the importance of fully utilising for equal work, and to a just and favourable the potential of all our employees. remuneration, among others. International SOS Australasia has developed this policy aiming to ensure equal Key Human Rights are contained in the opportunities for women in the workplace and Declaration and are included in our Code of by doing so, fulfil the obligations under the Conduct, which sets out principles on the equal opportunity for Women in the elimination of forced labour, child labour, Workplace Act 1999. and discrimination. We respect these principles and enforce them in our workplace. We have explicitly stated this commitment in our Individual Rights Policy and our Code of Conduct and Ethics and Respect. Our employees are expected to treat their colleagues, clients and patients with respect. We do not tolerate bullying or harassment in our workplace. 9 Leaving a legacy in our communities International SOS has been present in Papua New Guinea for 20 years providing Health care for expatriates and local communities. During that time we have contributed to the development of public health by offering training and employment for more than 500 health professionals and care for thousands of people. Continuing Support for Kokoda Track Foundation At International SOS we respect Human We support KTF in a number of ways: Rights and ensure compliance with  As well as the annual company international laws and standards. We are contribution we give, many of our aware of the importance to access basic employees offer a monthly donation to Human Rights such as health and education. This is why we have developed KTF. We also raise funds through various programs to support education and morning teas and at an annual dinner in health for communities. aid of KTF, held in Sydney. We give hands-on help to the KTF leadership In PNG, the majority of the population still programme which aims to identify the live in isolated, rural areas with little or no access to basic services. The Kokoda Track next generation of leaders. We host Foundation (KTF), our preferred regional students in our Sydney office, providing partner, is working to provide those them with work experience and indigenous communities with access to mentoring. education and health services. It also  KTF, in conjunction with the national encourages the development of sustainable and provincial authorities in PNG, has a businesses and runs a leadership programme. School of Health to train health workers. A number of our medical staff volunteer there to provide training. 10 “ Thank you International SOS for your commitment to “ my family and community. You are making a difference. 11 Not only do we focus on our own corporate citizenship, we also help our clients meet their corporate social responsibility objectives. We do this by providing public health expertise at mining sites to reduce the health impacts projects have on the local communities. Mining projects are often in remote areas with endemic infectious illnesses, lack of clean water and limited health and transportation infrastructure. Diseases such as malaria, tuberculosis, cholera, STIs and HIV, filariasis and YAWs can be rife. International SOS carries out baseline studies to benchmark rates of infection, develops control methods, sponsors education and monitors effectiveness. These initiatives significantly reduce the incidence of infectious diseases and benefit many people working on and around the sites. Our client programmes include: COUNTRY TYPE OF PROGRAMME DETAILS Democratic Republic of Integrated malaria control Started in 2007, workforce and Congo programme community vector control programmes Integrated malaria control Started in 2007, workforce and Ghana programme community vector control programmes Indonesia Public health management Technical advisory services programme Indonesia Public health and malaria control Malaria, tuberculosis, STI/HIV and health promotion Public health management Established in 1998 includes: Papua New Guinea programme Mother and child healthcare, malaria, filariasis, HIV, tuberculosis and yaws control 12 Providing education to fight diseases Successful YAWS study The funding model of this research is a Yaws is a chronic infection mostly great example of what a genuine affecting people under the age of 15 and partnership among corporate, industry and is prevalent in PNG. The World Health science can achieve and demonstrates Organisation has classed Yaws as a how foreign companies can contribute to neglected tropical disease improving the health and well-being of disproportionately affecting economically people affected by neglected tropical disadvantaged populations and has diseases. endorsed it for global eradication by 2020. With this type of funding, we strive to improve the health and well-being of not To support this goal, International SOS is only our employees but also the helping to fund a study to determine the communities where we operate. success of a new strategy to eradicate yaws on Lihir Island, PNG. The study is being conducted at Lihir Medical Centre in collaboration with the Centre for International Health Research of Barcelona (CRESIB) and Newcrest Mining Ltd as part of a sustainability and development program on Lihir Island. The latest findings have been published in the New England Journal of Medicine and show a significant decrease in the prevalence of yaws following a mass treatment program. Combatting Malaria in Africa Progress is being made in the fight against malaria, a preventable disease. But it is still a major challenge. The WHO states that at the start of 2016, nearly half the world’s population was at risk of malaria. In 2015, there were 212 million new cases of malaria with 429,000 malaria deaths. The majority of cases occur in Africa. 13 Our Eastern Europe, Middle East and We produced a range of educational Africa region continued to play its part in materials including posters, pocket the building awareness and promoting guides and playing cards. healthy practices. Year by year, we have increased our support for United Against We held presentations and quizzes and Malaria, by buying bracelets from the presented education to help prevent Relate Organisation. These proceeds go infection. As part of our outreach to local toward the purchase of mosquito nets. In communities, we visited the NGO ‘SOS the past four years, we have bought Children’s Village’ in Chad. We gave a nearly 14,000 bracelets which helped presentation on malaria to the children, fund 3,475 nets, protecting over 13,000 plus a donation of 3,000 Euros collected children. An extra benefit is that the from our staff in Chad and Dubai. bracelets are handmade in Cape Town, which offers job opportunities to the local We worked closely with our clients on community. malaria prevention. Numerous workshops were held across Ghana, the DRC and Malaria Week in Africa continues to be a elsewhere, often at remote client locations. major focus of our many activities, In the DRC, over 750 employees attended involving our staff, clinics, clients and the a presentation on preventing malaria, local communities. presented by International SOS doctors. Worldwide activities During 2015-2016, we have continued with a variety of CSR activities in ‘Health and Education’ throughout the regions where we operate. Many build on activities begun in the previous year; others are new. Here are highlights from each region: Australasia The company and staff in International In the field of public health in PNG, we SOS Australasia are very committed to promote blood drives and the distribution of supporting the people of Papua New birthing kits to help women give birth safely. Guinea (PNG), one of the world’s poorest and least developed countries. We have For the past four years, we have helped had a significant partnership with the sponsor the Zonta Birthing Kit Project which Kokoda Track Foundation (KTF) for a few assembles birthing kits that are sent to PNG years. and some African countries to help decrease infection and mortality rates for mother and Other support for the people of PNG baby. This year, staff also volunteered their includes the sponsorship of two awards: time to help assemble 13,000 birthing kits. The Westpac Outstanding Women Award and The Men of Honour Award. 14 Our support for the Nossal Scholarship for daily events including eating, washing and Global Health continues. The Nossal taking part in communal activities. Institute and the University of Melbourne award the Scholarship to a PNG student of MYANMAR medicine or public health. We have been funding this scholarship since its inception. Our efforts here centre around helping The first recipient, Patricia Rau, is on course orphans, taking them on day trips and to receive her PhD in Public Health in 2018. donating colouring books, stationery, pens and toys. Our medical experts in PNG conduct groundbreaking research to eradicate the Our doctors also presented at local schools tropical disease yaws. on hygiene awareness, dental care and handwashing. Asia PHILIPPINES SINGAPORE International SOS Philippines supports and The Pertapid Education and Welfare Centre raises funds for the Tahanan ng Pagmamahal provides housing and social support to children’s home. This organisation provides marginalised people and children in care, shelter, and education to orphaned, Singapore. Our Group Exco and other staff abandoned and neglected infants and children have given enthusiastic support to this from ages one to 18. We helped provide charitable cause raising over SGD 43,000 for Back-to-School kits for the children and the Centre. nappies for the infants. Employees also conducted reading programmes for the We also work with RSVP – The Organisation children. of Senior Volunteers dedicated to promoting volunteerism among senior citizens. They CHINA run nine community service programmes, ranging from befriending lonely seniors to Our Beijing office focuses its charitable efforts providing a guiding service at hospitals and on helping Stars and Rain, China’s first NGO teaching IT skills to seniors. We raise money dedicated to autism awareness and support. for RSVP through office collection boxes. We conduct fundraising and support the charity throughout the year. Since it began in SOUTH KOREA 1993, Stars and Rain has helped over 6,000 autistic children and their families. Stars and Since November 2014, we have held five Rain provides parents with a unique training events in partnership with the Korean Red course to give them the skills they need to Cross Volunteer Centre. Staff members get educate their children. It has opened a home together to bake bread and other items which for six teenagers with autism and related are sent to the socially disadvantaged groups disabilities. in our community (low-income seniors, children, multi-cultural families and North United States and Canada Korean defectors). HELPING THE HUNGRY AND OTHERS We work with groups of children to make ‘Quiet Books’ from kits we buy from the In the USA, our main CSR focus in on hunger, NGO, Promise, and send these to children in especially for families and children. We help underdeveloped countries. address the growing problem of food insecurity by supporting food banks. In June 2016, our employees spent a day helping out at the Sarangmaru Elderly Care In 2016 and 2016, each of the US and Center. They provided hands-on care with Canada office locations ran a food drive to 15 th celebrate the Group’s 30 anniversary; Middle East and Africa donating more than 3,500 lbs. of food to pantries in Houston, Edmonton, Alexandria, Much of our community support in the Middle Boston, Philadelphia and Jersey City. East and African centres on World Malaria day, see page 13. In Canada, a key CSR activity is the Christmas Stollery Gift Exchange. Each year TEDDY BEARS CAN TEACH our Edmonton office employees donate a wide selection of toys to the local Stollery Staff at our Almaty clinic in Kazakhstan have Children’s Hospital. found an engaging way to involve families in learning about good health. They set up a Staff across the region regularly get involved Teddy Bear Hospital at school and pre-school in raising money through sponsored runs and events. Children bring along their teddy bears walks. Two favourite causes are MS and to have ‘injuries’ treated by our doctors. As Cancer Research. On International Women’s well as experiencing the operating theatre, the Day, we also held collections in our offices in children visit an ambulance and learn useful support of Breast Cancer Awareness. health tips. Meanwhile, their parents attend a session on the health aspects of smartphones MEDAIRE CASES and other devices popular with children and practice some vital life-saving skills. International SOS group member, MedAire, concentrates its CSR initiatives on The Teddy Bear Hospital has attracted great ‘Healthcare and Education’, through interest. As well as being fun, it has brought partnerships with not-for-profit organisations. together parents and children to drive health These include: awareness.  The ‘Welcome to America Project’ Europe helping foreign refugees resettle in Arizona. We supported a Somalian The European Region continues to develop its family of 11 members who lived in a commitment to CSR. refugee camp for 20 years before th coming to Phoenix. We have given As part of our International SOS 30 them kitchen supplies, books, toiletries, Anniversary celebrations, in September 2015, toys and other support. 30 female employees from all over Europe took part in ’La Parisienne’, a 6.7 km run  The Arizona branch of ‘Junior through Paris in aid of breast cancer. A total Achievement’ which aims to inspire of 40,000 women joined the race. This is the young people. We spent a day teaching eighth year we have participated in the event. th th financial literacy to students (4 to 7 graders) at Granada East School. At Numerous activities have taken place at a this school, 93% of the students are at, local level too. These include: or below, poverty level and considered  In London, we organised monthly drives to high risk. raise funds for London Air Ambulance  ‘Team 5’ provides medical care in (LAA). These include: basket-offs, coffee remote areas of the world. We have mornings, 30K walk and a half marathon. Thanks to its many supporters, LAA now donated supplies for several years and provided medical assistance services has two air ambulances that have during some of their trips. This year we extended their summer flying hours and also helped the Team prepare for a can now attend up to 400 more patients mission to Peru. per year. 16  In France, we donated and shipped volunteered for a day at a children’s medicines to Africa in partnership with hospital to engage the children in fun the not-for-profit organisation ASF activities and donated books to rural (Aviation Sans Frontières) and provided school libraries in Tunisia. books to Ecoles Sans Frontières, also destined for Africa.  In the UK, our colleagues in Aberdeen ran in various races to provide funds for  In Switzerland, staff ran a marathon in health-related causes. support of UNICEF. Many employees Top left: Supporting refugees in Frankfurt Top right: Colour Me Rad to fundraiser for local schools Bottom left: Zonta Birthing Kit assembly Bottom right: Teddy Bear Hospital 17 18 Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 19 Providing a Safe and Healthy 4 Work Environment International SOS has an approach to good corporate citizenship through a focus on “Healthcare and Education”. This is where our expertise lies and the reason why we can make a difference in our workplace, with our clients and members and in the communities surrounding us. We encourage ethical conduct, cultural diversity, fair hiring and equality in our workplace. These standards are reflected in our Code of Conduct and Individual Rights Policy. Simply put, we want to ensure that International SOS is a healthy and positive environment where employees can put their talents to best possible use. For this, high employee engagement is important as is enabling ethical conduct, diversity and inclusiveness in the 90 countries where we operate. Similarly, we also aim to exceed our Duty of Care obligations to our workforce both in the home office and when they work on an assignment. We have industry-leading systems and practices to prevent illness, injury and security incidents from affecting our employees. Creating a healthy and equitable atmosphere for our employees: INITIATIVE SIGNIFICANCE DETAILS Sets ethical conduct Our policy includes: for all of our  Standards for honest and ethical conduct employees  Compliance with local and national law and regulations  Conflicts of interest  Legal compliance  Discrimination and harassment  Fair dealing and integrity Code of Conduct  Information security and data protection and Ethics policy  Workplace health and safety  Open door policy  Whistle-blowing and reporting unethical behaviour Within 30 days of joining, all employees are required to undergo eLearning on our Code of Conduct and comply with the policy. 20 Outlines the rights of By providing employment, training health care and employees in other benefits, we directly contribute to the wellcompliance with local being of individuals in the places where we operate laws and contribute to supporting individual rights. Our Rights policy includes our:  Approach and respect for communities and people living near our operations  Declaration not to employ child, forced or bonded labour  Compliance with labour laws in the countries we operate in  Statement of International SOS’ political neutrality  Aims to employ people without Individual Rights discrimination on the grounds of age, policy ethnic or social origin, gender, sexual orientation, politics or religion  Prohibition of sexual harassment. We strive to create awareness on acceptable and unacceptable behaviour  The expectation of service providers to respect the rights of their employees  Respect for the privacy of information provided to us by employees, customers and service providers  Commitment to providing fair and equitable remuneration to attract and retain the best talent in the industry. Within 30 days of joining, all employees are required to undergo eLearning on our Code of Conduct and comply with the policy. Policies and We have robust cross-border travel policies and procedures to meet procedures to protect our workforce abroad. We our Duty of Care dynamically assess travel security and medical risk obligations to our for hundreds of countries and cities worldwide and employees when assign risk ratings. they travel and work Cross-border abroad All employees travelling abroad are required to travel policies and obtain approvals. We track employee travel in our procedures TravelTracker system. Employees are encouraged to use our Assistance App and check in on arrival. Employees are covered by our assistance services when they travel on business. For travel to medium to extreme risk locations, employees are required to:  Use our Travel Risk Assessment tool with 21 Cross-border specific advice on the standards that must travel policies be applied for the trip and procedures  Acknowledge they have received and read cont’d a pre-travel briefing on health and security. Employees are required to comply with any and all required security and safety measures.  Personnel travelling in vehicles (including all drivers and passengers) must wear seatbelts at all times when the vehicle is in motion Governance on All employees are required to comply with our OH&S at all facilities OH&S management standards. This includes:  Complying and conforming with local OH&S standards. Where local law fails to provide an adequate standard, we apply our higher-level standards  Adherence to International SOS’ contractual obligations in regards to OH&S matters  Implementation and communication of OH&S standards procedures and processes so we can maintain the occupation health and safety of employees Occupational  Creating and implementing an emergency Health and Safety preparedness and response programme to policy (OH&S) ensure the adequate control of an emergency situation  Appointing qualified and competent people to train and set standards  Reporting and auditing all occupational health, safety accidents and incidents with the intent to create and implement corrective and preventative actions to prevent reoccurrence  Continual improvement and best practices for OH&S  Formal management review and evaluation of OH&S activities A global programme We seek to have motivated employees who enjoy to track and improve their work and contribute to the success of our Global employee company. To learn how to improve this, we run engagement engagement engagement surveys to examine employee survey attitudes on job satisfaction, company loyalty and advocacy, having the right tools and equipment to do their jobs, work/life balance, internal 22 communications, career and learning opportunities Global engagement and relationships with peers and management. survey cont’d In 2016, areas to be enhanced included improving the tools and systems so employees can work more efficiently and career development. Employees and senior management have formed work groups and are committed to improving engagement levels. Many sites have Employee assistance programmes support staff employee assistance with personal issues including major life events, programmes as part financial and legal concerns, substance abuse, Employee of benefits emotional distress, healthcare concerns, work, assistance family and other concerns. programmes In 2016, we formed a partnership with Workplace Options, a leading Employee Assistance Provider, to provide these services to our staff on a global basis. Many sites We take an active role to reduce the impact of encourage wellness Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) in our and health promotion workforce. Healthy lifestyle and behaviours to promote stress reduction, exercise and a balanced diet can help prevent NCDs. Wellness At many offices we encourage or offer: programmes  Sports clubs, walking and exercise promotion  Healthy eating  Vaccination  Smoking cessation  Bicycle riding/commute to work  Provision of healthcare Active We actively look to increase and promote diversity encouragement of within our internal talent pools. diversity and inclusion in our Our diversity committee benchmarks our attitudes employees on diversity and how we can improve. One area of focus is gender diversity. In 2016, we ran an Diversity and internal campaign for International Women’s Day inclusion featuring a Q&A of over 30 female leaders around the business. We also offer unconscious bias and cultural awareness training to cultivate diversity and increase sensitivity. 23 Continual employee International SOS required employee eLearning development and including: training initiatives  Code of Conduct and Ethics  Data Protection eLearning  Security Procedures  Pandemic Influenza Specific departments and functions also have additional annual eLearning requirements. We have developed 173 eLearning courses in total. Mandatory CPR and We strive to improve our employees’ skills and defibrillation training competencies through regular performance and on-the-job reviews, recognising potential, offering training, education required coaching and other professional development opportunities. Other training and All employees are trained in Basic development Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) and the use of Automated Electrical Defibrillators (AEDs). Medical staff are required to maintain training requirements as part of licensing requirements. Assistance Centre induction training is a minimum of six weeks and employees are required to undergo two additional sessions per year. Structure work Our guidelines for managers and employees Open environment to encourage continual, open communication across communication encourage open, all levels of the organisation, feedback, and guidelines non-hierarchical discussion about any matter of importance to an communications employee. 24 Duty of Care We believe that an employer’s Duty of Care responsibilities do not stop at the office door. Our business practices help companies mitigate medical and travel security risks when their employees travel and work abroad. Our proprietary systems rank country risk  We often hold advisory webinars in level by low, medium, high and extreme. For response to major events including employees needing to travel to medium and Middle East respiratory syndrome higher risk destinations, as part of their coronavirus (June 2015) and the booking trip, they are required to get Brussels terrorist attacks (March 2016). appropriate approval, review the specific  We frequently share advice via social risks such as crime, infectious diseases, media. food and water safety and partake in education sessions. Employees are We helped the British Standards Institute (BSI) informed of vaccination requirements, create its Publicly Available Specification on malaria precautions and are encouraged to ‘Travelling for Work’. It provides detailed get inoculation and necessary prophylaxis. guidance on preparing for and dealing with, incidents that might occur when workers travel. During the trip, our TravelTracker system Likewise, we assisted in the preparation of enables security and line managers to communications by the independent, not-forcommunicate and provide emergency profit organisations, the International SOS support to travelling employees and Foundation. The Foundation, together with the overseas staff should there be an incident. Institution of Occupational Safety and Health (IOSH), has developed a detailed guidance on Raising public awareness of risks to ‘Managing the Safety, Health and Security of Mobile Workers’. It includes innovative advice a mobile workforce on how to protect those who may face particular risks when travelling including women, LGBT We produce extensive information and workers, students, older people and those with advice on the risks faced by mobile disabilities. workforces. This is used by organisations to help them meet their Duty of Care obligations to their staff, and by individual Protecting our mobile workforce workers. As part of our commitment to CSR, we are making more of this information Our business focuses on how we can help publicly available including: clients fulfil their Duty of Care responsibilities and manage travel, health and security risks.  In 2015, we published our Travel Risk The tools, information and advice to protect Map. It rates variable levels of medical clients are also used to mitigate risk to our staff. and travel security risks across the world. It is the world’s first map to cover We have a robust approach to managing both types of risk. threats with well-established escalation  A map showing territories affected by procedures to ensure serious incidents are the Zika virus is available on our dealt with swiftly and at the right level. pandemic preparedness website, plus other news about the virus. 25 Our international, in-depth assessments of Those going to higher risk destinations receive Travel Risk provide a detailed picture of increased levels of support, both before medical and security risks, country by departure and throughout their time away. country, together with rankings of risk levels. Preparation includes verbal briefings and Before leaving for any destination, detailed reviews of travel plans, hotel vetting employees can access information on any and other advice specific to the destination. matters that could affect them. This includes During their time away, mobile workers benefit current political or religious issues, highfrom the same assistance we have developed crime areas, potential disruptions, for our clients: TravelTracker, the Assistance recommended modes of transport and any App and access to our global support systems. local customs they need to be aware of. They can seek information and advice at any From a medical standpoint, they are time and, as appropriate, we can monitor their informed about all vaccinations required, the progress level of malaria risks and what precautions to take, and other relevant health risks or diseases. . 26 Training for our employees International SOS is committed to providing all employees with training as part of their orientation, development and on-going responsibilities. Within 30 days of joining the company, every employee must complete a series of elearning modules. We also expect our service providers to comply with our policies in similar ways as we do internally. These modules refer to the business structure, mission, vision, business overview, policies in non-discrimination, bullying, harassment and data management. All employees are expected to complete them and act according to the guidelines provided by the e-learning courses as well as the Code of Conduct and the Individual International SOS is a rewarding place to Rights Policy. The modules refer to labour work. The nature of our work means we standards, rights and responsibilities of respond to world events as they happen, so employees, as well as benefits of working we are continuously looking for individuals within our organisation. We have developed with a can-do attitude, who are creative and 173 e-learning modules in total. thrive on challenges. We provide a full range of training services To ensure consistency in our recruitment for our clients that leverage our medical and methodology, recruitment workshops have travel security expertise. This includes been developed for managers and team training in first aid and emergency medicine, leaders where the objective is to attract a general health and wellness, and a range of diverse range of candidates and high-quality travel risk courses. All our training is employees selected by a merit-based delivered by experts either through a recruitment and selection process. traditional classroom, via the web in a ‘virtual All internal and external advertisements are classroom’ format or through our e-learning reviewed by Human Resources to ensure catalogue. our standards are met and there is no gender bias. All permanent vacancies and Recruitment and selection temporary assignments of greater than three International SOS understands that months are advertised internally. This allows recruiting, retaining and developing the right all employees equal opportunity to apply for talent is critical to support our organisation’s promotions and transfers, including culture which is based on the values of overseas relocations. We have also Passion, Expertise, Respect and Care. We implemented an employee referral program are a dynamic and growth-oriented business across our Australasian region to encourage that offers exciting opportunities globally for a wider candidate pool and to reward people who wish to have a challenging and employees financially for successful unique career experience. referrals. 27 Performance appraisal Work-life balance We provide a yearly performance Implementing more flexibility in the management review between our workplace is a priority in International SOS. employees and managers to establish We offer various types of leave such as objectives, review performance and identify career breaks, additional annual leave and development needs. volunteer leave, to help employees achieve a better work-life balance. To ensure that this process is undertaken in a professional and mature way, and that the The parental leave policy is designed to results obtained by it are beneficial to both support our employees prior to, during and the company and the employees, briefing immediately following the birth of a child. sessions are provided to explain to managers and employees how the process This provides the opportunity for employees works. to devote time to their child or children during the first year of their parenting The end of year performance review is an relationship, without career disadvantage. important opportunity for us to evaluate the outcomes of the past financial year in We also aim to provide a work environment regards to the achievement of our corporate that respects diversity, in order to promote objectives. This is a key element of the employee development and positive performance management process (PMP) workplace relationships where differences within International SOS. among individuals are valued. This is included in our Discrimination, Harassment and Bullying Policy. Looking after the wellbeing of our employees In partnership with Optum, International SOS Australasia provides our employees with Employee Assistance Program (EAP) services. Employees get access to different wellbeing services that help them manage personal and work-based issues that might have an impact on their Health, Wellbeing, behaviour, performance and development. These services can be accessed via telephone, face-to-face or online. 28 Attracting young talent – a mutual benefit We are keen to offer young graduates the opportunity to gain international experience and develop their leadership potential. For more than three years, we have been working in partnership with AIESEC, an independent, not-for-profit organisation run by students and recent university graduates. It acts as a global platform for young people to explore and develop their potential. We work together to identify and select those members who want to spend time at International SOS as paid interns. We currently have 13 AIESEC interns in the business. In total, 47 have spent time with us, and 19 have stayed on in permanent positions. AIESEC interns have taken on roles across the business: in HR, Operations, IT and Finance. Each year we employ a member of AIESEC as a Global Coordinator to manage the partnership between the two organisations and help in the More about AIESEC selection process. AIESEC (pronounced eye-sek) describes The partnership with AIESEC is mutually itself as ‘a global network of young leaders under the age of 30 who strive to beneficial. The interns gain deep experience better themselves and the communities working at an international company. Their roles around them. Its members are interested are designed to ensure they encounter different in world issues, leadership development, challenges and provide them with clear cultural understanding and experiential responsibilities and learning opportunities. learning’. We gain the benefit of building our long-term AIESEC was founded in 1948. It is now talent pipelines and increasing diversity within present in 126 countries and territories. the company. Since its inception, AIESEC’s operations have been solely managed by students and recent graduates. Its ‘by students, for students’ mantra even extends to its global leadership team which is elected annually by the members. Members of AIESEC are known as ‘AIESECers’. 29 2017 at a glance International SOS strives to ensure that our workforce is truly representative of all different sectors of society. We strive to ensure that each employee is respected. By leveraging the unique backgrounds, perspectives and experience of our people, we believe we can improve the provision of excellent customer service to our diverse customers. Gender Diversity at International SOS 30 Employer Awards Singapore National Business Awards, American Business Awards, Winner Winner for “Health Products and of the “Silver Stevie Award” 2017 Services” 2016 Recognised for TravelTracker, our industry Honoured for our Assistance App, leading software and assistance platform TravelTracker and TravelReady helping mitigate health and security risks to programmes that form an end-to-end assignee’s and business travellers. technological solution for preventing and managing travel risk. Handelsblatt, Top Service Deustchland 2017 Wth Aachen and Fraunhofer Institute Recognised for superior customer service for Production Technology, provided by our Assistance Centres and Innovation Award 2016 staff. Received as part of consortial benchmarking Exxon Neftegas Limited “Outstanding “Managing Breakthrough Innovations” from the Invention Centre of the Techncical, Mentor Recognition” Award on University at Aachen for Telemedicine and Odoptu Stage 2 Sealift 2017 Digital Travel Management capabilities. Exxon Neftegas Limited Excellence in Safety Award in “celebration of successful Forum for Expatriate Management, completion of Odoptu Stage 2 Sealift and Honourable Mention, EMMA Award recognition of your commitment to for “Best Thought Leadership – outstanding safety, health, environment and Survey or Research study of the operational excellence”. year” in America Region 2016 Honoured for our in-depth analysis for Travel Risk Map and our risk perception global traveller survey conducted in 13 countries of 11,000 people. Forum for Expatriate Management, Winner, EMMA Awards for “Risk Management Provider of the Year”, “Best Thought Leadership – Survey or Research Study of the Year”, “Best Use of Data Analytics for Global Mobility”, “Most Innovative Technology for Global Mobility – Assignee Management” in America Region 2017 Honoured for our in-depth analysis for Travel Risk Map and survey International Travel: Risks and Reality and recognised for Enterprise Health Center solution. 31 Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 32 friendly technologies. Our commitment 5 International SOS has been in business for over thirty years. During this time, we have taken a long-term view to creating sustainable operations so we are competitive and provide a livelihood for our employees. Below are a number of our business practices which contribute for our sustainability in the global marketplace. INITIATIVE SIGNIFICANCE DETAILS Continual evaluation to The Global Quality Charter ensures ensure high customer that we deliver excellent healthcare, satisfaction concierge and security assistance services to our clients. To ensure the highest level of commitment from International SOS, the charter is led by our Group Chairman and CEO and Group Medical Director. Global Quality Charter This quality plan integrated our quality management system into the routine work of each Assistance Centre. It focuses on eight principles: governance leadership, client focus, partnerships, continuous improvement, staff engagement, professional knowledge, information management and standardised work practices. Continual evaluation and We maintain details on 72,000 surveys to ensure the independent third party providers: integrity of our service hospitals, physicians, air providers ambulances, dentists and security practitioners in our Global Assistance Network to service the needs of our clients. Audit and accredit thirdparty providers in our Routine data and credentialing Global Assistance maintenance are completed Network pursuant to stringent guidelines and in compliance to KPIs per provider type and rank. Central reports facilitate the monitoring of compliance. 33 Audit and accredit cont’d Our objective is to ensure that thirdparty provider data shared with members and clients are up to date, accurate and reliable, and that these providers operate within the legal requirements of the given country. Governance on our All employees are required to comply environmental standards with our environmental standards. at all facilities These include:  Conforming with local environmental standards; where local law fails to provide an adequate standard, we apply our higher-level standards  Reporting and auditing all environmental accidents and incidents with the intent to create and implement corrective and preventative actions to prevent reoccurrence  Striving to reduce consumption of energy and other resources  Initiating a formal management review process Environmental policy based on assessments of the environmental impacts our activities and those of our operations may have, to improve our performance and to ensure continual improvement  Fostering awareness and respect for the environment to ensure optimal environmental protection in everything we do  Requiring suppliers and contractors to adopt similar standards and demonstrate visible and sustainable environmental management practices in the execution of their activities 34 Practices to reduce paper Our environmental practices vary by usage, encourage facility. We strive to reduce waste, recycling and minimise paper and electricity consumption electricity consumption and recycle where possible. Most of our facilities:  Print in black ink by default  Donate and recycle electronics  Recycle plastics  Properly dispose of hazardous materials like paints and solvents  Use washable cups and plates instead of disposable We aim to reduce paper consumption by:  Deploying electronic management systems for operations management, human resources management and financial management replace paperbased workflow processes. We continue to make efforts to move away from paperEnvironmental practices based workflows and processes and to meet or exceed all relevant regulatory requirements.  Reusing envelopes and boxes for storage, providing for the collection of paper for recycling, reconsidering the necessity of printing or copying documents, using double-sided printing and copying, ensuring compliance with information security guidelines, and reusing paper printed only on one side for drafts.  Encouraging the use of electronic communications such as websites, enewsletters and social media rather than paper-based media. We aim to reduce electricity consumption by:  Maintaining air conditioning systems so they are more 35 Environmental practices energy efficient. Our general cont’d recommended indoor temperature is between 23 and 26˚C.  Reminding employees to switch off the lights when they leave their workplace or meeting room, and only use lights when necessary. We also encourage the use of energy-saving lighting systems. Measures to reduce We have procedures in place at Medical waste medical waste facilities to ensure waste disposal management does not pose any risk to public health. 36 Protecting the Environment International SOS Environmental Sustainability Statement International SOS aims to embed sustainability practices in our business in order to reduce its impact on the environment and to make sustainability an integral part of its way of operating. International SOS recognises that we have a responsibility to our people, our customers and the communities we operate in. The way we operate has an impact on the environment, and we want to integrate sustainability best practice into our decision-making and business activities worldwide. We will seek to minimise adverse environmental impacts through continual improvement in our environmental processes by committing to the five following key areas (in alphabetical order): 1. Communication: We will communicate our sustainability statement internally and externally a. Employee engagement: We will encourage and promote environmental awareness amongst our staff through information, instruction and training. b. Client engagement: We will share our sustainability statement, plans and strategies with our clients and, where appropriate, encourage our clients to support our environmental and sustainability strategies. 2. Energy efficiency: We will include environmental considerations such as energy efficiency into the acquisition, design and operation of all our buildings & appliances where practicable. 3. Law and regulation: We will comply with all laws and regulations relating to the environment. 4. Procurement: We will take into account the environmental credentials of suppliers when awarding contracts and consider environmentally responsible alternatives to products and services which we procure. 5. Waste management: We will manage our waste efficiently and will seek to reduce, reuse and recycle wherever possible. We will periodically revise our sustainability statement to ensure that it continues to meet standards. Our CSR Committee is responsible for devising and updating the company’s sustainability statement and for ensuring that the necessary resources and processes exist to facilitate its achievement. It is also the responsibility of each and every employee to practice the commitments of our sustainability statement. . 37 Global ISO 9001:2008 Accreditation Our global ISO 9001:2008 certification includes all our business lines and International SOS registered companies. This distinction includes Assistance Centres, Remote Medical Sites, Clinics, MedSupply, Health Care Services and Travel Security Services at International SOS worldwide. It also covers our concierge and lifestyle platforms at Aspire Lifestyles. Our certification is through the Swiss Association for Quality and Management Systems, selected due to the medical expertise of their auditors. We also have ISO/IEC 27001:2013 certification demonstrating our commitment to security best practices for customer data. We are also the world’s first organisation to be certified by the newly published ISO 13131 Guidelines on TeleHealth services. This certification was awarded by British Standards Institution. It addresses several practices: the consistent delivery of remote medical assistance, clinical governance and quality management protocols, the ability to meet legal requirements and the protection of patient data and information. 38 Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 39 Implementation International SOS attaches great importance to the honest and ethical conduct of staff, customers and third parties, including fair dealing and ethical handling of conflicts of interest. There is zero tolerance to corruption, and employees are reminded on a regular basis. These statements are expressed in our Code of Conduct and Ethics Policy which is distributed to our staff and is available to our stakeholders on the company’s website. Training on the Code of Conduct and Ethics Policy is undertaken by all employees, as they are expected to act with the highest levels of honesty, integrity, ethics and fair dealing and to hold our core values: passion, expertise, respect and care. International SOS’ commitment to dealing legally and ethically with governments applies worldwide. The company policy, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and similar anti-bribery laws around the world prohibit our employees or their agents from giving or offering to give money or anything of value – whether cash or not, or whether directly or indirectly through others – to any government official to induce that official to affect any governmental act or decision, or to assist the company in obtaining or retaining business or securing any improper advantage. 40 Contributing to our sustainability in the global marketplace As stated in our Providers Code of Conduct, providers may not act in any way, in their business relationship with International SOS or otherwise, that violates the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or any other anti-corruption law around the world. International SOS entities use providers that do not violate our ethical standards through bribes, kickbacks, or other similar improper or unlawful payments. The Code has been developed to ensure that all employees and providers adhere to the highest ethical standards when conducting business and it is available for employees’ review upon request. Providers are required to take reasonable steps to ensure that the Code is communicated throughout their organisations and to make the Code available to their employees. Our policies include: INITIATIVE SIGNIFICANCE DETAILS Establishes how we Our customers entrust us with sensitive personal collect, handle, store data such as medical data. We recognise our and process personal reputation and ability to serve our customers is data (including medical dependent on how we protect their personal data. data) in accordance with regional and We have established a data protection steering international regulations committee responsible for the policy, procedures and operating standards to ensure compliance with changes in law, best practices among multinational companies, recommendations published by governments and aligned to technological developments. We expect our service providers to handle data in a similar way. Data protection Our data protection policy goes beyond the policy requirements of the law. It complies with:  Laws in the countries where we do business  United States’ Safe Harbour Framework and relevant provisions of HIPAA  Binding corporate rules sanctioned by the European community’s data protection authorities Within 30 days of joining, all employees are required to receive eLearning on our data protection policies. 41 Data protection Contractual commitments to our customers policy cont’d include:  Authority and accountability for data protection  Identify purposes for collecting personal data  Consent of data subject  Collection limitations and accuracy  Limited use, disclosure, retention and destruction  Security  Openness  Individual access and correction  Challenging compliance  Transfers to a third-party and crossborder personal data flow PCIS (Payment Card Information Systems) Level 1 Compliance is part of Aspire Lifestyles platform. Best practices and We recognise that information both in electronic industry standards to and non-electronic forms need to be protected keep information safe from a range of threats to ensure business and secure continuity. Our information security policy covers communications, technology, electronic information, software and hardware. Our policy and procedures are developed via our Data Information Protection Steering Committee. security policy All employees and contractors of International SOS must comply with policy specifying:  Alliance to ISO/IEC 27002 standards  Background checks and security clearances for key and specific positions  Organisational security, systems development and maintenance, access control and compliance As a medial and security All 26 Assistance Centres: assistance provider, our  Seamlessly divert calls and cases from clients and members one assistance centre to another in an require us to be fully incident operational in emergencies  Perform IT backups daily Business  Have uninterrupted power systems in Continuity place at all locations Planning (BCP)  Conduct disaster recovery testing at least twice a year  Updated BCP plans annually and perform mock scenarios to test readiness during: o Infrastructure failure o Single facility disaster o City-wide disaster 42 BCP cont’d o Surge in demand o Threat to reputation o Individual employees in danger o Influenza pandemic Ensures the integrity of Our global policies and procedures require our medical supply that our medical suppliers: chain  Are reviewed every 12 months Evaluation and  Are compliant with all applicable licensing accreditation of regulations our medical suppliers  Are audited to ensure licensing compliance, good distribution practices and traceability including the quality of products and recall management Best practices and All employees of International SOS must industry standards comply with policy specifying: followed  Retention of data  Exceptions to the retention period Data retention  Archival of digital and paper-based media and archiving  Destruction methodology for CR-ROMs, policy DVDs, tapes, mobile devices, portable drives, database records, backup files, hard drives and paper  Enforcement and reporting breaches Comprehensive Our policy addresses: procedures to ensure  HR security the security of our  Asset management facilities, personnel,  Cryptography information and equipment  Physical and environmental security  Communications security  Information systems acquisition  Maintenance and review  Supplier relationships  Incident management  Business continuity Security policy  Compliance  Security of personnel Our procedures define physical security: access, responsibilities, access cards and keys, employee identity, visitor badges and display of badges. Additionally, it sets out Information Security: document, security, clean desk and screens, printer security, secure destruction, IT access controls, transmission of sensitive information, encryption and password protection and security of mobile devices and laptops. 43 Security Our policy outlines personal security, after-hours policy cont’d security, workplace violence and threats, preemployment screening and separation procedures. The policy also describes the enforcement and reporting requirements. All office-based employees are required to complete the International SOS Security elearning training course. Processes and We report on Incidents and Near Misses to procedures for reporting monitor and better understand and address the and management of risks that may affect our business. Incidents and Near Misses An Incident is an unplanned event that causes or has the potential to harm any company personnel, asset (including information, finance, or reputation) or our environment. A Near Miss does not cause damage but has the potential to do so. Staff are required to report all Incidents and Near Incident Misses. Non-clinical and clinical incidents are reporting and reported in separate systems. management We conduct a risk assessment to decide which risks need immediate remediation and which can be managed less urgently. Risks to the business are rated and entered into our risk register. Risks comprise: clinical risks, security risks, information security risks, health and safety risks, business continuity risks and compliance risks. Risks are reviewed quarterly at a regional level or as work practices or situations change by appropriate business units. Policy to protect Safeguarding is a priority reflecting our focus on human rights human rights. Many countries have compliance requirements to protect and promote the rights of people who use health services. Safeguarding of children and We recognise that we have a key role in vulnerable safeguarding children and vulnerable adults within adults the context of delivering our services. Our safeguarding policy applies to all staff working for the International SOS group of companies. Our policies and related procedures cover recruitment, incident escalation, disciplinary procedures, consent and compliance with local laws. 44 Risks management practices worldwide: The International SOS business is complex, with three distinct business lines and a global spread of operations. This complexity heightens the importance of our risk management processes, which have continued to mature over the past 12 months with our focus on risk assessment, incident reporting and management, external certification, business continuity planning, and physical and data security controls. As well as facilitating business resiliency, this helps protect our employees, clients and the environments in which we operate. We take all incidents and events that could have an impact on our business very seriously and have a robust process to manage these. An incident is an event that can have an impact on our people or our business. It could be a trip, fall or any other injury, the loss of a laptop, loss of data, an equipment malfunction or any other events. Each one is assessed to determine its cause and its actual and potential severity. We identify any lessons learned, adjust our policies and procedures to minimise the risk of future repetition, and improve our preparedness to respond. We also carry out twice-yearly regional reviews to identify any particular incident trends. As well as continuing to build and improve our systems, we educate and train our employees to raise their awareness of, and ability to respond to, all incidents. 45 For further information about our company, please visit: www.internationalsos.com 46
