Sheer Sheer Driving Pleasure Driving Pleasure 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. BMW BRILLIANCE AUTOMOTIVE LTD. PREFACE At BMW Brilliance, we are committed to “At BMW Brilliance, we are committed to sustainability – for the longsustainability – for the long-term success of our company and for China. term success of our company and for China.” We take a holistic approach to sustainability, considering economic, environmental and social the fundamental solution for sustainable mobility. seek to achieve. With our past successes in mind, aspects across our value chain and throughout the Already today, we are at the forefront of China’s we will continue to play an active role in creating life cycle of our products. Sustainability is integral electric future. In 2016, we presented the all-new future mobility. We will expand our portfolio of to our business strategy. It is part of our corporate ZINORO 60H, the second new energy vehicle of sustainable products and services, develop our culture and defines the way we engage with our our Chinese brand, developed exclusively for the value chains, foster our internal processes and stakeholders. Chinese market. Moreover, we launched the allstrengthen cooperation with our partners. We see new BMW X1 plug-in hybrid, which we produce at this as an important investment in the continued BMW Brilliance is deeply rooted in China. Following Tiexi plant. success of our company and in the sustainable the ratification of the Paris Agreement in 2016, we development of China. are proud to contribute to the efforts of the Chinese Our contribution to the development of the new Dr. Johann Wieland government in its global leadership role of fighting energy vehicle segment is not limited to the design President and CEO climate change. We also remain committed to the and production of new automobiles. We respond principles of the United Nations Global Compact, to the challenges of the sector by supporting the BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. which we joined in 2014 to systematically pursue creation and growth of an ecosystem for new sustainable development in China and contribute energy vehicles. BMW Brilliance invests heavily to the local economy, environment and society. in charging infrastructure and collaborates with Dr. Johann Wieland other companies and stakeholders to foster President and CEO Our continued localization efforts demonstrate sustainable solutions. We have established strong BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. our commitment to the country. In 2016, we relationships across the battery value chain, for began production at our new engine plant. The instance, from battery production to recycling. plant is the first in the BMW Group’s worldwide production network to combine the entire engine Our long-term business success and sustainability production process in a single location and is a performance is determined by our employees. In benchmark of environmentally friendly production. 2016, we were honored with the Best Employer We also inaugurated our new Data Center at the in the Industry Award by linkedin.com, and were northern extension of Dadong plant and new positioned among the top 30 best employers in the research facilities in Tiexi. The expansion of our country as ranked by dajie.com. We view this as a local research and development efforts, as well as recognition of our approach and and will continue our IT capacities, is essential for our continuous our investments in employee development and innovation and digitalization efforts. It enables us human resources management in order to offer to maintain our leadership position within Chinese exciting opportunities for local and international industry and make new and valuable contributions talent. to the sector. 2016 was the centenary year of the BMW Group. We position BMW Brilliance as a pioneer in shaping It was a year to reflect on the past, but most future mobility. We view new energy vehicles as importantly to reflect on the future and on what we 2 INTRODUCTION I Preface Preface I INTRODUCTION 3 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Preface 2 1.1 Our management approach 22 2.1 Our management approach 48 Our point of view 6 1.2 Stakeholder engagement 28 2.2 Efficient mobility 52 Highlights 2016 8 1.3 Compliance, anti-corruption and 34 2.3 Product safety 60 An overview of BMW Brilliance 10 human rights 2.4 Customer satisfaction 64 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEES 3.1 Our management approach 74 4.1 Our management approach 94 5.1 Our management approach 110 3.2 Energy consumption and emissions 76 4.2 Implementing our approach 101 5.2 Attractive employer 114 3.3 Waste reduction 82 5.3 Training and development 124 3.4 Water 86 5.4 Occupational health and safety 132 CORPORATE SOCIAL APPENDIX RESPONSIBILITY 7.1 About this report 157 6.1 Our management approach 142 7.2 GRI content index 158 6.2 Our initiatives 146 4 INTRODUCTION I Contents Contents I INTRODUCTION 5 OUR POINT OF VIEW Dr. Robert Engelhorn Lei Xiaoyang Jochen Goller David Shangguan Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Technology and Manufacturing Finance Sales and Marketing Human Resources A key milestone for 2016 was the start of Sustainability is highly relevant from the financial Incorporating sustainability into both our BMW Our employees’ passion and efforts are decisive production at our new engine plant. The plant is perspective. By making our production as and local ZINORO brands has been essential to for BMW Brilliance’s success. We provide a great example of how we consider sustainability resource-efficient as possible and avoiding our success. In addition to our selection of highly over 16,000 high-quality jobs and attach great as we expand our production in China. It combines negative impacts, we can achieve considerable efficient vehicles, we have a unique range of new importance to maintaining an inspiring work highly advanced technologies and processes that cost savings and reduce risks. Furthermore, our energy vehicle models. In line with the Chinese environment and good relationships between allow us to minimize the environmental impacts long-term perspective and responsible approach central and local governments, we are planning to our workforce and management, while offering of engine production. Benefiting from best to doing business allow us to make a direct expand our portfolio of new energy vehicles. We attractive development opportunities and practice examples in the BMW Group network, contribution to the local economy. BMW Brilliance know that these vehicles will only be successful employee benefits. The positive results of our we designed the manufacturing process to be is the top taxpayer in Shenyang. In 2016, we paid if they meet the needs of our customers. That is approach are showing: in 2016, we were honored wastewater-free. Moreover, we use innovative over RMB 21 billion in taxes. We also play an why we expanded BMW Group’s ChargeNowTM with top employer awards, and our last employee methods in the foundry that enable nearly important role in employment creation, directly at charging network to 10 cities in 2016, providing survey indicated that 91% of our employees fully emission-free production and we recycle 90% of our facilities and indirectly across our local supply our customers with easier access to the charging support BMW Brilliance’s targets and are satisfied the sand used for casting. chain. infrastructure. For our customers with private to work here. This is particularly important in parking spaces, we offer the installation of the context of sustainability: our employees private charging wall boxes. Additionally, we are benefit from, and contribute to, BMW Brilliance’s expanding our dealer network for new energy sustainability performance. vehicles. 6 INTRODUCTION I Our point of view Our point of view I INTRODUCTION 7 HIGHLIGHTS 2016 JULY NOVEMBER • Tsinghua BMW Innovation • World debut of the all-new BMW Center for Intangible Cultural 1 Series Sedan Heritage Safeguarding launched SEPTEMBER • Best Employer in the Industry • First Chinese company to join Award received from linkedin.com the European Foundation for • ChargeNowTM Wechat went live Quality Management (EFQM) in • Cooperative framework Brussels agreement with Shenyang MARCH • ChargeNowTM service of the Education Bureau signed BMW Group launched in • BMW Group 100th anniversary Chengdu celebrated in China • All-new ZINORO 60H revealed • IT Center opened at Tiexi plant for the first time • First-ever BMW 2 Series Tourer launched MAY • All-new BMW X1 entered the market OCTOBER DECEMBER • 5th Regional Distribution • Sustainability and CSR Forum Center opened held • 1,000,000th engine produced • Awarded 2016 Public Welfare Enterprise of the Liaoning Area AUGUST • New paint shop opened at northern extension of JANUARY APRIL JUNE Dadong plant • First permanent BMW • New engine plant opened • ChargeNowTM service of • Data Center opened at the Children’s Traffic Safety the BMW Group launched northern extension of Education Experience in Shenyang Dadong plant Center opened in Shenyang • German Chancellor Angela Merkel visited Tiexi plant 8 INTRODUCTION I Highlights 2016 Highlights 2016 I INTRODUCTION 9 AN OVERVIEW OF BMW BRILLIANCE OUR HISTORY OUR PRESENT OUR VISION As of 31st December 2016 2003: founding of the company, We are the leading provider of We sustainably deliver a a joint venture of the final parent premium vehicles and services premium customer experience companies Bayerische Motoren in China. through desirable products and Werke Aktiengesellschaft and services, passionate associates Brilliance China Automotive and committed partners. Holdings Limited. 2 1 558 BMW Training Center Complete vehicle Dealer Development Headquarters Finance plants in Dadong New engine plant Authorized dealer Government Affairs Public Relations Human Resources and Tiexi in Tiexi outlets nationwide Regional Distribution Center Production Regional Office Regional Distribution Center Sales/Marketing/Aftersales The Academy of BMW Group China 5 4 15 The Academy of BMW Group China Shenyang Beijing BMW Training Center BMW Training Center BMW parts BMW training Regional Distribution Center Xi’an Regional Office distribution centers centers Training bases Chengdu Shanghai 12 Hangzhou Regional Office Guangzhou Regional Distribution Center Regional Office Foshan BMW Training Center Training spots Regional Distribution Center Regional Office 10 INTRODUCTION I An overview of BMW Brilliance An overview of BMW Brilliance I INTRODUCTION 11 OUR PRODUCTS VEHICLES PRODUCED 2016: 305,845 2015: 288,055 BMW 1 SERIES BMW 2 SERIES 159.2 g/km Sedan (start of production 2017) Tourer FLEET CO2 EMISSIONS 2016: 2015: 165.4 g/km BMW 3 SERIES BMW 5 SERIES FLEET FUEL CONSUMPTION 2016: 6.69 l/100 km Long Wheelbase and Standard Version Long Wheelbase 2015: 6.95 l/100 km EMPLOYEES 2016: 16,286 BMW X1 Long Wheelbase ZINORO 60H (National launch 2017) 2015: 16,573 PUBLIC CHARGING PILLARS INSTALLED 2016: 1,718 2015: 500 BMW 3-CYLINDER ENGINE BMW 4-CYLINDER ENGINE 12 INTRODUCTION I An overview of BMW Brilliance An overview of BMW Brilliance I INTRODUCTION 13 BMW BRILLIANCE KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Change to Change to previous previous BMW BRILLIANCE ACTIVITIES 2014 2015 2016 year SUPPLIERS 2014 2015 2016 year Automobiles produced (units) 287,780 288,055 305,845 6.2% Purchasing volume in China (in billion RMB) 23.9 23.5 23.9 1.7% Automobiles delivered (units) 278,637 287,448 310,041 7.9% Number of authorized dealer outlets nationwide 460 515 558 8.3% EMPLOYEES Number of dealers with 5S certification 35 39 42 7.7% Workforce at year-end 15,257 16,573 16,286 –1.7% Attrition rate (% of workforce) 6.8% 3.8% 3.3% –13.2% PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Share of female employees (in %) 12.3% 11.8% 12.9% 9.3% CO2 emissions of BMW Brilliance automobiles (in g/km) 168.0 165.4 159.2 –3.7% Average days of further training per employee 3.4 2.2 1.7 –22.7% Fleet fuel consumption (in l/100 km) 7.06 6.95 6.69 –3.7% Accident frequency rate 0.82 1.06 0.54 –49.1% ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Energy consumption per unit produced (in MWh/unit) 1.67 1.66 2.05 23.5% Number of employees and customers that participated in 65,000 80,000 84,700 5.9% Warm Heart initiatives* CO2 emissions per unit produced (in t/unit) 0.97 0.88 1.13 28.4% Beneficiaries from Warm Heart initiatives* 91,000 100,400 136,600 36.1% Water consumption per unit produced (in m3/unit) 2.18 2.18 2.58 18.3% * Warm Heart initiatives include activities organized by BMW entities in China under the Warm Heart banner as well as activities Process wastewater per unit produced (in m3/unit) 0.47 0.46 0.46 0.0% carried out separately by the BMW Warm Heart Customer Clubs. These figures are cumulative. Beneficiaries are calculated as number of times people have benefited from activities. Waste for disposal per unit produced (in kg/unit) 5.67 9.17 6.42 –30.0% VOC* per unit produced (in kg/unit) 0.48 0.45 0.40 –11.1% * Volatile organic compounds. 14 INTRODUCTION I An overview of BMW Brilliance An overview of BMW Brilliance I INTRODUCTION 15 BMW BRILLIANCE VALUE CHAIN RESEARCH AND LOGISTICS AND DEVELOPMENT SUPPLY CHAIN PRODUCTION TRANSPORT SALES AND UTILIZATION DISPOSAL AND RECYCLING Main activities Main activities Development of innovative, Cooperation with suppliers Manufacturing of cars by Securing customer-oriented Range of premium products and Recovery and dismantling of fascinating cars and services: to create: a highly expert and diverse transport logistics in the network services for individual mobility vehicles for: • Vehicle design • Modules/systems workforce: of: through: • Reuse • Series development • Components • Engine construction • Suppliers • Coordination of the Chinese • Recycling and disposal of • Bodywork • Plants dealership/repair shop network vehicle components and • Production planning • Parts • Paintwork • Dealerships through the • Implementation of a materials • Raw materials seamless combination of coordinated and target-group• Assembly various modes of transport oriented marketing mix • Quality control • Provision of financial services Areas of action (integration of sustainability) Areas of action (integration of sustainability) • Environmentally friendly • Implementation of Improving resource efficiency • Increase in the share of modes Promotion of sustainable mobility • Expansion and management of product design environmental and social (energy, water, waste): of transport with low emissions behavior patterns based on: a network for vehicle recovery • Development of more efficient standards in the supply chain • Reduction in environmentally • Optimization of capacity • Connected Drive and recycling and alternative drivetrains • Promotion of transparency and damaging wastewater and utilization of transport modes • Mobility services in the area of • Research on recycling and • Planning and development of resource efficiency in the emissions electromobility second life use of components new mobility services supply chain • Use of recycling materials (e.g. carbon-fiber-reinforced • Car-sharing products • Purchase of raw materials from plastic and batteries) • Connected Drive, digital • Promotion of lifelong learning • Mobility assistance services networking environmentally and socially and the development of key • Dealers with 5S certification friendly sources skills among employees • Life cycle engineering • Purchase of renewable raw • Creation of a working materials and materials with environment that fosters sustainable characteristics, long-term health and high e.g. secondary aluminum performance 16 INTRODUCTION I An overview of BMW Brilliance An overview of BMW Brilliance I INTRODUCTION 17 1 SUSTAINABILITY 1.1 Our management approach 1.2 Stakeholder engagement MANAGEMENT 1.3 Compliance, anti-corruption and human rights STAKEHOLDER STATEMENT Sustainability in BMW Brilliance’s production and beyond What impact does Dadong plant have on its What are your most important projects for the coming surroundings? years and how do they reflect BMW Brilliance’s sustainability engagement? We have been producing the BMW 5 Series at Dadong plant for almost 14 years. The plant enjoys strong acceptance In 2018, we will begin local production of the all-new BMW amongst the Chinese population, as it contributes to the X3, which will expand our product offering, as we have never increasing number of stable workforces and workplaces previously produced this model in China. in the country. Our employees appreciate the numerous opportunities to earn both professional and international We have already begun refurbishing the Dadong South qualifications. With a positive mindset, the opportunities Production Line. This will benefit our supplier base and to advance their career at BMW Brilliance are limitless – create more jobs. Since 2010, we have increased the whether locally, in Dadong, or on international assignments amount of local suppliers by 70% and we are expecting that in different BMW Group production locations. the production system for this new product line will create demand for even more diverse suppliers and employees. Like every major company, BMW Brilliance faces the daily challenge of maintaining momentum in this growing market. We remain confident, however, that our strong cooperation with local authorities and our commitment to local business development will enable us to maintain our growth targets and contribute to Made in China 2025. Zhang Tao Plant Director, Dadong plant, BMW Brilliance How is sustainability taken into consideration in premium quality using for example laser, radar and automatic Dadong plant and in its northern extension? torque tracking. BMW Brilliance is underscoring its responsibilities toward Chinese society by implementing the highest technological standards in all our production facilities. “New painting technologies put in The new extension of Dadong plant features one of the place at Dadong plant decreased most advanced production systems within the BMW Group energy consumption by 30% network and in China. Painting technologies alone decreased energy consumption by 30% compared to previous compared to previous installations.” installations and at the same time, lifted quality standards up to the highest levels in the industry. Our employees are the most important pillar of our new plant. With Industry 4.0, IT solutions are seamlessly woven into That is why we also use innovative technologies to ensure the production system. Nearly every machine is integrated an ergonomic work environment and advanced employeeinto the plant’s infrastructure and proactively safeguards machine cooperation models. 20 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT I Stakeholder statement Stakeholder statement I SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 21 1.1 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH At BMW Brilliance, we are convinced that doing business in a sustainable Vision and goals of BMW Brilliance F.01 manner is a precondition for our long-term success. We therefore embrace sustainability as an integral part of our corporate strategy and VISION strive to act responsibly in all business activities. Our contribution is not BMW Brilliance sustainably delivers a premium customer experience through desirable limited to developing innovative products and continuously improving products and services, passionate associates and committed partners. the environmental and social impacts of our operations. We also foster sustainable development outside of our business, and constantly engage with our stakeholders to shape the mobility of the future. GOALS: “5 STARS” ASSOCIATES Sustainability is one of the five pillars of our research and development activities. Our goal is Develop people, organization and enablers. business strategy and an integral part of our vision to provide our Chinese customers with mobility and business principles. For all our business solutions that include a wide range of products TOP QUALITY Manage growth activities, we consider potential impacts and and services. We also place special emphasis on RETURN and complexity. EV P SC continuously seek to improve our performance. implementing our ZINORO brand and on engaging N Generate returns NO EW M RM AL E H M T DE A on investments. AC in various Corporate Social Responsibility Y Our compliance management system is a key VP initiatives. We are committed to driving the S VP component of our sustainability engagement. We sustainable development of our company and of S NS C BC S BB work toward our targets by implementing several wider society in China. J A tE SF initiatives. The BMW Brilliance Compliance No 1 ua . lity Committee monitors the results and evaluates In 2016, the BMW Group unveiled its new BB the effectiveness of the system and concrete corporate Strategy NUMBER ONE > NEXT with A activities. sustainability as a key component. The continuous integration of sustainability into our activities R& We engage with a variety of stakeholders in therefore aligns with the strategic direction of the D ongoing dialogue. This enables us to build trusting BMW Group. relationships and to take different perspectives into consideration in the development of our business. MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY VISION AND GOALS OF BMW We incorporate sustainability targets in our SATISFACTION BRILLIANCE Balanced Scorecard as part of our overall longDeliver personalized services to customers and dealers. SUSTAINABILITY term business objectives. These targets include Build an innovative and Our sustainability efforts encompass our entire environmental indicators that aim to reduce our sustainable Chinese business. value chain. We constantly invest in green resource consumption, as well as indicators production and logistics, while carrying out local that seek to improve our social performance. 22 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT I Our management approach Our management approach I SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 23 In 2016, a compliance target was defined as a In an internal workshop with participants from Highly relevant sustainability issues identified F.03 mandatory target for all business divisions. the BMW Group and different BMW Brilliance divisions, we prioritized sustainability issues Identifying sustainability issues according to their business impact on BMW To develop a solid basis for managing Brilliance. We considered the global context of sustainability, we reviewed our sustainability these issues as well as where the most relevant issues with key stakeholders in the context of a impacts occur across the value chain. comprehensive materiality analysis in 2015. We invited 16 representatives of stakeholder groups As a result, we identified sustainability issues to share their ideas and concerns in individual, that are highly relevant for BMW Brilliance and Product safety Occupational Corruption and Air pollution, Energy detailed interviews. Key topics raised during the its stakeholders. They are our priorities and this health and safety anti-competitive emissions and consumption interviews included product safety, occupational Sustainability Report reflects how we manage behavior climate change health and safety, and fuel consumption. them > Figure 03. BMW Brilliance matrix of relevant sustainability issues F.02 Low relevance Medium relevance High relevance Product portfolio Aftersales Talent attraction Employee Public policy and research and services and retention development High development Occupational Product safety health and safety We tackle these issues where they occur in our Our dealers play a key role in informing customers Energy Air pollution, Corruption and consumption emissions and anti-competitive value chain and implement management measures about our sustainable product portfolio and climate change behavior accordingly. All 10 key sustainability issues are showcasing sustainability in their buildings and Local economic related to impacts at our own operations. Some surrounding communities. As a result, we promote development Waste and Aftersales Product portfolio of the impacts occur outside of BMW Brilliance’s the 5S dealer certification program and train Relevance for stakeholders water pollution services and R+D operations, for instance through our business our dealers on the sustainability aspects of our Human rights relationship with suppliers and customers. Energy products > Chapter 2.4. Water consumption, emissions, occupational health and consumption safety, and corruption are not only important in Driving strategic thinking in key Medium our own activities, but also in the activities of our sustainability areas Charity and Employee/ Material Life Talent attraction corporate management consumption balance suppliers and dealers. Our localization and supplier In 2016, we carried out a project to define a and retention citizenship relations risk management strategies help us to improve strategy framework for sustainability and to the sustainability impacts in our supply chain identify key priorities that we plan to pursue in the Forced labor Diversity and Employee equal development > Chapter 4. coming years. We conducted a context analysis, opportunities as well as a benchmark study on national and Any impacts related to product safety, energy global sustainability strategy trends. Based on Relations to Marketing Child labor and Customer data Working Mobility Public policy local and product young workers protection and conditions infrastructure and fuel consumption, as well as emissions are the study findings, we grouped and prioritized our communities communication risk privacy strongly related to our customers’ driving habits. key sustainability areas. In a sustainability strategy Land use and Nevertheless, we understand that we are directly workshop, we developed an action plan for each of biodiversity linked to these impacts through the sales of our our prioritized sustainability areas. Low products. We therefore view the continuous improvement of our vehicle efficiency as a priority. Low Medium High We also offer driver safety training to improve the Impact on BMW Brilliance sustainability impacts of our products in their use phase > Chapter 2. 24 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT I Our management approach Our management approach I SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 25 processes inside BMW Brilliance by setting up We strive to protect human rights related to our To further integrate sustainability into our daily process models and a dedicated platform, the employees, suppliers, business partners, and the business, we focus on two key areas: BMW Brilliance Process Portal, for sharing communities in which we live and work. The BMW processes across all functions. The project Brilliance Automotive Ltd. Sustainability Report ▶▶ Stakeholder engagement > Chapter 1.2 also clarified cross-functional, process2016 documents our progress toward achieving ▶▶ Compliance, anti-corruption and human ▶ Participants discuss oriented ownership at each level of the the ten principles of the United Nations Global rights > Chapter 1.3 sustainability strategies process hierarchy. This allowed us to drive Compact*. at an interdepartmental workshop. continuous process improvements and to foster collaboration among departments, so as to increase overall efficiency. Furthermore, BMW Brilliance was the first INITIATIVES Chinese company to join the European AND RESPONSIBILITIES Foundation for Quality Management in Brussels. The foundation is a network of organizations that achieve superior levels of performance Our flagship initiatives, Journey to Excellence by consistently meeting or exceeding the (JtE) and Value-added Production System (VPS), expectations of their stakeholders. With our help us advance toward our targets. JtE is our membership, we aim to achieve sustainable growth continuous self-improvement program with by continuously improving our performance in line which we enhance internal processes across with stakeholder expectations. departments and functions. VPS applies lean management thinking and aims to eliminate waste As the first automotive joint venture in China to join and increase value-added work. the United Nations Global Compact Initiative, we are committed to its ten principles as well as to the In support of process optimization, we initiated the principles of fundamental rights as set out in the Excellent Business Process Management project International Labour Organization’s Declaration in 2016. The project increased transparency of on Fundamental Principles and Rights of Work. Excellent Business Process Management project F.04 * www.unglobalcompact.org 26 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT I Our management approach Our management approach I SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 27 1.2 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CHANCELLOR’S VISIT In June 2016, BMW Brilliance had the honor of hosting German Chancellor Angela Merkel during a visit to Tiexi plant. This event represented a OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION great opportunity to connect both our German and Chinese stakeholders. Present were representatives We build long-term trust with our stakeholders. of national and regional governments, board members of both the BMW and Brilliance Groups, as well as members of the media and local community. As an innovative manufacturing and sustainable production site in China, our Tiexi plant represents Sustainability requires continuous alignment We align our stakeholder engagement efforts with the continuous integration of Made in China 2025 with our key stakeholders. Their opinions, our business strategy. This enables us to generate and Germany’s Industry 4.0 strategies, as well as the progressive nature of the Chinese-German industrial decisions and actions are decisive for our value for both our key stakeholders and for BMW joint venture. business success. We therefore engage Brilliance. Furthermore, we choose different in ongoing dialogues with a variety of methods of engaging with our stakeholders, stakeholders. This allows us to identify trends depending on their specific backgrounds and and important topics, better understand one communication needs. another’s position, build trust and deepen partnerships. This approach reflects our commitment to society. STRATEGICALLY ALIGNING STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Our main stakeholder groups are our shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers and dealers, as well as policymakers and authorities, academic institutions, students and local communities. We engage with the relevant stakeholders along our value chain in the most appropriate format, including dialogues, presentations, surveys and training initiatives. We focus on issues that are of interest to the specific stakeholder groups and do our best to address their concerns and questions. Our membership in the European Foundation for Quality Management, in which the alignment of business development with stakeholder expectations is key, further underlines our commitment to including stakeholders in our decision-making. ▶ BMW Warm Heart Customer Club representatives. 28 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT I Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement I SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 29 Academic institutions Chinese students Communist Party of China Customers The continuous cooperation and exchange with We realize the importance of inspiring young In 2016, the BMW Brilliance Party Committee Our customers are at the heart of our business. academic institutions is an integral part of the talent and supporting students in their study and was honored as an Advanced Primary-level We conduct regular talks and surveys to collect sustainable development of our business. In career paths. In 2016, 103 young people took Organization by the Central/Provincial Enterprise their feedback to improve our services in line with 2016, we held the first ProMotion China Dialogue part in the ongoing, practice-oriented programs Work Committee of the Shenyang Communist their needs and expectations > Chapter 2.4. In Day, during which PhD students from Northeast we offer at the doctoral, master, bachelor and Party of China for the various activities carried 2016, we introduced a new feedback collection University (NEU) in Shenyang presented their vocational education levels > Chapter 5. We also out on behalf of over 1,000 party members within mechanism. Moreover, we opened Tiexi plant research projects and exchanged ideas with hold events to exchange with students. BMW Brilliance. We also established the Beijing to visitors, who can now gain insights into our representatives of BMW Brilliance. We also held Communist Party branch. During the Congress in manufacturing processes, as well as into the the 11th BMW Day at Tongji University, during Beijing, our management confirmed their support sustainability features of our production. which we encouraged students to explore visions and emphasized the importance of the branch for for mobility over the next 100 years related to the development of BMW Brilliance. automated driving, connectivity, zero-emissions and car sharing. Dealers Employees Local communities During training events and conferences with our We foster communication between our As part of our long-term commitment to China dealers, we regularly exchange information on BMW BRILLIANCE employees and senior management. All and local communities, we have been hosting the latest technologies and how to enhance the STAKEHOLDERS employees are invited to participate in the and collaborating on a series of industry-leading customer experience. For example, in 2016, at Employee Representatives Congress and Union Corporate Social Responsibility projects. One our annual BMW Dealer IT Manager Conference, Representatives Congress that we hold once a example is the Tsinghua BMW Innovation Center we exchanged ideas with 284 participants on year. At the Associate Conferences, all employees for Intangible Cultural Heritage Safeguarding, the increasingly important role of digitalization in of specific departments or plants come together which was launched in collaboration with Tsinghua vehicle retail, aftersales and customer relations for a day of discussions. We also gather employee University in 2016 > Chapter 6. management. Moreover, we actively promote our feedback through an employee survey conducted 5S dealer certification program and support the every two years > Chapter 5. expansion of our new energy vehicle dealership network > Chapter 2.4. Political decision-makers Regulatory authorities Shareholders Suppliers BMW Brilliance engages in regular and open We are in regular contact with local authorities to Representatives of our shareholders – BMW We are in continuous dialogue with our suppliers. discussions with politicians to support the deciinform them about our activities and to remain up Group and Brilliance Group – form our Board In addition to project-based day-to-day communision-making process. Important topics of discusto date on any developments in regulations and of Directors and are in regular contact with our cation, we host a BMW Brilliance Supplier Event sion include emission standards, the advancement procedures. In 2016, we held several events with Board of Management. We collaborate closely every year. In 2016, the event focused on quality of new energy vehicles and supporting representatives from different authorities, such as with our shareholders, who support us in a variety in production and on the joint contribution of supinfrastructure, and the promotion of innovation. the BMW High-end Products and Technologies of areas, including the integration of sustainability pliers and BMW Brilliance to Made in China 2025. This continuous dialogue has allowed us to Orientation to Government Event that was into our activities and business strategy. In 2016, The event provided a framework for exchange establish relationships of mutual trust between attended by representatives of the Shenyang the first Board of Directors meeting was held in between our suppliers and our management our shareholders, BMW Group and Brilliance Customs and Quarantine Bureau (CIQ), and the Shenyang. > Chapter 4. Group, and the Chinese government. Customs Policy Forum. 30 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT I Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement I SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 31 BMW GROUP CELEBRATES 100 YEARS IN BUSINESS The BMW Group celebrated its 100 th anniversary globe. We broadcasted the centenary event held in on 7th March 2016. Festivities and events were Munich and celebrated the historic event with our organized at BMW Group locations around the employees in Beijing and Shenyang. Following the event, the BMW Group World Tour was launched. The traveling exhibition featured the newly revealed BMW Vision Vehicle – an inspiration for the next 100 years – and made its Asian premiere in Beijing. The exhibition explored various future trends with a significant influence not only on the automotive industry but on society as a whole. It also acted as a catalyst for further conversations with our stakeholders. The exhibition addressed topics such as digitalization and connectivity, the increasing role of technology in our lives, the BMW Group’s vision of a sustainable future and commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility. ▶ Wang Menghui, former Party Secretary of Shenyang, and Chairman Qi Yumin, Brilliance Group, visiting Tiexi plant in Shenyang. FORECAST 2017 We are continuously deepening our relationships with key stakeholders by engaging with them on a regular basis and through different channels. To ensure we continue to operate with our stakeholders’ priorities in mind, we are planning to update our materiality matrix. We will conduct a comprehensive analysis of the most important ▶ Lecture delivered at the centenary celebration event in Beijing. issues for our stakeholders and our main impacts. 32 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT I Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement I SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 33 1.3 COMPLIANCE, ANTI-CORRUPTION AND HUMAN RIGHTS OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION from the BMW Brilliance Compliance Committee monitoring system draws on specialist functions Office. within BMW Brilliance to form a centralized and We protect our company’s integrity and are committed to respecting the cross-departmental exchange of information The BMW Brilliance Compliance Committee coordinated by the BMW Brilliance Compliance human rights of all individuals impacted by our operations. As a responsible Office is responsible for managing daily compliance Committee Office. company, we take resolute action to combat bribery and corruption. matters across the company by applying the system described in > Figure 05. Additionally, Anti-fraud policy update we have local compliance teams in Shenyang In 2016, we complemented the chop management Lawful and responsible conduct is the basis Hospitality and Gift Instructions on the intranet and Beijing. The office’s work is reinforced and policy introduced in 2015 with a comprehensive for fair competition and long-term business for all employees, which contain specific antisupported throughout BMW Brilliance by the update to the Signature and Approval Power success. At BMW Brilliance, we have corruption and anti-fraud rules and requirements. Compliance Operations Network. The network Guideline. The update further strengthens embedded these values in our corporate This set of documents is the basis of our consists of all department heads, plant directors transparency in approval flows and signature culture. We highly value and prioritize ethical compliance management system. and heads of the regional sales offices. Additional requirements across BMW Brilliance. Central behavior and respect for human rights in all members include the business leads for areas chop offices are run by chop administrators in our activities. This allows us to build trust As an important component of our corporate designated as the most compliance-relevant Shenyang and Beijing to avoid misuse of our in our brands and to strengthen our image governance framework, the compliance functions. company seal, the chop, which is legally binding in among the general public. management system focuses on antitrust and China without a signature. competition law, anti-corruption and anti-fraud To assure compliance, we have established a comprehensive compliance management system measures, the prevention of bribery, defalcation and theft, data protection, as well as anti-moneyIMPLEMENTING AND Furthermore, we rolled out a company-wide communication initiative to all employees to and we implement and monitor compliance laundering provisions. The system includes MONITORING COMPLIANCE explain the risks and dangers of a conflict-ofinitiatives systematically. Additionally, we take the the management of possible compliance risks INITIATIVES interest situation. To support better understanding necessary measures to ensure that human rights associated with our business (including risk and increase transparency, we drew up a standard are respected throughout our value chain. identification, assessment, monitoring, control We address compliance risks through various declaration form with questions on typical and reporting), the implementation of compliance compliance tools and programs under the scenarios for our employees. training programs, the management of compliance compliance management system set out in MANAGING COMPLIANCE enquiries and reporting of non-compliance (the the graph in > Figure 05. The BMW Brilliance Comprehensive communication measures BMW Brilliance SpeakUP Line), and targeted Compliance Committee Office keeps up regularly and training on essential compliance fields We have introduced tools and measures to ensure communication measures. It also includes the with best practices via the BMW Group compliance Managers throughout BMW Brilliance must that everyone at BMW Brilliance acts in accordefinition and implementation of codes, guidelines network and exchanges with the local compliance demonstrate responsibility by setting a good dance with all applicable laws and regulations, and and procedures. community. In 2016, we prioritized the following example for their staff, using the Legal Compliance to protect our business reputation. compliance initiatives: Code as their standard of behavior. Every employee The BMW Brilliance Compliance Committee must also be familiar with our Associate Handbook, The Legal Compliance Code explains the central manages and monitors the overall effectiveness Legal and compliance monitoring and which contains compliance-related topics. In order importance of lawful conduct and provides of the compliance management system. It reporting to avoid legal and compliance risks, all employees an overview of the legal areas relevant to our consists of representatives of the departments After successfully establishing a comprehensive are required to be fully aware of all compliance business. Each manager receives a copy of the for Legal Affairs and Compliance, Controlling and legal and compliance monitoring network, we regulations, and to make a commitment to Legal Compliance Code and it is published on Risk Management, Corporate Audit and Human implemented a systematic reporting structure in adhere to these internal regulations. We support the intranet. We have also published an AntiResources. The committee is chaired by the CEO 2016. This structure is designed to ensure regular this commitment through yearly communication Fraud Policy and Fraud Response Procedure, a of BMW Brilliance. It receives regular reports on analysis of all relevant developments in major campaigns and up-to-date training programs. Corruption Prevention Guideline and Corporate all compliance management areas and projects legal fields, as well as in compliance areas. The 34 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT I Compliance, anti-corruption and human rights Compliance, anti-corruption and human rights I SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 35 BMW Brilliance compliance management system F.05 BMW Brilliance compliance management system (continued) F.05 Board of Management BMW Brilliance Compliance Committee 8. Compliance case management BMW Brilliance Compliance Committee Office Compliance case management including 9. Compliance reporting 7. Compliance processes, measures mitigating Regular and ad-hoc tools and IT systems identified incidents. compliance reporting to the 4. Internal rules and BMW Brilliance Compliance Implementation of 1. Compliance strategy regulations Committee, the Board of compliance processes, tools Management as well as Definition and regular update Management of internal rules and IT systems to mitigate the Board of Directors and of compliance strategy and regulations (compliance compliance risks and the Audit and Compliance including observation of as well as other areas). safeguard business activities. 8 Committee. trends and best practices in 3. Compliance risk compliance management. assessment Regular compliance risk assessment. 7 9 4 1 3 10 5 6 2 10. Compliance 5. Compliance 6. Compliance training monitoring and spot communication checks Regular compliance training Regular compliance for all non-production Compliance monitoring 2. Monitoring legal communication toward employees. and spot checks to ensure compliance requirements all employees. effectiveness of internal compliance instruments and Management of monitoring measures. of relevant legal requirements for compliance. 36 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT I Compliance, anti-corruption and human rights Compliance, anti-corruption and human rights I SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 37 Increasing overall awareness WeChat channel for both production and nonnon-production employees. This initiative is Brilliance intranet throughout 2016. We also A central element of our compliance communiproduction employees, used short cartoon films part of our ongoing efforts to raise awareness distributed special table cards and phone stickers cation is the implementation of mandatory online to highlight important compliance messages. regarding the importance of intellectual property, in all Shenyang and Beijing offices. We will training modules – on anti-corruption and antiAn extensive campaign created awareness for trade secrets and personal information protection. continue this effort in the future to ensure the fraud policies, as well as on IT security and data conflict-of-interest situations, which are often the SpeakUP Line becomes more widely known, privacy – for all non-production BMW Brilliance underlying cause for fraud or corruption. Regular Ensuring compliance in business relations but also to encourage personal discussions with employees. We rolled out the program in 2015 pop-up messages on our intranet promoted We are implementing continuous process Compliance Officers and line managers. and maintained a completion rate of almost 100%. newly updated and enhanced compliance intranet compliance measures for our business relations A renewal requirement for all modules will be websites, with information on gift handling and with external partners, such as including In 2016, BMW Brilliance responded to cases introduced in 2018. BMW Brilliance’s antitrust policies. compliance clauses in purchase orders and event of employee misconduct based on internal invitation letters. As an automotive manufacturer, regulations. We apply and enforce a zeroSpecial emphasis is given to classroom training Training on anti-monopoly law and policies we also regularly employ standard vehicle tolerance policy for all compliance violations. on compliance for new employees who have for exposed departments provision forms with compliance clauses, which joined the company and for managers (including The National Development and Reform we use when we provide automobiles to external Compliance implementation production section leaders) who have been Commission published a first draft of the new parties. To ensure compliance with internal rules newly promoted into a leadership function. We Anti-Monopoly Law Guideline for the Automotive and external regulations, internal audits are introduced special learning paths for these Industry in 2016. To sensitize all relevant Conferences and events with both our suppliers conducted by the Audit and Shareholder Audit groups in 2016. departments, especially all sales functions, and dealers are regularly used by senior departments. Selected internal audit projects will the Compliance and Legal teams scheduled management to address compliance topics. be supported by the BMW Brilliance Compliance BMW Brilliance’s senior management addressed extensive classroom training sessions. We place During our 2016 Supplier Day sessions in Committee Office in the future, with a first joint the importance of compliance on several special importance on full compliance with all Shenyang, we emphasized sustainability and audit conducted in 2016 and further specific occasions throughout 2016 and specifically relevant anti-monopoly regulations. Before the the importance of maintaining compliance compliance spot checks planned. during the Annual Manager Conference. guideline came into force, we delivered training throughout BMW Brilliance’s supply chain. At the to ensure all particularly exposed employees annual Partner Conference for our dealer network in Beijing, the importance of anti-monopoly To raise awareness of key compliance areas – namely anti-corruption, anti-fraud, anti-monopoly were familiar with the impending new laws and to discuss timely compliance in all aspects. compliance was stressed in a presentation by our RESPECTING HUMAN law, data privacy and IT security – a poster General Counsel. RIGHTS campaign was launched at the beginning of 2016. Protecting information and confidentiality This was followed by a series of articles in the In 2016, we highlighted the importance of Responding to compliance-related We are committed to respecting the human rights internal newspaper of BMW Brilliance and BMW information protection and communicated enquiries and notifications of all individuals impacted by our operations. The Group. A special campaign on WeJoy, our internal our updated confidentiality requirements to all All messages directed to the SpeakUP Line are BMW Brilliance Joint Venture Equity Contract evaluated by the BMW Brilliance Compliance includes a requirement to establish policies and Committee Office. The facts are researched and procedures at BMW Brilliance to avoid human appropriate steps are agreed upon together with rights infringements and to address adverse the departments concerned. All investigations human rights impacts that might involve our are conducted in accordance with the applicable company, as core foundations of our business. laws, documented and reported to the BMW We expect all employees, as well as business Brilliance Compliance Committee. For the partners, to respect human rights in their daily protection of informants, BMW Brilliance allows actions. information regarding potential compliance violations to be submitted anonymously through Human rights governance the SpeakUP Line. A compliance consultation Human rights issues are managed in the relevant and notification instruction was published in business functions of BMW Brilliance. The 2016 to provide clear and transparent rules for Human Resources department is responsible for employees. assuring human rights within our operations. The Purchasing and Supplier Quality Management As an important tool in the detection of possible department takes the necessary steps to ensure compliance violations, including human rights, that suppliers respect human rights. ▶ Dr. Stefan Schroecker, Head of Legal Affairs BMW China, and Michael Meng, General Counsel of BMW Brilliance. we promoted the SpeakUP Line on the BMW 38 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT I Compliance, anti-corruption and human rights Compliance, anti-corruption and human rights I SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 39 Legal Compliance Code Objective: the Legal Compliance Code explains the central importance of lawful conduct to BMW Brilliance and provides an overview of the legal areas relevant to our business. Issues addressed: issues covered which are relevant to human rights include data protection, health and safety, and non-discrimination. General Terms and Conditions for the Purchase of Goods and Services and BMW Group’s International Terms and Conditions for the Purchase of Production Materials and Automotive Components Objective: our terms and conditions of procurement govern the rights and obligations of the parties involved. Issues addressed: environmental criteria as well as recognized human rights and labor standards are included. ▶ Award ceremony following an internal compliance training course and online quiz competition. We base our respect for human rights on Principles and Rights at Work. The following Managing human rights issues the same standards that we set for ourselves internationally agreed principles, including important governance documents and policies We take particular care to monitor human rights > Chapter 4. the principles set out in the International Bill are helping to embed human rights into our issues in our own operations and along our supply of Human Rights and the International Labour business practices: chain. We manage them in the following ways: Freedom of association Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental We recognize the right of all workers to engage Occupational health and safety in collective bargaining to agree upon working It is our priority to protect the health and safety conditions by joining a legally recognized trade of our employees. We carry out health and safety union, or any other body representing their training, promote health checks, and implement collective interest. The BMW Brilliance Labor BMW Brilliance Joint Venture Contract needs-based health initiatives > Chapter 5.4. Union was therefore established in 2007. The In our Associate Handbook, we inform our union represents all local employees and works Objective: this is the founding document of BMW Brilliance as a joint venture between BMW employees of their rights and responsibilities with to protect employees’ rights and interests and to and Brilliance Automotive, setting out the key principles of business conduct. respect to occupational health and safety. The mediate disputes between employees and the Issues addressed: our commitment to the United Nation’s Global Compact and the respect handbook also includes information about where company. At the Union Representatives Congress of International Labour Organization’s labor law is explicitly stated therein. to access our environment, health and safety in 2016, the updated Collective Contract on policies. We expect the same care for employee Labor Remuneration was presented, approved, health and safety from our suppliers. and signed > Chapter 5.1. Associate Handbook Forced, compulsory or child labor Discrimination and harassment Objective: the objective of the Associate Handbook, which includes our Ethics and Code The complexity of the automotive supply chain BMW Brilliance is committed to providing a of Conduct as well as our Business Principles, is to detail and communicate to all employees requires particular care regarding the risk of work environment free from any discriminatory their rights and responsibilities, as well as our corporate values. forced, compulsory or child labor. We expect behavior and harassment, as is stated in our Issues addressed: all human rights issues relevant to human resources, such as nonfull compliance with Chinese Labor Law and Associate Handbook. All employment decisions discrimination, remuneration, working hours, and other terms of employment, are regulated relevant regulations in these matters and we are to be taken without regard to ethnic origin, in the handbook. enforce a zero-tolerance policy. With a ban on skin color, gender, religion, nationality, marital forced, compulsory and child labor in all supplier status, age, sexual orientation or political beliefs. contracts, we ensure that our suppliers uphold Migrant workers are treated equally to any other 40 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT I Compliance, anti-corruption and human rights Compliance, anti-corruption and human rights I SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 41 employee, with full coverage of social welfare and all supplier contracts. We continuously review protection. our corporate policies and initiatives regarding their effectiveness in avoiding human rights FORECAST 2017 Working hours and remuneration infringements in our supply chain. Additionally, the We are committed to providing fair compensation supplier risk management process that is applied and to respecting legal working hours, so that our throughout the BMW Group network enables us Our Compliance team is planning to concentrate on anti-corruption and data privacy in 2017. We employees can live in dignity and conserve their to identify and analyze potential sustainability and are also maintaining strong training activities on anti-monopoly law specifically targeted at relevant long-term health and productivity. The Human human rights risks along our supply chain. In our business departments. Resources department and line managers review regular supplier review we consider issues such as employee leave and working hours on a monthly operational health and safety, child labor risks and Furthermore, the Risk Management and Compliance teams are jointly setting up a new special basis, and managers ensure employees take their environmental impacts > Chapter 4. training course on risk management to foster enhanced understanding of compliance risks. full entitlement of annual leave over the year. We apply three different work time models to keep Addressing human rights violations the worked hours and monthly salaries stable, Employees can submit information about despite market fluctuations. We reward our possible human rights violations within the employees with total remuneration that is above company via the BMW Brilliance SpeakUP Line average and aligned with the upper-third of the – anonymously and confidentially. In 2016, we respective labor market in China > Chapter 5.2. investigated a notification of an alleged incident of child labor in the supply chain. The investigation Welfare of local communities showed that BMW Brilliance did not rely on any Our business is deeply rooted in China and we implicated sub-supplier in our production chain. take our social and environmental responsibilities seriously. In order to minimize the impact on As part of our efforts to prevent human rights local communities, we consider potential social violations, we provide employee information and and environmental consequences in the earliest training, particularly on the SpeakUP program. stage of product development and infrastructure We also conduct risk analyses and human planning. All BMW Brilliance infrastructure rights impact assessments, and we maintain construction activities are pre-examined and internal monitoring and reporting structures. go through a national Environmental Impact Our cooperation with business partners and Assessment. We also commit to minimizing the our dialogue with stakeholders also allow us to environmental impacts of our business activities by identify and address risks quickly. continuously reducing our resource consumption, emissions and waste for disposal > Chapters 2 and 3. Moreover, we take all necessary measures to fight corruption in order to prevent personal gain or preferential treatment. Human rights in the value chain Risks for human rights infringements are particularly high in complex supply chains with extensive division of labor, as is the case in the automotive industry. We therefore require our direct suppliers to meet the same social and environmental standards that are applied by BMW Brilliance. Compliance with internationally recognized human rights, as well as with labor and social standards, is part of our General Terms and Conditions for all purchases and as such, are included in 42 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT I Compliance, anti-corruption and human rights Compliance, anti-corruption and human rights I SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 43 2 PRODUCT 2.1 Our management approach 2.2 Efficient mobility RESPONSIBILITY 2.3 Product safety 2.4 Customer satisfaction STAKEHOLDER STATEMENT Taking the lead in developing a new energy vehicle ecosystem “As a provider of premium products How does this affect BMW Brilliance’s sustainability “In 2017, we will qualify and assist performance? and services, we understand the service providers in 100 cities to need to adjust to meet the changing BMW Brilliance takes a holistic approach to electromobility. We also take our role as a leading force in the development support the installation of private demands of our customers.” toward more sustainable mobility very seriously. Our charging pillars.” involvement goes far beyond our products themselves. We see a changing mindset within our own company, which helps us better serve customer needs and requirements. We How does BMW Brilliance support the development are innovating in our products, services, and processes to of the new energy vehicle segment? further improve our sustainability performance. BMW Brilliance is making great progress in developing the new energy vehicle ecosystem. This starts with strong local research, development, and production capabilities. BMW Brilliance is, for example, the first premium car manufacturer to establish the indigenous new energy vehicle brand ZINORO. And, within a short period of time, we have brought two premium new energy vehicle models to the market. Under the BMW brand we offer five different new energy vehicle models with nine different variants. This is an unequalled portfolio, and these models feature the latest eDrive technology, including intelligent energy management and three different electric drive modes. “BMW Brilliance has been the first premium car manufacturer in China Martijn Oremus to establish an indigenous new Head of Brand Management New Energy Vehicles, BMW Brilliance energy vehicle brand.” Additionally, we are making strong progress in high-voltage What are the challenges for new energy vehicles in battery technology. BMW Brilliance played a key role in China today? establishing the local high-voltage battery supply chain, and we will be the first premium automotive manufacturer to These vehicles are still a new area of business within open our own battery assembly line in Tiexi plant. the overall automotive industry. This means that a lot of groundwork still needs to be done and customers need to be Under the ChargeNow™ brand of the BMW Group, made more aware of the benefits and possibilities of our new the public charging infrastructure is being built up, and energy vehicles. Currently, the market is strongly driven by in 2017 we will qualify and assist service providers in government incentives and policies. This will have to change 100 cities to support the installation of private charging in the coming years and then natural customer demand will pillars. These endeavors will lower the purchase barrier develop. As a provider of premium products and services for significantly by increasing the accessibility and convenience individual mobility, we must adjust and tailor our offerings and of charging. And, last but not least, we are developing processes to meet the changing demands of our customers new services and applications specifically for new energy for electromobility. We understand the significance of this vehicles, which respond to changing customer demands. ▶ At an awards ceremony recognizing the most popular new energy vehicles in China. The BMW X1 plug-in hybrid model was among the and remain on the right track. awardees. 46 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY I Stakeholder statement Stakeholder statement I PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 47 2.1 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH Growing cities and an expanding middle class, with increasingly exigent Chinese market. We currently produce over 30 Moreover, we began operations in the Engineering model options of BMW and ZINORO vehicles, Workshop at our Research and Development mobility needs, put pressure on urban systems, people, and the BMW 3and 4-cylinder engines. In 2016, we Center Phase 2 in September 2016. Two more environment. As a premium mobility provider, BMW Brilliance takes a successfully launched the first-ever BMW 2 buildings will be handed over to the project team comprehensive approach to product responsibility. We are committed to Series Tourer, the all-new BMW X1, revealed the in 2017. The Research and Development Center all-new ZINORO 60H and celebrated the world Phase 2 will greatly expand the offering sustainable mobility solutions by increasing the fuel efficiency of premiere of the all-new BMW 1 Series Sedan. capacity of our research our products, expanding our portfolio of new energy vehicles, and providing In 2016, sales of our locally produced vehicle models accounted for 65.6% of the total sales of innovative mobility services. Our customers’ safety and satisfaction are of the BMW brand in mainland China. utmost importance. We equip our products with advanced safety features and develop our aftersales services according to customer feedback. Our 2016 was an exciting year for BMW Brilliance. In January, production started at our new engine efforts form the basis of our long-term business success by improving plant. The plant, where we produce BMW’s our impacts on society and the environment, and by contributing to more latest turbo-charged 3and 4-cylinder gasoline engines, is one of the most advanced and sustainable mobility in the future. sustainable engine plants in the world. It is the first one in the BMW Group production network to combine the complete engine production We are committed to continuously expanding our safety features in our products with driver safety process in a single location and includes a business in China and to providing our customers training. light metal foundry that allows us to process with a diversified selection of products. With the aluminum on-site. The plant’s production is BMW Group Efficient Dynamics Strategy, we aim Additionally, we keep expanding our sales and aligned with our vehicle production output to to continuously reduce the fuel consumption and service network. By year-end, we had 558 BMW satisfy the demand of our Tiexi and Dadong emissions for each of our models. In the new sales and service outlets in operation across plants. energy vehicle segment, we offer a wide range of China. In order to continuously improve customer models and drivetrain types unique in China. Our satisfaction, we encourage customer feedback We also completed the structure of the ZINORO brand is an indigenous brand – designed and train our dealers to ensure the best possible northern extension of Dadong plant in and produced in China for the Chinese market. services. early 2016. Over the course of the year, we inaugurated the new Data Center that supports Next to the development and production of all production systems for Dadong plant and all new energy vehicles, we also contribute to the advancement of electromobility at large: EXPANDING OUR BUSINESS of BMW Brilliance’s business systems for data storage, transmission, computing, and data developing the charging infrastructure and IN CHINA security. The center plays an important role in necessary complementary services. In this way, implementing further digitalization measures we aim to support the further development of Since BMW Brilliance’s inception in 2003, we have > Textbox. We also opened the paint shop and electromobility in China. focused on developing our business in China. Our assembly line at the northern extension to pre▶ Engineering Workshop at the Research and pace of expansion has been rapid and comprises pare for production of the all-new BMW 5 SeDevelopment Center. With respect to the safety of our customers local research and development, procurement, ries Li, as well as a new laboratory for quality and other road users, BMW Brilliance follows and production. We are committed to introducing assurance. the approach of the BMW Group and combines the latest products and technologies into the 48 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY I Our management approach Our management approach I PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 49 facilities and allow us to test and validate the Chinese regulations. They are therefore essential MANAGING THE More detailed information about our focus areas components and vehicles that we produce for our long-term business success. ADVANCEMENT OF can be found in the following subchapters: locally, as well as components from our Chinese suppliers. The flexibility of our production system is a ELECTROMOBILITY ▶▶ Providing efficient mobility solutions competitive advantage. It allows us to make > Chapter 2.2 Our engineers work closely with the BMW capacity adjustments according to market needs In 2016, we centralized all new energy vehicle ▶▶ Ensuring product safety Group’s Research and Development team. These and adapt production comparatively quickly to activities related to both our BMW and ZINORO > Chapter 2.3 local research activities enable us to develop new trends or requirements. This is particularly brands, including the development of charging ▶▶ Improving customer satisfaction products and components specifically for the important in the context of electromobility infrastructure. This new management structure > Chapter 2.4 needs of Chinese customers and in line with development in China. is in line with our comprehensive view of electromobility. For us, it is not sufficient to produce new energy vehicles. We also strive to promote the development of electromobility at large. DIGITALIZATION In September 2016, the BMW Group established a separate department for mobility services in China. It includes a business development, BMW Brilliance’s business success depends An important aspect of our digitalization efforts in implementation, and technical support unit and is increasingly on the implementation of digital 2016 was big data analysis. In Shanghai, for example, dedicated to bringing additional mobility services innovations. We aim to use digital services to we evaluated parking information about new energy improve the quality of our products and to provide vehicles in order to determine the best locations for to China. highly efficient mobility solutions. Additionally, by charging stations to be built. employing digital innovations and technologies, we create a healthier work environment for our On the production side, big data analysis bears huge employees, increase our operating efficiency, and potential for efficiency improvements. We used ACHIEVING HIGH PRODUCT reduce environmental impacts. data analysis of color sequences – and the resulting painting quality at our paint shop – to determine which STANDARDS sequences result in the best quality paint job. With this knowledge, we can easily avoid sequences that All vehicles produced in our plants are certified frequently affect quality and thereby increase our production efficiency and product quality. We also to the international standards of ISO 14020 carry out data analysis of energy consumption in (Environmental Labels and Declarations) and ISO our production and office facilities as a basis for 14024 (Environmental Labels and Declarations – further energy efficiency measures. Type I Environmental Labelling). Our vehicles are also certified to the local Chinese standard HJ Additionally, we are driving the transformation of our company culture 2532. We passed the 2016 China Compulsory to increase open-mindedness toward Certificate external audit with zero findings. The digitalization and innovation. Everyone audit includes an inspection of the production at BMW Brilliance is encouraged to processes, materials, and equipment, as well as a submit their ideas on our innovation platform. The most promising conformity check of all series products. Generally, suggestions are then selected BMW Brilliance’s product standard requirements and developed in our IT are higher than China’s mandatory requirements innovation laboratory. for product emissions, fuel consumption, the use of environmentally sound materials, and recyclability and reusability throughout a product’s life cycle. ▶ At the innovation workshop. 50 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY I Our management approach Our management approach I PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 51 2.2 EFFICIENT MOBILITY OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION REDUCING FUEL with any new targets in order to meet the latest emissions standards and regulations worldwide. CONSUMPTION We are continuously reducing the CO2 emissions from our vehicle fleet and The increasing number of new energy vehicles in aim to be the leader in taking a holistic approach to premium electromobility. Fuel efficiency and impacts on society and our product portfolio contribute to the objective of environment are factors that we consider closely reducing our corporate average fuel consumption as we develop a new vehicle. Choices regarding further. In 2016, the all-new BMW X1 plug-in Climate change and the burdens placed and related regulations, contribute to the materials, production technologies, suppliers, hybrid vehicle, which is produced at our Tiexi on air quality have become key challenges protection of the environment and human drivetrain types, as well as recyclability of the plant, made its global debut. for our society. In China, large cities in health, and improve the competitive position vehicle’s components, largely determine the particular struggle with issues related to air of our business. product’s sustainability performance throughout Our locally produced new energy vehicles are pollution. As a premium mobility provider, its life cycle. We reduce the energy requirements included in the recommendation catalogues of BMW Brilliance views it as its responsibility We focus on reducing fuel consumption and of our vehicles by implementing the BMW Group the central government and local authorities. This to innovate and develop our product portfolio CO2 emissions through efficient technologies, Efficient Dynamics Strategy. Specific measures makes them eligible for benefits such as purchase to continuously increase the efficiency of expanding our offering of new energy vehicles, and include lightweight design, efficient engines and tax exemptions, central and local subsidies, as conventional drivetrains. Our expanding developing and promoting mobility services. gearboxes, and optimized aerodynamics. well as free license plates, depending on the range of new energy vehicles further reduces respective implementation rules. the fuel consumption and emissions of our These measures, along with continuous research fleet. Additionally, we contribute to creating and development efforts, enable us to contribute In 2016, BMW Brilliance’s corporate average fuel the mobility of the future with innovative to the national target of corporate average fuel consumption was 6.69 liters per 100 kilometers, mobility services. By offering better mobility consumption of 5.0 liters per 100 kilometers by 3.7% less than in 2015 > Figure 06. According solutions, we respond to public concerns 2020. We follow and participate in discussions to the 2016 corporate average fuel consumption about fuel efficiency and emissions targets in report of the Chinese authorities, which used an China and internationally > Textbox. Our goal is to updated calculation method, we remained 1st in align our research capacities as soon as possible the national ranking of the fleet fuel consumption FUEL EFFICIENCY REGULATIONS IN CHINA In China, the corporate average fuel consumption of Discussions about subsequent regulations in China passenger cars is regulated. For 2020, a corporate are well advanced. A policy that combines the average fuel consumption target of 5.0 liters per 100 corporate average fuel consumption with new energy kilometers has been set. This regulation is valid for vehicle credits is being developed. This means that a all automotive manufacturers in China. In addition, certain quota of new energy vehicles will be defined weight-based consumption limits have been set for for automotive manufacturers, proportionate to their ▶ BMW eDrive, the electrical drive component of BMW individual vehicles. total vehicle production volume. iPerformance models, not only delivers maximum driving pleasure, but does so almost silently and without emissions. 52 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY I Efficient mobility Efficient mobility I PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 53 Fleet fuel consumption (l/100 km) F.06 Indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 3) of BMW Brilliance automobiles (in t) F.08 Change to Change to 2014 2015 2016 previous year 2014 2015 2016 previous year 7.06 6.95 6.69 –3.7% Total emissions 9,392,718 9,285,353 9,558,817 2.9% Upstream chain 1 1,989,978 1,989,117 2,099,198 5.5% achievement rate among all joint ventures in commuting to and from work. The majority of Utilization phase 2 7,244,557 7,138,095 7,292,407 2.2% China. these indirect emissions are generated during the use of our products (corporate level, not including Disposal 3 158,183 158,141 167,212 5.7% upstream fuel). –3.7% The Scope 3 emissions of our vehicles sold in 2016 increased compared to 2015 because 1 2 Emissions from the upstream chain are calculated based on the carbon footprints of representative vehicles from the product lines. The fleet emissions are extrapolated from the average fleet emissions of the BMW Brilliance products sold in a given year. The calculation was based on an average mileage of 150,000 kilometers. Year-on-year reduction of CO2 of the growth of our sales volume > Figure 08. 3 Emissions from disposal processes are calculated based on the carbon footprints of representative vehicles from the product lines. Nevertheless, the successful reduction of our emissions of our newly sold fleet fuel consumption and CO2 emissions of vehicles in China in 2016. newly sold vehicles resulted in a smaller increase in the indirect CO2 emissions caused during the utilization phase than in the other phases. We view this as a confirmation of our efforts to limit LOWERING CO2 EMISSIONS CO2 emissions. As a result of our efforts and advanced technoIn order to decrease the indirect CO2 emissions logies, we were able to further reduce the CO2 of our vehicles in the coming years, we are emissions of our newly sold vehicles in China to reinforcing our efforts to boost new energy vehicle 159.2 grams per kilometer > Figure 07. sales, increasing the efficiency of our vehicles and of our transport logistics > Chapter 3.2, Indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 3) are caused by and continuing to collaborate with our suppliers the use and disposal of our products, in our supply to reduce CO2 emissions in the supply chain chain, in transport logistics, and by employees > Chapter 4. CO2 emissions of BMW Brilliance automobiles* (g/km) F.07 Change to 2014 2015 2016 previous year 168.0 165.4 159.2 –3.7% * The CO2 emissions value reported for China in the Sustainable Value Report 2016 of the BMW Group includes both locally produced and imported vehicles, while the value in the present report includes locally produced vehicles only. ▶ The BMW 2 Series Tourer. 54 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY I Efficient mobility Efficient mobility I PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 55 LEVERAGING THE Offering a premium plug-in hybrid model quality. We designed this new generation of POTENTIAL OF ELECTROMOBILITY In 2016, we began production of the all-new BMW X1 plug-in hybrid. The first vehicle rolled 1 the ZINORO brand as a plug-in hybrid model to perfectly meet the needs of modern city life. Our off our production line during the plant visit of customers can easily cover their daily commutes German Chancellor Angela Merkel in June. Number of foreign-branded and all in-city driving in the 60H’s all-electric Although absolute numbers are still limited, mode thanks to its 60-kilometer electric range. plug-in hybrid vehicles eligible for China’s overall new energy vehicle production We designed the new version of the X1 model The hybrid drivetrain allows them to use the same and sales volume maintained the first place specifically for the Chinese market, taking subsidy in China (the BMW X1). vehicle to travel further without worries about globally in both 2015 and 2016. The over one customer feedback and research carried out over limited charging infrastructure. million new energy vehicles driven in China the last four years into consideration. From the represent more than 50% of the global market outset, our engineers developed the all-new BMW We also upgraded the sales model for the new share of new energy vehicles. We are proud that X1 plug-in hybrid as a vehicle that combines an Moving ZINORO to the next level ZINORO. It can be purchased at one of our the sales volume of BMW and ZINORO new electric drivetrain with a highly efficient gasoline In 2016, we revealed our all-new ZINORO 60H, ZINORO showrooms, from dealers, or from the energy vehicles increased considerably between engine, reducing all constraints that are usually which we are launching in March 2017. Its “Flow new energy vehicle supermarkets in Shanghai, 2015 and 2016. Also, national market research on associated with new energy vehicles. The new of Strength” appeals to contemporary Chinese Shenyang, Beijing, and Guangzhou. It can also be automotive brands positions BMW as the leading version has a range of 60 kilometers in all-electric design, and the new model further emphasizes purchased online with delivery to the customer’s brand of electric drive vehicles. Building on our drive and 630 kilometers drive range in total. ZINORO’s new energy vehicle technology and preferred location. brand strength, we are continuously expanding our range of new energy vehicles. Thanks to local research and development, as well as production, our all-new BMW X1 is the only plug-in hybrid vehicle from a foreign brand that was included in the New Energy Vehicles PARTNERING TO SUPPORT NEW ENERGY VEHICLE Recommendation Catalogue in 2016. This inDEVELOPMENT clusion makes it eligible for a national subsidy. ZINORO is not only a brand focusing on new one of the world’s leading lithium battery producers energy vehicles, but a platform for BMW Brilliance for new energy vehicles. to establish a complete ecosystem for new energy vehicles. Based on our “in China, for China” We also work with Brunp, a company that specializes approach, we have been cultivating local partners in battery recycling. This collaboration allows us to since we established the ZINORO brand. recycle 98.5% of our new energy vehicles’ batteries. This exceeds the national regulation that requires One example is our support for the development of 95% of each battery to be recycled. Brunp extracts new energy vehicle batteries. We played an important elements of nickel, cobalt, manganese, and lithium role in the creation of the start-up Contemporary from the used batteries, so these materials can Ampex Technology Co. Ltd. through our knowledge be reused, reducing the need for mining for raw transfer and financial support. The company is now materials. ▶ The new BMW X1 plugin hybrid and ZINORO 60H plug-in hybrid models. 56 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY I Efficient mobility Efficient mobility I PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 57 OFFERING SUSTAINABLE For BMW customers, the ChargeNow™ Offering flexible mobility solutions with that allows customers to book a premium vehicle card provides access to the charging pillars, BMW’s ReachNow services for on-demand mobility. The vehicles provided MOBILITY SERVICES and BMW Connected Drive gives the driver In November 2016, we launched a pilot project for include the BMW i3 and MINI models, and can be updated information about charging stations in the BMW Group car-sharing service ReachNow in picked up and returned to designated stations. In alignment with the BMW Innovative Mobility their immediate vicinity. We also launched the Beijing. ReachNow is an application-based service Service China Strategy, we introduced the ChargeNow™ WeChat account in 2016. This BMW Group charging service ChargeNow™ provides another platform for our customers to in September 2015. By the end of 2016 we receive real-time information about charging pillar had installed a total of 1,718 charging pillars in locations, charging services, and related events. selected districts and shopping malls where BMW customers visit frequently, in order to satisfy our 1,718 customers’ increasing demand for public charging. The charging network covers a total of 10 cities. ChargeNow™ charging pillars are available in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Number of ChargeNowTM pillars Shenyang, Chengdu, Qingdao, Hangzhou, Tianjin, and Xi’an. Also, we have charging infrastructure we had installed in 10 Chinese available for employees and visitors at our own cities by year-end 2016. locations. The public ChargeNow™ charging pillars can also be used by customers of other brands with vehicles conforming to the China GB standard by purchasing a charging card from our ▶ Advanced e-mobility services for customers. partners Potevio and EV Power. In this way, we are contributing to a public charging service and supporting the development of electromobility at large. FORECAST 2017 Our customers with private parking spaces can also receive private charging wall boxes, including installation services. We expanded our network of For May 2017, we are planning the grand opening of the northern extension of Dadong plant, certified installers in 2016 and now provide free where we are producing the new generation of the BMW 5 Series Long Wheelbase. Furthermore, installation in 54 cities across the country. For we are launching the new ZINORO 60H nationwide. customers who do not have their own parking space in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, or We are preparing to further electrify and expand our fleet of new energy vehicles in order to Shenzhen, a special charging card package respond to new Chinese and BMW Group targets. Moreover, we are further integrating our value provides access to semi-public charging chain and introducing battery assembly at BMW Brilliance in 2017. stations in their residential compounds. We are building 100 charging pillars at CapitaLand properties in 12 cities in China in 2017, as per Furthermore, we continue to our 2016 collaboration agreement with this real estate firm. We are also further expanding our contribute to the Sino-German ChargeNow™ network. electric vehicle charging project, which brings together government officials, In line with the BMW Group’s announcement to transform from a traditional vehicle manufacturer automotive companies, and scientific to a mobility service provider, we are planning to introduce additional mobility services in China institutes. Together, they conduct research in the coming years. The BMW Group’s ReachNow service, for instance, is being launched in on topics related to the charging of new Chengdu in 2017. ▶ The ChargeNow™ public energy vehicles at the invitation of the Chinese charging service. and German governments. 58 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY I Efficient mobility Efficient mobility I PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 59 2.3 PRODUCT SAFETY OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION Our technologies and strategies for the safety of all safety features that protect the lives and health road users are based on over 30 years of research of drivers. Moreover, the vehicle front has various Our strategic approach matches that of the BMW Group. We protect our by the BMW Group, as well as on the research devices installed to protect pedestrians. and development activities of BMW Brilliance. For customers and other road users from injury by creating networks of active example, during the product development phase, and passive vehicle safety systems. we work to identify and avoid potentially dangerous GUARANTEEING materials. With the health and well-being of our customers in mind, we focus on ensuring the PRODUCT AND SERVICE Road safety and the use of hazard-free information, and safety training for drivers. air quality inside our vehicles. Furthermore, we INFORMATION materials are crucial from both social and Keeping our customers and other road provide customers with product information and environmental perspectives. BMW Brilliance users safe is an integral part of our product driver safety training. has adopted an integrated approach to responsibility. We inform our customers about any potential risks product safety in line with the global safety We monitor our products on the market and examine and hazards related to our products, as well as the standards of the BMW Group. This includes Our objective is to prevent risks for road users and all feedback on the topic of safety. If necessary, environmental performance and proper use of our advanced safety systems, the avoidance of any adverse health consequences in the event of the responsible authorities are informed without products and services. For example, we report on potentially harmful materials and emissions an accident. In order to achieve this, we equip our delay and all measures that serve customer safety the fuel consumption of our vehicles in accordance inside our vehicles, adequate product products with active and passive safety features. are initiated. We have established the relevant with China’s vehicle fuel consumption regulations. implementation processes and organizations for We also report fuel consumption for each of our this purpose. vehicle models on the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology’s website. SAVING LIVES WITH SAFETY SYSTEMS OFFERING DRIVER SAFETY TRAINING Our vehicles are designed to keep passengers and other road users safe. They include active safety systems that help prevent accidents as well as passive safety systems, which seek to mitigate the consequences should an accident occur. Active safety includes perfect chassis tuning, optimal traction and effective brakes. Electronic chassis control systems as well as a range of driver assistance systems also contribute toward preventing accidents. Should an accident occur, all BMW Group vehicles as well as our ZINORO models have energyabsorbing crumple zones, safe passenger cells, ▶ Assembly shop adapting advanced technologies and facilities, ensuring top quality. restraint systems, airbags, and many other passive 60 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY I Product safety Product safety I PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 61 legal requirements on product safety and human 1,230 health. In the early development phase, an interdisciplinary working group evaluates the filters for all current and selected previous models. In order to assure customers that potential materials to be used in a product to they can take full advantage of the improved Number of participants in our determine the risk potential and to eliminate any air quality, BMW Brilliance launched a driver safety training courses in problematic options. The working group can training application to guide them on how to optimize the air-conditioning setup. then intervene in the selection and development 2016. process as well as in the production phase, as needed. We also provide driver safety training to help Qualifying the materials we use prepare our customers for potentially dangerous We test all current and future products according situations and to increase overall road safety. BMW to the standards of the BMW Group. All seriesBrilliance offers 14 different training courses, and model parts, auxiliary production substances and in 2016 1,230 participants learned how to identify process materials, such as paint and adhesives, critical driving situations and how to properly undergo rigorous qualification processes. respond to them. These courses also include important road safety information that can help We fully document all chemical substances used in that can further reduce interior emissions along avoid such situations in the first place. our production processes. These substances first SECURING AIR QUALITY IN the production chain. Beyond testing materials for undergo a safety inspection and are then approved OUR VEHICLES product safety and harmlessness to human health, for a specific application through our central we also check parts, components, and complete USING SAFE MATERIALS IN recording system for environmentally relevant substances. The system also provides detailed Air quality is important to assure the health and well-being of our customers and their passengers, vehicles at several stages of the production cycle. Additionally, we conduct inspections along the OUR VEHICLES specifications and tips on handling these products as well as to protect our employees during the supply chain to avoid contamination by auxiliary as well as on first aid, storage, and transport. production process. We focus on the materials materials. From product development, through to use and and substances used in production and apply disposal, we ensure compliance with worldwide necessary filter systems to ensure the quality of Before market launch and at various intervals the air that enters the vehicle from outside while during a product’s lifespan, we test and evaluate driving > Textbox. complete vehicles according to the relevant Chinese and international standards. We continuously improve the materials we use, and IMPROVING AIR QUALITY WITH FILTER SYSTEMS replace materials with products and technologies In response to the high level of air pollution in many Chinese cities, all newly sold BMW FORECAST 2017 Brilliance vehicles now include an additional air filter system. The PM2.5 highly-efficient filter has an important effect on passenger health protection and well-being: it can Product safety remains our priority going forward. We are continuously working on improving our process 95% of harmful particles and active and passive safety features, and on expanding our range of driver assistance systems. We improve the odor inside a vehicle, substantially improving overall air are also continuing to provide driver safety training. quality. All new ZINORO and BMW models are fitted with this highperformance filter. In addition, BMW dealers can provide 62 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY I Product safety Product safety I PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 63 2.4 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION train our employees to deliver the best possible We provide increasingly customized information in service. We also support the expansion of our our online newsletters. Our Direct Communication We aim to create a perfect “customer journey” with the goal of delivering 5S dealership network, as our dealers reflect our Circle defines which content and campaigns are sustainability values directly with our customers. of interest to which customer group. The relevant premium services to satisfied customers. information is then included in the individualized newsletters that are sent to eight million customers, Sustainability issues are becoming more and Ensuring customer satisfaction is our priority. IMPROVING CUSTOMER users, and prospects each month with ad hoc newsletters for specific occasions. more important to our Chinese customers. In order to deliver premium customer services, INTERACTION Environmental, social, and economic we interact with our customers through various We use the 360-degree customer view tool performance – from production through to channels, collect their feedback and ensure We aim to optimize our customer interaction and to make proactive, needs-based suggestions aftersales services – now influence how their data is kept safe. Aftersales services are support. To do so, we continuously integrate our to our customers and to harmonize customer the public perceives a company. For BMW particularly important for our customers and for multiple communication channels and provide communication across different departments Brilliance, sustainability is an integral part us. We therefore consider customer feedback and increasingly individualized information to our and communication channels. The tool analyzes of our brands and customer interaction. customers. customer data and informs our dealers regularly We take the needs of our customers into about the current situation and needs of each consideration as we design products and The BMW Customer Interaction Center is the customer. In response, we send each of our improve our services, knowing that satisfied core of our communication with current and customers the information they require – for customers are key to our long-term business prospective customers. Our agents call current example, a service reminder, information about success. and prospective customers to gather information insurance renewal or end of warranty, sales about their satisfaction with our dealers’ sales and promotions, or a birthday greeting. We also use the aftersales services. Moreover, we receive over 360-degree customer view tool in our Customer 60,000 inbound calls monthly, a majority of which Interaction Center. The tool allows us to increase are customer inquiries. In 2016, we introduced a the efficiency of our communication and results in higher customer satisfaction. Improving through customer feedback 60,000 We invite our customers to give feedback at various opportunities. Their answers are the Number of inbound calls our basis for the continuous improvement of our products and services. In 2016, over 70,000 BMW Customer Interaction aftersales customers participated in interviews Center handles every month. conducted by our Customer Interaction Center. Overall, satisfaction was high, with a customer recommendation rate of 86.7%. self-service function that allows customers to receive information faster. It also provides the Additionally, in 2016, we introduced a new tool for option to receive information as a text message. customer feedback collection. We contacted our An additional channel for customer inquiries is the customers after each interaction with one of our BMW Online Chat, which we launched as a pilot dealers, via text message. This proactive approach in 2016. allows us to considerably increase the amount 64 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY I Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction I PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 65 feedback on a monthly basis and share the results with our dealers. The information serves as a 86.7% basis to better align services with customer needs and expectations and allows for us to jointly track improvements over time. Percentage of customers satisfied with our aftersales To help our dealers offer premium customer service, we encourage ongoing exchanges services. among dealers. In 2016, we set up a platform on which our dealers can share experiences and lessons learned. Moreover, we conducted three of responses we receive. In the case of negative workshops, which provided an opportunity for feedback, we call the customer to get more detailed learning and discussion about best practices in information about the issue. Customer inquiries, customer service. suggestions, and comments are then sent to the relevant departments or dealers for follow-up. We On-site coaching in customer treatment assess customer feedback and resolution rates on We prepare our dealers to better serve their a monthly basis, to be able to act on particularly customers with a specific on-site coaching common issues and improve response and program. The program aims to create a consistent resolution times. To date, 165 dealers are involved premium experience for all customers and in this new process and the results show a positive prospects who visit our dealerships. The goal is impact on customer satisfaction. to make the customer experience more personal, ▶ A 5S dealership. emotional, and inspiring. To achieve this, we provide Ensuring comprehensive data protection on-site training for all our new dealerships and Customer data security is the highest priority for carry out individualized coaching for dealerships customers get the opportunity to experience our all our activities. We established a Data Privacy with low customer feedback scores. Additionally, new vehicles first-hand and can satisfy themselves Protection Office to protect customer data and its usage through technical security. Additionally, information and advice is available in our dealer handbook and on our online training platform. 173 as to their outstanding abilities and driving dynamics. BMW Brilliance implemented a standardized data privacy protection process, which adheres to the In 2016, we focused our customer treatment onNumber of our dealerships Fostering sustainability in our dealerships customer data privacy protection process of the site coaching program mainly on new dealerships offering new energy vehicles We apply the 5S dealer certification program of BMW Group. Our dealers apply the same processes and on 42 existing dealers with low customer the BMW Group to promote sustainability among to ensure our customers’ personal information is satisfaction results. Customer feedback shows and related services by yearour dealers. The 5S program incorporates the kept safe. We continuously improve our systems that the program successfully improves the overall end 2016. concept of sustainability in the traditional 4S (sales, and processes in line with developments in experience, with strong gains in satisfaction services, survey, and spare parts) concept and customer data protection requirements. We offer regarding sales and service promotion. requires dealers to reach a relevant sustainability various channels for customers to change the optstandard, including their contributions to the local in status based on their wishes. Preparing dealers for the new energy vehicle segment Over 230 economy and employment, their commitment to community welfare, and the validity of their We are continuously expanding our dealer measures for resource use and carbon emission Our target figure for year-end SUPPORTING DEALER network for new energy vehicles. By the end of reduction at their operations. 2016, 173 of our dealerships were offering new 2017. IMPROVEMENT energy vehicles and related services. In order to In 2016, we added three new 5S dealers, bringing ensure our dealers can provide the best possible the total 5S network to 42. Moreover, 19 dealers We monitor our dealers’ performance in sales and service to new energy vehicle customers and were successfully recertified according to the 5S aftersales services with our Joy Index. In 2016, we prospects, we conduct specific on-site training at To stimulate demand and further expand the certification model, for which renewal is required conducted customer surveys to collect information our dealerships. We also train sales advisors, area share of new energy vehicles in our fleet, we are every two years. We held 340 person-days of about customer satisfaction with the provided managers, and call center agents to complement implementing a strong marketing and public training, based on the 5S model, which focused on services. Additionally, we analyze customer the service at our dealerships and support sales. relations campaign. In experiential events, potential environmental protection and work safety. 66 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY I Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction I PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 67 FORECAST 2017 For 2017, we are planning to launch the BMW Online Chat on our official website and to further personalize customer communication in our online newsletters and with our 360-degree customer view tool. We are also continuing to expand our customer feedback collection and are investigating potential new ways to combine the customer satisfaction index with the data gathered using the new customer feedback collection tool. We are continuing to support our dealers in improving their services according to customer needs. Specifically, we are planning to engage the BMW China Training Academy to conduct on-site coaching in customer treatment. We are expanding our dealer network for new energy vehicles to over 230 dealerships, covering all major Chinese cities, as well as some smaller cities, where the sales potential for new energy vehicles is increasing. Additionally, we are extending our traditional dealer network and developing small and swift customer touch points and digitalized experiences to further increase customer convenience in line with trends in customer behavior. 68 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY I Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction I PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 69 3 ENVIRONMENTAL 3.1 Our management approach 3.2 Energy consumption and emissions PROTECTION 3.3 Waste reduction 3.4 Water STAKEHOLDER STATEMENT Fostering sustainability through energy efficiency and renewable energies What are the challenges in continuing to increase opportunities and innovating to increase energy efficiency in energy efficiency and the use of renewable energies the future. As a second step, we will implement an energy for BMW Brilliance? management system in accordance with ISO 50001, which also focuses on energy efficiency improvements. We face internal and external challenges in increasing energy efficiency and the share of renewable energy. We base decisions about energy efficiency measures on their economic and environmental impacts. As our production “We are installing 7.3 megawatts volume varies throughout the year according to customer of photovoltaic capacity at our Tiexi demand, it is difficult to determine how effective an energy efficiency measure will be. For example, when we try to plant and the new engine plant.” calculate how much heat can be recovered in a specific process, the results depend on how long the machines will In 2016 we began a solar panel project. We will install run every day. If there is a lot of production in winter months, 7.3 megawatts of photovoltaic capacity at our Tiexi we will recover more heat and save considerable energy for plant and the new engine plant. The project is planned heating, reducing CO2 emissions at the same time. But the to be completed in mid-2018 and will produce about contrary can also be true. It is therefore challenging to make 10 gigawatt hours of renewable electricity per year decisions about efficiency measures, as we cannot always for our production facilities. accurately predict the economic and environmental impacts of these measures. “Energy consumption and CO2 emissions are two of the most important issues we face at BMW Yu Yuelong Brilliance. In my work, I deal with Energy Engineer, Building, Facility Management, Environment and Administration, BMW Brilliance energy supply and energy efficiency measures every day.” ▶ The heat recovery wheel of the building ventilation system. On the other hand, external conditions are also changing. Where do you see the connection between your dayThe Chinese energy market is transforming. We are moving to-day work and BMW Brilliance’s sustainability from a system with only one national energy provider to engagement? a competitive market. Existing subsidies for renewable energies will also be reduced in the coming years. Given this Energy consumption and CO2 emissions are two of the most situation, it is important for us to identify the best solutions important issues we face at BMW Brilliance. In my work, I deal to increase the percentage of renewable sources in our total with energy supply and energy efficiency measures every energy use. day. One of my tasks is, for example, to evaluate what type of energy is most suitable to cover BMW Brilliance’s energy needs today and in the future, and how that energy should What are your most important future projects to be procured. In my evaluations, I consider environmental tackle these challenges? aspects systematically. I am also involved in monitoring energy efficiency and – related to that – investigating how we First, we are setting up an energy data management system. can improve system technology and process management. This data platform is part of our digitalization strategy. It With my work, I contribute directly to BMW Brilliance’s will enable us to have more transparency about our energy ▶ The energy center at Tiexi plant. sustainability engagement. consumption. Data analysis will be our basis for identifying 72 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION I Stakeholder statement Stakeholder statement I ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 73 3.1 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH In light of global challenges such as climate change, air pollution, and resource RESPONSIBILITIES our experts exchange ideas and approaches with environmental protection specialists from scarcity, BMW Brilliance aims to be the most resource-efficient premium other BMW Group plants. The aim is to build the mobility provider in China. Our focus lies on increasing the energy and Our Board of Management appoints a represencompetence of local teams and employees, and resource efficiency of our production processes and on reducing emissions. tative to ensure the effective implementation of to share best practices globally. our environmental management system. Our These measures allow us to minimize our impacts on the environment, make plant directors are responsible for the environWe conduct annual internal and external audits a contribution to the ambitious environmental goals of China, and reduce mental management of our operations. of our environmental management system and strive to improve it further. All of our operating our costs. After we established our Environmental Susplant locations are certified in accordance with tainability Circle in 2015, we further clarified ISO 14001. In 2016, our new engine plant, which responsibilities in our internal management began production in January of the same year, Environmental protection is fundamental to our guidelines, as well as best practices. We follow structure in 2016, in order to increase efficiency was certified for the first time. sustainability strategy. Our environmental policy the principles of the United Nations Environment in defining and achieving specific environmental is in accordance with international standards and Program (UNEP) Cleaner Production Declaration. targets. The circle is a multilayer entity with Integrating environmental protection into BMW Group-wide environmental policies and Our environmental policy and management a mandate to continuously improve our our corporate culture guidelines, as is our environmental management system are fully aligned and integrated with BMW environmental performance. We set up two We aim to incorporate environmental protection system. Energy consumption, emissions, waste Group-wide environmental policies, guidelines, working groups that meet regularly to discuss further into our organizational culture. In order production, process wastewater, and water use and management systems. best-practice solutions for issues that may to raise awareness among our employees are managed by our Environmental Sustainability arise. As we are part of the BMW Group’s and motivate them to help us reduce our Circle, which defines and implements the We are committed to reducing our environmental international environmental protection network, environmental impacts, we introduced a new necessary measures to achieve our targets. impacts to a minimum. Considering potential long-term environmental campaign strategy. We continuously monitor the efficiency of our risks, we set targets at the earliest phase of Each annual campaign focuses on one specific environmental management system. product development and define concrete topic. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2016 measures for their achievement. Using life-cycle our first campaign focused on energy savings. engineering and active targeting, we develop As part of the campaign, we honor employees TARGETS, POLICIES, AND products with their total life span in mind. This approach allows us to reduce environmental who show exceptional commitment to our environmental targets with the Environment COMMITMENTS impacts during both the production and utilization Protection Star Award. phase. It also helps ensure that at the end-of-life We aim to reduce our energy and resource phase, vehicle components can be reused or We focus on reducing the environmental impact consumption and contribute to the BMW Group recycled. We monitor our impacts throughout the of our activities in three key areas: target for 2020, which is to reduce group-wide value chain. Additionally, we conduct detailed site resource consumption per vehicle produced by assessments during the planning phase of any ▶▶ Energy consumption and emissions 45% compared to 2006. new production facilities. This practice allows us > Chapter 3.2 to consider any potential environmental impacts at ▶▶ Waste reduction > Chapter 3.3 BMW Brilliance’s environmental management the outset of a project, and to adjust our planning ▶▶ Water consumption as well as process system is based on relevant legislation such accordingly. It also allows us to continuously wastewater discharge > Chapter 3.4 as the Chinese Environmental Protection Law, improve our performance and implement best international standards, and BMW Group-related practices from across BMW Group plants. ▶ LED lighting was implemented as an energy-saving measure in the in-plant warehouses. 74 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION I Our management approach Our management approach I ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 75 3.2 ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND EMISSIONS OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION on energy and improve our profitability and competitive position. BMW Brilliance contributes to the BMW Group’s environmental target. The Monitoring energy consumption BMW Group will reduce its resource consumption (energy, water, waste, and carbon footprint solvents) per vehicle produced by 45% by 2020 (base year 2006). Compared to 2015, our total energy consumption increased by 30.3% in 2016 > Figure 09. This is mostly due to the Climate change and air pollution are highly pollutants are emitted than in regions with more launch of the new engine plant and increased relevant topics in China. This was highlighted renewable energy resources. Nevertheless, we vehicle production at Tiexi plant, which resulted once more by China’s 2016 ratification of the make every effort to buy cleaner energy wherever in higher electricity consumption that could not be Paris Agreement and its commitment to act possible. Moreover, in 2016 we decided to install offset by the above-mentioned energy efficiency decisively on climate protection. At BMW solar panels at Tiexi plant in the coming year, measures. For the same reasons, the energy Brilliance, we view it as our responsibility which will reduce the CO2 emissions of our energy consumption per vehicle produced increased to to support the government’s agenda and consumption. 2.05 megawatt hours (2015: 1.66) accordingly improve our environmental impacts. We > Figure 10. implement energy and transport efficiency In order to reduce our energy consumption and measures, as well as other initiatives, to CO2 emissions, we implement energy efficiency We have set targets for energy consumption, per reduce CO2 and volatile organic compound measures in our buildings and production unit produced, for our Tiexi, Dadong, and new emissions. Our efforts allow us to mitigate processes. In 2016, we achieved efficiency engine plants. We have also set them for different ▶ The world’s most advanced smelter our environmental impacts and lead to cost improvements by decreasing lighting density at the foundry of the new engine plant. reductions for our business. during break times and shutdown times at all plants. In our office buildings, lights automatically To reduce CO2 emissions and energy consumption switch off every hour to avoid empty rooms related to our production, we focus on increasing being unnecessarily lit. By optimizing room Energy consumption at all plant locations (in MWh) F.09 the energy efficiency of our plants. We are also temperatures, we reduced the energy needs for continuously improving the CO2 efficiency of heating in wintertime. This allowed us to keep our Change to our transport logistics. Additionally, we reduce total heating consumption nearly stable compared previous volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions per to the previous year, despite the start-up of new 2014 2015 2016* year vehicle produced – one of the major environmental facilities > Figure 09. impacts associated with paint processes for Total fuel consumption from non-renewable resources 109,895 132,326 183,422 38.6% automotive companies. Furthermore, our production lines are equipped with state-of-the-art technologies that help us Total electricity consumption 216,674 202,558 295,867 46.1% achieve our energy efficiency targets. At our INCREASING OUR ENERGY new engine plant, for instance, the foundry has the world’s most advanced smelter, which Total heating consumption 153,660 143,539 144,130 0.4% EFFICIENCY considerably reduces energy consumption. At Total energy consumption 480,229 478,424 623,419 30.3% the northern extension of Dadong plant, lighting is The energy production in Shenyang, where our provided by efficient LED technology. In the face production plants are located, is mainly coalof rising energy prices, these innovations have * Includes energy consumption of new facilities, such as the new engine plant. based. This means that more CO2 and other allowed BMW Brilliance to limit our expenditures 76 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION I Energy consumption and emissions Energy consumption and emissions I ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 77 Energy consumption per unit produced at all plant locations (in MWh/unit) F.10 BMW Brilliance’s logistics strategy, present new buses to get to and from work every day. In this way, innovative concepts and strengthen cooperation BMW Brilliance considerably reduces the number throughout the value chain. of private vehicles on the roads, and consequently Change to the amount of CO2 emissions generated during 2014 2015 2016 previous year For our employees, we provide shuttle buses the commute. linking our plants and the city of Shenyang. An 1.67 1.66 2.05 23.5% average of 16,000 employees use the shuttle activities, such as the press shop, body shop, the energy savings, but also the economic benefits paint shop, assembly shop, logistics, canteen, and that can be achieved through specific measures. facility management. We carry out energy audits regularly to identify and share best practices, With the increase in our energy consumption, the and to improve our energy management. We carbon footprint of our vehicles also increased in obtain accurate data on our energy consumption 2016. The CO2 efficiency per vehicle produced with our building management systems. This was 1.13 tons of CO2 (2015: 0.88) > Figure 11. In ▶ The facilities in Shenyang enables us to monitor consumption of individual the coming years, we are planning to expand our have a dedicated, purposeprocesses on a daily basis, address irregularities energy efficiency measures and to use increasingly built railway terminal. and implement any necessary measures to ensure cleaner energy sources in order to reduce our our performance is on track. Collecting more energy consumption and the related carbon comprehensive data helps us understand not only footprint from the production of our vehicles. CO2 emissions per unit produced at all plants (in t/unit) F.11 Change to 2014 2015 2016 previous year 0.97 0.88 1.13 28.4% INCREASING TRANSPORT Full Truck Load strategy. By minimizing wasted container space, we use fewer trucks and decrease EFFICIENCY carbon emissions during transport. Our business activities require the transport For outbound logistics, we are increasing the use of large volumes of goods, both inbound and of rail and sea shipments to reduce the emissions outbound. We are increasing the share of lowcaused by road transportation. We use vessel carbon modes of transport as well as the efficiency shipment from the port of Dalian to deliver finished of our logistics to reduce overall costs and minimize vehicles to Shanghai and Guangzhou. On the our environmental impact. mainland, we are enhancing train transportation to Chengdu and Xi’an. This enables us to reduce the On the supply side, we use short sea shipment CO2 emissions of our outbound logistics, despite main-haul transport via the ports of Shanghai and ▶ The Full Truck Load steady increases in delivered vehicles. strategy optimizes cargo Yingkou for high-volume suppliers from the Greater load and reduces emissions. Shanghai area. For long-distance road transport, In 2016, we held several information sessions we ensure that trucks are filled to capacity with our with logistics providers and suppliers to discuss 78 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION I Energy consumption and emissions Energy consumption and emissions I ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 79 REDUCING OUR VOC EMISSIONS We are committed to reducing the VOC emissions from our production processes to mitigate any risks and impacts on society. With continuous improvement efforts, we further reduced the VOC emissions per vehicle produced from 0.45 kilograms of VOCs in 2015 to 0.40 kilograms of VOCs in 2016 > Figure 12. Volatile organic compounds (VOC) per unit produced at all plant locations (in kg/unit) F.12 Change to 2014 2015 2016 previous year 0.48 0.45 0.40 –11.1% FORECAST 2017 Currently, we are planning to install solar panels at our Tiexi and new engine plants. 36% The renewable energy produced will cover approximately 36% of the plants’ electrical Percentage of our plants’ base load calculated according to the average current electrical base load value in 2016. This will contribute considerably to the reduction of CO2 emissions from our to be covered by renewable production. energy produced on-site. Furthermore, BMW Brilliance is starting the Green Plant project for our three plants in March 2017. The project is part of the We are also planning to advance our energy implementation of the government’s Made savings campaign launched in 2016. in China 2025 strategy. In support of the The campaign includes the Environment Green Plant project, we are planning to obtain Protection Star Award competition for certification for our energy management environmental savings measures, efforts to system in accordance with ISO 50001 and reduce energy consumption at the office, and to carry out greenhouse gas emissions awareness-raising measures about energy quantification and reporting in accordance use at home, for which our employees and with ISO 14064. their families are invited. 80 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION I Energy consumption and emissions Energy consumption and emissions I ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 81 3.3 WASTE REDUCTION OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION MANAGING OUR WASTE hazardous, in accordance with the Waste Pollution Prevention and Control Law and the Hazardous BMW Brilliance contributes to the BMW Group’s environmental target. By Waste Catalogue of China. We use an adapted version of the BMW Group’s 2020, we aim to reduce waste by 45% per vehicle produced, compared to waste information system to record the waste In 2016, we introduced additional segregation 2006. Our goal is to reduce all waste for disposal to a minimum. we produce. The system allows us to optimize measures for general waste. In all our plant the handling of waste – especially in terms of locations and offices, all non-hazardous waste, reuse and recycling – and assure compliance with such as plastic bottles, cans, and paper, are Resource scarcity and the accumulation of To achieve our objectives, managing waste in our Chinese legislation. We document individual waste collected separately for recycling. waste are global sustainability challenges. production processes is a priority. Additionally, we flows and categorize waste as hazardous or nonAs a manufacturing business, BMW make sure the generated waste is treated correctly. Brilliance is affected by the reduced availability of resources. In order to use materials as efficiently as possible and to minimize the amount of waste for disposal, ENABLING THE REUSE OF LIMESTONE WASTE we continuously optimize our recycling processes. We also make an effort to avoid waste and reuse materials whenever possible. By treating waste as a valuable We use a limestone eco-dry scrubber system in the paint resource, we assure compliance with shop at Tiexi plant. The waste limestone that results from the paint fumes purification process contains small amounts of Chinese legislation, while reducing our paint and is automatically classified as hazardous waste. environmental impact and business After consulting experts from other BMW Group plants costs. and in consultation with local organizations, a qualified independent institution conducted tests on limestone waste samples to help evaluate the waste material. The results showed that the material can be reclassified as non-hazardous waste. The Liaoning Environmental Protection Bureau has approved the reclassification of limestone from the Tiexi plant painting process as non-hazardous waste. As a result, we are now able to use the waste limestone from Tiexi plant in the production of bricks and concrete. And, starting in 2017, we will also be able to repurpose the limestone waste generated at the northern extension of Dadong plant. ▶ The limestone eco-dry scrubber system in the paint shop. ▶ Packaging waste being recycled at Dadong plant. 82 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION I Waste reduction Waste reduction I ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 83 Total non-hazardous and hazardous waste at BMW Brilliance (in t) F.13 Change to previous 2014 2015 2016 year ▶ Aluminum recycling at Hazardous waste for recycling 4,060 3,999 5,024 25.6% Dadong plant. Hazardous waste for disposal 1,034 2,000 723 –63.9% In our new engine plant, the sand core Total hazardous waste 5,094 5,999 5,747 –4.2% process in the foundry generates a considerable amount of waste sand. In order Non-hazardous waste for recycling 22,312 26,659 39,067 46.9% to reduce the amount of sand that must be sent for disposal, we process about 90% of the sand into mineral powder. This powder is then used by Non-hazardous waste for disposal 597 641 1,219 90.2% the Shenyang city construction department for roadbed paving. Monthly, about 450 tons of waste Total waste for recycling 26,374 30,658 40,286 31.4% sand are repurposed and reused in this way. our waste for disposal by 26.5% > Figure 13. Total waste for disposal 1,631 2,641 1,942 –26.5% Minimizing packaging waste Similarly, the waste for disposal per vehicle In our production processes, we use recycled produced was decreased to 6.42 kilograms per Total waste 28,005 33,299 44,091 32.4% packaging for both imported and local parts to unit produced (2015: 9.17) > Figure 14. reduce waste and minimize our impact on the environment. The use of returnable packaging Nevertheless, our total waste increased in 2016. for local parts whenever possible has drastically This was due to increased production volumes reduced our packaging waste. as well as the start-up of operations at our new Waste for disposal per vehicle produced at all plants (in kg/unit) F.14 engine plant. Controlling waste management data Change to As a result of our efforts to increase waste 2014 2015 2016 previous year segregation and the reclassification of limestone waste to non-hazardous waste, we decreased ENSURING CORRECT 5.67 9.17 6.42 –30.0% WASTE TREATMENT We select our waste management service –26.5% providers carefully, in order to assure that our waste is processed correctly and that legal requirements FORECAST 2017 Year-on-year reduction of are satisfied. All service providers are audited regularly in accordance with the BMW Group’s waste for disposal at our plants. waste management procedures. Only suppliers that satisfy the audit criteria are permitted to In 2017, we are planning to launch our second annual environmental campaign with a focus on waste –63.9% perform waste management activities. Service providers who handle hazardous waste are audited reduction. The campaign allows us to discuss and implement additional measures to reduce waste and enhance employee awareness. on-site every two years. For non-hazardous waste, Year-on-year reduction of we conduct a document check every second year We are also continuing the audits of our waste management service providers to ensure the correct hazardous waste for disposal at and an on-site audit every four years. In 2016, we handling of our waste. Furthermore, we are intending to find more potential suppliers for recycling carried out 11 waste audits covering five waste services to further increase the proportion of waste we recycle. our plants. management service suppliers to ensure they fulfill national and local regulations. 84 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION I Waste reduction Waste reduction I ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 85 3.4 WATER OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION Monitoring our water use in 2016 compared to the previous year > Figure 15. A management system monitors consumption However, we were able to stabilize the amount of BMW Brilliance contributes to the BMW Group’s environmental target. levels and targets at each of our plants. Despite process wastewater per vehicle produced at 0.46 our continued efforts to limit our consumption, cubic meters in 2016, for a second consecutive By 2020, we strive to reduce water consumption and process wastewater the expansion of our facilities resulted in an 18.3% year > Figure 16. by 45% per vehicle produced, compared to 2006. Our vision is to achieve increase in water consumed per vehicle produced wastewater-free production processes. Water consumption per unit produced at all plant locations (in m3/unit) F.15 The world’s water resources are under on the environment and on society, and pressure due to continuous consumption ultimately reduce our business costs. Change to and population growth. Our production sites 2014 2015 2016 previous year are located in Shenyang, Liaoning province, Our main areas of action are the reduction of water where there is reduced water availability. This consumption and the efficient reuse and safe 2.18 2.18 2.58 18.3% makes responsible water use fundamental disposal of treated wastewater. for BMW Brilliance. We continuously reduce our water consumption through technology improvements and thoughtful water use and reuse. In this way, we have a positive impact REDUCING WATER Process wastewater per unit produced at all plant locations (in m3/unit) F.16 CONSUMPTION Change to The majority of our water use can be attributed 2014 2015 2016 previous year to our production processes, cooling, and water consumed by our employees. We therefore focus 0.47 0.46 0.46 0.0% on continuously improving our water efficiency in all of these areas. To reduce water consumption in our production processes, we increasingly reuse water at our plants. In 2016, we also began using well water cooling to supplement ▶ Part of the on-site water the cooling towers in Tiexi plant. This treatment facility at Tiexi allowed us to save an estimated 17,000 plant. cubic meters of potable water. In our sanitary facilities, we installed taps with sensors to conserve the use of running water and we added foaming devices in the taps to reduce water volume. ▶ Paint shop at Tiexi plant. 86 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION I Water Water I ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 87 TREATING OUR WASTEWATER At Tiexi plant, the wastewater recycling system introduced in 2015 was used throughout 2016. The system has a treatment capacity of 1,200 cubic meters of wastewater per day, which allows us to treat the sanitary water from both the Tiexi and new engine plants. The treated water is used for gardening and to supply our outdoor fountain. ▶ On-site wastewater treatment facility at Tiexi plant. FORECAST 2017 In 2017, we are continuing to improve our water-saving initiatives for our production plants and offices. We are also investigating whether the treated water from our wastewater recycling system can be used to complement the water in the cooling tower. We would then use this treated water for cooling at Tiexi plant. In addition, the BMW Group is developing a Water Roadmap 2020 to guide water consumption reduction efforts for all BMW plants, including our BMW Brilliance plants. 88 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION I Water Water I ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 89 4 SUPPLIER 4.1 Our management approach 4.2 Implementing our approach MANAGEMENT STAKEHOLDER STATEMENT Working together to improve processes In addition, we must ensure that our entire supply chain With respect to workplace quality, we have recently reviewed Presently, we place an emphasis on minimizing wastewater includes sustainable, responsive global partners. We are and remodeled all our leather wrapping and assembly to avoid treating “clean” water with excessive chemicals helped in this endeavor by proactive customers such as lines to improve ergonomics. We are also using waterand processing. Furthermore, we are engaged in efforts to BMW Brilliance, who themselves continually push for more based products wherever possible. For example, in our recycle the total amount of glues and chemicals we use. We sustainable solutions. daily operations glue is used to stick the leather loop to the segregate waste on the shop floor between recyclable, inert steering wheel body. While it is easier for us to use solventindustrial waste, and hazardous industrial waste. Finally, we based products, we choose to use water-based products drive toward minimizing the waste volumes we must treat In your view, what challenges does sustainable instead to further protect our employees’ health. and dispose of, in an effort to limit waste handling, energy development present to your industry? And to your use, as well as transportation. company? Another area is energy use. Among other improvements, we have remodeled our assembly lines and warehouse Issues specific to our industry notably include significant illumination with LED lighting and adopted a protocol for Can you give us a concrete example of how waste generation from production processes, a lack of end-of-shift and break times to shut down lights to maximize cooperation with BMW Brilliance helps you improve common recycling systems, as well as low regulatory energy savings. We have also reclaimed heating and cooling processes on a day-to-day basis? pressure on management of the produced waste. from compressed air equipment and cooling systems. Finally, we have preset minimum and maximum temperatures for BMW Brilliance’s project audits in China always place a strong At Autoliv in China, one particular challenge we face is lead air-conditioning that provides different levels of comfort emphasis on the working environment and environmental time and transportation of raw materials. Our target is always appropriate to the season. protection. It is a natural part of the BMW Brilliance visit to Andrew Lacey to source locally instead of purchasing from international give suggestions for the industrial air exhaust system and suppliers for local projects. When components are customerFinally, waste management is an area where we are continchemical room improvements. General Manager, nominated from overseas, this increases the carbon footprint uously seeking ways to improve our performance further. Autoliv China Steering Wheel of every product we supply. Our solution is to consciously During a recent project launch phase, our operations team develop local alternatives. took this opportunity to review existing practices and then “BMW Brilliance’s project audits in implement improvement actions. Specifically, we combined glue mixing and chemical preparation into a single improved What is your understanding of sustainable developHow does your company address these challenges? China always place a strong emphasis room and added an HVAC control system to switch on and ment? How do you integrate sustainability concerns into off automatically, based on the environmental conditions. your everyday operations? on the working environment and This improved the energy efficiency of these processes while At Autoliv, the foundation for our sustainability is our vision of environmental protection.” maintaining optimal workplace conditions for our employees. “Saving More Lives.” Our products, which include steering In 2016, we took the step of conducting a global GRI-based wheels, air bags, and safety belts – as well as our focus on materiality analysis of the Autoliv sustainability pillars. The innovation – are the most significant contributions Autoliv can objective was to gain an enterprise-level perspective of the make to society. Of equal consequence is how we operate current Autoliv sustainability initiatives, our current maturity our company. We understand that how we do business is as level, determine our future ambition levels, identify potential important as the business we do. sustainability gaps, and to develop a future-fit sustainability strategy around key focus areas. Within our China operations, our efforts relating to our production processes are mainly in “Proactive customers such as BMW the areas of energy and waste management. Beyond that, we are active in our supply chain by auditing suppliers to Brilliance continually push for more ensure compliance with Autoliv sustainability policies, and sustainable solutions.” we work with BMW entities and other Autoliv customers to further improve our processes. Our global approach to corporate sustainability is framed Could you provide specific examples highlighting around four pillars. These include reducing our impact on sustainable change in your operations in China? the environment, developing sustainable products, operating ethically, and being an employer of choice for our employees Let me highlight three areas where we have made improveacross all the 27 countries in which we operate. At the plant ments in our China operations: level, including here in China, we place a particular focus on reducing energy use and improving waste management. 92 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT I Stakeholder statement Stakeholder statement I SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 93 4.1 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH MANAGEMENT INTERVIEW Andreas Schuster-Woldan Vice President, Purchasing and Supplier Quality Management BMW Brilliance’s supply chain network is both global and local and Jürgen Müller Head of Purchasing, Plant Project Leader and Steering continues to grow at a significant pace. Our engagement with our suppliers is a major source of value creation and innovation for us. It also presents What are some of the major sustainability on one method, for example by tracking suppliers challenges from a sustainability perspective. Our supply chain includes issues automotive manufacturers in China listed in the Chinese government’s online database face in their supply chain, and how does of companies whose facilities have been audited a vast network of suppliers and sub-suppliers, and we recognize the BMW Brilliance seek to address them? with regard to environmental violations. complexity of maintaining sustainability standards within it. At the same With roughly 70% of the value-added of our time, we see great opportunities in leveraging our own expertise and knowautomobiles coming from our supply chain, the sustainability issues we face there are extremely BMW Brilliance’s Supplier Risk Management (SRM) process was first launched in 2014. how to help suppliers improve their own sustainability performance beyond diverse. First, there is the issue of financial How does it work, and how do you evaluate sustainability or financial health of the suppliers. the progress you have made since? applicable standards. We are convinced that working closely with suppliers This is important to us, as bad financials can on sustainability issues will be key to achieving our own long-term goals, impede a supplier’s ability to produce and deliver the parts we need in the timeframe and the quality We view our current approach as being characterized by three core strengths: clear underscoring our position as a responsible mobility provider, and delivering we require. The social sustainability of a supplier management requirements to maintain high is key as well – workers’ rights and occupational standards of sustainability, a series of tools and an overall premium experience to our customers. health and safety issues are covered in this processes to minimize the supply chain risk via incategory. Finally, environmental sustainability is house on-site assessments, and an emphasis on an issue that continues to grow in prominence and educating suppliers further to promote sustainable which we take very seriously. practices. MINIMIZING RISKS, analyses on, and solutions to, key issues in a collaborative manner. MAXIMIZING OPPORTUNITIES The BMW Group has implemented several risk management tools and approaches throughout Our overall approach to Supplier Risk its supply chain. These include the sustainability Our approach to sustainable supply chain Management (SRM) incorporates sustainability. risk filter, an industry-wide self-assessment questionnaire, as well as active media screening, management is embedded in our general In addition to finance, maintenance, and delivery, on-site sustainability assessments by BMW Group approach to supplier relationships. We put a we have defined three specific sustainability experts, and third-party sustainability audits. premium on close and long-term partnerships areas: in an effort to continuously improve product and “Our approach has three core production quality, ensure security of supply, SRM sustainability areas F.17 strengths: clear management enhance price credibility, and enable innovation. As we integrate sustainability management into Andreas Schuster-Woldan requirements, strong risk miniour supply chain, our objective is to minimize Environment, health mization tools and processes, risks, maximize opportunities, and achieve our and safety (EHS) Our general approach is to review potential and and an emphasis on supplier overall sustainability goals. current suppliers’ sustainability performance, require them to maintain high standards, and to education.” cascade these to their own suppliers. We also BMW Brilliance recognizes that it is the creation SRM help our suppliers build up their own capacities At BMW Brilliance, our China-based SRM process of shared objectives and targets that will drive sustainability further. We are quite confident in our approach to complements the existing mechanisms with on-site areas continuous improvements in product quality, managing sustainability in our supply chain, but assessments by our own staff, upon which we can logistics processes, production procedures, and we are constantly striving to improve it. We make terminate the relationship or impose a corrective sure to use multiple sources rather than just relying action plan if necessary. These visits have proved sustainability standards. In our engagement with Social Sub-supplier suppliers, we constantly discuss the challenges responsibility management and opportunities we face, and develop in-depth 94 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT I Our management approach Our management approach I SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 95 It is through our SRM approach that we effectively identify and manage the sustainability risks in our >40% very successful in identifying issues and risks in example, we have started a pilot project to collect advance and improving performance for selected and check major sub-suppliers presenting specific supply chain. With our various supplier initiatives, suppliers. Our progress on implementing the SRM environmental risks, such as e-coating suppliers we work hand-in-hand with our suppliers to build process is measured by our coverage rate, which has increased to more than 88% in 2016. and seats structure suppliers, to identify the issues sustainability capacity across the board. Our localization rate. An enormously varied and increasingly “We are heartened to see that local supply chain many of our suppliers are not Our supply chain is complex, multitiered and for society, including lowered currency risks, the just complying with, but also highly diversified. This is reflected in both the ability to support the communities and regions huge quantities and enormous variety of products, in which we operate, and a smaller transport embracing the SRM process.” which range from very simple parts, like screws, footprint resulting in lower greenhouse gas We are heartened to see that many of our suppliers to high-tech electronic system components. emissions. are not just complying with, but also embracing, the SRM process. They understand that meeting our Aligning our sourcing closely with the BMW BMW Brilliance’s localization rate has been in requirements can make them more competitive in a marketplace where sustainability is increasingly Jürgen Müller Group’s global strategy has meant an increasing excess of 40% for several years now – meaning synonymous with quality. We encourage them in shift of value creation along the supply chain we have been sourcing locally more than 40% of this process by strengthening our relationships toward China, which today constitutes the the total costs for goods and services needed to further and helping them to improve their and work on countermeasures. The results of these pilot projects will inform and improve the standard Group’s main sales market. Local sourcing manufacture vehicles at our Shenyang production capacities, both at a bilateral level and beyond. processes already in place. So, while we take good provides numerous benefits for our business and plants. measure of how far we have come, we remain fully How do you plan to further improve your committed to further improvements in the years approach to sustainable supply chain ahead. management in the years to come? Our 346 suppliers (by year-end 2016) F.19 We are continually exploring ways to improve the sustainability of our supply chain as a whole. For 1,000 km Yingkou / Liaoyang / Supplier risk management (SRM) areas F.18 Tieling / Dandong Xinjiang Beijing / Tianjin / To measure, manage and respond appropriately to Hebei / Shanxi 38 Changchun business risks from BMW Brilliance suppliers 58 Shenyang 10 46 11 Dalian 1 10 Shandong Anhui 2 60 Jiangsu Social Sub-supplier Finance EHS Maintenance Delivery responsibility management 1 71 Shanghai 10 19 Zhejiang 1 Hubei / Hunan Mianyang, Sichuan 2 6 Fujian Chongqing Guangdong / Shenzhen 96 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT I Our management approach Our management approach I SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 97 The number of our local suppliers is growing Purchasing volume in China (in billion RMB) F.20 continuously. By year-end 2016, we worked with 346 suppliers based in mainland China. This constitutes an increase of more than 8% 53 in 2014 compared to 2015. Our suppliers are located across 18 Chinese provinces. The number of 70 in 2015 30 79 in 2016 suppliers located in Liaoning Province, where our 25 23.9 23.5 23.9 plants are also located, increased from 53 in 2014 to 70 in 2015 and 79 in 2016. This continuous increase is a clear result of our intention to bring Our suppliers in Liaoning 20 17.9 our suppliers closer to our plants. Province. 15 The parts purchasing volume of local suppliers, which increased significantly over previous years, 10 has stabilized at a high level since 2014. 5 Our supplier selection process for China is shaped by a number of criteria and considerations. One criterion is the size of automotive parts. We aim to 0 source all major large parts from China, in order to 2013 2014 2015 2016 significantly reduce international shipping costs and related emissions. In most cases, rather than involving contractors, brokers, wholesalers, OUR SUPPLIER PRINCIPLES environmental and social responsibility, as well as agents, and others, we seek direct engagement to compliance with all internationally recognized with the manufacturers. AND STANDARDS human rights, local labor, and environmental laws. The number of company-specific guidelines, procedures, and policies we have implemented OUR SUPPLIER help ensure that our employees are aware of local environmental, health, safety, and labor laws, as SUSTAINABILITY CLAUSES well as legal requirements and international sustainability principles. These guidelines and poliBMW Brilliance’s supplier network connects to the cies enable our employees to drive forward the BMW Group’s supplier network. A harmonization sustainability goals of our supply chain. An examof the contracts in the two supplier networks and ple of this is the integration of sustainability crithe introduction of the same high-quality global teria in the BMW Brilliance Environment, Health processes for all of our local suppliers were carried and Safety Purchasing Management Procedure, out in 2015. which defines the purpose and applicability, relevant terms, definitions, abbreviations, responWe therefore adhere to the BMW Group’s Intersibilities, and accountabilities, as well as detailed national Terms and Conditions for the Purchase procedures to be followed within BMW Brilliance. of Production Materials and Automotive Components. These include specific provisions regarding As a company, we abide by the principles of environmental protection and social responthe United Nations Global Compact and the sibility. All of our supplier agreements contain International Labour Organization. The BMW clauses based on the principles of the United Group Supplier Sustainability Policy summarizes Nations Global Compact and the International ▶ BMW Brilliance employees and suppliers work hand-in-hand at Tiexi the BMW Group’s core principles and standards Labour Organization. These provisions require plant. for our suppliers in accordance with globally resource-efficient consumption of raw material, recognized principles. It includes a commitment to energy, water, and chemicals – as well as reduced 98 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT I Our management approach Our management approach I SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 99 greenhouse gas emissions. Furthermore, there is The following subchapter describes the a ban on child and forced labor, bribery, as well as implementation of our management approach requirements for health, safety, and environmen> Chapter 4.2. 4.2 IMPLEMENTING OUR APPROACH tal protection. Suppliers are also expected to contractually bind their subcontractors and suppliers to comply with the sustainability terms of the BMW Group, in order to ensure a comprehensive approach throughout the whole supply chain. OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION OUR INTERNAL PROCESSES At BMW Brilliance, we strive to ensure compliance with the ten United Nations All relevant departments at BMW Brilliance, Global Compact Principles across our entire supply chain. We understand including Research and Development, that meeting this standard requires continued and close collaboration with Purchasing, Quality Management, and Logistics, are jointly responsible for ensuring sustainable our suppliers. supply chain management. We focus on managing and minimizing supplier risks and Having a robust supplier risk management and any environmental impacts. We factor leveraging supplier potential, in order to ensure process in place is instrumental in ensuring in local conditions and place the utmost sustainability and continuous improvement that our sustainability standards are importance on suppliers complying with throughout our entire supplier network. met across our supply chain. We aim to all legal requirements. Our commitment achieve this by identifying product risks, to addressing these sustainability risks The BMW Group’s sustainability risk impacts on workers and communities, remains unchanged as we continue to management process helps ensure that we increase the amount of goods and services meet our sustainability standards. The process we procure from local Chinese suppliers. consists of a sustainability risk filter specifically We are also cognizant that sustainable designed for the BMW Group, a voluntary selfsupply chain topics are gaining more public assessment questionnaire, and sustainability ▶ Groundbreaking ceremony at attention as stakeholder expectations on-site assessments and audits. Based on a supplier plant adjacent to BMW evolve over time. these assessments, BMW Brilliance receives a Brilliance’s production facilities. clear recommendation on supplier choice and selection. The BMW Group’s comprehensive sustainability performance and risk assessments are thus considered as preconditions of our own supplier management and reviews. The SRM process within BMW Brilliance was established by the Parts Purchasing, Supplier Quality Management (QMT), and Logistics Quality Management (LQS) departments. QMT leads the implementation of the cross-functional SRM process. Currently, there are almost 120 people involved in ensuring the implementation of sustainability standards throughout our supply chain. The QMT department maintains overall responsibility for the SRM process. ▶ At a supplier training workshop. 100 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT I Our management approach Implementing our approach I SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 101 At BMW Brilliance, sustainability covers several officially launched our SRM process in April 2014, areas that span the responsibilities of different and continued its implementation in 2015 and departments. Our answer to this challenge has 2016. In addition to the BMW Group processes, been the creation of a cross-functional team which apply to all BMW Brilliance suppliers, we responsible for integrating sustainability into our had already assessed a total of 227 suppliers onsupply chain. As three major departments are site by year-end 2016. Additionally, we adapted involved – Parts Purchasing, Supplier Quality our internal procedures to manage our suppliers Management (QMT), and Logistics Quality in accordance with the standards required in the Management (LQS) – this team has internally ISO 14001 Environment Management System been named the “clover-leaf” team. The cloverand in the OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health leaf team continuously reviews our suppliers’ and Safety Management Standards. sustainability performance and, when necessary, channels support to our existing suppliers to ensure our sustainability standards are met. STEP 1: SUSTAINABILITY RISK FILTER OUR APPROACH TO ▶ At the 2016 Supplier Event. BMW Group’s proprietary sustainability risk MINIMIZING SUPPLIER RISK filter evaluates the environmental, social and governance risk potential of all existing and new Further considered are environmental risks such Sustainable use of materials, such as secondary In an effort to promote greater corporate suppliers. The filter takes into account both as damage to nature, emissions, and process aluminum, is also verified at the “request for responsibility among our suppliers and help location-specific and product-specific risks. In materials containing substances that can be proposal” stage. The OEM questionnaire then them adapt to BMW Brilliance’s China-specific countries where certain social risks are particularly hazardous to health. In such cases, we assess the asks, for example, whether the environmental circumstances, we have developed a dedicated prevalent, such as child or forced labor, a dedicated production facility of the supplier, rather than its management system in place is in accordance BMW Brilliance Supplier Risk Management (SRM) assessment of these risks is also carried out. head office. The suppliers’ supply chains are also with ISO 14001. After the proposal has been process. Following a pilot project in 2013, we evaluated whenever sub-suppliers are repeatedly submitted, these details are included as key in breach of our sustainability standards. decision-making indicators in the procurement process. Supplier sustainability management process overview F.21 STEP 2: SUPPLIER SELF-ASSESSMENT STEP 3: SUPPLIER ON-SITE BMW Group process BMW Group process BMW Brilliance-specific SRM process QUESTIONNAIRE ASSESSMENTS 1. Identify risk 2. Retrieve self-assessment 3. Supplier risk management In a second step, we use the supplier selfIn a final step, BMW Brilliance manages the on-site assessment assessment questionnaire method developed remaining potential risks by assessing our jointly in the European Automotive Working Group suppliers according to our SRM process on-site 1a. 2a. 3a. on Supply Chain Sustainability for use by all major at the supplier’s plants. In doing so, we ensure European original equipment manufacturers*. It our suppliers respect the standards we require of Identify high-risk supplier Obtain self-assessment Supplier risk management ensures compliance with minimum standards them. The five major steps of the SRM assessment locations based on sustainability questionnaire on-site assessment internally throughout the industry. We have also introduced process are described in the graphic that follows. sustainability risk filter by clover-leaf team modular online assessments in order to ensure compliance with BMW Brilliance-specific and In 2016, we worked with 257 suppliers, out of a 1b. 2b. 3b. other additional requirements. total of 346 suppliers, on our current production requirements. All of them passed the screenings Before we engage with new suppliers, we established by BMW Group processes. In Identify and analyze high-risk Develop supplier-specific Corrective action plan based suppliers based on media corrective action plan on assessment result require that they make a clear commitment in addition, we conducted on-site assessments at screening their self-assessment to social standards, such 68 suppliers in 2016 covering environment, health as compliance with international human rights. and safety issues, bringing the total number of * OEM Questionnaire: http://www.csreurope.org/sites/default/files/CSR%20SAQ%20automotive%20sector.pdf 102 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT I Implementing our approach Implementing our approach I SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 103 SRM process F.22 On-site assessment results: F.23 On-site assessment results: F.24 Impacts on the environment Labor practices 1 2 3 4 5 Meeting BMW Brilliance requirements Meeting BMW Brilliance requirements Kick-off SRM audit LOP list and Follow-up with Close LOP and Not meeting BMW Brilliance requirements Not meeting BMW Brilliance requirements meeting action plan open issues change light 220 213 220 203 1 200 200 An individual kick-off meeting with each supplier will be held after the supplier sends the supplier 179 180 171 180 check list and self-assessment. The supplier will be asked to provide check-list-relevant documents, 160 160 such as business certification, financial statements and EHS documents (environmental impact 140 140 assessment, occupational health and safety report, and fire inspection report). 120 120 2 100 100 Clover-leaf team implements on-site assessment, including QMT, Purchasing, and Logistics. 80 80 A written assessment report will be developed with findings, gaps and areas requiring improvements, 56 60 60 and a corresponding corrective action plan. 41 40 40 14 17 3 20 20 Within 14 working days, offer check list, list of open issues (LOP list) and corrective action plan will 0 0 be sent to central management. The findings will be reviewed with the management team from Beginning of 2016 End of 2016 Beginning of 2016 End of 2016 Purchasing and QMT department on a monthly basis. 4 Follow-up the remaining open points with the supplier by clover-leaf team. based on legal, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards. In general, if the results of an audit show FORECAST 2017 5 non-compliance or potential for improvement, Close the LOP list, change the supplier status and ensure yearly review. we work with the supplier to develop a specific corrective action plan and provide assistance with In 2016, we continued to roll out its implementation. We require follow-up on the our SRM process, which by yearcurrent suppliers that have undergone on-site The overall evaluation results of our SRM process action plan in a reasonable but timely manner. end covered more than 88% of our assessments to 227. This means that more than are both quantitative measures and qualitative suppliers in the area of sustainability. 88% of our current suppliers have been involved in judgements. Suppliers are given a green, yellow or We achieved our goal of covering most all three steps of the joint BMW Group and BMW Brilliance process. red traffic light based on their results in the abovementioned six areas. STRENGTHENING of the entry-level class product line (LU) suppliers with our SRM process DIALOGUE WITH OUR by the end of 2016. We will continue As a result of our SRM process, we reduced the Green stands for low risk: SUPPLIERS to identify supplier sustainability number of identified suppliers with high risks Suppliers are in good standing. risks and evaluate their performance, in their environmental practices from 56 to 14 We have organized four BMW Brilliance Supplier implement countermeasures, and and labor practices from 41 to 17 by working Yellow stands for medium risk: Events since 2013. Every year, this conference enable continuous improvement. In together with the suppliers to develop and execute Suppliers need to close open points. allows us to bring together suppliers and 2017, we are reassessing all critical appropriate action plans to meet our requirements. management for an open discussion forum. suppliers who were identified as highWe are currently working with the remaining highRed stands for high risk: This year, 287 suppliers attended the Supplier risk during the 2016 audit in order to risk suppliers in order to guide and support them Suppliers need to close open points. Event. Overall, this form of engagement has been guide them toward compliance with our to achieve an acceptable level. In 2016, no supplier On-site reassessment by BMW Brilliance. very successful in building and deepening our sustainability standards. Our objective relationships were terminated as a result of our relationships with suppliers and business partners for year-end 2017 is to cover all new environmental and labor assessments. Based on the audit results, we provide direction and and in improving our common approach to key suppliers to our BMW 5 Series in our introduce performance requirements to suppliers issues including sustainability. SRM process. 104 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT I Implementing our approach Implementing our approach I SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 105 5 EMPLOYEES 5.1 Our management approach 5.2 Attractive employer 5.3 Training and development 5.4 Occupational health and safety STAKEHOLDER STATEMENT GLDP – an opportunity for professional and personal growth in Munich allowed me to broaden my understanding of the 2017. Even though my traineeship was at times challenging, value chain of our products. I profited tremendously, not only in terms of my technical skills – learning about production planning from various Another highlight was meeting my GLDP peers from all over different angles – but also in terms of my interpersonal and the world, who always spend their second rotation together intercultural communication skills. Equipped with these at the Munich headquarters. By spending time with the experiences, I am looking forward to starting my permanent group and sharing experiences, I learned about the different markets in which the BMW Group operates, and about its different working environments. We were all learning from each other. The trainees work not only in technical areas, “I am excited to apply the knowledge I but in various different functions such as Finance, Sales, and have acquired and make a contribution Marketing, which was fascinating for me. The exchange with them also allowed me to build up a global network. to the company’s success.” What are your next steps and dreams after you position at the Technical Planning department of BMW graduate from the GLDP? Brilliance in Shenyang in 2017. It's a new job with new challenges, but I am excited to apply the knowledge I have In the meantime, I have gone back to China for my third acquired, and to make a contribution to the success of the rotation and am ending my GLDP with an exchange in the company in the long run. BMW Spartanburg plant in South Carolina, USA, in spring ▶ Liu Yue (first from the left) and other GLDP participants. Liu Yue Participant of the Global Leader Development Program (GLDP) 2015–2017 What motivated you to apply for BMW Brilliance’s position in Technical Planning at BMW Brilliance. Since then, Global Leader Development Program (GLDP)? I have gained experience in different departments, both in China and abroad – exactly what I was looking for. I applied for the program in my hometown of Shenyang in 2015. I had been working for an international corporation, but What have been the highlights of your time in the with my PhD in mechanical engineering I began looking for a GLDP so far? new opportunity. When I read the description of the opening, I could already tell that BMW Brilliance takes this program very The international setup of this program is really great, and seriously and that this would be a unique opportunity for my one of the best aspects of the GLDP are the four rotations career development. After advancing through the long and that trainees complete during its course. After six months competitive application process, I was excited to be offered a in Shenyang, I moved on to my second rotation at the headquarters in Munich, Germany – a real highlight! During “I gained experience both in China my three months in Germany, I worked at the BMW Group Research and Innovation Center and was involved in the very and abroad – exactly what I was early development stage of a new automotive model. This looking for.” was a very interesting and new experience for me. The work 108 EMPLOYEES I Stakeholder statement Stakeholder statement I EMPLOYEES 109 5.1 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH China’s economy is currently undergoing an important change. More management while taking into account the Nations Global Compact and the Declaration on challenges of the economic and industrial climate. Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work by the technologically advanced industries are replacing low value-added sectors. We aim to unlock the potential of human resources International Labour Organization > Chapter 1.3. As China emerges as one of the world’s largest high-tech exporters, BMW management to add business value by: Any violation of the Legal Compliance Code is Brilliance finds itself in competition for talent not only from the automotive filed with the Human Resources department and Boosting and sustaining business growth the Compliance Committee. Both our internal and sector, but also from other mature industries. It is our ambition to attract, by means of a competitive advantage shareholder audit teams conduct annual audits to retain, and develop the best talent in order to execute BMW Brilliance’s Developing and enriching a corporate culture ensure full compliance with internal and external of high efficiency, teamwork, innovation, rules and regulations. business strategy. We achieve this by offering attractive working conditions, social responsibility, and sustainable by continuously investing in employee training opportunities, and by development As part of our talent management, we regularly ensuring a safe and healthy work environment. Our workforce is motivated, Establishing a lifelong learning environment review the performance of our employees based with systematic and innovative development on our business performance targets. In 2016, we competent, and highly effective. This is a core competitive advantage and programs introduced the Competency Model to advance helps us sustain our business success. Upgrading our human resources expertise, the professional development of our employees. practices, systems, and service quality The model consists of a structured framework of employee competencies and clear appraisal In order to be the most attractive employer in the employing innovative solutions and enhancing The importance of human resources management criteria. It helps managers objectively unlock both Chinese automotive industry, we are continuously our approach to human resources management at BMW Brilliance is emphasized by our individual and team potentials. For employees, improving the management of our human in order to achieve our goals. executive team. Our Senior Vice President of the model helps them understand their own resources. We are currently aiming to develop Human Resources, a member of the Board of competencies, receive clear feedback, and find and retain our highly skilled workforce. We are Management and reporting directly to the CEO, their individual development path. Meanwhile, MANAGING OUR HUMAN is responsible for implementing BMW Brilliance’s Human Resources Strategy. He regularly reports this helps to develop a common corporate language regarding the competencies required to RESOURCES on our progress toward achieving the strategic support our business development. goals of human resources management. In 2016, we continued to put into practice our Human Resources Strategy. Its main goal is to advance our strategic approach to talent Operationally, the Associate Handbook is one of the cornerstones of managing the employerEMPLOYEE PARTICIPATION employee relationship. It communicates our AND FEEDBACK employees’ rights and responsibilities, includes the BMW Brilliance Legal Compliance Code, and Social dialogue is a relevant component of is binding on all members of staff. The Associate managing our human resources. The BMW Handbook is being updated in 2017. Brilliance Labor Union was established in 2007 as a vehicle for such dialogue. Today, the Labor BMW Brilliance fully complies with Chinese labor Union represents all local employees, and its law, applicable health and safety laws, and relevant aim is to protect employees’ rights and interests regulations that prohibit forced, compulsory, and through mediation. The Labor Union and the child labor. We are committed to the observance Board of Management meet annually and decide of fair working conditions and human rights, as collectively which topics need to be addressed – they are set out in the ten principles of the United in areas such as health and safety, compensation, 110 EMPLOYEES I Our management approach Our management approach I EMPLOYEES 111 benefits, and employee support. After the annual implemented, and the achieved results Another way we engage our employees is by encouraged to express their wishes, needs and meeting, a plan with agreed-upon measures is are presented to employees at the annual regularly collecting their feedback. Every other concerns during open-door meetings. In 2016, Employee Representatives Congress and Union year, BMW Brilliance carries out an employee three plant Associate Conferences and several Representatives Congress > Textbox. survey. The last survey was carried out in 2015, open-door meetings were carried out, which and showed that 91% of employees fully support provided valuable information for strengthening More than 50% Through this process, a cumulative increase of more than 50% in salaries has been achieved our targets and are satisfied to work for BMW Brilliance. The next full survey will be carried out in our approach to managing human resources. Our employees’ cumulative rate over the last six years. In 2016, the Union set up 2017. However, we collected employee feedback To ensure our future viability and to retain the a WeChat account, through which useful and in 2016 through several smaller-scale enquiries, best talent, we emphasize the three main pillars of of salary increase over the last timely information is provided to BMW Brilliance which focused on topics such as the move to the human resources: six years. employees. new engine plant and how well staff identifies with the company strategy. ▶▶ Being an attractive employer and ensuring employee satisfaction > Chapter 5.2 Further opportunities to give feedback are ▶▶ Realizing our employees’ full potential through provided during Associate Conferences, when all training and development > Chapter 5.3 ▶▶ Promoting employee well-being and BMW BRILLIANCE EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVES CONGRESS preventing accidents > Chapter 5.4 AND UNION REPRESENTATIVES CONGRESS 2016 91% Percentage of our employees The annual BMW Brilliance Employee Represenand signed by Dr. Heiss representing the company, tatives Congress and Union Representatives Conand Byron Han representing the employees. The satisfied to work for us. gress were held in Shenyang in April 2016. Both contract, which covers all local employees of BMW are important forums for employees to participate Brilliance, includes adjustments such as an average in democratic resolution, management, and supersalary increase of 5% for 2016, and longer lunch vision. Dr. Anton Heiss, President and CEO, and breaks. The Congress also elected new Union employees of specific departments or plants Byron Han, Chairman of the Labor Union, along with and Union Audit Committees, and Byron Han was come together for a day of dialogue with senior company and union officials, met with 355 reelected as the Union Chairman for another term. management. High-level members of employee representatives to review the achieveThe meeting concluded by presenting awards to ments of 2015 and to discuss the outlook for 2016. outstanding employees who excelled in areas such management and associates are also as skill competitions, union work, teamwork, and At the meeting, the 2016 Collective Contract on production. Labor Remuneration was presented, approved, 112 EMPLOYEES I Our management approach Our management approach I EMPLOYEES 113 5.2 ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION The BMW Brilliance Employer Value Proposition F.25 Our goal is to be the most attractive employer in the Chinese automotive SUCCESSFUL industry, and among the top 10 most attractive employers in China. AND SUSTAINABLE Our employees are the most valuable As a socially responsible company, BMW Brilliance resource of our business. As competition provided 16,286 working opportunities in 2016. to acquire a skilled workforce increases, We also continued to offer several programs which BRAND/PRODUCT we believe it is crucial to be positioned as help us recruit future talent while simultaneously “WHAT?” an attractive employer. To maintain our providing training and educational opportunities status as the leading premium automotive for university graduates, students, and vocational brand and to keep pace with technological school students > Chapter 5.3. Additionally, BMW PEOPLE CULTURE “WHO?” “HOW?” developments, our goal is to attract, recruit, Brilliance runs the BMW Joy Club, which provides and retain the best talent. Our ability to activities and training for students to learn more PASSIONATE APPRECIATIVE AND provide unique opportunities, such as an about our company and to advance their career AND INSPIRING COLLABORATIVE English-speaking and internationally diverse development. work environment, helps differentiate BMW Brilliance from other employers and attract a high caliber of talented professionals. Our goal is to remain the most attractive employer 16,286 in the Chinese automotive industry, and among the Number of BMW Brilliance delivers the message that “Passion is all you each other in mutual recognition – a tool that has top 10 employers in China. To achieve this goal, need to explore what drives you in your life and become quite popular among BMW Brilliance we emphasize our Employer Value Proposition employees by year-end 2016. learning with BMW.” In 2016, the BMW Group employees. when addressing new or potential talent. We also and BMW Brilliance employer branding campaign offer attractive working conditions and benefits, “All for Passion, All with Appreciation” was carried and diligently monitor our workforce growth and attrition rates. We have long emphasized both talent attraction and talent retention to meet our business out, in which nearly 4,000 appreciation cards were delivered between colleagues within BMW ATTRACTIVE WORKING development needs. Our goal is to inspire Brilliance and to the public. CONDITIONS our employees to remain committed to BMW OUR EMPLOYER VALUE Brilliance by providing them with a clear vision of our business strategy. We also encourage a Finally, our Best You program supports our efforts to show mutual appreciation. It provides visible An important way to express appreciation for our workforce is to offer attractive working condiPROPOSITION culture of mutual appreciation and dedication to recognition and awards to employees with great tions and employee benefits. BMW Brilliance’s BMW Brilliance’s core values – a culture infused behavior and performance. The “Best of the Year” compensation and benefits philosophy aims to Our Employer Value Proposition demonstrates our with passion, purpose, and prosperity in our dayand “Best of the Quarter” awards are part of this retain and motivate our key workforce. It acknowemployer-branding concept and illustrates three to-day work. program, but an important aspect is also the “Best ledges that different individuals contribute to our attractive features of our company: our people, in My Eyes” instant recognition from managers business success in different ways. Performance, brand, and culture. We believe that BMW Brilliance Various programs and initiatives support this to staff. Under the Best You program, colleagues compensation, and benefits are closely linked stands out from the competition in these areas. culture. Our internal theme “Charge Passion” also continue to distribute appreciation cards to under the philosophy “reward for performance.” 114 EMPLOYEES I Attractive employer Attractive employer I EMPLOYEES 115 All employees are entitled to rewards oriented toward performance, success, and commitment Standard work time for non-production employees of service to BMW Brilliance’s long-term goals: These contracts entitle the employee to a 40-hour workweek, which complies with China’s Labor Law. This work time model applies to approximately 6% of our employees. Work time accounts for production employees Remuneration This is a tool that facilitates our annual production volume fluctuations, while guaranteeing We reward our employees with total remuneration that is above average and aligned with stable payment for our production employees. This work time model applies to the upper-third of the respective labor market in China. We conduct an annual benchmark approximately 71% of our employees. within the automotive industry to ensure our competitiveness as an attractive employer. In addition to a fixed base salary and overtime payments, our employees receive allowances Flexible work time for non-production employees and a variable bonus, thus linking total remuneration to performance. Differences in Employees from a certain pay-grade level are entitled to flexible work time. For some salary also exist according to the level of responsibility and position. Remuneration is not specific roles such as drivers, flexible work time is assigned according to job and functional dependent on seniority. requirements. This work time model applies to approximately 23% of our employees. Holidays To foster a good work-life balance for our employees, we provide statutory annual leave as legally required and extensive vacation leave, such as corporate leave, in addition to national statutory holidays. Further, maternity/paternity leave, sick leave, and compassionate leave MONITORING WORKFORCE In order to evaluate whether we are reaching our goal of being an attractive employer, we monitor satisfy our employees’ personal needs. GROWTH AND ATTRITION key performance indicators related to our position Flexible benefits RATES in the employer market, and to our internal We also provide employees with a highly competitive flexible benefits program featuring a employee figures. full range of insurance options, comprehensive medical coverage, and a pension savings plan that can be customized to best suit employees’ individual needs. Car purchase and transport 82% All BMW Brilliance regular local employees are entitled to participate in the Associate Car Program, which grants certain discounts and special purchase models. We also provide Proportion of Chinese free shuttle bus service between plants and public transport centers around Shenyang. employees in our management group. Job satisfaction is also closely linked to the At the end of 2016, our total workforce reached design of an interesting and gratifying career 16,286 (excluding employees from dispatched path. Supported by the Competency Model contracts and the Future Talent Programs > Chapter 5.1, we encourage our employees to > Chapter 5.3), decreasing by 1.7% compared develop themselves and find a career path that to 2015. Women made up 12.9% of our total is suitable and motivating for them. We try to workforce and 28.4% of our management team. provide challenging and meaningful assignments, Thus, the total share of female employees and promote the rotation of employees between remained relatively stable over the last three departments, enabling them to experience years, while there were 5.2% more women in different work environments. management positions in 2016 compared to 2015. Due to our continuous efforts to develop local Finally, BMW Brilliance has implemented three talent, Chinese employees accounted for 82% of different contract models for higher work time our management group, representing an increase flexibility. They enable us to deal with fluctuations of 5%. All employees are employed in full-time in the market and to ensure stable monthly salary contracts. payments: 116 EMPLOYEES I Attractive employer Attractive employer I EMPLOYEES 117 BMW Brilliance workforce F.26 BMW Brilliance workforce (continued) F.26 Total workforce at year-end Share of employees in management positions 15,257 16,573 16,286 5.9% 6.0% 6.7% Share of employees in Share of employees in Share of employees in in 2014 in 2015 in 2016 management positions management positions management positions Change to previous year: –1.7% 2014 2015 2016 Share of female/male employees Change to previous year: 11.7% Change to previous year: 9.3% Share of Chinese employees within management group 12.3% 11.8% 12.9% 76.3% 78.1% 82.0% female employees female employees female employees Chinese employees Chinese employees Chinese employees within management within management within management 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 87.7% 88.2% 87.1% male employees male employees male employees Change to previous year: 5.0% Change to previous year: –1.2% Share of production/non-production employees Change to previous year: 0.3% Share of female employees in management positions 27.3% 29.0% 29.1% non-production non-production non-production employees employees employees 26.7% 27.0% 28.4% female employees female employees female employees in management in management in management 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 72.7% 71.0% 70.9% production production production employees employees employees Change to previous year: 5.2% Change to previous year: –0.1% 118 EMPLOYEES I Attractive employer Attractive employer I EMPLOYEES 119 Employees by employment contract F.27 New hires and attrition rates F.29 Change to previous 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 year NEW HIRES % total % total % total Overall share 13.4% 14.4% 19.0% 31.9% Total new employee hires 23.3% ‒ 11.6% ‒ 2.2% ‒ Female employees 1,692 392 489 24.7% OPEN-END Male employees 334 1,992 2,609 31.0% CONTRACTS BY REGION Employees in Shenyang 1,931 2,258 2,954 30.8% New employees in Shenyang 19.1% 2,920 10.9% 1,801 1.7% 270 Employees in Beijing 95 126 153 21.4% New employees in Beijing 1.2% 186 0.8% 128 0.6% 93 Female employees 1,550 1,725 1,605 –7.0% FIXED-TERM Male employees 11,681 12,464 11,583 –7.1% BY AGE CONTRACTS Employees in Shenyang 12,700 13,641 12,656 –7.2% New employee hires, ages <30 15.9% 2,425 8.4% 1,384 1.3% 212 Employees in Beijing 531 548 532 –2.9% New employee hires, ages 30–50 4.3% 655 3.2% 523 0.9% 141 New employee hires, ages >50 0.2% 26 0.1% 22 0.1% 10 Employees by employment type F.28 BY GENDER Female new employee hires 2.7% 407 2.0% 329 0.7% 113 Change to previous 2014 2015 2016 year Male new employee hires 17.7% 2,699 9.7% 1,600 1.5% 250 Overall share 100% 100% 100% 0.0% FULL-TIME Female employees 1,883 2,117 2,101 –0.8% Male employees 13,373 14,456 14,185 ATTRITION RATES % total % total % total –1.9% Female employees 1 0 0 0.0% Voluntary attrition rate 6.0% ‒ 2.9% ‒ 2.6% ‒ PART-TIME Male employees 0 0 0 0.0% Overall attrition rate (turnover) 6.8% ‒ 3.8% ‒ 3.3% ‒ 120 EMPLOYEES I Attractive employer Attractive employer I EMPLOYEES 121 In line with our stable business development, the attrition rate on a monthly basis. BMW Brilliance’s rate of new hires decreased from 12% in 2015 to voluntary attrition rate further decreased from 2% in 2016. We initiate employee transfers among 2.9% in 2015 to 2.6% in 2016. The overall attrition our different production plants to ensure that each rate (voluntary and non-voluntary) decreased from plant constantly has the right workforce balance 3.8% in 2015 to 3.3% in 2016. and skill sets on the ground. These transfers help us attain higher levels of efficiency across our Finally, the various human resources awards facilities. accorded to BMW Brilliance attest that we are achieving our goal of being the most attractive BMW Brilliance continues to succeed in retaining employer in the Chinese automotive industry, and talent and creating high loyalty within our workforce. among the top 10 employers in China. To track this, we closely monitor our employee HUMAN RESOURCES AWARDS RECEIVED IN 2016 FORECAST 2017 • Best Employer in the Industry Award by linkedin.com (Automotive: #1, All Industry: Top 10) In 2017, as the BMW Group is launching its new Employer Value Proposition, BMW Brilliance is • Employer Excellence Award by 51job.com working with the Group and external expert advisors on developing a matrix of key performance • Annual Extraordinary Employer Award indicators to evaluate our own Employer Value Proposition. While reviewing our past value proposition by liepin.com performance, we are also developing a road map to strengthen it over the next three years. We • Among top 30 in the China Best are confident that with this road map, we can keep fulfilling our goal of being the most attractive Employers Award by dajie.com employer in the Chinese automotive industry. 122 EMPLOYEES I Attractive employer Attractive employer I EMPLOYEES 123 5.3 TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION Through leadership and training, we enable our employees to realize their potential, develop themselves, and drive the business forward. It is our aim to offer high-quality training opportunities, with an overall participant satisfaction rate of at least 92%. The training and development of our where 70% of learning comes from on-the-job employees is fundamental to the sustainable practice, 20% from peer feedback and 10% from growth of the company. We provide high classroom training. quality, up-to-date, customized learning opportunities for our employees. Our In 2016, two topics dominated the training and programs are designed to support talent development work of the Academy and BMW retention and remain updated with new Brilliance’s Human Resources department. methods, technologies, and skills. They First, talent development was further enhanced focus on the holistic development of our as various tools and training programs were employees. synchronized and rolled out across different departments. Additionally, developing internal ▶ Business department internal training on specific procedures and technologies. To achieve our goals in this area, we provide a trainers was an important focus throughout the broad spectrum of training through the Academy, year. which is the BMW Group’s central coordination unit for training programs in China. We focus Internal Trainer Development Program on strengthening our leadership culture and With the launch of the Internal Trainer Development developing the skills of our future talent. We Program, the Academy implemented an initiative also measure our performance through key that leverages internal resources by developing performance indicators. interested employees into professional BMWcertified trainers. In 2016, 39 internally certified trainers delivered 15 different courses, both TRAINING OUR EMPLOYEES technical and non-technical. They covered topics such as the seven habits of highly effective people, In 2014, BMW China and BMW Brilliance launched time management, the Standard Work Program the Academy as a joint structure, bringing and various technical subjects. In total, 96 training together all training departments of BMW Group sessions were delivered at BMW Brilliance with an subsidiaries in China. The Academy’s vision is average satisfaction rate of 4.7 out of 5. to create a passion for excellence and enable our sustainable business growth by advancing Area Manager Development Program the careers of our leaders and employees. The The Area Manager Development Program is philosophy of the Academy is based on a 70:20:10 a fundamental qualification program for area formula: we foster a culture of life-long learning, managers in sales. It is a program of the BMW ▶ Area manager training workshop. 124 EMPLOYEES I Training and development Training and development I EMPLOYEES 125 Group which BMW Brilliance joined, and adheres Trust, Inspire, Open, Care, and Go Beyond. develop young people and attract tomorrow’s programs offered at the doctoral, master, bachelor, to the philosophy “lay the foundation, improve Through targeted training, we are developing passionate talents, we provide programs for and vocational education levels by the Academy. performance, and drive the business.” The benefits leaders who can carry this culture forward based specialist traineeships and vocational education. of this qualification have been demonstrated over on their individual strengths. We began these Future Talent Programs in 2010 Global Leader Development Program the years, and include an improved steering of to develop and prepare young talent to assume business performance, the creation of sustainable An important cornerstone of leadership at our different positions within the company. From The Global Leader Development Program was results, and mutual benefits between the BMW production units is the Standard Work Program manufacturing to business departments, these launched in 2015. This initiative is a joint effort Group and its dealers. This training is mandatory of the Academy. It pursues the goal of enhancing programs are widely supported by our senior with the BMW Group, and was created through for all area managers. By the end of 2016, 82 problem-solving and leadership through a culture executives and are seen as a valuable contributor the integration and harmonization of two existing area managers of BMW Brilliance have joined of coaching and continuous improvement. to our pipeline of qualified talent. training programs. In this leadership program, the program, and 59 have been awarded the title We aim to ensure that our young production candidates complete four different rotations in “Certified BMW Group Area Manager.” managers benefit from the experience of their various parts of the company and complete two Language courses training coaches. By establishing a coaching culture, based on BMW Brilliance’s Leadership 1,944 international assignments, one of which is at the BMW headquarters in Munich. At BMW Brilliance, In an increasingly intercultural working environCore Values, our managers will naturally seek to six new candidates were selected for the Global ment, one competency requirement at BMW improve the individual performances of their team Number of high-potential Leader Development Program in 2016. Brilliance is good language skills. We offer English, members and encourage continuous improvement students and graduates who German, and Chinese language courses for throughout the organization. local employees and expatriates, including both have benefited from the Future ProMotion online and offline training modules. In 2016, 733 In 2015, we launched the Leadership Coaching Talent Programs. This doctoral program was launched in 2014 with BMW Brilliance employees attended language Center as an important element of the Standard four students studying research and development, courses for a total of 2,300 training days. Through Work Program. This one-day training session, production planning, and process optimization. combined with on-the-job practice, aims to Since their inception, the Future Talent Programs Since then, 13 students have taken part in this develop the unique coaching mindset of BMW have grown from three to six, and have been four-year program. In 2016, Industry 4.0 and China 75% Brilliance, by teaching managers how they can instrumental in developing the talents of 1,944 Manufacturing 2025 were important topics in their shift behavior from “instructing” to “leading by qualified young students within the BMW Group thesis work. To foster the young spirit of innovation, coaching.” This module of the Standard Work in China. In 2016, 103 young people joined BMW we plan to support six additional doctoral students Percentage of our language Program was gradually rolled out. By year-end Brilliance through the ongoing, practice-oriented to ProMotion in 2017. 2016, more than 400 Department Heads, Senior class participants graduating to Managers, Production Area Managers and Section the next level. Leaders from BMW Brilliance production joined the Leadership Coaching Center. these courses, 75% of participants were promoted Building upon this, we are carrying out a pilot to the next language proficiency level, and 10% in 2017 to analyze how this coaching mindset were awarded top student recognition. In addition impacts our daily production. We plan to then to the classic language lessons, we held an expand the pilot in order to support continuous English contest and various lectures to motivate improvement, and also to broaden the Standard employees to learn a foreign language. Work Program to cover non-production functions. This way, leaders from different areas can learn and practice coaching techniques and contribute STRENGTHENING OUR to a continuous self-improvement organization. LEADERSHIP CULTURE We recognize that leadership development is DEVELOPING FUTURE a critical factor in our ongoing success. The TALENT leadership style we want to nurture is based on the Five Elements of the BMW Brilliance culture: As part of the BMW Group’s global strategy to ▶ At the ProMotion program’s Dialogue Day Event. 126 EMPLOYEES I Training and development Training and development I EMPLOYEES 127 APPRENTICE LI JIAQI EXPLAINS WHAT SHE APPRECIATES ABOUT THE NEW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROGRAM (NVEP) ▶ Future Talent Program participants. What has been your favorite experience as work independently. This requires students to set a student in the New Vocational Education up a work plan, for example, taking into account Program? the whole work process, necessary tools and equipment, and quality and safety requirements, I will never forget the time I was chosen as the and then carry out the project accordingly. NVEP representative to visit BMW AG in Munich, Germany, for their 100 th anniversary celebration. It was really a wonderful experience for me – What do you like about working for BMW communicating with and learning from apprentices Brilliance? who were joining from BMW plants all over the world. After coming back, I shared what I had After my 38-week training course in the BMW experienced with my classmates. Brilliance training center in Shenyang, I am now working in the Press Shop, where all technicians, section leaders, and managers care about us Why have you chosen BMW Brilliance’s apprentices and help us improve. They train us vocational program as your entry into according to specific training plans, fostering our professional life? abilities. In contrast to traditional vocational education in Furthermore, BMW Brilliance provides everyone China, where most of the time is spent in classic with opportunities for continuous learning, which lectures, BMW Brilliance’s NVEP makes use of indicates that it attaches great importance to talent FastLane, SpeedUp China, and local workflow-oriented and project-based learning to development. It is an enterprise worth working for, intern programs foster students’ thinking capabilities and ability to which really motivates me! The FastLane and SpeedUp China in Production Education Program (NVEP), launched in 2012, is Programs – of which the first targets non-producdedicated to building the technical skills of our tion and the second targets production functions production employees and to helping high-school – are updates of the Specialist Trainee and Prostudents build the capacities they need to secure duction Management Trainee Programs, which well-paid jobs in the future. We offer three majors to originated in 2010. In these curriculums, the apprentices: Mechatronics, Industrial Machinery, participants are developed using key elements and Car Mechatronics. After passing a series such as systematic training, rotations, and buddy of systematic assessments conducted by their coaching. At BMW Brilliance, 20 and 49 candischool and by the company, the apprentices learn dates were selected respectively for FastLane and theoretical foundations at school and strengthen SpeedUp in 2016. their practical skills at the BMW Brilliance Foresight Training Center. In their third year, they For non-production functions, our local intern rotate among various shop floors to practice group is an important talent pool for the company. their skills with the guidance of experienced In 2016, 50% of FastLane trainees were hired from employees. Upon graduation, apprentices who the intern group of BMW Brilliance. pass the periodical and final assessments become regular BMW Brilliance employees, working at such key posts as technical maintenance, quality New Vocational Education Program inspection, and production operations. BMW Brilliance’s approach to vocational education has been adapted from the successful To date, over 124 students have graduated from ▶ Li Jiaqi (bottom right) and other apprentices during the training in Germany. dual education system in Germany, but modified the NVEP, 41 of whom finished their program in to suit the Chinese context. The New Vocational 2016. 128 EMPLOYEES I Training and development Training and development I EMPLOYEES 129 Training days organized by the Human Resources department F.31 LOCAL TALENT DEVELOPMENT THROUGH INSTITUTIONAL COOPERATION 46,967 50,000 40,000 35,205 27,851 30,000 As a company committed to sustainability, BMW At the signing event, we also renewed our Brilliance not only delivers a premium customer cooperation contract with the Shenyang 20,000 experience, we are also dedicated to promoting Equipment Manufacturing Engineering School, local talent to help upgrade China’s manufacturing which became the NVEP’s first partner school 10,000 sector. For example, in September 2016 BMW in 2012 and has greatly contributed to the pilot Brilliance and the Shenyang Education Bureau phase of the program. BMW Brilliance also signed 0 2014 2015 2016 signed a cooperative framework agreement a cooperation agreement with the Shenyang for vocational education at Tiexi plant. Both Polytechnic College for setting up the new Car parties committed themselves to boosting their Mechatronics program. cooperation on talent development in the area of Training attendee satisfaction rate F.32 vocational education. 100.0% 97.0% 96.0% 95.0% 93.0% MONITORING OUR and were able to raise the employee training 90.0% satisfaction rate of BMW Brilliance participants PERFORMANCE from 96% to 97% > Figure 32, which exceeds 85.0% our internal goal of 92%. The number of employee We focus on continuous improvement by training days organized by human resources 0 measuring and evaluating our training and decreased from 35,205 in 2015 to 27,851 in 2016 2014 2015 2016 development performance each year. In 2016, > Figure 30 and Figure 31. we again concentrated on quality improvements, FORECAST 2017 Average training days at BMW Brilliance* F.30 In 2017, the Academy is continuing its success by: • Regularly upgrading and systematically reviewing approaches to learning and development, and 2014 2015 2016 monitoring their effectiveness • Partnering with business departments to identify training needs and development plans that will Average training days per employee 3.4 2.2 1.7 build capabilities for the changing requirements of future roles and offer employees opportunities for personal growth Employees in production 1.3 1.1 1.1 • Constantly monitoring the effectiveness of our training programs • Identifying innovative ways of development and utilizing technology to provide cost-efficient and Employees in non-production 9.7 4.7 3.2 effective learning opportunities • Further utilizing and developing the internal trainers Employees in management positions 6.7 3.1 3.2 Meanwhile, the Foresight Training Center, which is currently under renovation, is being opened in 2017, and the plan for a long-term training center is being developed. We are also defining new Employees in non-management positions 3.4 2.1 1.6 training offerings to match the new Competency Model > Chapter 5.1, and are planning to launch a new mobile learning project. * One training day corresponds to seven hours. 130 EMPLOYEES I Training and development Training and development I EMPLOYEES 131 5.4 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION Occupational health and safety F.33 It is our goal to promote responsible behavior and the corresponding Change to work environment to foster the long-term health and performance of our previous 2014 2015 2016 year employees. Accident frequency rate* 0.82 1.06 0.54 –49.1% As a responsible employer, occupational – which include a policy, the necessary procehealth and safety is of key importance to BMW dures, and work instructions – are certified as Absentee rate 0.98% 0.93% 0.99% 6.5% Brilliance. We want to protect our employees good practice. The system is implemented by the from any potential negative health and safety Health, Safety, Security, Mobility & Food Service Total number of injuries with lost time (excluding 17 29 17 –41.4% impacts related to their work environment. department of BMW Brilliance. All production minor first-aid level injuries) We therefore implement an integrated health locations of BMW Brilliance now hold an OHSAS and safety management system in order to 18001 certification – the last plant to be certified * The accident frequency rate is calculated by the number of accidents with one day lost time or more, multiplied by one million hours manage potential risks and contribute to in November 2016 was the BMW Brilliance new worked, divided by total working hours of the time period of statistics (e.g. one month). the long-term health and performance of our engine plant. workforce. As part of our safety management system, and to To protect our employees’ safety, and contribute measure our health and safety performance, we to their long-term well-being, we implement an monitor key performance indicators: the number EXAMPLE OF AN ERGONOMIC IMPROVEMENT IMPLEMENTED integrated safety management system and various of injuries, the absentee rate and our accident AT OUR PRODUCTION PLANTS programs and initiatives under the health initiative frequency rate. The latter is calculated by the following the motto “Stay active – we support you.” number of accidents with one day lost time or These activities focus on health and safety training, more, multiplied by one million hours worked, improving workplace safety and ergonomics, divided by total working hours of the time period of running thematic health and safety initiatives, and statistics (e.g. one month). on implementing our Health Management 2020 program. In 2016, we reduced the accident frequency rate from 1.06 to 0.54. This was mainly achieved by improving the work environment and safety INTEGRATED SAFETY conditions through continuous improvement measures. These measures include implementing MANAGEMENT SYSTEM pre-acceptance and acceptance procedures for newly installed equipment, the promotion of Based on the existing integrated safety safety awareness, and regular inspections. The BEFORE AFTER Workers had to bend down to lift the hood by hand. The improvement consisted of equipping workers management system, we act in accordance with absentee rate, however, increased slightly. Overall, As this movement is repeated with every automobile, with a vacuum tool, which they can use to open the international standards, such as OHSAS 18001 there were no work-related fatal accidents, and this can cause wrist pain over time. hood. This provides an automated lift, and makes and ISO 14001, and best-practice guidelines the number of work-related injuries with lost time it unnecessary for the worker to bend down, thus of the BMW Group, as well as relevant Chinese declined from 29 in 2015 to 17 in 2016. improving their work ergonomics dramatically. legislation. Our safety management systems 132 EMPLOYEES I Occupational health and safety Occupational health and safety I EMPLOYEES 133 IMPROVING WORKPLACE Pro blood pressure pilot program SAFETY AND ERGONOMICS The Pro blood pressure pilot program, which was AN OFFICE STAFF MEMBER SUFFERING FROM HYPERTENSION initiated in 2016, is focused on improving physical SHARES THEIR EXPERIENCE WITH THE PRO BLOOD Training is the key to preventing accidents and performance during six months of cardiovascular, muscular, and coordination training. The goal is to PRESSURE PILOT PROGRAM illness. We provide health and safety training to all new employees, refresher training to longachieve an improvement in both blood pressure standing employees, and special safety training and pulse rate. to high-risk groups. By year-end 2016, a total of Did you experience a change in your blood I also received guidance from our physical therapist. 12,696 employees had received such training. Mental resilience campaign pressure after you joined the program? I think some of the exercises really helped me to I am pleased to see that my blood pressure has reduce my blood pressure. Finally, I consulted with We regularly implement and continuously This program is designed to raise awareness reduced to a healthy level based on regular exercise an expert from the Employee Assistant Program, who improve health and safety measures at our plants. of how fundamental mental resilience is to and monitoring. I was able to reduce my medication gave me helpful advice on how to reduce pressure in and lose 6 kilograms in weight. daily life and at work, which also helps bring down the Occupational health and safety management has coping with the many challenges of life. In 2016, risk of high blood pressure. been well-integrated into Value-added Production different target groups were identified, and we How did you learn about the program? System (VPS) initiatives, ensuring that when we launched the Mental Resilience 2.0 training I was referred by the clinic doctor when I was feeling Will you recommend this program to your implement production improvements, we are plan for both production and non-production unwell. colleagues? taking health and safety concerns into account employees. We conducted 36 training sessions I will. I wanted to give up several times, but the Is there any improvement in your daily life? program leader kept patiently explaining to me the at the same time. BMW Brilliance employees for 956 participants on topics such as stress After joining the program, the nutrition training importance of reducing high blood pressure. This are encouraged to raise ideas and suggestions management, interpersonal relationships, and helped me to adjust my diet. With advice from our program helped me to improve my health, which to promote safe working conditions, including effective communication. clinic doctor, I started consuming less salty food, allows me to live an overall healthier life. ergonomic improvements, on-site. smaller meals, and more tea instead of soft drinks. Expatriate health management IMPLEMENTING HEALTH BMW Brilliance wants to offer the best health services to our 800 expatriate employees and their AND SAFETY INITIATIVES family members. These services include 24 hours HEALTH MANAGEMENT a day/365 days a year medical care in plants, home Beyond making our working environment safer for visits, and direct channels with different hospitals 2020 our employees, we are also implementing various and clinics (“green channels”). A monthly health initiatives to contribute to the overall health and newsletter is distributed via the public WeChat Health Management 2020 is a new initiawell-being of employees, both in production and account, and is updated on a regular basis to allow tive which supports BMW Brilliance emnon-production working environments: expatriates and their families to easily access ployees in making informed decisions health information. about managing their current health status. An important component of the Safety campaign initiative is the annual health check ▶ Medical center. In 2016, BMW Brilliance for the first time program. In 2016, approximately 14,600 implemented a safety campaign as part of an employees participated in the health ▶ Sports center. international effort within the BMW Group. The check program. The health check is not campaign goal was to raise awareness of “safe limited to the legal requirements of occupational walking” within our plants, in order to reduce the health, but is a comprehensive health screening. number of injuries caused by slipping, tripping, New items such as a thyroid check, a dental or falling. Employees are trained, for example, primary check and back problem screenings were to stabilize their body when facing a critical included in this holistic program. It enables early situation, and they are taught different breaking diagnosis and treatment of any medical condition, and balancing moves to avoid injuries. This and is designed to ensure work-readiness, low campaign is being extended in 2017. blood sugar, and fewer cases of high blood pressure. We also offer the health checkup to family members, who are able to take advantage of the BMW Brilliance discount. 134 EMPLOYEES I Occupational health and safety Occupational health and safety I EMPLOYEES 135 In addition, annual seasonal flu vaccinations are As part of the Health Management 2020 initiative, offered under the Health Management 2020 BMW Brilliance opened several new clinics to program, and during the 2016 winter season 3,427 provide professional and convenient services. employees participated in this offer. Hepatitis B In 2016, we opened Physical Assessment and vaccinations are also provided to employees after Rehabilitation Centers, with gyms, in the new the annual health check. engine plant and Tiexi plant, and at a clinic in the northern extension of Dadong plant. FORECAST 2017 For 2017, we are further strengthening our efforts to improve the overall well-being of our employees. We are extending the gym hours at our Physical Assessment and Rehabilitation Centers, from 12½ to 15½ hours per day, in order to provide more time flexibility. We are planning to offer six training videos on environment, health and safety (EHS training) in the second half of 2017, with the aim of increasing training flexibility and convenience. Furthermore, we are planning to implement new health and safety risk management tools toward the end of 2017, for both production and nonproduction working environments. The goal is to streamline our management practices in this area. As an important improvement in our management of work-related injuries, we are planning to work closely with two selected hospitals to streamline the payment and reimbursement processes for treatments related to work-related injuries of BMW Brilliance employees. We are also continuing to implement various health initiatives, such as an anti-smoking campaign and cessation program, a healthy beverages campaign, and a dental care awareness initiative. Additionally, a musculoskeletal disorder campaign is aiming to raise awareness of how to prevent back problems. Finally, we are looking for more alternatives for external partnerships with the aim of providing more professional and convenient health services to employees in Beijing. 136 EMPLOYEES I Occupational health and safety Occupational health and safety I EMPLOYEES 137 6 CORPORATE 6.1 Our management approach 6.2 Our initiatives SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY STAKEHOLDER STATEMENT A long-term approach to stakeholder volunteering How did you create the Jingbaohui Club and how has engage even more customers to maximize our impact. In it evolved since its creation? addition, we have found that a lot of BMW customers who join our activities bring along friends who are not BMW BMW China had established an annual stakeholder customers yet. Maybe this can also be an opportunity for workshop to facilitate information-sharing among volunteers BMW to connect with these people. to maximize the impact of all Corporate Social Responsibility projects. Zhao Hai, who had joined this workshop as an individual volunteer, felt encouraged by the example of other volunteers working in teams to set up a new club in Beijing “It is heartening to see smiles on – the Jingbaohui Club. We were the 12th club created in the children’s faces and know that country, and the first one in the national capital. they are enjoying their time in our It took us a while to set up a direction. But everyone was programs.” really friendly and collaborative and we just naturally ended up moving in the right direction. Finally, we decided to focus on supporting children, and to work with others who could help us achieve our goals. For example, we worked with a BMW dealer in organizing BMW Joy Home activities, and with another dealer to help a school for children with special needs. We have organized a variety of joyful and exciting activities for the children, including painting, mini-marathons, and other games. It is just heartening to see smiles on their faces and know that they are enjoying their time in our programs. ▶ BMW Jingbaohui Warm Heart Customer Club members at a volunteering event. “We feel that BMW’s approach is different – consistent and sustained, BMW Jiangbaohui Warm Heart Customer Club, Beijing without ever being monotonous.” Club representatives: He Xiang / Sun Yan / Yi Jin / Zhao Hai What are your suggestions on how to improve BMW stakeholder volunteering even further? What were your volunteering experiences prior to much impact from those activities. Also, there was rarely creating the Jingbaohui Warm Heart Customer Club? any follow-up. We felt it would be more impactful to be All the well-known automotive brands have volunteering engaged in longer-term approaches instead, but could not initiatives, but we feel that BMW’s volunteering programs We all had our individual experiences with volunteering before find structures implementing such a philosophy rigorously. stand out from the crowd. As the BMW Warm Heart Fund has creating our current club. We had participated in volunteering been going through a transformation phase, we are excited initiatives, such as marathons or greening actions, on a oneWe then became involved in BMW volunteering initiatives for about the direction in which our initiatives will be heading off basis. However, we felt that we could usually not see a variety of reasons, but, most importantly, it was the idea in the future. The renewed focus on certain key programs of having been quite fortunate in life and wanting to give seems very promising. At the same time, we also hope back to society. For some of us, it was not having had many we can keep the connections we have established to local “We became involved in BMW opportunities growing up that compelled us to act now that we were in a position to do so. Most of us also felt strongly communities through programs that have been completed. volunteering for various reasons. about the objectives underpinning specific BMW Warm Above all, we feel that impact on the ground should always Heart volunteering programs, such as the BMW Children’s Most importantly, we wanted to give Traffic Safety Education program or BMW China Culture be our main issue of concern. The BMW China Culture Journey, for example, has been really helpful in advancing the back to society.” Journey. We felt that BMW’s approach was different – protection of intangible cultural heritage – an important cause consistent and sustained, without ever being monotonous. that is not so well-known. We should also consider ways to 140 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I Stakeholder statement Stakeholder statement I CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 141 6.1 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH We believe there are significant opportunities for BMW Brilliance to OUR PRINCIPLES contribute to Chinese society in meaningful and lasting ways that go beyond Our approach to CSR follows three guiding principles: regulatory compliance, embedding sustainability into our production and processes, and directly engaging with our employees. Our newly upgraded Our CSR principles F.34 BMW China Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Strategy, specific to our strategic charity and volunteering efforts and implemented across all BMW Long-term commitment entities in China, feeds into BMW Brilliance’s larger sustainability vision > Chapter 1.1. It allows us to seize these opportunities by drawing on We believe that only a long-term approach our strengths and placing the creation of “shared value” at the core of our creates lasting results. Our programs are testimony to this. Our pioneering BMW approach. This chapter introduces our approach to CSR and presents both Children’s Traffic Safety Education (CTSE) program has been running for 12 years the key features and results of our initiatives. and is still going strong. The unique BMW China Culture Journey program reached its 10th anniversary in 2016, while our volunteering platform, the BMW Warm The first milestone in our approach to CSR in Sustainable Mobility. The Social Mobility banner Heart Fund, has been making a difference China was the BMW China Corporate Citizenship covers initiatives that help disadvantaged groups for over eight years. Strategy, which we adopted in 2013. Centering in Chinese society progress and integrate into on three areas – resources, intercultural the modern economy through education, skills innovation and social inclusion, and education – development, and partnerships. The Safe and it instituted our three guiding principles of longSustainable Mobility banner regroups our efforts term commitment, efficiency, and stakeholder in increasing road safety, rethinking urban mobility engagement. of the future, and environmental restoration. CSR PRINCIPLES In 2016, in line with BMW Group’s new Strategy In parallel, we continued to engage our NUMBER ONE > NEXT and the latest BMW stakeholders through the BMW Warm Heart Group CSR strategy, we updated our approach by Fund, our comprehensive volunteering platform shifting our emphasis from charitable donations established jointly with the China Charity All-stakeholder engagement Addressing social issues to strategic CSR. We took stock of the significant Federation (CCF) in 2008. Along with the progress, recognition, and impact our programs continuously expanding network of BMW Warm We believe our CSR outreach should be All of our CSR programs are designed made, and decided to adjust the focus of certain Heart Customer Clubs, the fund constitutes one as comprehensive as possible. The BMW to address current social challenges Warm Heart Fund, established in 2008, in Chinese society by leveraging our initiatives while redoubling efforts overall. Our of the widest-ranging volunteering initiatives of its is an integrated volunteering platform resources and competencies. In order vision is to use our core competencies and kind in the country. covering the full spectrum of the BMW to achieve this, we believe the programs potential to create shared value through our family in China, from employees to dealers must be carefully calibrated to achieve initiatives. Our management approach is explained in the and customers. The volunteers support our tangible results. Accordingly, we review efforts to broaden stakeholder involvement their efficiency and effectiveness and make present section > Chapter 6.1. in our initiatives and to engage with local adjustments as necessary. Our updated strategy – which leverages our Our various CSR initiatives are described in communities. resources and core competencies – places a > Chapter 6.2. dual focus on Social Mobility as well as Safe and 142 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I Our management approach Our management approach I CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 143 THE CCF-BMW WARM Heart Fund has benefited individuals 136,600 times through these initiatives. HEART FUND AWARDS AND HONORS IN 2016 Under the leadership of the BMW Brilliance The foundation of our CSR efforts is the CCFVice President of Public Relations and CSR, the BMW Warm Heart Fund, which we established combined CSR functions of all BMW entities in In 2016, we again received several awards and honors, both for specific CSR programs and for our overall civic jointly with the China Charity Federation (CCF) China work with the BMW Warm Heart Fund engagement. These included: in 2008. As a platform for all-stakeholder and Government Affairs teams to implement engagement, it supports a wide array of CSR programs. They further report to senior In January 2016, BMW China Automotive Trading Ltd. and BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. received the programs and partners across the country. management on the progress made toward 2015 CSR Outstanding Contribution award from 2015 China Automotive Innovation Responsibility Festival For our employees, dealers, and customer fulfilling strategic milestones. Key support and initiated by The Economic Observer. representatives, the BMW Warm Heart Fund guidance for our initiatives is provided by our constitutes a dedicated channel through which Board of Management, which makes all the In March 2016, the BMW China Culture Journey was awarded the 2015 Boyuan Vitality CSR Project by the 2016 Automotive Industry Culture Promotion Forum initiated by the Global Times. to contribute to our CSR efforts. Focused on necessary planning and resource decisions. delivering results, it operates in a collaborative, In May 2016, BMW China Automotive Trading Ltd. and BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. received the transparent, and sustainable manner. 2015 Most Responsible Auto Corporate award from the 21st Century Business Herald and the 2016 China Automotive Innovation Summit. By the end of 2016, more than 250 BMW dealers, In July 2016, the 2016 BMW Children’s Traffic Safety Education program received the 2016 Excellent as well as 84,700 customers and employees, CSR Project (Innovative CSR Project) award from the Eighth China Annual Summit for Corporate Social have participated in a variety of public campaigns Responsibility initiated by Southern Weekly. that help address social issues in Chinese In July 2016, BMW received the Best Corporate Social Responsibility of 2015 Top 500 Global Enterprises’ communities. It is estimated that the BMW Warm Contribution in China award from the Eighth China Annual Summit for Corporate Social Responsibility initiated by Southern Weekly. In November 2016, BMW China Automotive Trading Ltd. and BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. received the BMW China Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy and structure F.35 2016 Most Responsible Corporate award from China Newsweek. In December 2016, BMW China Automotive Trading Ltd. and BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. received the Best Corporate Citizen award from the 2016 Thirteenth China Best Corporate Citizen initiated by the 21st Century Business Herald. BMW CHINA In December 2016, the 2016 BMW Children’s Traffic Safety Education program received the Excellent Corporate Social Responsibility Influence Award of Outstanding Brands’ Practice for Children Traffic Safety from Parents Magazine. In December 2016, BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. was honored as 2016 Excellent Corporate Citizen by Social Mobility Safe and Sustainable Mobility the 2016 China Twelfth Annual Outstanding Corporate Summit. In December 2016, the 2016 BMW Children’s Traffic Safety Education program was honored as 2016 Goal: Promote upward social mobility Goal: Leverage BMW’s core competence to Excellent Corporate Citizen Project by the 2016 China Twelfth Annual Outstanding Corporate Summit. through tailor-made programs targeting the contribute to the safe and sustainable mobility needs of disadvantaged groups in the in local community. Chinese society. Schools Skills Cooperation with Sustainable products and sustainable production Education Development Universities • BMW JOY Home • BMW China • Northeast Road Safety Urban Mobility Environment Children Care Culture Journey University Program • BEST • Dalian University of • BMW Children’s • BMW Next Mobility • BMW Sanjiangyuan Technology Traffic Safety Youth Camp Ecological • Tongji University Education Protection Action BMW Warm Heart Fund BMW China Corporate Social Responsibility platform to engage all stakeholders 144 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I Our management approach Our management approach I CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 145 6.2 OUR INITIATIVES OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION Chinese conventional wisdom of “teaching people innovative models of ICH safeguarding and how to fish instead of giving them a fish.” Through promotion. The cooperative initiative enables We seek to promote progress on key social and environmental issues in this approach, BMW China Culture Journey is ICH owners to pursue one month of training to exploring new and innovative models to safeguard strengthen inheritors’ cultural awareness, selfChina through targeted, well-monitored, and innovative CSR programs. ICH and bring it into modern life. confidence, and innovation skills. Held at the center in 2016, the first course trained over Our objective is to identify those ICH owners 100 ICH inheritors, including 10 inheritors with After decades of unprecedented economic SOCIAL MOBILITY with innovation needs and potential and engage particular potential selected during the program’s growth, China is witnessing a transition stakeholders from all walks of life to contribute to 2016 visit in Sichuan province. period in which a renewed emphasis is placed BMW JOY Home Children Care ICH preservation – from ICH experts and scholars on addressing social imbalances as well through to designers, artists, entrepreneurs, and We are proud to say that in its previous format, the SCHOOLS EDUCATION as on achieving a safe and environmentally investors – as well as to the media, our dealers, and program has visited more than 270 ICH items in sound standard of living. We seek to Our BMW JOY Home Children Care program, customers. These stakeholders can work together promote progress on these issues through launched in 2011, was halted in 2016 in order to to help inheritors access educational resources CSR programs revolving around caring evaluate, reorient, and maximize its impact in the and gain greater media and public exposure in for disadvantaged youth, ensuring access future. Joining hands with dealers and customers today’s society, thereby successfully promoting to education, introducing dual-education across China, our objective is to reinvigorate the the long-term inheritance of traditional knowledge. approaches, incubating businesses that program to best serve the needs of impoverished preserve traditional Chinese culture, children in rural areas of the country. By yearIn June 2016, we joined hands with Tsinghua increasing road safety, and furthering end 2015, the program had built 56 homes in 28 University’s Academy of Arts and Design to designs of urban mobility in the future. provinces, benefiting more than 50,000 children. establish the Tsinghua BMW Innovation Center for ICH Safeguarding. Building a professional BMW China Culture Journey support and assistance platform for ICH owners, Our CSR strategy places a dual focus on the SKILLS DEVELOPMENT we hope the center will be a catalyst for developing following areas: Intangible Cultural Heritage (ICH) is defined by Social Mobility the United Nations Educational, Scientific and We promote upward social mobility Cultural Organization (UNESCO)* as “traditions for disadvantaged groups in Chinese or living expressions inherited from ancestors and society through education, skills development, passed on to descendants, such as oral traditions, and academic partnerships. This includes efforts performing arts, social practices, rituals, festive to promote the preservation of intangible cultural events, knowledge and practices concerning heritage in China. nature and the universe, or the knowledge and skills to produce traditional crafts.” Safe and Sustainable Mobility We leverage BMW’s core In 2016, for its 10th anniversary, we began upgrading competence through a range of our award-winning BMW China Culture Journey efforts to increase road safety through education, program from funding support to resource support to rethink urban mobility to meet the demands of by consolidating social resources. The transition the future, and to rehabilitate the environment. is an illustration of our commitment to the “shared development” of Chinese society, as well as to the ▶ BMW China Culture Journey. * www.unesco.org/culture/ich/en/what-is-intangible-heritage-00003 146 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I Our initiatives Our initiatives I CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 147 ▶ At the permanent BMW CTSE Experience Center in Shenyang. 21 provinces and municipalities nationwide. So far, high-level talents, with product knowledge and BMW entities have provided donations exceeding professional skills, to China’s automotive industry. RMB 16 million to 90 ICH items in urgent need of BEST also cultivates teachers with professional safeguarding and relevant research projects. training capacity, international training ideas, and the most advanced automotive technologies. BMW Education of Service Technology (BEST) To date, we have set up 15 training bases across SKILLS DEVELOPMENT 13 provinces in cooperation with over 300 dealers nationwide. Of the 6,000 graduates the In April 2016, the BMW Education of Service program has witnessed, 60% have now joined Technology (BEST) program celebrated its 10th BMW dealerships as reliable forces for highanniversary in Nanjing. The BEST program was quality aftersales services. By creating multi-win developed by the BMW China Training Academy outcomes for schools, enterprises, students, and is our response to the national call for the dealers, and society as a whole, BEST is a model development of vocational training. It promotes for vocational education in China. the concept of dual education vocational training, an approach widely used in Germany, and largely Cooperation with universities credited with reinforcing and sustaining the rapid COOPERATION WITH UNIVERSITIES development of the country’s economy. ▶ At a mobile CTSE training event. We continue to actively cooperate with Tongji In cooperation with local vocational schools, University in Shanghai, Northeastern University in BEST runs primary and secondary education Shenyang, and the Dalian University of Technology. accreditation programs for students. BEST focuses For example, in 2016, Shanghai Tongji University on the joint application of theoretical and practical hosted its BMW Day for the 11th consecutive knowledge and has attracted a large number of year. Coinciding with the celebration of BMW Group’s centenary, the event focused on mobility In August 2016, the first permanent BMW in the “Next 100 Years” and the prospects for Children’s Traffic Safety Education Experience automation, interconnection, and zero-emissions Center was established at Shenyang Science travel. The 2016 creative design contest-winning Palace. This reflects our commitment to traffic team won a trip to BMW Group headquarters in safety education and to the Northeast region in Munich, Germany. general. The center will provide its services free of charge to the local community. SAFE AND SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY Our CTSE program: BMW Children’s Traffic Safety Education (CTSE) 64 cities reached ROAD SAFETY 8,000 trainers trained 300,000 educational In 2005, we launched the nationwide BMW Children’s Traffic Safety Education (CTSE) program. In 2016, CTSE witnessed both programming and content innovations. With a more focused and textbooks disseminated interactive design, the new CTSE provided specific modules for parents and children. It also placed a spotlight on key issues such as child safety seats 400,000 children and ▶ At the BMW Education of Service Technology (BEST) 10-year anniversary ceremony. and driver safety knowledge, identifying parental adults benefited since 2005. education as a priority to ensure children’s safety. 148 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I Our initiatives Our initiatives I CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 149 Since its inception, the CTSE program has made a trip to Germany for a week-long exchange Several dozen waste-sorting facilities were also capture snow leopards mating through infrared reached 64 cities, benefited 400,000 people, visit. Their project focused on looking for mobility installed. As part of a snow leopard monitoring cameras for the first time in global history. In 2015, generated 9.5 million views of animated videos solutions for Beijing’s Sanlitun area through an study, 60 professionally trained watchers monitored an extensive site visit was organized, with the on social platforms, and disseminated 300,000 innovative shared-mobility concept. a 1,400-square-kilometer area and were able to BMW Warm Heart Fund’s support, for volunteers copies of the BMW Traffic Safety Textbook for including our customers, employees, dealers, and Schoolchildren, released in conjunction with the BMW Sanjiangyuan Ecological Protection the media in China. With the establishment of the Ministry of Education. Furthermore, our Train the Action Qinghai Sanjiangyuan National Park in 2016, this Trainers program has trained approximately 8,000 ENVIRONMENT project has achieved its goals and has now been people in our classrooms. wound down. 2016 saw the completion of the last phase of our BMW Next Mobility Youth Camp ecosystem protection program in the Sanjiangyuan URBAN MOBILITY Nature Reserve. Sanjiangyuan, located on the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau, is also known as “China’s In the face of challenges brought by accelerating water tower” as it hosts the sources of the urbanization, traffic congestion, and environmental Yangtze River, the Yellow River, and the Lancang pollution, we are building a platform to discuss River. The program, which we launched with issues related to future mobility and sustainable the China Green Foundation and the Shanshui development. In 2016, we launched the BMW Conservation Center, included a series of studies Next Mobility Youth Camp program, a new on the grasslands’ ecological system, community three-year initiative aiming to provide a learning, protection practices, and training classes for local communication, and practice platform for the next green talent. It also supported the active exploration generation of youth and to stimulate discussion and establishment of a community protection and around the issues of responsibility and innovation resource management model that fits local needs as they relate to future mobility. and promotes the area’s long-term development. In December 2016, the first three-month session In total, over RMB 3 million was invested in the ▶ On 29th January 2016, an infrared camera set of the BMW Next Mobility Youth Camp concluded eco-protection of an area roughly 20,000 square up as part of our ecosystem protection project in in Beijing. After rigorous expert review, the students kilometers in size, benefiting up to 70,000 people the Sanjiangyuan area captured snow leopards of the School of Architecture at Southeast and 20 local communities. Community protection mating for the first time in history. University won the Young Practice Award and measures saw the erection of 60 anti-bear fences. ▶ Ecological protection program at the Sanjiangyuan Nature Reserve, Qinghai province. 150 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I Our initiatives Our initiatives I CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 151 2016 BMW SUSTAINABILITY event first held in 2013, the forum again provided STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND CSR FORUM an open platform for stakeholders to discuss sustainability and CSR issues and for BMW Under the motto “Shape a Joyful Future with entities to share our perspectives on future trends. Responsibility,” the 2016 BMW Sustainability and The forum was also the release event for our Corporate Social Responsibility Forum was held Sustainability Report 2015, which highlighted our In addition to CSR initiatives we implement ourselves, Associate Social Responsibility (ASR) project in Shenyang on 13th December 2016. An annual performance on a variety of sustainability issues. we also engage stakeholders under the umbrella A voluntary employee charity project launched in of the BMW Warm Heart Customer Clubs and the 2008, the Associate Social Responsibility (ASR) Associate Social Responsibility (ASR) project. project is designed to “devote love and care for others,” with a slogan of “helping each other with BMW Warm Heart Customer Clubs one RMB per person every month.” It implements BMW Warm Heart Customer Clubs are memberthis vision by providing financial support and spiritual driven groups through which customers volunteer care to elders, orphans, handicapped and ill children, their time and resources to contribute to their local as well as to employees in difficult circumstances. communities. Forming the largest stakeholder network of its kind in China, the clubs also work By year-end 2016, volunteers organized by ASR had with local charities to initiate new initiatives. From 12 helped 250 homeless and disadvantaged elders in clubs with 2,500 members at the end of 2015, the social welfare homes, 50 disabled orphans in the network has now grown to 16 clubs encompassing Happy Dream Orphanage, twins with cerebral palsy, 2,700 members. New clubs opened in Xiamen, and over 30 handicapped children and primary Wuhan, Nanning, and Hangzhou in 2016, bringing students. In addition, over 100 poverty-stricken the total number of cities with clubs to 14 across the patients with eye diseases were provided assistance country. to receive eye surgery. 16 clubs across the nation 2,700 volunteer members. In total, the clubs have organized over 310 public welfare events benefiting more than 18,000 people around China. This stakeholder volunteering platform is the only one of its kind across China’s automotive sector. FORECAST 2017 ▶ A display on the Associate Social Responsibility project In 2016, we achieved our objectives to upgrade our CSR strategy and to further develop our flagship inside Dadong plant. projects, the BMW China Culture Journey and BMW Children’s Traffic Safety Education. For 2017, we are continuing to foster crossover and innovative approaches based on the principle of creating shared value. For our educational and skill-development initiatives, our objective is to place an additional emphasis on “enabling” rather than simply “supporting” activities. We are planning to upgrade and relaunch BMW JOY Home, and to provide platforms for Intangible Cultural Heritage owners to display and spread Intangible Cultural Heritage-related products for stakeholders and ▶ The Chengdu and Guangzhou Warm Heart Customer Clubs helped the public through the BMW Brand Experience Center in Shanghai. Across our programs, we are build this rural JOY Bookstore. continuing to maximize synergies with other organizations and institutions and to promote close coordination with all stakeholders. 152 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I Our initiatives Our initiatives I CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 153 7 APPENDIX 7.1 About this report 7.2 GRI content index 7.1 ABOUT THIS REPORT The BMW Brilliance Sustainability Report 2016 has been published to provide stakeholders with comprehensive information about the company’s sustainability ambitions and the progress made. Topics have been selected and weighted in accordance with the findings of a systematic materiality process. The report is based on the requirements of the United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress and has been developed in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Reporting period Third-party verification The reporting period is the 2016 calendar year. External auditors and experts audited indicators This report covers the period 1st January 2016 to from the areas of environmental protection and 31st December 2016. It is BMW Brilliance’s fourth occupational health and safety in accordance with Sustainability Report. The last BMW Brilliance ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. Sustainability Report was released in December 2016 covering the calendar year 2015. The next Sustainability Report will be published in mid2018. BMW Brilliance reports on a yearly basis. Reporting scope The sustainability figures include the following production and operation sites of BMW Brilliance: the Shenyang plants, as well as the branch company in Beijing and its five regional offices. The content and data of the report relate primarily to BMW Brilliance. Joint initiatives with BMW China Automotive Trading Ltd. or the BMW Group are included in the areas of customer relationship management, employee training and development, and Corporate Social Responsibility. During the reporting period, two new facilities were opened within BMW Brilliance: the Regional Parts Distribution Center and the new engine plant in Shenyang. There were no significant changes to the list of material topics and topic boundaries of the report during the reporting period. 156 APPENDIX I About this report About this report I APPENDIX 157 7.2 GRI CONTENT INDEX The following table lists the GRI Standard Disclosures and their location in BMW Brilliance’s Sustainability UN Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page number Comments or omissions Compact Report. This report was prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The compliance with the GRI Standards has not been externally assured. General Disclosures GRI 102: General Organizational profile (continued) Disclosures 2016 (continued) 102-8 Information on p. 120 f: The small number of employees Principle 6 General Disclosures employees and other workers in other regional locations next to (continued) Shenyang and Beijing are integrated into the Beijing figures, as those UN Global locations legally belong to the Beijing GRI Standard Disclosure Page number Comments or omissions Compact offices. GRI 102: General Organizational profile 102-9 Supply chain pp. 94-100 Disclosures 2016 102-10 Significant changes to p. 157 102-1 Name of the pp. 2, 3, 167 the organization and its supply organization chain 102-2 Activities, brands, pp. 10-17 102-11 Precautionary Principle pp. 22-27 Principle 7 products, and services or approach 102-3 Location of p. 167 102-12 External initiatives pp. 26-27 headquarters 102-13 Membership of ‒ CAAM (China Association of 102-4 Location of operations p. 10 associations Automobile Manufacturers) CAEFI (China Association of 102-5 Ownership and p. 10 Enterprises with Foreign Investment) legal form IAC (The Investment Association of China) LNAEFI (Liaoning Association of 102-6 Markets served p. 10 Enterprises with Foreign Investment) SYAEFI (Shenyang Association of 102-7 Scale of the pp. 10-11, Enterprises with Foreign Investment) organization 13-15 BAEFI (Beijing Association of Enterprises with Foreign Investment) ABNEA (Association of Beijing New 102-8 Information on p. 120 d: Not included in the total number Principle 6 Energy Automotives) employees and other workers of employees are interns. They AHK (German Chamber of perform administrative work and Commerce in China) support in the departments, but not EFQM (European Foundation for to a significant effect. There are no Quality Management) self-employed workers. e: There are no significant variations Strategy (such as seasonal variations) in the employment numbers of BMW Brilliance. 102-14 Statement from senior pp. 2-3 decision-maker 158 APPENDIX I GRI content index GRI content index I APPENDIX 159 UN Global UN Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page number Comments or omissions Compact GRI Standard Disclosure Page number Comments or omissions Compact GRI 102: General Ethics and integrity GRI 102: General Stakeholder engagement (continued) Disclosures 2016 Disclosures 2016 (continued) (continued) 102-16 Values, principles, ‒ The 12 Basic Principles are: Principles 102-42 Identifying and p. 28 standards, and norms of Customer Orientation, Peak 6, 10 selecting stakeholders behavior Performance, Responsibility, Effectiveness, Adaptability, Dissent 102-43 Approach to pp. 28-31 (Frankness), Respect and Trust and stakeholder engagement Fairness, Associates, Leading by example, Sustainability, Society, and Independence. 102-44 Key topics and pp. 28-31 concerns raised Core Values: Trust, Inspire, Open, Care, Go Beyond Reporting practice Norms of Behavior: Associate Handbook including an Ethics and Code of Conduct section 102-45 Entities included in p. 157 Legal Compliance Code the consolidated financial Corruption and Prevention statements Guideline Corporate Hospitality and Gift 102-46 Defining report pp. 24-25 Instruction content and topic Boundaries Anti-Fraud Policy and Fraud Response Guideline 102-47 List of material topics pp. 24-25 Principles 7, 8, 9, 10 Governance 102-48 Restatements of ‒ Where necessary and possible, 102-18 Governance structure p. 22 According to the Articles of information restatements are explained in Association of BMW Brilliance, footnotes to the respective graphs. the highest authority of BMW Brilliance is the Board of Directors (BoD). The BoD has the power 102-49 Changes in reporting p. 157 to make decisions on all major and important matters of BMW 102-50 Reporting period p. 157 Brilliance as provided in the Articles of Association. A management organization, the Board of 102-51 Date of most recent p. 157 Management (BoM), is established report under the BoD, and is responsible for and in charge of the day-to-day operation and management of BMW 102-52 Reporting cycle p. 157 Brilliance. 102-53 Contact point for p. 167 questions regarding the report Stakeholder engagement 102-54 Claims of reporting in p. 158 102-40 List of stakeholder pp. 30-31 accordance with the GRI groups Standards 102-41 Collective bargaining p. 41 100% of local employees are Principle 3 102-55 GRI content index pp. 158-166 agreements members of the Labor Union, and all Union members are covered by the Collective Contract on Labor 102-56 External assurance p. 158 Remuneration. This excludes expatriates, who are not eligible for the Labor Union. 160 APPENDIX I GRI content index GRI content index I APPENDIX 161 UN Global Specific Disclosures for Material Topics GRI Standard Disclosure Page number Comments or omissions Compact Product safety UN Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page number Comments or omissions Compact GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the pp. 25, 48, 60 Management material topic and its Boundary Corruption and anti-competitive behavior Approach 2016 103-2 The management pp. 51, 60-63 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the pp. 25, 34 Principle 10 approach and its components Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 61-63 103-2 The management pp. 34-39 management approach approach and its components GRI 416: Customer 416-1 Assessment of the pp. 62-63 103-3 Evaluation of the p. 39 Health and Safety health and safety impacts of management approach 2016 products and services GRI 205: Anti205-2 Communication and pp. 34-39 We define governance bodies as Energy consumption corruption 2016 training about anti-corruption those committees which receive policies and procedures active regular reports by the compliance function. All committee GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the pp. 25, 74, 76 Principles members are informed about Management material topic and its Boundary 7, 8, 9 BMW Brilliance’s anti-corruption Approach 2016 policies and procedures. All committee members who are 103-2 The management pp. 76-80 BMW Brilliance employees have approach and its components also received training on anticorruption. Committee members 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 77-78 representing our shareholders are management approach not covered by the training program of BMW Brilliance, but are covered by the compliance programs of GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption p. 77 Conversion factors: steam BMW Group and Brilliance Group 2016 within the organization consumption measured in GJ*0.277 respectively. = MWh, gas consumption in cubic meters*10.82/1000 = MWh. Our compliance training includes mandatory online training for all non-production employees, GRI 308: Supplier 308-2 Negative environmental pp. 95-96, Principles additional classroom training for Environmental impacts in the supply chain 102-105 7, 8 new employees and managers, and Assessment 2016 and actions taken special workshops and training for specific target groups (e.g. Sales, Purchasing, and Finance). Air pollution, emissions and climate change c: Information unavailable: The GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the pp. 25, 48, 52, Principles number of business partners that Management material topic and its Boundary 74, 76 7, 8, 9 policies and procedures have been Approach 2016 communicated to is not reported. 103-2 The management pp. 52-59, approach and its components 76-80 GRI 206: Anti206-1 Legal actions for antiIn 2016, there were no legal actions competitive competitive behavior, antiregarding anti-competitive behavior Behavior 2016 trust, and monopoly practices ‒ or violations of anti-trust and 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 53-55, monopoly legislation. management approach 77-78, 80 GRI 414: Supplier 414-2 Negative social impacts pp. 95-96, Principles GRI 305: Emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) p. 55 Social Assessment in the supply chain and actions 102-105 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 2016 GHG emissions 2016 taken 6, 10 162 APPENDIX I GRI content index GRI content index I APPENDIX 163 UN Global UN Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page number Comments or omissions Compact GRI Standard Disclosure Page number Comments or omissions Compact Air pollution, emissions and climate change (continued) Occupational health and safety GRI 305: Emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity p. 78 Efficiency indicator = CO2 emissions Principles GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the pp. 25, 110, Principles 2016 (continued) (from vehicle production) from Scope 7, 8, 9 Management material topic and its Boundary 132 1, 2 1 (CO2) and Scope 2 (CO2) divided (continued) Approach 2016 by the total number of BMW 103-2 The management pp. 132-136 Brilliance vehicles produced. approach and its components 305-5 Reduction of GHG p. 54 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 132-134 emissions management approach GRI 308: Supplier 308-2 Negative environmental pp. 95-96, Principles GRI 403: 403-2 Types of injury and rates pp. 132-133 a: Information unavailable: Data is not Environmental impacts in the supply chain 102-105 7, 8 Occupational Health of injury, occupational diseases, reported by gender. Assessment 2016 and actions taken and Safety 2016 lost days, and absenteeism, There are no occupational disease and number of work-related cases in the company. We monitor Talent attraction and retention fatalities the accident frequency rate instead of the lost day rate. GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the pp. 25, 110, Principle b: Information unavailable: No data Management material topic and its Boundary 114 6 on types of injury, injury rate and Approach 2016 work-related fatalities is reported for contracted workers , as it is currently 103-2 The management pp. 114-122 impossible to get solid data on this approach and its components from contractors. 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 117-122 c: The scope of this health and safety management approach data only covers the production plants of BMW Brilliance. As they are all in the same region, no regional GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires p. 121 a: Total number of new employee breakdown is necessary. Employment 2016 and employee turnover hires: 363. Minor (first-aid level) injuries are excluded from the number of workb: Confidentiality constraints: The related injuries and from the accident total number of employee turnover, frequency rate. The accident as well as the breakdown by age frequency rate is calculated by the group, gender and region (total number of accidents with one day numbers and rates) are not reported. lost time or more, multiplied by one million hours worked, divided by the total working hours of the month. Employee development The absentee rate only includes sickness leave. GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the pp. 25, 110, Management material topic and its Boundary 124 GRI 414: Supplier 414-2 Negative social impacts pp. 95-96, Principles Approach 2016 Social Assessment in the supply chain and actions 102-105 1, 2, 3, 4, 2016 taken 5, 6, 10 103-2 The management pp. 124-131 approach and its components Public policy 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 130-131 management approach GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the pp. 25, 28-31 Management material topic and its Boundary GRI 404: Training 404-1 Average hours of p. 130 a: Information unavailable: Average Approach 2016 and Education 2016 training per year per employee training days by gender are not reported. 103-2 The management pp. 28-31, 53 approach and its components 164 APPENDIX I GRI content index GRI content index I APPENDIX 165 GRI Standard Disclosure Page number Comments or omissions UN Global Compact WE LOOK FORWARD TO HEARING FROM YOU Public policy (continued) FURTHER INFORMATION AND PUBLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE AT: http://www.bmw-brilliance.cn/cn/en/csr/download.html GRI 103: 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 30-31 Management management approach Approach 2016 Contact for questions regarding this report: (continued) BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. Beijing Branch 25th Floor, Tower B, Gateway Plaza GRI 415: Public 415-1 Political contributions ‒ BMW Brilliance operates within the 18 Xiaguangli, North Road East Third Ring Policy 2016 commercial and legal framework and Chaoyang District pays taxes accordingly. However, BMW Brilliance does not support Beijing 100027, P.R. China political parties, their representatives Tel.: +86 (0)10 8455 7000 or candidates for office with financial or in-kind political contributions. Report published by: BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. Aftersales services 14 Shanzuizi Road Dadong District GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the pp. 25, 48, 64 Shenyang 110044 Management material topic and its Boundary Liaoning Province, P.R. China Approach 2016 Tel.: +86 (0)24 8455 6000 103-2 The management pp. 64-66, 148 approach and its components BMW Brilliance on the Internet: www.bmw-brilliance.cn 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 64-66 management approach www.zinoro.com.cn Product portfolio and research and development GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the pp. 25, 46-48 Principles Management material topic and its Boundary 7, 8, 9 Approach 2016 103-2 The management pp. 46-59 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 64-66 management approach GRI 305: Emissions 305-5 Reduction of GHG p. 54 2016 emissions 166 APPENDIX I GRI content index APPENDIX 167
