CSR Report 2017 Digest Version Corporate Philosophy Loved by citizens, Participation in the United Nations Global Compact working for citizens In April 2005, the CITIZEN Group declared its participation in the United Nations Global Compact, which advocates universal principles regarding human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. CITIZEN's philosophy, Loved by citizens, working for citizens is to Contributing to Sustainable Development Goals deeply contribute to the lives of people around the world Until recently, the CITIZEN Group had organized CSR activities centered on ISO 26000, the international standard for through the manufacturing of products that are loved and trusted by citizens. social responsibility in organizations. However, in conjunction with the enactment of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the CITIZEN Group has clariﬁed the relationship between its CSR activities and the globally common issues and goals put forth by the SDGs. SDGs were launched in 2016 with the aim of resolving social issues including poverty, hunger, energy, climate change, and peace by 2030. Accomplishing the 17 goals and 169 targets of the SDGs requires every member states in the United Nations and people who live in to do their part and take actions while cooperating with one another. As a member of international society and a solid global company, the CITIZEN Group will actively tackle universal social issues through the realization of manufacturing of products that are loved and trusted by citizens in order to help create a sustainable society. (＊Please see p.8 regarding the relationship between the CITIZEN Group s materiality and SDGs.) CITIZEN GROUP CSR REPORT Editorial Policy Website (Detailed Version) contents The CITIZEN Group provides information on the CSR The CITIZEN Group CSR website shares CSR initiatives in greater detail. activities so that all stakeholders can gain an understanding http://www.citizen.co.jp/global/csr/ 01 Corporate Philosophy of CSR activities. This digest version focuses on the 02 Participation in the United Nations Global Compact selection of the CITIZEN Group s materiality and the status Pamphlet (Digest Version) of activities for each one. The CITIZEN Group CSR website & Contributing to Sustainable (http://www.citizen.co.jp/global/csr/) shares CSR activities The CITIZEN Groups CSR Development Goals activities are in greater detail, including introducing examples of 03 Message from the President communicated in an Cover : Assembling Eco-Drive One activities and data on the environment and society. easy-to-understand manner 05 The CITIZEN Group s Medium-Term with a focus on the status We have returned to our beginnings where we started by of materiality initiatives. Management Plan and Business Foundation Summary of This Digest Version creating watches loved by citizens, and we are taking up 07 The CITIZEN Group s CSR Reporting Period: FY2016 (April 1, 2016‒March 31, 2017); High Level of Stakeholder Interest the challenge of expressing the uniqueness of CITIZEN by 09 Our Material Issues Digest Version Publication Period: August 2017; very simply conveying the value of the Eco-Drive Organizations Included in the Economic Reporting Data: 24 Pam phl et Special Feature technology that utilize any light sources such as artiﬁcial, companies in Japan, 81 companies overseas (total: 105); ( Digest Version) Establishing the Citizen Group Code of Conduct natural, or dim light. We created 2.98 mm thick (in design) Organizations Included in the Environmental Reporting Website Eco-Drive watches ‒ the world s thinnest watches. With an ＊ 11 Creating a Pleasant Work Environment Data: 21 companies in Japan, 16 companies overseas ( Det ail ed Version) essential function of watch to keep accurate time, they are 13 Advancing Responsible Procurement (total: 37)Reference Guidelines: GRI Sustainability made most aesthetic and sophisticated as wristwatches. 15 Promoting Environmental Innovation ＊According to research conducted by CITIZEN on analog Reporting Standards ; Disclaimer: This digest version light-powered watches as of July 2016. includes forecasts based on information available at the High Importance to the CITIZEN Group time of reporting. Actual activity outcomes may diﬀer from the forecasts. Message from the President The CITIZEN Group strives to contribute to social development through its Code of Conduct carried out by each and every one of its employees, starting with its corporate philosophy, Loved by citizens, working for citizens. Aiming for further growth, in 2013, the CITIZEN Group In FY 2016, we reorganized the governance system societal changes while never forgetting that we live in we are also working on innovations in processing began taking signiﬁcant steps to solve issues with its and transitioned to an operating holding company an age in which we do not know what or when technology, such as equipping products for the ﬁrst time six-year medium-term management plan, CITIZEN structure to strengthen the Headquarters functions and something will happen. It is our belief that this skill can with low frequency vibration (LFV) technology. This Global Plan 2018. FY 2016 was an important year that allow further growth for the Group as a whole with our be cultivated through open communication. In FY2016, technology prevents chips from sticking to or becoming marked the start of the plan s latter half and put many watch business at the core. In addition to this we implemented Group Rotation, which aimed to entangled with products and cutting tools, thus, averting actions into practice that would serve as the foundation reinforcement of the governance system, thorough nurture the next-generation of leaders, and Workshop trouble on the manufacturing ﬂoor and improving for business in the future. implementation of risk management and compliance are for Employees Raising Children, which aimed to productivity. The CITIZEN Group is contributing to the To promote a multi-brand strategy in the watch important to the CITIZEN Group, which is continuing to heighten awareness regarding careers regardless of creation of a sustainable society by reducing business, we acquired Frederique Constant, a Swiss expand and grow. We also revised the Citizen Group gender. The industry to which we belong is not a large environmental load through the product lifecycle, from watch brand, and merged distribution channels of Code of Conduct to promote it in management as well one. For each individual to grow, we must look more to procurement to manufacturing, usage, and disposal. CITIZEN and Bulova branded watches in the United as on the individual employee level. The meaning of the world outside our company and industry, and In March 2018, the CITIZEN Group will celebrate its States. Carrying out a far-reaching structural reform of citizen, the word that appears in our corporate name, become attuned to changes in society and the actions 100th year since the establishment of its predecessor, the Group, such as strengthening our brand portfolio, includes society and the people who live in the society. of other companies. We need to recognize how we the Shokosha Watch Research Institute. A look back on has solidiﬁed the basis for future growth. Although the To date, we have conducted manufacturing that diﬀer from other companies and continue contemplating these 100 years ﬁlls us with deep emotion at the fact M&A outcomes are too early to be seen, we believe that practices our corporate philosophy of Loved by how we can leverage those diﬀerences we sense. We that we as a company has succeeded. At the same time, creating multi-brand synergy with these strategic moves citizens, working for citizens. Precisely because value a corporate culture that makes such actions we wonder if we could not have grown a little more and as a foundation will be the key to the growth of the citizen is in our name, we will not violate social norms, possible. our thoughts turn to the prospect of how to build the CITIZEN Group. We are also working to reduce cause our customers or clients to feel distrust, or be Manufacturing forms the basis of the CITIZEN Group. company in the next 100 years, based on the foundation production cost to gain cost competitiveness and carry dishonest. Each and every employee must deepen anew Based on the idea that, as a manufacturer, we must also that has been established thus far. In the era of change out strategic investment that will lead to greater growth. their understanding that the value of the CITIZEN Group take responsibility for procurement of raw materials and to come, we must possess the ﬂexibility to adapt Moreover, given the launch of the United Nations is produced not only by the merits or demerits of the contract manufacturing, in April 2017 we began changes as a solid global company, and consider how Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), we have quality of our products and service, but also by the very developing a Group-wide CSR Procurement Guideline we can contribute to the sustainable development of reaﬃrmed important social issues to the CITIZEN Group actions that we take. to strengthen ties with procurement clients. In the society without focusing exclusively on our own growth and values assigned to our initiatives to date, as well as We also aim to actively create a pleasant work watch business, we launched the CITIZEN L line, which in order to fulﬁll our responsibility once again as the once again revised materiality (material issues) in the environment based on the viewpoint that our company was the ﬁrst to give form to ethical product making. CITIZEN Group. CITIZEN Group. There are six topics considered material is comprised of our employees. As we move ahead with In regard to reducing environmental load, we June 2017 to the CITIZEN Group: strengthening corporate various endeavors that meet employee needs, we continue oﬀering environmentally friendly products, governance, comprehensive risk management, thorough keenly feel the importance of spreading the signiﬁcance including the Eco-Drive watches, the digital CX-02 compliance, creating a pleasant work environment, of diversity. To become a company capable of surviving photo printer, and the Cincom R Series of machines advancing of responsible procurement, and promoting in a competitive society, not only management, but also that process precision components. When it comes to To s h i o To k u r a President & CEO environmental innovation. employees must learn the skill of ﬂexibly responding manufacturing automatic lathes for small components, CITIZEN WATCH CO., LTD. The CITIZEN Group s Medium-Term Management Plan and Business Foundation Striving to be a Solid Global Company The CITIZEN Group s Value-Producing Business Foundation Embarking on the Latter Half of CITIZEN Global Plan 2018 Since our foundation, the CITIZEN Group has utilized its precise, and the creation of products that consume little unique and advanced technologies that have been electricity. We also oﬀer new value in other core Aspiring to be a successful global company, in 2013 the a high proﬁt structure. cultivated through the watch business. These include the businesses. CITIZEN Group launched CITIZEN Global Plan 2018, the In the former three years, we placed eﬀort in carrying out technology to make products even smaller and more ﬁrst six-year medium-term management plan drawn up by thorough structural reform and improvement centered on ＊Please see our website for details on our businesses (http://www.citizen.co.jp/global/aboutus/task.html). the CITIZEN Group. CITIZEN Global Plan 2018 focuses on business selection and concentration; however, changes in the watch business and areas that leverage the strengths the external environment made it diﬃcult to achieve some Watches cultivated through watch manufacturing. It promotes goals. In the latter three years, we will continue to push innovation in manufacturing and targets boosting earning forward reinforcement of the manufacturing capacity to The CITIZEN Group has striven to manufacture watches that are loved throughout power with an eye toward becoming an aggregate entity achieve further structural strengthening. the world. Watches are where our story began. that possesses global competitiveness in the top class and Even today, we continue to produce models featuring new functions, including innovative products that are the global ﬁrsts, such as Eco-Drive light-powered watches that have gained great popularity among many watch owners. CITIZEN Global Plan 2018 Key Issues and Actions Machine Tools Key Issues 2016‒2018 Actions Machine tools create components essential to a wide array of industries, Complete structural improvement/ reinforcing Boosting endeavors to increase earning power to reduce costs and improve asset manufacturing capacity eﬃciency through manufacture reform including the medical, automotive, and IT industries, and underpin modern technical advancement and the development of societies. Sophisticated Active investment and strengthened marketing Active investment for growth based on capital produced in the ﬁrst three years of power for business growth the medium-term management plan technologies that meet diversifying needs in this dynamic age support Selection and concentration of product and Promoting selection and concentration of products and business developed by manufacturing in a variety of settings in society. business each group company, and clarifying businesses and products to focus on Individual productivity improvement and Cultivating human resources capable of responding to various changes in the global Devices and Components greater human resource capacity environment and strengthening organizational capacity as a highly eﬃcient group The precision technologies exclusive to CITIZEN that have been developed through the watch business are utilized in manufacturing of devices, components The CITIZEN Group s Financial Performance built into familiar electronic equipment, such as LED lights, smartphone switches, and liquid crystal. We have made low-power consumption and long life possible for In FY2016, income and proﬁt decreased for net sales dropped due to such reports as gains from the sale products, and in addition to making people s lives more convenient and pleasant, and operating income due to the impact of a strong of ﬁxed assets and proﬁts on the sale of securities we reduce the burden placed on the environment. yen and global market stagnation, producing a tough investments. The current net income reverting to the outcome with operating income topping oﬀ at 21.5 stockholders of the parent company was 16.5 billion Electronic Products billion yen. On the other hand, as a result of yen, and ROA was improved to 4.1%. promoting asset eﬃciency, the tax burden rate The POS bar code printers and the high-resolution digital photo printers are created using the precision processing and assembly technology passed down from ＊Please see our website for details on ﬁnancial performance (http://www.citizen.co.jp/global/ir/ﬁnancial/). our watch business, they are playing a role in diﬀerent scenes, such as in the stores and at factories. In addition, healthcare products centered on electronic blood □ Information on Proﬁtability □ Net Sales by Business Category □ Net Sales by Region pressure monitors and electronic thermometers help people manage their health (billion yen) （％） 400 6.0 2.6％ 52.3％ 0.9％ 33％ and support healthy lifestyle. 348.2 7％ 14.2％ 350 309.9 328.4 312.5 5.0 Other Products 4.7 300 22.2％ 4.4 4.1 Net Sales Net Sales High-quality jewelry crafted by leveraging precision technologies exclusive to the 250 4.0 312.5 312.5 CITIZEN Group is loved by many who wear them for a lifetime to add joy to their billion yen 19％ billion yen everyday lives. The technologies also contribute to the creation of places for 200 3.2 3.0 people to relax, such as in the operation of ice skating rinks. 15.9％ 150 2.0 32.8％ 100 … Watches … Japan … Machine Tools … Asia □ Corporate Data (as of March 31, 2017 ) 1.0 50 30.4 … Devices and Components … Americas Name : CITIZEN WATCH CO., LTD. Capitalization : 32,648 million yen 23.7 27.8 21.5 … Electronic Products … Europe Number of Employees : 16,170 (5,109) Establishment : May 28, 1930 (business founded in 1918) 0 0.0 … Other Products … Others FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 ＊The above is the consolidated number of employees; the Location of Head Oﬃce : 6-1-12 Tanashi-cho, Nishitokyo, Tokyo 188-8511 number in parenthesis refers to the number of … Net Sales (billion yen) … Operating Income (billion yen) As of March 31, 2017 temporary workers as outside the aforementioned. … ROA (%) The CITIZEN Group s CSR Our Approach to CSR Relationship with Stakeholders We have established the Citizen Group Code of people throughout the world, through manufacturing The CITIZEN Group conducts corporate activities for citizens. We endeavor to gain the trust of society , Conduct based on the corporate philosophy, Loved of products that are loved and trusted by citizens, with the support of various stakeholders. We also and appreciate our relationship with our stakeholders by citizens, working for citizens. We believe that CSR has been a part of our company since its foundation. communicate daily with our stakeholders to achieve as we aim to be a corporation capable of continuing activities contribute to the resolution of social issues, In addition to oﬀering good products, the CITIZEN our corporate philosophy, Loved by citizens, working to provide value. through disseminating this Code of Conduct to each Group also aims to meet the demands of society and every employee and ensuring that it is practiced. through its corporate activities and to be a The concept of broadly contributing to the lives of corporation that continues to be indispensable. Government Customers We carry out fair and impartial Aiming to further improve customer satisfaction, we continue Features of Our CSR Activities corporate activities in accordance with laws, regulations, and societal endeavors that make the most of customer opinions in all businesses. norms, and each employee acts as a While referring international social standards such as (material issues). We began Workshop for Employees good member of society as well. Stockholders To steadily meet the trust and expectations of our stockholders and the United Nations Global Compact, in FY2016 we Raising Children to create a pleasant work investors, we strive to conduct active dialogue and disclose NGO・NPO appropriate information in the appropriate manner and at an revised the Citizen Group Code of Conduct, which environment, published the group-wide CSR We hold dialogue with NGOs and appropriate time. NPOs, and build partnerships that embodies our corporate philosophy and solidiﬁes the Procurement Guideline to advance responsible utilize one another s ﬁelds of Clients and Supplier foundation of our CSR activities going forward. In procurement, and encouraged environmental expertise. We work to realize fair and transparent transactions to advance addition, we reassessed the directionality of our CSR innovation to produce new, environmentally friendly and grow together with our clients Supplier, who are also our Regional Community business partners. initiatives to date, based on factors such as the social products. Since April 2017, we have cooperated in Based on our corporate philosophy, we promote a variety of social Employees landscape and demands from stakeholders including temporary employee transfers to the Global Compact contribution activities in accord with We respect each employee, recognize diversity, and are making our customers and clients, and deﬁned materiality Network Japan. regional and international societies. eﬀorts to create a work environment that is safe and pleasant for all. ＊Please see the relevant pages of this digest and our CSR website for details on materiality. CSR Management Structure The CITIZEN Group s Materiality and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) In October 2016, the three companies of CITIZEN company periodically meet and hold a Group CSR HOLDINGS CO., LTD., CITIZEN WATCH CO., LTD., and Liaison Conference in which they discuss directions To establish materiality, the CITIZEN Group United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) CITIZEN BUSINESS EXPERT CO., LTD. merged to begin and measures regarding group-wide activities, and contemplated social issues important to society and our serves to reaﬃrm the importance of a sustainable society corporate activities as the newly formed CITIZEN share best practices within the Group, such as stakeholders, and examined them against our corporate and clariﬁes anew what the CITIZEN Group can do to WATCH CO., LTD. Coinciding with this merger, we conﬁrming the status of activities in each company. philosophy, Code of Conduct, and business strategies that end through its business activities. reassessed and reinforced the CSR activities In addition, the CITIZEN Group has linked its CSR from our medium-term management plan and other The CITIZEN Group is taking long-term action and implemented as the CITIZEN Group up to that point. objectives to the Citizen Group Code of Conduct, schemes in order to determine which are of the utmost working earnestly to realize a sustainable society to take Centering on the CSR Department of CITIZEN and practices CSR activities in which everyone importance to the CITIZEN Group. Moreover, linking the responsibility as a member of international society and WATCH, the CSR committee and CSR department in participates so that each employee contributes what topics considered material to the CITIZEN Group to the become a solid global company. each Group company collaborate and share they can to society on a daily basis without ever information. The CSR departments in each group forgetting the origins. ■ Strengthening Corporate Governance ■ Comprehensive Risk Management ■ Thorough Compliance With the goal of continually The CITIZEN Group promotes risk The Group as a whole promotes improving the CITIZEN Group s management to prevent all kinds of thorough compliance as a core corporate value, we streamline our risk involving cross-sectional and element of management, an action organization and company systems individual undertakings, and to that is key to thoroughly spreading to conduct aﬀairs eﬃciently enable business to continue while the Citizen Group Code of Chart of the CSR Management Structure throughout the Group, build an taking into consideration the safety Conduct. oversight mechanisms, and ensure of employees and local transparent and sound communities in the event of an President, CITIZEN WATCH CO., LTD. management. emergency. CSR Office ■ Creating a Pleasant Work Environment ■ Advancing Responsible Procurement ■ Promoting Environmental Innovation We improve our corporate With the aim of optimizing We endeavor to reduce climate so that it procurement activities environmental load of/by recognizes diversity and throughout the Group, CITIZEN Group products Group CSR Liaison Conference CITIZEN WATCH CSR Liaison Conference enhances one another s together with our clients, and in the value chain (Representative of CSR in each Group company) (Department heads from CITIZEN WATCH CO., LTD.) skills. We accomplish a we are working to resolve business process. work environment where social issues in the supply everyone can work in chain. safety and peace of mind. Establishment of a CSR Committee in each Group company 3. GO O D H EA L TH A ND W EL L B EI NG 5. GEND ER EQ U A L I TY 7.A FFO RD A B L E A ND C L EA N ENERGY 8.D EC ENT WOR K AND E CONOM I C GRO W T H 10.RED U C ED I NEQ U A L I T I ES 12.RES P O NS I B L E C O NS U M P T I O N A ND P RO D U C TI O N 13.C L I M A TE ACT I ON 14.L I F E BE L OW W A T ER 15. L I FE O N L A ND 16. P EA C E, J U S TI C E A ND S T RO NG I NS T I T U T I O NS 17.P A RT NERS H I P S FO R T H E GOAL S Our Material Issues Establishing the Citizen Group Code of Conduct Strengthening Corporate Governance Comprehensive Risk Management Thorough Compliance Citizen Group Code of Conduct 1 . Act responsibly towards society and strive to raise the corporate value of the Citizen Group. 2 . Create and promote products and services that demonstrate our commitment to safety, quality, and the environment. 3 . Engage in business practices that are fair, transparent, open to competition, and responsible. 4 . Respect human rights and diversity, and provide a safe and pleasant working environment. 5 . Recognize the importance of environmental conservation, and take voluntary and proactive measures. 6 . Manage and protect company assets in an appropriate manner. 7 . Abstain from actions that would harm the company s long-lasting values. 8 . Strive to contribute to regional communities in which we operate. Since our foundation in 1918, the CITIZEN Group has system. This six-year global plan sets forth the goal The Citizen Group Code of Conduct indicates the Code of Conduct as criteria for behavior. always carried out business with esteem for society that is to become a solid global company and aﬃrms rules and principles of behavior that employees should In addition, an English version of the Code of and the people who live in society as signiﬁed by the what we must do to gain the capability to be able to observe daily as a member of the CITIZEN Group, and Conduct was prepared for overseas oﬃces and word citizen that appears in our corporate name. continuously oﬀer value sought in the global market. it is the criteria for actions and decisions to realize the translated later into nine diﬀerent languages, including Such thoughts have shaped our corporate philosophy We also once again conﬁrmed the areas requiring CITIZEN Group corporate philosophy. Chinese. In FY 2017, a video message from the of Loved by citizens, working for citizens. The reinforcement to boost the eﬀectiveness of each Based on the concept that the Code of Conduct also president will be distributed just as it was in Japan to bedrock of our business activities is our desire to endeavor. The year 2016 marked the start of the serves as a foundation in CSR activities, each group spread the Code of Conduct to overseas oﬃces. contribute to people s lives in a wide range with the latter three years of CITIZEN Global Plan 2018, and company sets goals that link to the provisions and Furthermore, a person in charge of disseminating the aim of being loved and known by society and the we reviewed our Code of Conduct and established a guidelines of the Code of Conduct. Code of Conduct will be selected in each oﬃce to people who live in the society. new Citizen Group Code of Conduct to consolidate (http://www.citizen.co.jp/global/csr/approach/csr/target.html) work to embed the Code of Conduct through From the time the CITIZEN Group began global the management foundation to confront challenges To disseminate the Citizen Group Code of initiatives, such as establishment of action plans, business development during the period of high and stay competitive in the global economy. Conduct to all CITIZEN Group employees in Japan, in taking circumstances of each country and region into economic growth in the 1960s, we have expanded FY2016 booklets of the Code of Conduct were consideration. Also, understanding of the Code of various businesses worldwide with the watch business distributed, and all employees were required to sign a Conduct will be further deepened by training through at our core. Today, we have greater sales and more pledge to comply with the Code of Conduct. A video such means as e-learning. employees overseas than in Japan, and the Group as a message from the president was also presented to all By implementing CSR activities based on the Code of whole is facing rapidly changing global circumstances employees. These measures communicated the Conduct that embodies the corporate philosophy, the and the economic environment. importance of having a uniﬁed concept among the CITIZEN Group will achieve growth while contributing In 2013, we aimed for greater global economic CITIZEN Group employees as we globally develop to the development of a sustainable society as we set growth and launched CITIZEN Global Plan 2018 to business, despite the growth and diversiﬁcation of the our sights on becoming a corporation that follows the coincide with the establishment of a new management organization, and incorporated the idea of utilizing the philosophy of Loved by citizens, working for citizens. 09 10 Our Material Issues Creating a Pleasant Work Environment Energizing both the Organization and the Human Resources to Realize a Solid Global Company Responding to the Need for Diverse Work Styles The CITIZEN Group has launched initiatives to further communication that encourages mutual understanding in Amid diversifying life plans and lifestyles, the CITIZEN for diﬀerent work styles for employees, including those strengthen its organizational framework and human the workplace with the intention to further enhance our Group believes that the company must respond to the who are at parenting period. Not only do we implement resource cultivation to become a solid global organizational structure. Over ten years ago in 2004, the employees need for varying work styles. As a part of Workshops for Employees Raising Children, but we company, the goal stated in the medium-term CITIZEN Group began implementing stress checks, the endeavor to give form to this idea, we have newly also encourage utilization of childcare leave. Moreover, management plan called CITIZEN Global Plan 2018. which are now mandatory after the revision of Industrial incorporated Workshop for Employees Raising besides parenting systems, we set family care leave for In 2013, the CITIZEN Group embarked on the new Safety and Health Act in 2015. We also endeavor to Children for both male and female employees who are employees needing to provide caregiving to family medium-term management plan. This led to the Survey understand the correlation between the work at parenting period. members so that those employees can adjust their work on Organizational Activity implemented in January environment and employee stress level. In departments These workshops do not simply explain the styles to match their diﬀerent stages of life. 2016 to measure employee satisfaction, based on the seen to have high stress due to vague directions and corporation s eﬀorts and systems, but rather aim for idea that it is important to have a deeper understanding unsatisfactory communication between supervisors and participating employees to learn the importance of □ Utilization of the Childcare Leave System (Nine Major Group Companies) of what kind of work environment employees want and subordinates, measures are taken that include active communication in the workplace and the eﬀort to As of at the end of March 2017 what they need from the company. This survey was reassessing the organizational structure and employee heighten career awareness, through the demonstration FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 given to the 974 employees (as of FY2016) of CITIZEN placement. At the same time, we carry out initiatives to of skills even under work hours limitations. The Men 0 0 3 4 WATCH, CITIZEN HOLDINGS, and CITIZEN BUSINESS prevent stress, such as implementing lectures on mental workshops also go beyond the workplace, serving as Women 35 51 50 54 EXPERT (all companies are now merged into CITIZEN health care by industrial physicians targeting opportunities for employees trying to balance work and Total 35 51 53 58 WATCH), and has been extremely helpful in increasing management and e-learning for employees to study parenting to share experiences with one another. The understanding of what employees believe is a pleasant self-care. As a result, our comprehensive approach to workshops are also a chance for employees who choose □ Utilization of the Family Care Leave System work environment and what makes work meaningful. energizing the organization and human resources has not to reduce working hours while raising children to (Nine Major Group Companies) As of at the end of March 2017 It has also validated the direction of the measures to improved the overall stress levels and been proved understand the merits of fulﬁlling a work-life balance, FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 improve organizational capacity and human resource fruitful. reassess work styles, and consider making work more Men 0 0 1 2 development. As a result, we promote open eﬃcient. The Workshop for Employees Raising Women 2 2 3 0 Children are held once a year, and to date 81 Total 2 2 4 2 employees have participated. Group Rotation, Aiming to Nurture Future Leaders for Group-Wide Growth Other workshops are also held for the supervisors of The CITIZEN Group began a new endeavor in FY2016 business, but also the machine tool and the device and employees raising children with the goal of producing called Group Rotation, which focuses on nurturing the component businesses. In FY2016, six employees active interaction with subordinates career next generation of human resources that will lead the participated in Global Rotation, and stated that they development and improving awareness of various kinds CITIZEN Group in the future and work on the global gained experience enabling them to contribute to the of human resource utilization and cultivation. There stage. We achieve this by accumulating knowledge of, growth of the Group through the tasks they had never were 51 participants in the ﬁrst workshop held in and experience in, the wide array of the CITIZEN Group been assigned. The Group Rotation program will be FY2016. The CITIZEN Group continues to promote the businesses that include not only the watches and clock continued and take around ﬁve participants each year. creation of a work environment that can meet the need Our Material Issues Advancing Responsible Procurement Advancing Responsible Procurement As part of the CITIZEN Group s corporate activities conduct a renewal examination that checks areas oriented towards becoming a solid global company, such as ISO 9001, ISO 14001, human rights, and one initiative we are pursuing is CSR procurement. corruption prevention in order to grasp the status of Supply chain-related corporate procurement activities our CSR procurement initiatives. When corrections or connected with social issues such as eﬀects on the improvements are necessary, we request reports on environment and problems with work environments corrective measures. Such procurement activity are subject to increasing attention from consumers initiatives are not just a response to social issues ̶ and society. they create a variety of added values such as eﬀective Within the CITIZEN Group, CITIZEN ELECTRONICS use of resources and corrections in manufacturing has led the way by inaugurating serious CSR process management that enable lead time reduction; procurement initiatives in June 2010. CITIZEN we wish to evaluate and share such examples in order ELECTRONICS corporate activities conforming to its to achieve further results. adoption of international certiﬁcations such as ISO In March 2016, coinciding with the publication of 9001 and ISO 14001 are the basis of its CSR the Citizen watch CSR Procurement Guidelines, we procurement system. promoted CSR procurement initiatives even more Most of CITIZEN ELECTRONICS clients are repeat proactively throughout the CITIZEN Group by customers. The company will build positive relations conducting brieﬁngs at each Group company, with its clients, work to grow together with them, sequentially distributing guidelines to clients from discuss CSR procurement initiatives via daily each company overseeing operations, and requesting communication, distribute CSR procurement the provision of declarations. In April 2017, we guidelines to all clients, and request declarations of succeeded in publishing the Group-wide Citizen agreement with said guidelines. Group CSR Procurement Guidelines. All of CITIZEN At CITIZEN ELECTRONICS, once each year, we Group will continue to reinforce this initiative. A Vision for Ethical Product Making At CITIZEN WATCH, we are engaging in manufacturing rights, such as disclosure of the watch materials, a DRC that places responsible procurement activities at the conﬂict-free declaration rejecting the use of minerals forefront. CITIZEN L line, which features the from conﬂict zones, and disclosure of the amount of realization of the ethical product making and CO 2 emitted from the creation to the disposal of the Citizen Group s Procurement Basic Policy light-powered Eco-Drive, is created. Its individuality is product. CITIZEN L brand is now available in nearly expressed with approaches that assist in solving social 50 countries around the world, and it has received Citizen group provides various kinds of products/services under its corporate philosophy Loved by citizens, working for problems related to the environment and human accolades such as the Good Design Award 2016. citizens. For the procurement of articles and services necessary for this, we have decided the following procurement basic policy in order to carry out fair, transparent, and free trading. What is the CITIZEN L ? 1. Fair and transparent trading For the procurement of articles and services, we select our partners based on ethical standard measuring Not only does CITIZEN L feature an environmentally friendly core technology that CITIZEN their compliance with laws and regulations, and social norms besides quality, price, and delivery date. has developed for many years ̶ Eco-Drive that does not require regular replacement of batteries ̶ on every model, but it is also a watch brand that realizes ethical product making 2. Compliance with laws and regulations, and social norms that takes account of the planet, the environment, people, and society throughout material We will comply with laws and regulations, and social norms of each country. procurement and the manufacturing process. This is evidenced with features such as disclosure of materials used in the 3. Respect for human rights and considerations for work environments watches, a DRC conﬂict-free minerals audit, and disclosure of CO 2 emissions. We are oﬀering it around the world with We respect internationally declared human rights standards and promote procurement activities with considerations this commitment: CITIZEN will do what we can for the earth, for society, and for people . for work environments. 4. Promotion of Green Procurements with considerations for the environment To promote environmentally-friendly manufacturing, we adopt components with less environmental loads Features of in a preferential manner, to contribute to the reduction of loads on the global environment. 5. Co-existence and co-prosperity with partners CITIZEN L s Ethical Commitment Disclosure of CO2 Emissions DRC conﬂict-free＊＊ Reduced-size Sustainable materials Disclosure minerals audit user manual packaging We will build a better partnership with all the partners with whom we can share the goal, either in Japan or overseas. ＊ CFP program recognition from the (General Incorporated Disclosure of A ﬁrst in the world A strong will to Reduction of paper Production of a Association) Japan Environmental Management Association primary components of watches: eradicate usage of usage through recyclable watch for Industry comprising the recognition from a conﬂict minerals digitalization package watch as well as the third party ＊＊ Usage of minerals not connected to strife in conﬂict mineral amounts included organization＊ exporting countries Our Material Issues Key issues in the latter half of the CITIZEN Group Medium-Term Environmental Plan Promoting Environmental Innovation ① Strengthening the management framework for overseas oﬃces ② Strengthening Group environmental governance ③ Creating environmentally friendly products and improving our strength as a brand that takes an environmental perspective ④ Enhancing control of global greenhouse gas and other emissions ⑤ Strengthening biodiversity conservation and regional environmental activities The CITIZEN Group s Approach to Environmental Initiatives Strengthening Global Initiatives through the Medium-Term Environmental Plan By utilizing our small precision/ low power In 1996, Eco-Drive was the ﬁrst watch to be Together with the CITIZEN Group s Medium-Term we named ﬁve key issues to further focus on technologies cultivated over many years, the CITIZEN recognized as an Eco Mark* product and in 2014 was Management Plan, CITIZEN Global Plan 2018, in environmental activities both in Japan and overseas Group has always conscientiously created products awarded the Gold Prize, the highest Eco Mark Award. 2013 we drew up the CITIZEN Group Medium-Term oﬃces. that take people and the environment into It has been an environmentally friendly product that Environmental Plan. For the former three-year period With the goal of strengthening environmental consideration based on our corporate philosophy, symbolizes CITIZEN. starting in 2013, we solidiﬁed the basis for Group management systems in overseas oﬃces, we have Loved by citizens, working for citizens. In 2016, we created the world s thinnest endeavors that tackle environmental issues through drawn up and executed plans to reduce environmental CITIZEN s Eco-Drive is a sterling example. Its light-powered analog watch called Eco-Drive One actions such as acquiring ISO 14001 certiﬁcation load based on precise and comprehensive origins go back to the 1970s when quartz watches and announced CITIZEN L, which has achieved throughout the Group and issuing the Green environmental performance data, as well as promoting began growing in popularity. Early on, CITIZEN grasped ethical disclosure of Procurement Guideline. Furthermore, we started Eco the acquisition of ISO 14001. In addition, we are the issue of battery waste, which is the fate of quartz, information. These Action 100, which advocates activities of diﬀerent closely sharing information and swiftly responding to and began selling the world s ﬁrst analog watch products can be issues based on 100 themes, and have reported on issues in overseas oﬃces through means such as web featuring a solar cell in 1976. After numerous called a culmination the progress made toward achieving them to the conference and inspections of overseas oﬃces with improvements, we succeeded in creating a system that of the endeavors of CITIZEN Group Environmental Management persons in charge at supervisory business companies. would continue to run as long as there is light without the CITIZEN Group Committee, headed by the director responsible for These eﬀorts have already produced results and periodically changing the battery. We call it Eco-Drive, to date. environmental matters. We have promoted the contributed to the reduction of environmental load in and it is installed in many watch products Eco Drive One endeavors with a sense of Group unity, and we have overseas oﬃces. representative of CITIZEN. already completed 60 themes with steady progress. Going forward, the CITIZEN Group will continue its During the latter three-year period starting in 2016, dedicated approach to tackling environmental issues. ＊Eco Mark is a mark given by Japan Environment Association, attached on a product which is available in our daily lives as well as certiﬁed as contributing to environmental preservation in terms of less environmental burden. ＊Please see our website for details on environmental initiatives (http://http://www.citizen.co.jp/global/csr/basic/csr/materiality6/). Environmental Performance Trend and Medium-Term Goals (Japan) Medium□ Volume of Greenhouse Gas Emissions □ Rate of Resource Recycling Term Goal □ Volume of Chemicals Handled Subject to the PRTR Law 100% Greenhouse Gas (kt-CO 2 ) Rate of Resource Recycling (%) Chemicals Subject to the PRTR Law (t) 99 99 99 100 140 Medium-Term Goal 100 160 150 Medium-Term Goal 120 89 138 142 141 ▲30% compared ▲36% compared 120 to FY2005 80 to FY2012 100 120 89 85 84 84 88 80 60 80 60 40 40 40 20 20 0 0 0 2005 2014 2015 2016 2018 2005 2014 2015 2016 2018 2012 2014 2015 2016 2018 Environmental Performance Trend (Overseas) □ Volume of Greenhouse Gas Emissions □ Volume of Emissions □ Volume of Chemicals Used Greenhouse Gas (kt-CO 2 ) Volume of Emissions (t) Volume of Chemicals Used (t) 50 48 12000 2500 2324 2245 43 42 9865 10000 40 2000 1745 7864 8000 30 1500 6000 5201 20 1000 4000 10 2000 500 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Achieving a reduction of environmental load in manufacturing through low frequency vibration (LFV) technology CSR Department 6 1 -12 , Tana s h i c ho, Nishi tokyo, Tokyo 188 8511, Ja pa n TEL +8142 468 4776 Web site h t t p : / / w w w . ci t i zen.co.j p/globa l/csr/ Pu bl ished : A u g u s t 2017 is a registered trademaek of CITIZEN WATCH CO., LTD
