CONSULT • DESIGN • MANUFACTURE • DELIVER IMAGINATION IS THE ONLY LIMIT VISION: PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE Shareholder Report on Year 3 of Progress 2 MISSION: BRINGING IDEAS TO LIFE Our simple solutions are designed to take our clients brilliant concepts into real life. We work with our partners, suppliers and clients to ensure that their needs are met and that our processes reflect our commitment to the UN Global Charter at every stage of the process. 3 4 VISION: What keeps us focussed is the vision we are committed to. This vision speaks of the journey we take each client through, from that creative spark to meeting any need at any given time. These are the four stages by which we align our vision to our clients, to ensure that imagination truly is the only limit. CONSULT: Seize the opportunity The best creations are ones that come about through teamwork. We invest time into consulting our clients to ensure that we know a project inside out before embarking on the journey. DESIGN: Discover the potential We aim to provide simple solutions when pioneering. Our processes are simple and slick but effective. MANUFACTURE: Realise the vision We strive to provide the best product and experience for the customer, never forgetting our commitments to a safe global economy and the UN Global Charter. DELIVER: Bring it to life We have a great team in the UK and in mainland China, and the combined efforts of all our members help us bring our clients vision into reality quickly and efficiently. 5 VALUES: Getting to know us as a company, means knowing what we are all about and knowing how committed we are to the UN Global Compact. We believe that these values say it pretty well. S Synergy We work closely together behind the scenes creating a reliable partnership. E Enterprise We provide innovative solutions for businesses with our wealth of knowledge. L Legacy We provide companies with a long-term solution that continues to produce results. E Efficient We guide companies through the entire process using our thirty years of expertise. C Creative We use big-picture thinking to take imagination and make it reality. T Together We work in unity with our clients… 6 7 8 HELLO: CONTENTS: STAKEHOLDER REPORT ON YEAR 3 OF PROGRESS 11 The ten principles This year we are pleased to report that, thanks to the efforts of 12 Human rights our team, Selectronic has made significant inroads into meeting our targets, both at home and in China. 2018 offers many more 13 Labour opportunities for us to grow, to continue to improve our efficiency, 14 Environment sustainability and output and further the aims of the UN Global Compact agreement in our operations in China. 15 Anti-corruption Our continued commitment to the terms of the UN Global Compact 17 Selectronic: Agreement and efforts to raise awareness thereof in China, have Imagination is the only limit resulted this year in one of our China suppliers participating actively 33 Performance targets in the Agreement and we look forward to working together with them to this end. In 2018 we will be producing a register of suppliers who are 37 Results proactive in the promotion of anti-corruption and human rights compliance. 39 Objectives – 2018 vision Our enterprising staff has shown a great willingness to innovate and 43 Thank you’s embrace new technology this year and the replacement of our internal computer system has been a tremendous success, bringing a resultant increase in efficiency. In 2018 we are raising the technical standard within our staffing body by recruiting more qualified engineers and reaping the benefits of membership of the Cambridge Wireless Network. We have continued throughout 2017 to strive to provide the best product and experience for the customer whilst honouring our commitment to the UN Global Charter. We are pleased to report an improvement in auditing, thanks to the work of our China based auditor, and a significant reduction in our CO2 emissions. In 2018 we will carry out our first trial shipment by rail from Shenzhen to the UK, with a view to making the business more sustainable in the long term. At Selectronic we will be working hard in 2018 to be great team players within our community and will be promoting causes local to us by entering a team of company volunteers in a local charity event. We also hope to implement a training programme for one local school leaver on work experience, an opportunity for us to create a legacy by sharing our wealth of experience with the next generation. Kevin Dry Managing Director 9 “Leadership is about inspiring people to do things they never thought they could do” Steve Jobs 10 THE TEN PRINCIPLES: RENEWAL OF COMMITMENT TO THE TEN PRINCIPLES These are the ten principles which we incorporate into everything we do. They help us remain pioneering in our approach and encourage unity and cooperation in our global brand. We work hard to incorporate the paramount aspects of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption into our overall strategy and day-to-day workings. Three years on we believe our influence is growing. 11 HUMAN RIGHTS: As a company that prides itself on its technological achievements, we never forget the means by which our success is delivered. A successful business is one which ensures that its success is attained by ethical means. This means that there can be no compromise when it comes to human rights. By engaging our suppliers with the UN Global Compact, we aim to ensure that human rights are observed and promoted across our teams and stake holders. PRINCIPLE 1 Business should support and respect the protection of international human rights. PRINCIPLE 2 Business should ensure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 12 LABOUR: We believe that a good business is made up, first and foremost, of people. In order to keep ours at the top end of the competitive market, we make sure we take care of our team here in the UK and now also in China. To encourage unity and teamwork across all the sectors of our company, we place human rights at the forefront of all our operations, and we never forget to take care of our staff. PRINCIPLE 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition. PRINCIPLE 4 Elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labour. PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 13 ENVIRONMENT: With the global ecological crisis peering over our shoulder, we want to make sure we do our bit for the environment. Whether its simple things like educating individuals in our teams to recycle more, changing our offices and vehicles we use to reduce our carbon footprint, or considering sustainability when planning our future growth, we consider the environment in everything we do. We know this will be a wise investment for the generations to come, so they can enjoy a safe future. PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally –friendly technologies. 14 ANTI-CORRUPTION: Our name is important to us and if we take care of that we know that our reputation is secure. Coupled with our values, being open and honest about our dealings leaves us with nothing to worry about. With transparency we have nothing to hide, allowing us to sleep at night and ensuring that we leave a positive legacy in place for generations to come. PRINCIPLE 10 Business should work against all forms of corruption including extortion and bribery. 15 “It’s kind of fun to do the impossible” Walt Disney 16 SELECTRONIC: IMAGINATION IS THE ONLY LIMIT Established in 1979 in the field of LEDs, Selectronic have now become the experts in all optoelectronic technologies. One of the toughest businesses in which to secure consistent high end performance, but thanks to our customer-oriented personal service, we have been able to exist close to forty years in the electronic market sector. 17 18 OVERVIEW: CHARGED FOR SUCCESS Compared to our major competitors, who are all global manufacturing players, Selectronic has concentrated on being flexible and having an accurate knowledge of our markets, linked to a core understanding of the technology behind the products, and a continuous commitment to the UN Global Charter. We have successfully expanded and established a good reputation in the automotive, industrial, retail, and consumer sectors – areas in which we continue to grow and develop, through a continuous commitment in staff training and sustainability. Today, in 2017, our vast experience combined with our commitment to innovation, has helped us keep our clients on the cutting edge of technology. HOW WE WORK: POWERED TO PERFORM We specialise in sales and logistics, supplying major global companies with optoelectronic and switch panels for use in the key business sectors of automotive, consumer, industrial and retail. Combined with close to forty years of experience, our vision will take our products forward into diverse and innovative areas. When it comes to LEDs, simple but effective consumer electrical solutions or trustworthy medical equipment – we are the go to company. 19 AUTOMOTIVE GATHERING MOMENTUM At Selectronic we work with some of the most pioneering companies in the automotive industry which means that we work in the toughest of environments (as found in the truck market) through to high end luxury cars where tactile design and performance are key. PAST where technology drives the vehicle more efficiently than a human being. Selectronic started to become involved in the automotive market in 1985 and since has been gaining experience, Designers are investigating how control can pass between supplying customised LCD’s and keypads into many the vehicle and the driver and, whilst touch technology is vehicles. still a good interface, other technologies such as voice and gesture are being developed. Our dedicated team know all about the complexities of the automotive business process, and continue to offer At Selectronic, we work on solutions together with the great solutions to top brands. designers to introduce the latest technologies, which not only optimize the end user experience, but also enhance PRESENT the ‘name’ of the brand. Technology in our cars is advancing daily, and most vehicles Automotive grade products offered by Selectronic: are now manufactured with increasingly large central information touch displays, allowing the users to control LED’s – single and multi-coloured. navigation, music, aircon and many other applications. Standard and customized TFT’s and LCD’s. Instrument clusters are also moving towards configurable Standard and customized touch panels and cover glass. displays, allowing the driver to set their own preferences as well as the overall look. Curved TFT’s/Touch panels. Comfort and well-being are also popular requirements and Free form customized TFT’s with cut-outs/holes multi-coloured LED’s are being designed into vehicles for zonal and mood lighting. Our future is linked to seeing companies’ desire to become more ecologically responsible. That means using FUTURE technology that keeps our roads safer but is also kind to the environment. Traditionally we have worked with Vehicle manufacturers are continually striving to become car and truck companies, but we are keen to explore ecologically responsible and are looking to design opportunities with the motorcycle and autonomous autonomous/semi-autonomous vehicles (driverless cars) vehicle industries. AUT 20 CONSUMER BRINGING THE FUTURE HOME Our experienced team know how to make a brand feel at home. We work with market leaders to supply optoelectronic solutions that not only look good at the lowest price point, but are long-lasting and environmentally sustainable. PAST AMOLED and TFT displays with Touch technology every day on their phones, there is increasing demand to As a society we have become more environmentally introduce this technology onto a greater variety of items focused, and with our commitment to the UN Global within the home. Selectronic is working to introduce cost Compact we continue to educate companies of their effective solutions using these technologies, enabling responsibility. The consumer market are more switched consumers to have better control over their home on than ever before and now the home is featuring many environment. energy saving devices from lighting to thermostats and even the mix between app technology and hardware. Set top boxes – Looking good and fully functional. The displays on Set Top boxes are honed to provide users with PRESENT an informative, easily readable and pleasing experience. Selectronic has helped develop displays which have We provide sophisticated ideas for families who lead busy become iconic. lives but need simple solutions. Our vision encompasses displays for washing machines, ovens, microwaves, hobs, FUTURE coffee machines and even Set Top boxes. We wish to pursue our commitment to sustainability and The hob – a simple red LED light underneath the control will be offering a wider range of simple solutions for the surface of a hob can help achieve the perfect temperature home, with a view to getting more customers committed and keep youngsters well away from hot and dangerous to controlling their home environment. We ensure that we surfaces. only use raw materials sourced from conflict free areas to produce all our solutions, in line with our ethos. AMOLED Displays As consumers use sophisticated H ME 21 INDUSTRIAL MAKING LIGHT WORK Selectronic has experience in market sectors as diverse as medical, audio, test and measuring equipment and security products, giving us the experience to produce a quality product to enhance both practical and visual aspects of our customers device. PAST FUTURE We have built our reputation in the industrial sector With the industrial sector being so vast, we aim to work by focusing on the customer’s needs and invoking our closely with our partners and suppliers to ensure that the commitment to precision, target deadlines and a job ten principles are met at every stage of the supply chain. well done, all crucial aspects in providing a top look to customers hand held and fixed products. All of our manufacturing partners have completed questionnaires with good scores for human rights, PRESENT labour welfare and anti-corruption, and we will continue developing our goods to reflect this commitment at every Selectronics’ industrial optoelectronic department stage of production. provides the solutions designed for purpose by people who understand the market sector needs. We specialise in medical, fire & security, audio, smart meter, home automation, test and measurement for hand held instruments and touch interfaces – providing innovative solutions for displays, touch requirements, protective cover glasses and key mat requirements. W RK 22 RETAIL SHOP, LOOK AND LISTEN From cashpoint to cashier we make sure that the customer journey is an experience that they want to repeat regularly. With modern technology advancing at a rapid rate, as much emphasis needs to be placed on upgrading LED displays as on creating new ideas to ensure that our products are as sustainable as possible. PAST solutions to fit in with their needs, working to a budget to make it commercially viable. Selectronic was asked by a major POS company to assist them with the design and development of shelf edge LED – PCBA working with clients to develop bespoke and cabinet lighting for a global brand of cosmetics. LED design to suit their requirements. By using the latest LED technology and an innovative POS – New POS tablet systems are making waves design solution (never losing sight of our commitment to across retail, enhancing the customer experience and sustainable practices) we were able to meet these goals enabling receipts to be emailed or delivered via text, which and help our clients win the global contract to replace the contributes towards preserving our planet’s fragile eco existing shelving in both Asia and Europe. system. Our POS systems can be designed to handle Apple Pay, Bitcoin, Levelup, or prepaid cards. PRESENT FUTURE Selectronic has expanded into the retail sector, and we now specialize in display panels for shelf edge. We are working Selectronic knows how important it is to keep up with the with a software company to offer a complete solution with ever-changing rate at which technology is progressing, our shelf edge displays and are now talking to several blue which is why we continue to invest in training for our team chip companies. to keep up with the pace and provide long-term, reliable and slick solutions. Screen Technologies – We are working with a number of blue chip companies to come up with bespoke screen SH P 23 “If you want to go fast, go alone. If you want to go far, go together.” African Proverb 24 HIGHLIGHTS: 2017 ACHIEVEMENTS In 2017 we have worked closely together behind the scenes to increase our efficiency and all of our departments now report a 20% improvement in customer satisfaction levels and forward business projections, not to mention a reduction in paper usage, thanks to a major upgrade of our computer system. Now that the training is largely complete, previous systems of operation have been revised and improved. We have reduced our carbon footprint, in that half of our company fleet is now comprised of hybrid vehicles, constituting four vehicles in total. Furthermore, our China office is now fully operational so the number of long haul flights taken by company members has reduced as a result. In China, awareness of the UN Global Compact Agreement within our supplier base has expanded since we increased our proactivity under the terms of the agreement and one of our suppliers has become actively involved in promoting the principles of the UN Global Compact Agreement. 25 GROWING INFLUENCE AGAIN WE ARE SETTING OUR GOAL AS CONTINUOUS FORWARD SUCCESS AND LOOKING TO IMPROVE ALL ASPECTS OF OUR BUSINESS, NEVER FORGETTING OUR COMMITMENT TO A SAFE GLOBAL ECONOMY AND THE UN GLOBAL CHARTER. 26 IMPROVEMENTS: A key area of development which started in 2015 was to improve our auditing and QA development, via a China based auditor. This has started to deliver positive results this year. Consultation and closer communication has brought many benefits, not just to QA performance, but also a better mutual understanding. We have also been able, through improved auditing, to implement a Supplier Rating system in the last three months, with the clear aim of improving performance, providing the best product and experience for the customer. Our biggest investment this year has been replacing the internal computer system, with the aim of updating the running of the business. The team has risen to the challenge that this has presented, namely, a real opportunity to review all previous procedures and discover how we can improve all aspects of our business. The team has shown great willingness to learn something new and to reassess all that has gone before. We are constantly challenged by the market in which we operate to meet global changes. In order to grow and continue to provide innovative solutions to our customers, Selectronic needs to be able to offer new technology to meet the latest developments. We value forward planning and communication as an essential means of ensuring that the company meets its targets and achieves recognition from all its stakeholders, employees and partners as a strong business that is well able to meet the growth challenges on offer. CUSTOMERS: We continue to consider the environment in everything we do and have been obstructed this year by the recent trend of fluctuation in the global market that has not allowed our customers to extend their lead times. This lack of flexibility has prevented us from moving away from air freight and has challenged us to find other means to meet the goals set by our customers. We are hoping in the future to move goods by rail from China but this scheme remains at an early development stage. We will, however, be able to mitigate our emissions through CO2 reduction strategies such as investing in new trees via the “Woodland Trust “. Our enterprising team faces the challenge of an uncertain global business climate requiring them to react positively to demands and to manage short term slowdowns, necessitating continuous effort and proactive communication to ensure our service levels are maintained. At Selectronic we recognise that maintaining our business development requires the strengthening of our level of engineering capability in order to ensure that we innovate effectively and work with our suppliers to exceed the technical requirements of our customers. With this in mind, we are recruiting more qualified engineers and training our team to a higher technical standard. The company has also joined the Cambridge Wireless Network with a view to attending events to further our role and understanding of latest developments. SUPPLIERS: This year we have started to see the benefits of our supplier audit programme in China, expanded in 2016 to support their continual improvements, with a recorded improvement in RMA and QA complaints. It has proven most beneficial working in a more proactive way with on site supplier audits and maintaining closer relationships with our suppliers. In addition, in order to achieve continuous improvement, we have introduced a rating scheme to enable us to feedback to suppliers how they are progressing. To increase our emphasis on social responsibility and to reinforce our no compromise stance on human rights we have introduced a specific questionnaire on anti corruption, employee freedoms and child labour, so that we can implement progressive monitoring and maintain an emphasis on these key issues. With our logistic suppliers we continue to monitor the need to continuously improve our sustainability programme and explore how they can play a key role in helping us achieve our targets to reduce emissions. We are bringing to the fore an increasing emphasis on consolidating shipments and a key part of our forward programme is the plan to stock more in warehouses, closer to our customers, rather than bringing all products in house, with the emphasis always being on time shipment, so essential to our customer base. 27 28 COLLEAGUES: The key aim of 2017 has been to integrate the China team into the UN programme and make them more involved in the aims and objectives we have for the future. Our aim to improve the working environment for the team, by reducing frustrations and making the work profile more rewarding, is being achieved via our new software system, into which the whole team has had an input. Our selection of a provider with significant global experience will be a truly long term solution to our future development. It is hoped that, now the training is largely complete and the system is beginning to bed in, we will see the benefits filtering through to the whole team at Selectronic who use the system every day. We have continued to develop the employee questionnaire programme and to invite more involvement in the aims and implementation of the UN Global Agreement as well as look to improve the welfare of all our team here. 29 ENVIRONMENT We continue to invest in future generations and are committed to providing them with a safe future. We are pleased to report that since fitting our solar panels we have saved over 33,000kg of CO2. We have now over half our fleet of company vehicles as petrol /hybrids and charging stations at the office. Our carbon footprint has improved in that the number of flights taken by members of the team to the Far East has been reduced by over a half now the China office is fully operational. Lastly, awareness of the UN Global Compact agreement within our supplier base has expanded and a consequential improvement in CSR and sustainability issues has been evident since we increased our proactivity under the terms of the agreement. 30 31 ANTI CORRUPTION: We recognise the importance of treating everyone fairly and rewarding achievements, not personal favours. We pride ourselves on being a company that has never engaged in any corrupt practices, nor operated our supply base with any degree of non-authorised payment. Throughout 2017 we have continued to build on that reputation. We have re-affirmed once and again that this should never be an acceptable part of our business operation. To ensure that everyone in the team shares our values, we have put efforts into reminding all employees and suppliers that this is a non-negotiable policy, and any changes on this front will not be tolerated. 32 PERFORMANCE TARGETS: WITH THE TEAM AND OFFICE NOW ESTABLISHED IN CHINA THE BENEFITS THEY BRING TO THE BUSINESS CYCLE HAVE STARTED TO BECOME APPARENT. THE KEY DIFFERENCE IS CLOSER COMMUNICATION THAT BRINGS THE BENEFITS ALL ASPECTS OF OUR BUSINESS AND BUILDS A STRONGER LEVEL OF UNDERSTANDING ACROSS BOTH SUPPLIERS AND CUSTOMERS. Greater levels of pro activity mean we can make renewed efforts to ensure a clear understanding of all elements of our social responsibilities and making our business more sustainable with increased understanding of our supply base. For the first time we have been able to convince one of our China based suppliers to follow our lead into working with the UN Global Agreement programme. All the elements of anti bribery, employee welfare and anti corruption are now reviewed closely with our suppliers to ensure a fully joined up approach. The challenge remains to combine technical innovation in Display and LED technology with all the required support elements of service and quality to build a highly successful business meeting all the benchmarks of the developing company in the electronics sector. For the coming 12 months there is no complacency about what we need to achieve to exceed the expectations of our supply partners and most importantly our customers. The benefits of working within the targets of the UN Global Compact agreement are a unifying force for good within the company and strengthen the ambition to be the best we can. In 2018, we will continually strive to make progressive improvement on both the sustainability and success of our business. Kelvin Stark Sales Director 33 TARGETS WE HAVE SET CHALLENGING TARGETS TO REDUCE THE CARBON EMISSIONS, BECOME MORE SUSTAINABLE AND TO COMPLY WITH THE UN GLOBAL CHARTER HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ACROSS OUR CHAIN OF SUPPLIERS. 1-3 1 SHIPPING Target We will continue to work with customers to find agreements that would allow greater forward lead times to allow sea freight as well as looking at Air /Sea methods as a second option. However, to ensure we meet our CO2 reduction targets we will in 2017 commence an offset scheme with a commitment to Woodland Trust to achieve our initial aim of offsetting 25% of our carbon footprint generated by airfreight and other product logistics emissions. Achieved Achieved Whilst it is acknowledged that we have not been able to reduce our CO2 emissions from use of air freight, as opposed to sea or rail, we have made an investment in Woodland Trust to offset 25% of this figure. 2 Target In 2017 we will create our natural set aside area on 10 % on our UK headquarter site. NATURE Not achieved The work was completed but due to this work being carried out during a period of no rain, the sown seeds did not germinate and will need to be re-done in 2018. 3 Target Having achieved a move to sustainable paper/cardboard supply route in 2016 we will now aim to reduce our paper consumption by one third from over 300 reams a year. PAPER Achieved and exceeded. Our new computer system has dramatically reduced the amount of paper required to complete reports. In addition, we have invested in a new photocopier that prints automatically on both sides of A4, again reducing paper consumptions. Use reduced by 50% to less than 150 reams a year. 34 TARGETS 4-6 EFFICIENCY Target With a major investment in a complete software upgrade programme in Selectronic starting 1st 4 November we will be targeting greater efficiencies across the whole company aiming to substantively reduce the number of paper based reports printed and targeting sales people to achieve greater efficiency within business creation. We will audit all departments to achieve a 20% improvement in customer satisfaction levels and improved growth in new business opportunities. Achieved – Dramatic change in the way the company operates day to day improving all areas of business management and control. All departments reporting a 20% improvement in customer satisfaction levels and forward business projections. 5 Target To continue liaison with UN co-ordinators in Beijing to promote the UN Global Compact Agreement and to educate our suppliers in China of the benefits of the programme with the continued aim of persuading one to sign up to the agreement in 2017. CHINA Achieved Suppliers now audited and measured more effectively. Also spent time promoting the UN Global Compact agreement and now in communication with local UN representative. One supplier has now agreed to get individually involved. UK EMMISIONS 6 Target With a continued emphasis on reducing emissions from our main UK office we will target additional insulation, efficiency measures and heating controls to reduce the amount of gas used to heat the building by 5%. Not achieved Some delays fitting the new controls (now completed ) but unable to be finished before the winter demands for gas heating. New controls should improve the consumption in 2018. Continue to look for renewable sources of supply. 35 TARGETS 7-10 WORKPLACE 7 Target Extend the employee survey scheme to involve more members in the team. We aim to bring one member of the China team onto the steering committee to help harmonise the work on achieving our aims within both centres of company operations. Achieved Now China team are fully involved in the survey programme and head up their own programmes from the office in Dongguan to our suppliers directly. Target In addition, extend the survey to include health and wellbeing aims where individuals think the company can assist them to achieve their goals. To encourage employees to take more exercise during PEOPLE working day as well as generally to ensure good heath is at the centre of what our team do on a daily basis. Aim for one team charity event that combines activity with raising money for local causes that can further promote health as well as teamwork. To take on 1 work experience school pupil to expand employment 8 support into the local community and 1 full time apprentice to support local training programmes. Partially achieved The HealthCare programme has been extended to allow UK staff access to additional support to GPs ,dental and well being programmes and one new training place has been added in the Stores to a person from the local community but the team charity event has not happened in 2017 and this will be looked again for 2018. 9 Target To install one vehicle charging point at Selectronic and to take other steps to promote usage of electric vehicle use for local trips. FLEET Achieved Utlising our solar electricity we now have two on site vehicle charging points for PHEV cars. We now have 4 company vehicles of this type. COMPLIANCE 10 Target Continue to highlight the importance of employee human rights within our supplier base as well as zero tolerance on anti-bribery and total compliance with legislation on raw materials from conflict areas. All suppliers to renew their declarations and to be encouraged to take proactive steps to monitors sub suppliers for their similar compliance. Achieved New compliance questionnaire issued to confirm suppliers are measuring their progress in these areas and being proactive in monitoring sub-suppliers. 36 RESULTS: IN 2017 WE SET OUT TO BECOME MORE EFFICIENT AND PRODUCTIVE IN OUR WORKING PRACTICE. WE AIMED TO WORK TOWARDS GREATER LEVELS OF SUSTAINABILITY BOTH AT HOME AND IN CHINA, WHERE WE AIMED TO CONTINUE TO RAISE AWARENESS OF THE UN GLOBAL CHARTER AND COMPLIANCE WITH THE PRINCIPLES THEREIN. We have reached seven out of the ten targets that we set out to achieve. Our best achievements were in the area of business management and control, thanks to the update of our computer system. We are also very pleased that our aim to reduce the amount of paper used on a daily basis has been achieved and exceeded as a result of the new computer system, with the help of the new photocopier. Our aims for the team in China have been fully achieved, in that our team is now fully involved in the survey programme and suppliers are being audited more effectively. In 2017, one of our suppliers in China agreed to become individually involved in furthering the aims of the UN Global Compact Agreement. Furthermore, the wellbeing of those working for our suppliers in China is now being measured thanks to the issue of a new compliance questionnaire and the monitoring of sub-suppliers is now taking place. Our aim to reduce our carbon footprint via a move to hybrid vehicles has been achieved through the acquisition of four hybrid vehicles and two onsite vehicle charging points at our UK office. Although we were unable to reduce CO2 emissions through shipping rather than airfreight, we have been able to offset a percentage of our emissions through an investment made to the Woodland Trust One target partially achieved The healthcare programme has now been extended for UK staff. The team charity event, however, has not taken place in 2017, and this will be looked at again for 2018. Two targets not achieved Our aim to reduce gas consumption at our UK office is a work in progress as there was some delay in fitting the new controls before the onset of winter. The new controls have now been fitted so we look forward to reporting a decrease in gas consumption in the year to come. The other target which will be revisited in 2018 is the creation of a “set aside area”. Unfortunately, the work was completed during a period of no rain which meant that the seeds did not germinate. 37 “One day or day one, you decide” Paulo Coelho 38 VISION 2018: OBJECTIVES 2017 has been a successful year for us in terms of achieving the targets set in the areas of CO2 emissions reduction, improved carbon footprint, reduction in usage of paper, employee involvement, promotion of UN Global Charter, reviewing business management and auditing. Our suppliers in China are now being audited and measured more effectively. We have also spent time promoting the UN Global Compact agreement and are now in communication with a local UN representative. Our China team are fully involved in the survey programme and head up there own programmes from the offices in Dongguan to our suppliers directly. 39 GOALS 1-4 THIS YEAR WE AIM TO PRODUCE A REGISTER OF SUPPLIERS WHO ARE BEING PROACTIVE IN THE PROMOTION OF ANTI-CORRUPTION AND HUMAN RIGHTS COMPLIANCE THROUGH THEIR BUSINESS AND THOSE OF THEIR SUPPLY BASE. As our overarching aim is to provide the best product and experience for the customer, this year we are focusing on productivity and would like to see the company grow by 10% and RMAs reduced by more than 10% year on year. 1 As a means of reducing CO2 emissions we intend to carry out our first trial shipment by SHIPPING rail from Shenzhen to UK. CONSUMPTION 2 Achieve a 5 % reduction in gas consumption at our UK head office. 3 To leave behind us the setbacks we faced in 2017, replant the seeds and renew our NATURE efforts to complete our 10% set aside nature area. 4 To be a great team player in our community and enter our company team of volunteers into a CHARITY local charity event to promote well-being and support of local causes. 40 GOALS WE INTEND TO TRAIN AND INCREASE TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE. In 2018 we aim to attend Cambridge Wireless training events in order to extend networking 5-9 opportunities for our sales team and expand market awareness. CORRUPTION 5 We aim to produce a register of suppliers who are being proactive in the promotion of anti-corruption and human rights compliance though their business and those of their supply base. 6 This year we would like to begin to support a programme of a charity or cause local to our DG office in CHINA China, in addition to our charity partners in the Witney area. EDUCATION 7 We want to invest in future generations and share our wealth of experience by implementing a training programme for one local school leaver on work experience. 8 We aim to attend five Cambridge Wireless training events and take up a stand at one UK exhibition to TRAINING expand market awareness and extend networking opportunities for our sales team. 9 We look forward in 2018 to having an on-site loan bicycle to encourage lunch time exercise on local shop WELLBEING visits, to increase sustainability and improve the overall welfare of the team. 41 GOALS WE CONTINUE TO FOCUS ON PEOPLE. 10-12 Our community efforts will extend to our China team this year. As we support local charities and causes in Witney, in the locale of our UK offices, we would like to do the same in Dongguan. We also aim to set up a work experience scheme to benefit a local school leaver. As a means of improving staff welfare we will have an on-site loan bicycle to encourage the team to take lunchtime exercise and have invested in a defibrillator to be used in our UK office to ensure that the teams needs are catered for in the most extreme circumstances. 10 HEALTH To invest in 1 defibrillator in the UK office for emergency use to ensure that the needs of the team are met in extreme circumstances. INVESTMENT 11 To consolidate the 2017 investment in new company software to set the company growth target of 10% and a 10% recorded improvement in customer satisfaction levels. COMPLIANCE 12 Our aim is to provide the best product and experience for the customer, so with increased emphasis on QA compliance and supplier audits, to look to reduce our RMAs by more than 10% year on year. 42 IMAGINATION IS THE ONLY LIMIT THANK YOU: THROUGHOUT 2018 WE WILL CONTINUE TO WORK HARD TO BUILD RELATIONSHIP WITH OUR SUPPLIERS, CUSTOMERS AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS. We would like to take a moment to thank all of those who have helped us to achieve the targets we set ourselves for 2017, from our enterprising staff and their enthusiasm to master our new computer system, to our suppliers who have become proactive in monitoring compliance with the UN Global Charter. One of our key aims this year is to consolidate the investment in new company software to set a company growth target of 10% and a 10% recorded improvement in customer satisfaction levels. We want to provide the best product and experience for the customer so, with increased emphasis on QA compliance and supplier audits we aim to reduce our RMAs by more than 10% year on year. We will also focus on issues of sustainability and in 2018 we will be in a position to reduce the gas consumption of our UK office. In 2018 we would like to continue to support programmes and charitable causes local to UK office and begin to do the same in our DG office in China. We also want to invest in future generations by implementing a programme of work experience for local school leavers. We will continue to further the aims of the UN Global Charter over the course of 2018 and persist in overcoming any challenges that might arise. 43 CONSULT • DESIGN • MANUFACTURE • DELIVER IMAGINATION IS THE ONLY LIMIT Book End, Witney, Oxfordshire, OX29 0YE, UK WWW.SELECTRONIC.CO.UK Designed and produced by www.cre8ion.co.uk
