8 Commerce Way, Lancing Business Park, Lancing. West Sussex, BN15 8TQ  +44 (0) 01903 768130 sales@kestrelcircuits.co.uk www.merlinpcbgroup.com July 2017 To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Kestrel International Circuits Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and day to day operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our current communication methods. Yours Sincerely Ian Lorimer Quality Director At Kestrel International Circuits, we continue to support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We continue to include this in our code of conduct and will do so in the future. It is communicated to our business partners that they are required to adhere to this declaration also. Adherence is one of the aspects we include in our annual audit of suppliers. We have now included the basic principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in our company business presentation which ensures communication and explanation to business partners. We encourage all employees to actively support the principles as stated in our code of conduct and report any transgressions to senior management. We are pleased to confirm that no transgressions have been reported. The principles of the Global Compact are stated in employees’ contracts along with their employment rights. The contracts are re issued annually and employees are required to sign understanding and acceptance of these values. Procedures for reporting any grievances relating to the principles are laid out in the contracts and reported grievances will be independently investigated and the outcome recorded. Appeal procedures are also communicated in the contracts. No grievances have been reported in the past year. Registered Office: 39 Sackville Road, Hove, East Sussex, BN3 3WD Registered in Cardiff No. 3030031 VAT No. 656 5142 30 IMPORTERS OF HIGH QUALITY PRINTED CIRCUIT BOARDS 8 Commerce Way, Lancing Business Park, Lancing. West Sussex, BN15 8TQ  +44 (0) 01903 768130 sales@kestrelcircuits.co.uk www.merlinpcbgroup.com Due to the nature of the business of Kestrel International Circuits our impact upon the environment is minimal. We do however recycle wherever possible. Although our environmental impact is minimal we are also committed to improvement in this area and as a result are actively seeking approval and registration to ISO14001. Our adherence to REACH, ROHS and requirements of the Conflict Minerals Policy are now independently assessed and certified. We also require our suppliers to evidence their adherence to REACH, ROHS and Conflict Minerals Policy and they are audited regarding this on an annual basis. All suppliers this past year have shown active involvement in adherence. Kestrel International Circuits Ltd have a zero tolerance policy regarding bribery and corruption. Any attempt to bribe an employee must be reported to senior management where it will be fully investigated. If it is proved that any supplier has attempted to bribe an employee they risk being immediately removed from the register of approved suppliers. There have been no reported attempts to bribe any employee. Details of all of the above are reported, discussed and recorded at the bi monthly managed meetings. Ian Lorimer Quality Director July 2017 Registered Office: 39 Sackville Road, Hove, East Sussex, BN3 3WD Registered in Cardiff No. 3030031 VAT No. 656 5142 30 IMPORTERS OF HIGH QUALITY PRINTED CIRCUIT BOARDS
