UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2017 2 Hogan Lovells Contents Statement from our CEO 3 Overview4 Awards and recognition 5 Part of our DNA 7 Universal values Prosperity for all Safeguarding our planet Ethical behavior Human rights & labor – Principles 1-6 14 Legal solutions Chain reaction Connected locally Environment – Principles 7-9 18 Legal solutions Chain reaction Connected locally Anti-corruption – Principle 10 22 Further information 23 UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2017 3 Statement from our CEO UN Global Compact 2017 It is easy to talk about responsibility, to put the words down on paper, and then to simply walk away. That isn’t who we are. Every day we have to advise our clients on their responsibilities, their rights, their ethical and professional obligations, and the consequences of getting them wrong. We take the same approach with our own business and try to hold ourselves to the highest standards. As an organization where professional ethics sit at the heart of who we are, we are faced with a staggering range of regulatory requirements. They can range from the codified product of hundreds of years of legal custom and practice to rules which are hot off the metaphoric legislative press. We are a business which operates in more than 25 countries across six continents. We are able to bring our resources, knowledge, experience, and perspectives to bear on social as well as legal issues. We have a very long standing commitment to doing so and to the advancement of rule of law. That is why we are members of the UN Global Compact. This is our second Communication on Progress against the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). It demonstrates our achievements, but I am the first to recognize that there is a long way still to go. It is a challenge to which we are fully committed. Yours sincerely, Stephen Immelt CEO, Hogan Lovells Overview We became signatories to the UN Global Compact in December 2015. These are just some of the ways in which we have upheld our commitment to doing business responsibly since our last Communication on Progress. 183,300 * 126,804 * Citizenship Hours Pro Bono Hours Human Rights Labor We have implemented a global Our global LGBT+ and allies network human rights policy was launched Environment Anti-Corruption We’re focusing on including Our Navigating bribery and more social enterprises in our corruption risk in M&A report sets supply chain out key issues firms need to consider as part of their due diligence We understand that business engagement is critical if we are to tackle today’s most pressing issues and to achieve the aims of the SDGs. This year, we launched Rule of Law 2030: a new initiative to maximise our future impact by forming strategic partnerships with business around the world to advance the rule of law. *Figures detail global pro bono and Citizenship hours undertaken from January 2017 – October 2017. UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2017 5 Awards and recognition Our commitment to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and the SDGs is backed up by the recognition which we receive around the world. We are honored that there are too many to list here, but some awards from 2017 of which we are particularly proud are: –– The Financial Times Innovative Lawyers –– Top 100 Law Firm on American Lawyer’s 2017: Rule of Law and Access to Justice – Diversity Scorecard Highly Commended –– Exceptional Service Award from the –– The Lawyer Pro Bono Initiative of the Year American Bar Association Death Penalty Representation Project –– American Bar Association International Pro Bono Rule of Law Award –– CSR Innovation at the Legal Week Innovation Awards –– TrustLaw International Firm Award –– German CSR Prize for Civic Commitment –– Ranked 17th in the Stonewall Top 100 Employers Workplace Equality Index –– Ranked third in the world at the Global Investigations Review Awards –– We featured on The Times Top 50 Employers for Women list UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2017 7 Part of our DNA Universal values Eradicating modern slavery We respect and support human rights and the SDGs, We support the eradication of modern slavery as evidenced by our endorsement of the UN Guiding and human trafficking in all its forms, and we Principles on Business and Human Rights, and as are committed to taking steps to ensure that signatories to the UN Global Compact. human rights abuses, however they may arise, are recognized and eradicated in our business Human rights policy and supply chains. Our global human rights policy reaffirms our We have a dedicated core group addressing risks commitment to respect and support human rights, in the area of modern slavery and ensuring that including in the Universal Declaration of Human appropriate measures are applied to assess, Rights; the International Covenant on Civil and manage and minimize compliance, procurement, Political Rights; the International Covenant on HR, Citizenship, and our human rights practice. Economic, Social and Cultural Rights; and the ILO’s It comprises lawyers and senior managers. Declaration on Fundamental Rights at Work. It also seeks to embed the responsibility to respect human Prosperity for all rights in our practice, business and supply chain by clarifying what we expect of our people and our We recognize our advantaged position in society. business partners. It is critical to our business and culture that we do all we can internally to support our own people and In order to monitor implementation of the externally to support our communities. human rights policy, we have established a Human Rights Sub-Committee. It comprises senior lawyers The wellbeing and happiness of our people is key to and operations staff from around our global our success and a focus on diversity and inclusion network, and will report periodically to the board on allows us to optimize that in a way which is good for issues related to human rights in our business and our people and consequently for our business. As a supply chain. We have developed bespoke online diverse team, we have sought to create an inclusive training outlining our responsibility to respect and welcoming environment where our people are human rights and what that means in the context valued for their individual contributions and where of our business and legal advice. In the next year, the provision of career development opportunities we will provide detailed human rights training is a fundamental cornerstone of our culture. to all of our people, tailored to their specific roles and geographical contexts. We will continuously assess and seek to improve our human rights due diligence procedures, and integrate the findings into our operational procedures. 8 Hogan Lovells Equal opportunities LGBT+ We have regional equal opportunity policies and On the International Day Against Homophobia, set minimum standards for diversity and inclusion Biphobia, and Transphobia (IDAHOBIT), we goals to encompass under-represented groups. We launched Pride+, our new global LGBT+ and allies also have a dignity at work policy in place in the network. Pride+ was launched with a communication UK, which will shortly be launched in Continental by our firm’s Deputy CEO and Executive Sponsor Europe, and gender transitioning in the workplace for Pride+, to all employees. Through the launch of policies in the UK and US. Pride+, we want to show that within the confines of our firm community, our LGBT+ colleagues are The implementation of our Global Diversity respected, embraced and supported, wherever they Business Plan is supported at the highest level by are in the world. our Global Diversity and Inclusion Committee, a senior group of executive management, board Pride+ has already been hugely successful with over members, and partners, responsible for ensuring 1200 colleagues registering to date. Upon sign-up, that diversity and inclusion is embedded into what members receive an Ally Guide which includes we do. Regional committees, partner diversity information on why Pride+ is important, how to be champions and teams of diversity professionals an effective ally, and appendices on understanding support these efforts at local levels. All of our new sexual orientation and gender identity. Members joiners undergo training which covers our diversity also receive Pride+ merchandise for their offices policies, procedures, and goals. and desks so they can visibly signal their support for the network. The network will host a program We are signatories to the Women’s Empowerment of both global and local events and initiatives Principles, and we put those principles into action. supported by LGBT+ individuals and their Up from 28 per cent in 2012, 35 per cent of our allies across the firm. management positions are now held by women. Globally, 24% of partners are female, with the aim Our trans inclusion initiative includes our gender of having women make up at least 30 per cent of our transitioning in the workplace policy and trans partnership by 2022. inclusion training. Our bespoke training and policy offer guidance and support on practical considerations, communications, and creating a trans inclusive environment. The policy outlines guidelines for transitioning gender in the workplace, including information on the resources and guidance the firm can offer, and points of contact that can provide confidential support and answer questions. “We are all diverse in our own way. Every day, we work with colleagues from different countries, cultures and backgrounds, all with unique experiences and perspectives. The diversity of our people is at our core; it is our greatest strength. “ David Hudd – Deputy CEO and Executive Sponsor for Pride + Pride+ launch events – just a few examples: –– Our Beijing and Shanghai offices organized film screening events, featuring the documentary Pink Dads, which interviews four Chinese fathers who talk openly and freely about their experiences with their LGBT children. In Warsaw, we screened Article 18, which presents the current situation for LGBT people in Poland. –– Our Hong Kong office organized a panel discussion with guest speakers from HSBC, Vidler & Co and The University of Hong Kong, in Singapore our colleagues were joined by Pink Dot Singapore, and in Tokyo we hosted a joint event with Women in Law Japan with speaker Mary Bonauto, a renowned American lawyer and civil rights advocate. –– Our Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh offices jointly organized a roundtable discussion facilitated by Mr. Luong The Huy, Director of LGBT Rights Programme at the Institute for Studies of Society, Economics and Environment. 10 Hogan Lovells Domestic violence Client collaboration We promoted the UK Says NO More (UKSNM) As a firm, we partner with our clients to ensure week – part of a campaign led by Hestia, our that our mutual business and diversity and inclusion London office Citizenship partner, to encourage goals are achieved. We do this by collaborative charities, government, businesses and individuals staffing with certain clients to ensure that diverse to pledge to stamp out domestic abuse. Hestia is lawyers are given exposure and significant the largest provider of domestic abuse refuges in responsibilities on matters. We have partnered London, supporting men, women and children with major clients on a number of diversity and when they are most vulnerable. Our Regional inclusion initiatives. Managing Partner for UK and Africa featured in the UKSNM promotional materials. Safeguarding our planet Balancing our needs with those of future To mark the week, we launched Domestic Abuse generations is central to the fight against Guidance for all members of the firm in the UK. climate change. Safeguarding our planet is We are committed to supporting and providing the responsibility of us all and we recognize guidance to our people who are experiencing that businesses should take steps to engage domestic abuse and to address its effects within in sustainable development to address the the workplace, and we strive to create a supportive environmental challenges we face, collectively. working environment that promotes the view that abuse against people is unacceptable and that such An understanding of global sustainability issues abuse will not be condoned. and practical action on responsible consumption is something we’re bringing to all of our people. Our Employee networks Global Sustainability Policy helps us to minimize Our Employee Networks and affinity groups are energy consumption and waste, maximize recycling active across our regions and support a wide and reuse, and travel responsibly. network of communities which encompass LGBT, women, working families, racial/ethnic minorities, wellbeing, millennials, carers and colleagues with disabilities or long-term health conditions. Open to all, they provide a forum for networking and business development, and support our understanding of the relevant issues. We have redefined and rebranded our women’s network in London as the 50:50 Network to demonstrate our modern approach to gender diversity, marked by a more inclusive vision, in which men are part of the conversation, as 50:50 partners in an equal workplace, where opportunities are equally available to both men and women. UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2017 11 Membership bodies –– Our Mexico offices educate colleagues about the In the UK, we are founder members of the Legal importance of waste separation and the impacts Sustainability Alliance on Climate Change (LSA). of waste on the environment. They have visited Our London office is required to measure and the PET recycling center and urban orchards report publicly on our carbon footprint each year, and have implemented a number of recycling which we have consistently reduced since the LSA’s projects, including for general waste, expired inception in 2007. medicines, and batteries. –– In Alicante, we are working in partnership with In the US, we are members of the Law Firm City Hall to recycle our coffee capsules on a Sustainability Network (LFSN). This is a weekly basis with the coffee waste being used non-profit organization of law firms and for compost. We are the first office in the city legal departments committed to promoting to collaborate on this project. environmental sustainability and corporate social responsibility, raising awareness and reducing –– Our Baltimore office launched an office environmental impacts throughout the United composting program, lowering our waste States and internationally. It achieves this through footprint in the area. We hosted campaigns partnerships with the LSA UK and the Australian to educate our people on the benefits and Legal Sector Alliance. best practices of composting. –– Our London office has seen a year-on-year Our global footprint energy reduction of 10% following replacement Each of our global offices is driving the of chillers and enhancement of controls. This is sustainability agenda at a local level. Some the beginning of an energy efficiency program recent examples include: within the UK offices that will target a 25% reduction by 2020. –– Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design(LEED) is an ecology-orientated building certification program run under the auspices of the US Green Building Council (USGBC). Our Washington, D.C. office was awarded LEED Gold for our production, mailroom, and records space, and our Houston and Philadelphia offices are in the process of being awarded LEED Silver. –– In the absence of an onsite recycling capacity at our new office in Louisville, our colleagues came together to form a green team that sorts and transports a variety of recyclables from the office that would have otherwise made their way to landfill. Following the launch of this baseline program, the team has sought to identify further opportunities to improve sustainable practices around the office, including an effort to cut back on disposable product offerings in break rooms. 12 Ethical behaviour We are committed to doing business responsibly. Our robust policies and procedures ensure that our people do everything that is expected of them, in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate to help prevent bribery and corruption. Our policies are clear. We comply with all applicable anti-bribery laws of all countries in which we operate and require that any joint venture partners or agents, when acting on our behalf, comply correspondingly. It is the personal responsibility of all of our partners and employees to acquaint themselves with the legal standards and restrictions applicable to their assigned duties. Our global Anti-Bribery and Corruption, Gifts and Hospitality and, Whistleblowing policies and the procedures underlying them are actively promoted through our Internal Practice Manual on our intranet. To ensure that our people are up to date, they receive notifications when there are amendments to the policies. All staff in Hogan Lovells International LLP are required to undertake e-training on anti-money laundering fundamentals on an annual basis. “We are committed to the highest ethical standards in the conduct of our business worldwide.” Guy Powell, Assistant General Counsel 14 Hogan Lovells Human rights & labor Principles 1 – 6 Legal solutions International Business and Human Rights Group Soft guiding principles on business and human advice, from due diligence of a businesses’ operations rights developed by the United Nations and other and supply chain to human rights investigations international bodies are hardening into law in and litigation. many countries, often with extraterritorial reach. Businesses face the challenge of understanding what We already have extensive experience supporting their human rights obligations are and how to meet major clients in this area. By establishing this them. Failure to comply can lead to criminal and civil group, we aim to capture existing work, grow our liability, and generate devastating adverse publicity. Business and Human Rights client base, and raise our profile and recognition in this area. We also To help clients deal with these complex issues, want to establish a dialogue with our clients, and we have combined our extensive knowledge and develop innovative tools to assist them in fulfilling capabilities to form an integrated International their responsibilities in an increasingly changing Business and Human Rights group. The group offers human rights arena. the full spectrum of business and human rights We continue to play a leading role in developing the UN Protect, Respect and Remedy Framework for Business and Human Rights: –– Participating on a panel discussion on –– Delivering a key note speech to the World strict liability for human rights violations Initiative of Mining Lawyers on human at the UN Office of the High Commissioner rights in the mining sector. in Geneva. –– Running a master class on developments –– Co-hosting a session on remedies for in corporate liability for human rights human rights violations up and down violations at Strathclyde University. the supply chain at the UN Business and –– Creating a dedicated blog for business Human Rights Forum in Geneva. and human rights issues. –– Participating in a UN Global Compact –– Delivering training to clients, including consultation on SDG 16. multinationals in the extractive sector, –– Collaborating with the UN Global Compact onbusiness and human rights. and local counsel to deliver training for the Ugandan business community on how to implement the UN Guiding Principles. UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2017 15 Rule of Law 2030 Chain reaction Rule of Law 2030 is a new evidence-based initiative As signatories to the UN Global Compact, we to align our existing rule of law projects with respect and support human rights and employee the SDGs and to maximize our future impact by rights. We support the eradication of modern collaborating with businesses and host governments slavery and human trafficking. We are committed to implement projects to strengthen the rule of law. to taking steps to ensure that human rights abuses, in any form, do not occur in either our own business The initiative builds on research which we carried or in our supply chains. out with the Economist Intelligence Unit and the British Institute of Comparative and International The UK Modern Slavery Act Law revealing that the strength of the rule of law In the UK, we have set out a procedure in ranks among the top three considerations when accordance with the requirements of the Modern multinationals make decisions about where to locate Slavery Act. The majority of our suppliers are foreign direct investment. This research was cited by UK based and supply standard goods or services. the UN Global Compact in its Business for the Rule We do not simply buy goods or services on cost of Law Framework. based principles. We recognize there are areas of Rule of Law 2030 seeks to use our network of potentially higher risk and some services involving lawyers around the globe to achieve these objectives. relatively high levels of contracted labor. We have a We have catalogued our existing rule of law projects database of first tier suppliers to maximize control and are currently seeking opportunities to partner and coordination, adopting a risk-based approach with businesses and governments on new rule of to assess and manage, whenever necessary, any law initiatives. modern slavery risks in our supply chain. Suppliers are risk assessed and categorised taking into account the nature of their business as well as country of operation, and product and “Rule of law is in our DNA. By forming Rule of Law industry characteristics. We use the Global Slavery 2030, we are demonstrating our commitment to the Index and other similar resources to determine advancement of the rule of law which is critical for our the inherent risks associated with specific clients and for us.” jurisdictions and sectors. Any supplier which Julianne Hughes-Jennett, Partner presents an appreciable risk of failing to meet our standards is required to complete a modern slavery questionnaire. The quality and transparency of responses to these questionnaires is assessed and acted upon. 16 Hogan Lovells We have developed a Supplier Code of Conduct which applies to our providers of goods and services “We harness our legal expertise and global networks and sets out the standards we expect them to to leverage economic and social benefit, underpinned observe. Where our standards are not met, suppliers by the rule of law.” will be expected to take action and evidence remedial Yasmin Waljee OBE, steps to ensure their activities falling within our International Pro Bono Director supply chain are free from modern slavery, believing that that approach will result in the safest outcome for potential victims and improved supplier behavior. “We’re proud to see our collective commitment London Living Wage making a real difference in the lives of the most vulnerable among us”. We are voluntary signatories to the London Living Wage (LLW) campaign. The LLW provides a T.Weymouth, US Pro Bono Partner benchmark for employers who choose to pay their employees at a rate which is calculated according to the cost of living. The LLW can alleviate the Some of our recent achievements: constant stress of living with financial pressures. It has been shown to improve job satisfaction, and –– Legal services for all without the need to take on a second job, people have Access to justice is the right of all persons more time to spend with their families and in their residing in South Africa, but most people cannot communities. We pay our employees at a rate higher afford legal services. Our pro bono team in than the LLW, but we also require our suppliers, such our Johannesburg office have been providing as our caterers, to state in their contracts that they advice, legal representation and assistance to pay their staff at least this rate. the indigent of South Africa for the past 10 years. We recently became the only firm in South Connected locally Africa to permanently house an internal pro bono law clinic following the move to our new Advancing peace, justice, and strong institutions is Johannesburg office. We have a dedicated pro at the core of our work. We provide advice to some of bono team of admitted lawyers and candidate the most vulnerable members of society who can find lawyers who will staff the clinic and other staff it difficult to access justice. Access to justice is at the members will also volunteer their time. The heart of the rule of law, and advancement of the rule clinic offers assistance or referrals on any kind of of law is essential to the sustainable development legal matter. agenda. We firmly believe that the realization of human rights will improve lives and strengthen societies; this is what we strive for each day. UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2017 17 –– Protecting our young –– Investing in young people We helped the Tahirih Justice Center with pro Colleagues in Paris worked with the Association bono legal research and data analysis to support for the Right to Economic Initiative (Adie) on the the passage of state laws in Virginia and Texas legal structure of France’s first social impact bond. which limits marriage to legal adults, as well as The financial structure was designed in partnership a similar law in New York, and to support the with BNP Paribas. One of the first contracts signed consideration of similar laws in other states. This was a project targeting youth unemployment. exposed the young age of many of the minors –– A mutual understanding who were married, the large age differences with Our German offices won the German CSR Prize adult spouses they married, the disproportionate for the second consecutive year in the Community impact on girls, and other striking findings. Engagement category for our collective activities We also helped Tahirih compile a cutting-edge, for refugees in Germany. We have developed first-ever, 50-state report on existing laws on a number of projects aimed at supporting under age marriage and exceptions, and assisted newcomers assimilate into everyday life. Projects in underscoring how those exceptions can include pro bono legal advice and law clinics, be at stark odds with statutory rape laws and language classes and fundraising. We also employ other child-protective legal frameworks. With four Syrian refugees – two lawyers and two our assistance, Tahirih then drafted landmark business services staff. legislation to raise the minimum age for –– Case closed marriage to 18 in Virginia (except in the case of A federal court confirmed a US$24m racial 16-17 year old court-emancipated minors). Texas discrimination settlement that we secured for a passed a similar law in 2017, and we are working class of African-American Secret Service agents. with Tahirih on similar efforts in other states. The approval hearing marked the end of a more –– Countering child trafficking in Vietnam than 16-year legal battle. Our London office filed a joint bid for funding The class settlement will ensure that Africanwith Vietnam’s Pacific Links Foundation and the American Secret Service special agents are UK’s ECPAT and Anti-Slavery International to evaluated under a fair promotions process, create an educational film warning Vietnamese allowing best qualified agents to be chosen young people of the dangers of being trafficked for promotion and leadership positions. It abroad. Our Vietnam offices provided regulatory also provides significant monetary relief for and transactional advice and support to enable the plaintiffs who, on average, will receive the film to be produced. We also sit on the UK’s well over $100,000 in compensation for the Independent Anti Slavery Commissioner’s discrimination they suffered. Advisory Panel. 18 Hogan Lovells Environment Principles 7 – 9 Legal solutions –– Sustainable development and the social Business integrity and sustainable development license to operate are integral to companies operating in the energy As the concept of sustainable development and natural resources sector, with clients adopting evolved, companies engaged in the development strategies and internal controls to ensure they of mineral resources, including oil and gas, operate ethically. In addition, many companies adopt came to understand that host nations and local international standards for sustainable development communities valued structures and strategies and business integrity as part of their resource to assure that they captured the benefits of development agreements, financing arrangements, resource development over the long term, and and other contracts. avoided a boom and bust cycle. We have advised both governments and private companies on Our advisory services are provided by lawyers who the use of community development agreements have in-depth knowledge and experience in domestic and similar stakeholder engagement strategies and international law relating to human rights, as for assuring a cooperative approach to resource well as issues that are unique to various industries: development. These measures also assist the freedom of speech and association; rights to natural company in securing its social license to operate, resources (environmental law); labor and employment that is, a society-wide acceptance of the value (including health and safety); and respecting the rights and benefits of mineral development. of civilians and indigenous communities in conflict–– Anti-bribery and corruption affected areas. Companies engaged in the development of large projects and resources development often We routinely advise clients engaged in the attract the scrutiny of regulators concerned with development of natural resources on issues related preventing bribery and corruption. This issue is to business integrity and sustainable development, especially important when working in countries as well as sovereigns seeking investment in the where transparency is low and corrupt behaviour resources sector. This advice includes guidance is common. on the following topics: Our Bribery and Corruption Task Force offers international clients informed advice in a number of areas of risk, from reactive incident response “Within the extractive industries, there has measures to the development of proactive been a substantial emphasis on managing the strategies for managing potential exposure development of resources in a sustainable through compliance programs and related manner. We are working to capture our auditing. Additionally, lawyers working on expertise within the firm on these issues, work on large resource development projects and energy sustainable development alongside our clients infrastructure projects routinely advise clients on and are developing a framework for our Sector.” strategies to assure transparency in governmental Scot Anderson, Partner – Infrastructure, Energy, engagement in those projects, including for Resources and Projects example the application and implications of the Extractives Industry Transparency Initiative. UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2017 19 –– Human rights In many of our offices, our catering providers We have worked with our clients in the support local, sustainable and small-scale development of their sustainability programs, producers. They are committed to buying and including the integration of human rights into their using fresh and seasonal produce and work with risk management systems in a manner consistent suppliers to expand a supply chain that is built on with guidelines promulgated by industry groups principles of sustainable and, wherever possible, and by the Special Representative to the U.N. local sourcing. Secretary General on Business and Human Rights. In Hong Kong, Fuji Xerox is the supplier of our Chain reaction photocopiers and printers and supplies. They Sustainable procurement has a critical role in the collect all waste equipment, spare parts and used environmental management of our business. We consumables from us and ship them to the recycling are working with our suppliers to reduce our carbon facility in Thailand, where they remanufacture, footprint, conserve resources and to take care of our reuse or recycle the products to achieve over 99% planet. We are working with our suppliers to embed recycling rate & zero-landfill. these practices throughout our supply chain. In the US, we partner with client Office Depot to increase our recycled content product and green usage spend. In 2017, we purchased 24% recycled Social enterprise content office products and 30% green usage. Green We seek to include social enterprises usage includes those products with ratings such as in our supply chain wherever possible, compost-ability, low chemical emissions products, and we buy from a number of our and products from sustainable forests. pro bono clients whose sustainable products are served at our events: –– AFB Group – employs people with disabilities to recycle and refurbish IT devices which they then sell. –– Toast Ale – brews beer from surplus bread that would otherwise be wasted. All profits go to the food waste charity Feedback. –– Rubies in the Rubble – make relish and chutneys from fruit and vegetables that would otherwise be discarded because of aesthetic imperfections, over-forecasted demand or inefficiency in storing and distribution. 20 Hogan Lovells Connected locally –– Green investments We take action on climate change and Our Washington D.C. office structured the its impacts through our pro bono and world’s first ever securitization of off-grid community investment work. These efforts solar power, transforming energy and lives in are complemented by HL Green Action, our developing nations. Working with pro bono global employee sustainability network. client Persistent Energy Capital LLC and Some examples of recent work include: local counsel in Kenya, we helped thousands of Kenyans access reliable and affordable –– Light and hope electricity for the first time and built a Our global Citizenship partnership with scalable financial structure that uses solar Barefoot College is supporting the training equipment receivables to secure investor of 400 women – known as Solar Mamas – notes. This paved the way for alternative in 35 countries to become solar engineers and affordable financing for investment and bring light to 20,000 homes. Barefoot in installment sales of solar panels. College has developed an innovative program –– Friends of the earth in which women from rural communities Our Brussels office has been supporting Eco learn how to make solar panels, install Peace Middle East with a European Commission the panels in their villages, and become claim for recovery of funding for a project to self-employed engineers who generate clean up the Jordan River. development in their communities. Earth Month During Earth Month, colleagues in our offices across the Americas worked to keep their local communities green: –– Our Rio office launched Hogreen, a projects can make a big difference new environmental initiative which in urban sustainability. works to keep the city of Rio de Janeiro –– Our New York office volunteered beautiful by planting and maintaining for the Jericho Project. Volunteers gardens within the city. Our colleagues assisted with building and grounds converted plastic bottles into beautification at one of their birdfeeders and vases for plants. supportive housing sites in New York –– In Mexico City, a group of 15 City. Our volunteers raked leaves, volunteers visited the Tlateloco planted gardens, and pulled weeds to Orchard. Volunteers weeded, planted leave the spaces cleaner and greener and watered various crops and plants. for their residents. Our volunteers also learned about the importance of urban agriculture and how community garden 22 Hogan Lovells Anti-corruption Principle 10 We have decades of experience advising clients on a –– We interviewed 604 chief compliance officers, full range of bribery and corruption matters. Lawyers heads of legal, and equivalent, in the UK, US, in our Bribery and Corruption practice have in-depth Asia, France, and Germany. Respondents experience across the board including tax-related work in many of the world’s largest crimes, money laundering, fraud, and intellectual multinational companies in four sectors – property crimes. We engage more broadly with energy, minerals and resources; life sciences our clients and the wider business sector through and healthcare; transport; and technology, reports, investigations and our thought leadership media and telecommunications. work. We are a recognized leader in investigations –– We measured our survey results against and fraud work, being ranked in the top tier of our Benchmarking Model, designed by our leading legal directories. Global Bribery and Corruption Task Force, to produce our report series. Recent achievements: –– The report series has so far generated 18 –– Our Global Bribery and Corruption Task Force client events across Asia, Europe and Latin offers international clients informed advice in America, with over 500 attendees from some a number of risk areas, from reactive incident of the world’s biggest companies. response measures to the development of proactive strategies for managing potential –– Our reports have attracted widespread global exposure through compliance programs. Our media coverage. Stories have appeared in task force brings together a cross-jurisdictional leading titles including in The Financial team of partners from our international network Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Times with more than 25 years of experience in large(UK), Les Echoes, La Tribune, El Financiero, scale investigations. the Australian Financial Review, and City AM (London). –– Steering the Course: Navigating bribery and corruption risk in M&A was launched in September, the third in a series of reports from our global Investigations, White Collar “Too few companies do enough to counter bribery and Fraud practice. It explores current issues and corruption in M&A and private equity around anti-bribery and corruption compliance investments. Instead they busy themselves with around the globe, combined with expert insight due diligence on tax, antitrust, legal, financial, and survey findings which reveal some very intellectual property, and other asset or industryinteresting tensions within multinationals specific areas. None of which makes a difference if between compliance and commercial goals. the company you’re after is corrupt.” Crispin Rapinet, Partner and Global Head of Investigations, White Collar and Fraud UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2017 23 Further information For further information on our approach to responsible business, we welcome you to browse the Citizenship section of our website, where you’ll find examples of some of our projects and partnerships. http://www.hoganlovells.com/citizenship UN Global Compact key contact: Julianne Hughes-Jennett Partner, London julianne.hughes-jennett@hoganlovells.com Alicante Amsterdam Baltimore Beijing Birmingham Boston Brussels Budapest Caracas Colorado Springs Denver Dubai Dusseldorf Frankfurt Hamburg Hanoi Ho Chi Minh City Hong Kong Houston Jakarta Johannesburg London Los Angeles Louisville Luxembourg Madrid Mexico City Miami Milan Minneapolis Monterrey Moscow Munich New York Northern Virginia Paris Perth Philadelphia Rio de Janeiro Rome San Francisco São Paulo Shanghai Shanghai FTZ Silicon Valley Singapore www.hoganlovells.com Sydney Tokyo “Hogan Lovells” or the “firm” is an international legal practice that includes Hogan Lovells International LLP, Hogan Lovells US LLP and their affiliated businesses. Ulaanbaatar The word “partner” is used to describe a partner or member of Hogan Lovells Warsaw International LLP, Hogan Lovells US LLP or any of their affiliated entities or any employee or consultant with equivalent standing. Certain individuals, who are designated as Washington, D.C. partners, but who are not members of Hogan Lovells International LLP, do not hold qualifications equivalent to members. Zagreb For more information about Hogan Lovells, the partners and their qualifications, see www. hoganlovells.com. Where case studies are included, results achieved do not guarantee similar outcomes Our offices for other clients. Attorney advertising. Images of people may feature current or former lawyers and employees at Hogan Lovells or models not connected with the firm. Associated offices © Hogan Lovells 2017. All rights reserved.12024_CR_1217
