ESWARAN BROTHERS EXPORTS (PVT) LTD Communication on Progress Year: 2016 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Eswaran Brothers has been committed signatory to the Global Compact since 2007. Since then we have striven to uphold the principles of the UNGC to the best of our ability. We have incorporated them into our daily working practices and will continue to work towards the improvement of our community, environment and stakeholders through them. We remain committed to the UNGC principles. Mr. Subramaniam Eassuwaren DEPUTY CHAIRMAN 21st April 2017 Contact: Mr. Subramaniam Eassuwaren Email: subra@eswaran.com Phone: +94(0) 11 4796764 Fax: +94(0) 11 2344363 P 1/16 Brief Description of Nature of Business Eswaran Brothers Exports (Pvt.) Ltd is one of the leading value added tea export companies in Sri Lanka with customers in over 50 countries. We are a company focused on providing total tea solutions worldwide. Guided by the values and principles of our founder, we have made it our passion to serve ethically produced teas to our customers worldwide. P 2/16 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PRINCIPLE 1 PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Actions taken Commitment: We are committed to support and respect the protection of locally & internationally proclaimed human/employee rights. For this, we rely on the ILO conventions, national & international laws & regulations. System: Our Company follows a strong set of values. These values and regulations have been incorporated into our policies in order to keep the highest standard of human rights protection. Activities: Some of our initiatives are; Actions 01. Risk assessment on accidents and corrective & preventive actions for them 02. Communication of our activities via effective channels to employees 03. EmployeeManagement (Chairman) consultative forums for each & every employee on weekly basis 04. Open door policy 05. Grievance handling channels 06. Transparent disciplinary action policy 07. Induction training for all new factory recruits on company policies by Asst.HR Mgr. 08. Internal trainings conducted on Safety for factory employees by the Asst. factory manager 09. Annual Fire Drill training 10. Free Breakfast given for all factory workers 11. Free refreshment given for all night shift factory workers 12. Medical insurance for in-door treatment & reimbursement of medical bills for up to different limits according to the employee category 13. Frequent audits carried out Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Some of our key achievements are; Outcomes 01. Less Absenteeism 02. Less Turn Over Rate 03. Reduced Loss hours 04. Higher productivity/Higher Quality product 05. Improved employer-employee relationship P 3/16 LA 13 Breakdown of Employees per Category according to Gender, Age Group and Other Indicators of Diversity Man power strength in factory Gender break down in factory 3%1% Female unskilled workers 4% 8% 24% skilled workers Male 33% male 46% 54% technical and Female supervisory grade 55% managers 72% Gender breakdown in Man power strength in office office staff Female Executives 12% 0% 13% 27% Non 30% executives Male 23%23% Managers Female Male 65% 73% Senior 34% managers Gender breakdown in managerial level 11% Male Female 89% P 4/16 service duration analysis of managers 23% <5 29% 0% 6-10 6% 11-15 16-20 12% 12% 21-25 18% 26-30 31-35 Age analysis of office employees 9 8 Number of people 7 6 5 4 Age between 18-25 3 26-35 2 1 36-50 0 More than 50 Non Non Executive Executive Manager Manager executive executive male female male female male female Category Age analysis of factory workers 30 No of employees 25 20 15 10 age between 18 25 5 0 26 35 skilled skilled unskilled unskilled technical technical 36-50 workers workers workers workers and and male female male female supervisory supervisory over 50 grade male grade female Employee category P 5/16 LA 7 Rates of Injury Year Injury rate 2015 5 2016 9 P 6/16 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT PRINCIPLE 2 COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Actions taken Please refer Principle No.01 Actions Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes Please refer Principle No.01 P 7/16 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF PRINCIPLE 3 ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Actions taken Commitment: We support and implement the ILO conventions, national & international laws & regulations. We have built our policies and procedures incorporating all these regulations. System: Employeemanagement consultation is our strategy. Activities: Actions All groups are represented in management decisions taken in terms of Factory safety, Operations and Environmental management. 01. Each & every employee participates to their annual appraisals conducted by the their dept. head 02. Weekly basis departmental meetings with the dept. head 03. Communication of our activities via effective channels to employees 04. EmployeeManagement (Chairman) consultative forums for each & every employee on weekly basis 05. Open door policy 06. Grievance handling channels 07. Transparent disciplinary action policy Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes Our achievement again is a improved employee-employer relationship, which resulted 01. Less Absenteeism 02. Less Turn Over Rate 03. Reduced Loss hours 04. Higher productivity/Higher Quality product 05. Improved employer-employee relationship P 8/16 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL PRINCIPLE 4 FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Actions taken Commitment: Our company is committed to eliminate all forms of forced, compulsory and bonded labour. For this, we rely on the ILO conventions, national & international laws & regulations. System: Internal audits are carried out by a non-executive director on hiring and working practices Actions to ensure all national standards are met. Activities: 01. Self application of all available vacancies 02. Employment conditions are pre-agreed and available to both parties. 03. Frequent awareness on employee salary/other benefit calculations 04. Frequent Internal audits carried out by non-executive director and external audits by Department of Labour (Government Body) 05. Corrective and preventive actions as required by audits Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes Through this commitment we have become a preferred company to work for. We measure this through our turnover rate which is well below the industry rate for factories operating within the city. This has in turn improved our productivity and driven up our sales & profitability. P 9/16 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION PRINCIPLE 5 OF CHILD LABOUR Actions taken Commitment: Our company is committed to support the effective abolition of child labour. For this, we rely on the ILO conventions. Actions System: Our minimum age for recruitment is 18 years. Activities: Our aim is that no child should discontinue their education due to the poverty. We offered scholarships for under-privileged children from 23 schools in Colombo area to educate them up to G. C. E. (O/L) or G.C. E. (A/L). Annually we increase the number of scholarships awarded. Scholarships are awarded to one child of an employee who is drawing Rs. 12,000 or less per month. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes We communicate our rules through our work and this commitment ensures that we work for a higher cause beyond monetary benefits alone. This improves our work satisfaction. Through this commitment we have become a preferred company to work for. We measure this through our turnover rate which is well below the industry rate for factories operating within the city. This has in turn improved our productivity and driven up our sales & profitability. P 10/16 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF PRINCIPLE 6 DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Actions taken Commitment: Our company is committed to the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. For this, we rely on the ILO conventions, national & international laws & regulations. System: Frequent internal audits are carried out on working and hiring practices by a nonexecutive director. Actions Activities: 01. Equal opportunity for all application, selection process 02. Available job vacancies are advertised to the public. 03. Employee selection & training 04. Employee selection, training, advancement, employee benefits are based on performance of the employees 05. Performance evaluations are done by the head of the dept. annually guided by the HR 06. Appeal systems are available to all employees, if they are not satisfied with the results of the performance evaluations. 07. Activities to support employees’ freedom on ethnic and religious events. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes Through this commitment we have become a preferred company to work for. We measure this through our turnover rate which is well below the industry rate for factories operating within the city. This has in turn improved our productivity and driven up our sales & profitability. P 11/16 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY PRINCIPLE 7 APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Actions taken Commitment: We strongly believe that it is our responsibility to become a carbon neutral company. System: We follow the GHG protocol corporate standard laid down by the Carbon Trust in UK to monitor and reduce our Carbon Footprint. We have invested in a community reforestation project near the Kaneliya forest reserve. Actions Activities: We follow the protocol guide lines to monitor and reduce our Carbon Footprint. We have invested and developed Carbon Dioxide sequestration through community reforestation and protection of biodiversity. We have developed a Carbon neutral tea product to ensure our commitment towards the protection of environment. As a responsible business, we have evaluated the biodiversity impact of our new tea product. The particular plantation that we are buying tea from for the new product is situated in an area where there is high biodiversity richness. Therefore we have taken the initiative to conserve this rich ecosystem by accounting for the biodiversity of the plantation, and taking steps to protect it and We are currently in process of biodiversity offsetting with regard to that rich ecosystem. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes Become a leader in green production methods in the tea industry and thereby increase recognition and through that sales. P 12/16 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE PRINCIPLE 8 GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Actions taken Commitment: Our company is committed to foster and promote a clean environment and to implement appropriate measure within production and use environmental indicators of the GRI to report. System: We use ISO 14001 and have installed a system to monitor general environmental performance data for waste, emission, energy and water use. We have worked actively to reduce power consumption & water wastage in our facilities. We are trying to reduce the amount of waste paper generated while recycling the present generated waste paper. Activities: Being a tea exporting company our damage to the environment is much lesser but we have analyzed the impact caused to the environment through our activities. All significant aspects of the damage to the environment have been identified and an annual objectives and targets have been set aside. An Environment Management Programme was also prepared by stating the procedure of achieving the set objectives. Following are the aspects considered in our environmental programme. 01. Electricity Actions As for electricity, we have identified and reduced the number of bulbs used in the tea blending area and the stores by switching on to daylight using fibre glass sheets. Fluorescence tube lights are being replaced with energy saving bulbs outside and inside the factory. On the recommendation of the outside Energy Audit team we conducted a load profile study and upgraded the existing automatic capacitor bank to reduce electricity cost in the factory. EN.3 Direct Energy Consumption by Primary Energy Source Type of Energy Sources used 2015 2016 Electricity 724,457 kWh 796,938 kWh Diesel (For Generator use) 1,000 Litres annually 02. Water supplied by the Government Due to difficulty in identifying water leakages and for easy maintenance, we replaced the underground Government supplied water distributing lines to various sections within the premises with the Surface distributing system and have saved a significant amount of water. Screw type taps are also replaced with Push type for reducing water wastage. P 13/16 03. Well Water For ease of identifying water leakages and easy maintenance, we replaced the underground well water pipe line system with surface system. A water meter was fixed to monitor the consumption & thereby identifying the leakages through much higher constant readings especially in holidays. Well water is only used for gardening and construction related work such as cementing activities. 2015 2016 EN 8 Total water withdrawal by source 1.) Govt. supplied water 8.3 units/day 10.1units/day 2.) Well water 36.4 units/day 43.0 units/day EN 9 Water sources significantly affected Ground water bodies by withdrawal of water We have calculated our organizational and product water footprint, in order to take account of the company’s impact on precious water resource and to mitigate any negative impacts. In year 2016, the consumption of well water was increased due to usage of the well water by other companies that are located in the same premises. (Sister companies). The increase in drinking water is due to the increased number of employees in the year 2016. 04. Solid Waste All waste papers generated are segregated and sent to the in-house yard for baling and exported for recycling. Some of the items such as paper cores are sent to a sister company for reuse in tag and envelope winding. BOPP ploythene, plastic barrels are also sent to a collector for the recycling and reuse purpose. We conduct internal training programmes for all existing and new factory employees on quality control, waste segregation, machinery maintenance and proper material handling & transportation. We prepare compost using dried leaves, used tea leaves etc and Compost bins are placed in areas where it is easy access to use for the flower pots, garden. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company We hold Environment Management System steering committee meetings. If any parameter is higher than the target level set for the month, root cause analysis is done and if required, justification for the increase in relevant parameters is done based on the trend analysis. Eg: increase of the electricity Outcomes consumption in proportion to the increase of production. All completed and ongoing activities related to environment are reviewed and follow up activities are planned. Annual audits are conducted by an outside audit firm in addition to internal audits carried out by company audit team. P 14/16 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND PRINCIPLE 9 DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Actions taken Commitment: We are committed to conduct researches and develop cleaner production methods in the tea industry. System: In following our commitment to become a Carbon neutral company, we regularly work Actions with clean technology inventors to develop new cleaner technologies. These are measured through our ISO 14001 system. Activities: Following activities are planned related to environmentally friendly activities. 01. Installation of a new efficient A/C plant for the factory with latest technology. An unit to reduce the disbursement of black carbon and heavier pollutants from combustion engines 02. Installation of new wiring system with latest technology Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes Cost savings by implementing cleaner technology P 15/16 BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL PRINCIPLE 10 ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Actions taken Commitment: We are committed towards working against corruption in all forms. System: We follow the company values and national laws & regulations which are incorporated in our policies. Actions Activities: 01. Deliver the company expectation of ‘integrity” to all new employees through induction sessions 02. Strict adherence to company finance and other policies. 03. Frequent communication of company values to our customers and suppliers. 04. Ensure the correct implementation of our policies and procedures by frequent 3rd party audits 05. Ensure further enhancement of transparency of transactions by Strict follow up of audit recommendations Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? Through our Web site and staff Notice board P 16/16
