NIPPON PAPER GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 Major Operating Companies and Production Sites (As of March 31, 2017) Consolidated Subsidiaries Pulp and Paper Business Wood Products and Construction Related Business Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd., Nippon Paper Papylia Co., Ltd., SUN OAK Nippon Paper Lumber Co., Ltd., NIPPON PAPER UNITEC CO., LTD., CO., LTD., Nippon Tokai Industrial Paper Supply Co., Ltd., Paper Australia Pty Kokusaku Kiko Co., Ltd., Nippon Paper Ishinomaki Technology Co., Ltd., Ltd. (and its 7 subsidiaries), NP Trading Co., Ltd., Kokuei Paper Co., Ltd., Kunimoku House Co., Ltd., N&E Co., Ltd., Daishowa Uniboard Co., Ltd., Kitakami Paper Co., Ltd., Daishowa North America Corporation, Nippon Paper Nanei Co., Ltd., Nichimoku Fancy Materials Co., Ltd., Nippon Paper Resources Industries USA Co., Ltd., Dyna Wave Holding Asia, Jujo Thermal Oy, Siam Australia Pty Ltd., and Amapá Florestal e Celulose S.A.* (and 1 subsidiary) Nippon Industrial Paper Co., Ltd., and Nippon Dynawave Packaging Co. * Referred to as AMCEL in this report. Paper-Related Business Other Businesses Sakurai Co., Ltd., Nippon Seitai Corporation, and FLOWRIC CO. LTD. NIPPON PAPER LOGISTICS CO., LTD., NANKO UNYU CO., LTD., Kyokushin Transport Co., Ltd., Hotoku Co., Ltd., Nippon Paper Development Co., Ltd., and GAC CO., LTD. Group Companies Japan North America Australia Asia Europe South America Africa Total Consolidated subsidiaries 25 4 4 4 3 2 0 42 Non-consolidated subsidiaries 68 1 0 7 1 0 0 77 Affiliates 32 1 0 3 1 1 1 39 Equity-method affiliates 8 1 0 1 0 0 0 10 Production Sites Pulp and Paper Business Paper-Related Business Wood Products and Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Construction Related Business 1 Kushiro Mill (Paper-Pak Division)* Nippon Paper Lumber Co., Ltd. 2 Hokkaido Mill (Asahikawa) 1 SOKA PAPER-PAK CO., LTD. 1 N&E Co., Ltd. 3 Hokkaido Mill (Yufutsu) 2 EGAWA PAPER-PAK CO., LTD. Daishowa Uniboard Co., Ltd. 4 Hokkaido Mill (Shiraoi) 3 MIKI PAPER-PAK CO., LTD. 2 Miyagi Mill 5 Akita Mill 4 ISHIOKA KAKO CO., LTD. 6 Ishinomaki Mill Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. 7 Iwanuma Mill (Chemical Division)* Location of Production Sites 8 Nakoso Mill 5 Gotsu Mill* 2 9 Kanto Mill (Ashikaga) 6 Iwakuni Mill* 9 1 10 Kanto Mill (Soka) 7 Higashimatsuyama Mill 8 Yufutsu Mill 4 8 3 11 Fuji Mill 12 Otake Mill Nippon Seitai Corporation 13 Iwakuni Mill 9 Asahikawa Mill 14 Yatsushiro Mill 10 Maebashi Mill Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd. 11 Saitama Mill 15 Tokyo Mill 12 Niigata Mill 13 Kyoto Mill 5 16 Kaisei Mill 15 16 17 Kyoto Mill 14 Kyushu Mill 23 22 18 Koyo Mill Akita Jujo Chemicals Co., Ltd. 6 Nippon Paper Papylia Co., Ltd. 15 Head Office Plant 7 2 4 19 Harada Mill 12 7 2 15 20 Suita Mill 10 1 8 21 Kochi Mill Kitakami Paper Co., Ltd. 10 9 11 22 Ichinoseki Mill 19 16 Nippon Paper Industries 5 17 11 18 13 USA Co., Ltd. 12 3 20 13 23 Port Angeles Mill 6 14 1 Paper Australia Pty Ltd. 21 24 Maryvale Mill 25 Jujo Thermal Oy 14 23 25 Kauttua Mill 27 26 Siam Nippon Industrial 26 Paper Co., Ltd. 27 Nippon Dynawave 24 Packaging Co. * In an organizational restructuring implemented in June 2017, the Paper-Pak Division became the PaperPak Sales Division, and the Chemical Division became the Chemical Sales Division. The Gotsu Mill, which was part of the Chemical Division, was made into its own organizational unit. The Iwakuni Mill, which was also part of the Chemical Division, was consolidated with the pulp and paper business's Iwakuni Mill. 2 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 Nippon Paper Group Editorial Policy The Nippon Paper Group publishes its sustainability report to provide stakeholders with a broad overview Sustainability Report 2017 of what we are doing to meet our corporate social responsibilities (CSR). The Group also publishes an annual report to provide information on its financial Contents aspects and results of operations. This report was prepared in accordance with the Major Operating Companies and core option of the fourth update of the GRI Production Sites 2 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4). Editorial Policy 3 Message from the President 4 Period Covered Fiscal 2016: April 1, 2016–March 31, 2017 Nippon Paper Group Business Overview 6 Includes information from before April 1, 2016 and after March 31, 2017. Dates are indicated in such cases. Business Model and Strategy Scope of Organizations Covered The reporting entity is Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. • The Sustainable Business Model of Data, however, were compiled as of March 31, 2017 for a Comprehensive Biomass Company 8 Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. and all 42 of its consolidated subsidiaries. • Targeting New Value through Our R&D and Scope of Environmental Coverage Business Strategy 10 The scope of the report covers the basic environmental policies, systems, environmental accounting and environment performance and other data for the 20 Business Activity Impacts and Materiality companies, including 5 non-consolidated subsidiaries with production facilities, named below. All major production • Social Issues and the Nippon Paper locations are included. Group's Value Creation Flow 12 Consolidated: Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.; Nippon Paper • CSR Materiality at the Nippon Paper Group 14 Crecia Co., Ltd.; Nippon Paper Papylia Co., Ltd.; Paper Australia Pty Ltd.; Kitakami Paper Co., Ltd.; Jujo Thermal Oy; Siam Nippon Industrial Paper Co., Ltd.; Nippon Seitai Corporation; Nippon Paper Lumber Co., Ltd.; N&E Co., Ltd.; Daishowa Uniboard Co., Ltd.; Management Responsibility  15 Nippon Paper Development Co., Ltd.; GAC CO., LTD.; Amapá Corporate Governance and Information Disclosure / CSR Florestal e Celulose S.A.; Nippon Dynawave Packaging Co. Management / Compliance / Dialogue with Stakeholders* (The contribution to total consolidated sales of the companies * Includes examples of dialogues with a chip supplier. listed here was 94%.) (Sales data for trading companies that are members of the Nippon Forest Management and Raw Material Paper Group and sell products made by the Group to outside buyers Procurement Responsibility 23 are included.) Policy and Management / Current Status of Raw Materials Non-consolidated: SOKA PAPERPAK CO., LTD.; EGAWA PAPERPAK CO., LTD.; MIKI PAPER-PAK CO., LTD.; ISHIOKA KAKO CO., Procurement / Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials / LTD.; Akita Jujo Chemicals Co., Ltd. Protecting and Nurturing Japan’s Wood Resources / Overseas Afforestation Referenced Guidelines Environmental Responsibility 31 • Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012) of the Policy and Management / Reduction of Environmental Impacts / Ministry of the Environment Climate Change Initiatives / Promoting Recycling / • Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Version 4) issued Preserving Biodiversity by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) • United Nations Global Compact Responsibility to Customers 47 Policy and Management / Enhancement of Product Safety / • ISO 26000, etc. * Information on performance relative to guidelines is available at the following Providing Environmentally and Socially Conscious Products URL. http://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/csr/gri/ Human Rights, Employment and Labor Responsibility 53 Policy and Management / Occupational Safety and Health / Disclaimer Creating Workplaces that Support Diverse Human Resources This report includes not only statements of fact and historical data but also plans, forecasts and estimates Responsibility to Communities 61 (forward-looking statements) based on the business Policy and Management / Coexistence with Local Communities plans and policies of the Nippon Paper Group. These and Society at Large / Corporate Identity Sharing forward-looking statements are the result of assumptions or judgments based on currently available information as this report was prepared. It should be Outline of the Nippon Paper Group 66 noted that forward-looking statements may differ significantly from actual results due to the impacts of a Third-Party Comments / Action in number of important factors. Response to Third-Party Comments  67 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 3 Message from the President As a comprehensive biomass company shaping the future with trees, the Nippon Paper Group will contribute to the building of a sustainable society by utilizing the diverse qualities of wood, a renewable resource, to swiftly grow a broad array of businesses. The Nippon Paper Group will build on its Norwegian company regarding gable-top liquid packaging sustainable business model and that can accommodate closures. In the area of healthcare, continue to be a company that is we concluded an agreement with Kasuga Paper Industry indispensable to society. Co., Ltd. to create a joint venture for household paper products. In 2017, we will commence operation of a Through its sustainable stewardship of renewable forests, demonstration facility for using torrefaction technology to the Nippon Paper Group is sequestering CO2 in trees and produce woody biomass fuel in a new business undertaking helping to protect ecosystems and biodiversity. By in Thailand. In addition, we have already established one of effectively applying every bit of the abundance of biomass the world’s largest high-capacity production facilities for resources forests produce, we are also helping to slow the cellulose nanofiber (CNF), at the Ishinomaki Mill; a kneading depletion of fossil fuels and lower the environmental impact facility for combining CNF and plastic, at the Fuji Mill; and of their use. Furthermore, we are a leader on the recycling high-capacity production facilities for food and cosmetics front, using recycled content for 38% of the raw material for products at the Gotsu Mill. Regarding CNF, we have our paper and 89% of the raw material for our paperboard. established an organization for performing R&D, application With its sustainable business model, the Nippon Paper development, and marketing activities, and aim to achieve Group aims to engage in business activities that consider rapid progress in this business by making the most of our the impacts on and needs of stakeholders while new CNF facilities to develop a wide range of applications contributing to the sustainability of society. By swiftly for this material and market it to other companies. developing businesses along these lines to achieve longGoing forward, we will draw on the advanced woodterm growth, the Nippon Paper Group will continue to be a application technologies we have cultivated in our company that is indispensable to society. papermaking business and on our wealth of woody biomass resources to rapidly develop new products that consumers will find indispensable for daily life. By uncovering and developing new fields, we are helping to enrich daily life and culture. We aim to thoroughly understand impacts on all of our stakeholders and Business structure transformation is one of the key themes to achieve sustainable development for of our Fifth Medium-Term Business Plan, covering the society and the Nippon Paper Group. period April 1, 2015 to March 31, 2018. In 2016, therefore, we concentrated on reallocating and using assets more I believe paying attention to local environmental needs and effectively and strengthening the profitability of our domestic maintaining safe operations are critical to fulfilling our and overseas paper and paperboard businesses, while also responsibilities as a manufacturer, and what enable us to developing businesses in growth areas and enhancing the be a part of the communities where we operate. We, profitability of new businesses. therefore, devote significant time and attention to In industrial paper, an existing business area, we communicating with communities, customers, and other furthered our production and sales business alliance with stakeholders to see what impacts we are having and Tokushu Tokai Paper Co., Ltd., creating Nippon Tokai respond to expectations and desires. In environmental Industrial Paper Supply Co., Ltd. In the packaging business, matters, we reflect what we learn, and our responses to we established a new internal organization to strengthen issues, in the medium-term environmental action plans that product development and R&D. Overseas, we acquired a guide our environmental management. Regarding matters liquid packaging board business from a North American of safety, we make safety and health our top priorities and, company and concluded a license agreement with a based on the iron principle that no one must be injured in 4 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 Group Mission Mission Vision Value 1. Drive social sustainability The Nippon Paper Group through our business Challenge: Embrace new challenges aims to contribute to better living 2. Delight our customers Fairness: Be fair and cultural progress everywhere it does business. 3. Instill pride in employees Teamwork: Champion teamwork 4. Give back to society our facilities, spare no effort in making work environments as safe as they can be. In our Group Mission, we emphasize embracing new challenges, acting with fairness, and championing teamwork. Embracing new challenges means rising to the challenges of an industry characterized by dynamic change. Fairness means having a corporate culture that not only exercises fairness in our dealings with outside parties but also applies internal rules with an even hand. Championing teamwork means having individuals properly perform their respective roles to realize our Group Mission. Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, which sets out 10 principles on human rights, labor, environment, and anticorruption, and we, as a responsible member of society, are participating in the building of a global framework for realizing sustainable growth. In my role as a company president, I am aware that business survival requires that the challenge of realizing a sustainable society a common issue for all of humankind be faced head on. This report focuses on describing how our sustainable business model, as that of a comprehensive biomass company, contributes to problem resolution and ongoing development for society, and how we will continue to pursue our business in coexistence with local communities. Taking the perspective of R&D targeting long-term value creation, it also discusses how we will achieve long-term growth and how our actions further achievement of the sustainable development goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations. The Nippon Paper Group places great importance on maintaining dialogues with stakeholders and working in ways that promote the development of a sustainable society. We welcome candid feedback on how we can improve in these endeavors. Fumio Manoshiro President Nippon Paper Industries, Co., Ltd. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 5 Nippon Paper Group Business Overview The Nippon Paper Group uses renewable wood resources to pursue a diversity of businesses. From paper and paperboard, and household paper, to paper containers, chemicals, and housing construction materials, we provide a wide range of products indispensable for daily life. Wood Products and Construction Related Business Other Businesses 6.4% 2.0% (63.5 billion yen) Paper Media (19.6 billion yen) Paper-Related Packaging Product Examples Business Product Examples 9.0% (89.2 billion yen) Fiscal 2016 Net sales share (992.4 billion yen) Newsprint Printing paper Linerboard and Beverage containers corrugated medium Pulp and Paper Business 82.6% (820.0 billion yen) Household and Healthcare Pulp and Paper Business Product Example Business Description Various paper, paperboard and household paper products in this core segment lead the domestic industry in production, sales volumes and quality. We are working to reorganize our production structure. At the same time, we Household products Healthcare products are proactively developing overseas markets for paper and paperboard, especially in Asia and the Pacific Rim. Significant attention is also being devoted to the application of in-house power generation know-how to produce and sell electricity. Principal Customers Newspaper, publishing, printing, and stationery companies; public offices, paper manufacturers, electric utilities, and Special Function Papers general consumers Product Example Specialty paper (teabags and other products) Energy Business Example Power generation business 6 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 Paper-Related Business Business Description Comprising this business are three segments, including paper-processing operations, which add various forms of value to paper as a raw material; the chemical products segment, which applies all wood components fully in the manufacture and sale of various types of products; and the functional film segment, which makes the most of its clean coating technology. Principal Customers Manufacturers of beverages, food, chemicals and other products, and various types of paper processing companies Chemicals Product Examples Coating materials Food additives Material for LCDs Raw material for rayon Concrete dispersant Wood Products and Construction Related Business Business Description The lumber segment of this business has the advantage of using Japanese timber obtained by the same expertise Housing and Construction we use to procure wood resources for making paper. It Product Examples also strives to use Japanese timber for construction materials and finished products. The civil-engineeringrelated segment makes use of the technologies we have amassed for maintaining facilities at our paper mills. Principal Customers Construction materials, housing and construction companies, general consumers, and public offices Lumber Interior decoration materials Other Businesses Business Description Included here are segments that put biotechnology expertise developed in afforestation R&D to work in agricultural pursuits; apply real estate and other Group assets in sports and leisure operations; and handle product and Agriculture Sports & Leisure material logistics for Group companies. Business Example Business Example Principal Customers Businesses and general consumers Tea business Leisure business Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 7 Business Model and Strategy The Sustainable Business Model of a Comprehensive Biomass Company The Nippon Paper Group is a comprehensive biomass company that, while sustainably managing forests, effectively uses and recycles the abundant biomass resources they produce. We practice CSR activities consistent with our business characteristics and business strategies. Helping to fight global warming, protect biodiversity, and prevent resource depletion Three Cycles Contributing to Sustainable Development 1 Sustainable Forest Management CO2 sequestered 181 in wood thousand hectares of company-owned forests worldwide Harvesting and use In addition to preventing global warming and protecting watersheds, forests perform a wide variety of functions such as providing shelter for diverse living creatures. After harvesting, steps such as tree planting are taken to regenerate forests and ensure that forests under our stewardship thrive indefinitely. Preserving biodiversity Nippon Paper Industries has designated approximately 20% of its Japanese forest as “environmental forest areas.” Photosynthesis 1 Sustainable Forest In these areas, logging for commercial purposes is prohibited and forest Management Planting ecosystems and water resources are protected. These environmental forest areas include national park lands in Akan, Nikko, and other places as well. Environmental forest areas: 18 thousand hectares About 20% of forests owned in Japan CO2 Nurturing 2 Carbon Neutrality (Preventing Global Warming CO2 absorption and sequestration 2 Carbon Neutrality through the Carbon Cycle) (Carbon Cycle) CO2 sequestered in company-owned forests worldwide: 33 million tons CO2 absorption from the growth of plants and trees Trees, the principal raw material used by the Nippon Paper Group, absorb and hold CO2 from the atmosphere as they grow. It is believed, therefore, that the release of CO2 when wood resources are burned results in no net increase in atmospheric CO2. The ongoing effective use of wood resources from properly managed, sustainable forests constitutes a carbon-neutral cycle that adds no carbon to the atmosphere. 8 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 New business creation Toward greater use of trees Expansion of product applications to growth areas Wood science technologies Woody biomass resources Making full use of trees as a biomass resource Cascade use of wood Cascade use of wood While constantly building upon its wealth of wood science technologies, the Nippon Paper Group Unprocessed wood uses every harvested tree in a cascade of applications. Prevention of resource depletion Of the energy used by the Nippon Paper Group, Use as a material 46% is comprised of black liquor from the pulpPaper and construction materials and making process, wood construction waste and various other products CO2 emission other biomass fuels, and fuels derived from from burning discarded tires, RPF, and other waste materials. The Group is also making advances in the development of biomass fuel that can be used in place of fossil fuels. Use as a fuel Non-fossil energy* as a percent of Black liquor, construction waste, logging residue, and other forms of biomass fuel total energy usage: 46% * Non-fossil energy = biomass energy+ waste energy Use 3 Recycling of Separation and 3 Production of collection recycled paper Paper Products Recycling of Paper Products Recycled paper utilization rate Pulp production from wastepaper Paper 38% Paperboard 89% The Nippon Paper Group is working diligently to increase the waste paper collection rate with the support of customers and the general public. In addition to bolstering its recycled paper processing capabilities, the Group is striving to expand the range of applications for pulp made from wastepaper. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 9 Business Model and Strategy Targeting New Value through Our R&D and Business Strategy The Nippon Paper Group is creating new value as a comprehensive biomass company shaping the future with trees. Message R&D Activities Targeting Long-Term Growth The Paris Agreement1 was adopted at the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in 2015. As a signatory to the agreement, the Japanese government established the objective of achieving an 80% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. The use of woody biomass can make a large contribution to the achievement of a low-carbon society (see pages 40, 41), and interest in this renewable natural resource is rising. The Nippon Paper Group, as a comprehensive biomass company, aims to develop ecologically friendly products and promote them across the globe. R&D is key to that effort. To increase the amount of wood we can harvest per unit area, we are researching the application of cutting and hybridization technologies for trees. We are also developing cellulose nanofiber (CNF) (see page 11), a new material derived from cellulose a component of wood and the raw material for paper. At the same time, our Cellulose Nanofiber Research Laboratory and newly established Innovative Material Sales Division are Kazufumi Yamasaki Executive Vice President, working to develop CNF applications. Lignin is another important component Representative Director and General of wood and we have devoted significant efforts to using it as a fuel for our Manager of the Research & Development Division and CSR Division in-house power generation facilities and to developing lignin-based products. Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. In addition, we, as a biorefinery, are moving forward with a Japanesegovernment-led project exploring possibilities for lignin as a raw material. In the area of paper-based products, we have accelerated the development of ecologically friendly products by establishing the Packaging Research Relevant Sustainable Laboratory and Packaging Communication Center, which performs marketing Development Goals functions, in 2016. We did this is in light of the overwhelmingly positive The Nippon Paper Group can response to SPOPS® (see page 51)– the world’s first Paper-Pak replaceable achieve SDGs by successfully shampoo dispenser cartridge – and our new SHIELDPLUS® (see page 52) implementing its business packaging material with exceptional barrier properties. model. In R&D, work proceeds As a comprehensive biomass company, the Nippon Paper Group performs with the aim of achieving SDGs R&D that is also valuable for achieving Sustainable Development Goals over the medium-to-long term. (SDGs)2. New materials can contribute to SDG achievement, but R&D in this area usually requires long periods of time. To accelerate it, we will apply approaches such as open innovation when necessary. We aim to achieve sustainable growth by accelerating R&D and developing new businesses. And it is through the pursuit of R&D with a long-term perspective that we will help to enrich daily life and culture for people throughout the world. 1 Paris Agreement: Multilateral agreement aimed at limiting climate change. Adopted at the 21st session of the Conference of the Parties to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP21), in December 2015. 2 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): 17 global goals with 169 targets. Adopted by over 150 leaders of member states at the United Nations Sustainable Development Summit held in September 2015. Main R&D Themes Nurture Sources of Growth Apply Apply The Nippon Paper Group’s Technical assistance Wood Science Technologies Biorefinery Cellulose to plantations • DKP nanofiber (CNF) • Rapid improvement in growth of • F uel by torrefaction • Production technology plantation trees Nippon Paper Industries’ • Chemical production development • Genetic improvement of Global Biomass Resources • Application plantation trees development • Development of efficient analysis 181 thousand hectares in total • International methods for wood properties Company-owned forests in standardization • Environmental improvement in Japan: 90 thousand hectares • Safety plantation areas Overseas afforestation areas: 91 thousand hectares 10 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 Implementing the Three-Year Medium-Term Business Plan Working from a base of enhancing profitability in the domestic and overseas paper and paperboard businesses, the Nippon Paper Group is expanding businesses in growth areas by transforming the business structure. Overview of the Fifth Medium-Term Business Plan Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Transform Our Business Structure Fiscal 2017 ROA targets management targets Fiscal 2017: 3.7% Expand business in growth areas + Net sales 1,110.0 billion yen Medium-term:5.0% Make new businesses competitive Operating income 50.0 billion yen Reallocate Management Resources People, Materials, Money, Information Enhance competitiveness of existing businesses Support earnings Examples of Results Achieved with Technologies and Assets on Hand Growth Areas / New Businesses Energy Business Energy In fiscal 2016, we expanded the Komatsushima Solar Power Plant and the thermal power plant at • Expansion of wind power, Suzukawa entered into commercial operation. The biomass power generation and other renewable energy wind power generation facility in Akita and the businesses biomass power generation facility at Ishinomaki • Development of biomass Hibarino, both of which are under construction, are fuels scheduled to come online in fiscal 2017. The biomass power generation facility at Ishinomaki Hibarino Cellulose Nanofiber (CNF) Chemicals In April 2017, we commenced operation of a highcapacity (500t/yr.) production facility for CNF. This facility, located at the Ishinomaki Mill, chemically • Cellulose nanofiber treats wood pulp to produce CNF with a uniform • Expansion of high-valuefiber width of 3 nm. Product development work will added product sales focus on creating items such as antibacterial/ • Expansion of overseas sales deodorizing sheets, transparent sheets, paint additives, and other industrial products. High-capacity production facility for CNF Healthcare Healthcare The Poise® Hada Care Pad and the Hada Care Acty® series CNF products with high deodorizing • Expansion of light capacity respond to the needs of an aging society. incontinence product sales Going forward, management resources will continue • Expansion of overseas sales to be directed toward the healthcare business, which is expected to continue growing. Poise® Hada Care Pad Hada Care Acty® Liquid Cartons Packaging Pure-Pak Curve, a new type of paper carton with a resealable closure, was adopted for use by the • Refinement of liquid carton manufacturer of a major brand of fruit juice. Sales of designs these products in Pure-Pak Curve containers began • Closures attachable in March 2017. As Japan's largest total system supplier of liquid cartons, we are committed to moving forward with the development of more new New type of paper carton with products. a resealable closure Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 11 Business Activity Impacts and Materiality Social Issues and the Nippon Paper Group's Value Creation Flow Toward Sustainable SDGs with Particular Relevance for the Nippon Paper Group’s Materiality Items Social Development Economic, Environmental, and Goal 15 Life on Land Social Impacts As shown in the diagram below, the Nippon Paper Group Enable the sustainable use of the public functions of forests and the services of addresses social issues through its value chain. Among Positive ecosystems by properly managing these social issues, we identified materiality items. (see Impacts company-owned forests. page 14). In the upper right part of the diagram are SDGs the Group can work to achieve either through the execution of its sustainable business model (see pages Raw Materials Procurement 8-9) or through minimization of negative impacts of business activities. These SDGs are particularly relevant for the Nippon Paper Group because of their economic, Negative Goal 13 Climate Change Initiatives environmental, and social impacts. They are, therefore, Impacts Help to reduce the loss of forests by strictly practicing proper, legal procurement. Strive to viewed as overlapping with materiality items and are also rein in CO2 emissions in all business activities. matters for us to consider carefully from a medium-tolong-term perspective in our R&D activities. Addressing Social Issues in Our Value Chain :Materiality ISO 26000 Pages in Social Issues Sustainability Core Subjects Report 2017 Raw Material Procurement Management Organizational Governance, Fair PP.15-22 Responsibility Operating Practices • Sustainable procurement of raw materials (Efforts to procure certified material, confirm legitimacy, pursue afforestation Forest Management, overseas, obtain certifications for company-owned forests, and use domestic Raw Material materials) Procurement, and The Environment PP.23-46 • Protection and nurturing of company-owned forests Environmental ( Preserving biodiversity ) Responsibility Responsibility to Consumer Issues PP.47-52 Customers • Confirmation of suppliers’ actions in respecting human rights • Respect for human rights in the company’s forest management Human Rights, Human Rights, Employment and Labor Practices PP.53-60 Labor Responsibility Coexistencewith • Coexistence withcommunities communities adjacent to overseas afforestation areas (Job creation, education support, cultural preservation, Community contributions contributions to local environments to local preserving biodiversity environments , Preserving biodiversity , Promotion of Responsibility to Involvement and PP.61-65 safety and disaster preparedness, etc.) Communities Development • Contributions that make use of company-owned forests for the benefit of local areas and communities (Environmental education, etc.) 12 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 Goal 7 9 12 Providing Environmentally and Socially Conscious Products Help to protect the environment and enhance the sustainability of resources through technical innovations making greater use of renewable biomass resources. Separation, Collection, Production Shipping Sales and Usage Recycling, and Disposal Goal 6 15 Clean Water and Sanitation, Goal 3 Good Health and Well-Being and Life on Land Take every possible measure to protect working Prevent environmental pollution from Group manufacturing people from disease and injury by implementing activities by reining in emissions or discharges of water, air, extensive workplace safety measures and conducting and soil contaminants. thorough training and education. Initiatives in Our Value Chain Separation, Collection, Production Shipping Sales and Usage Recycling, and Disposal Corporate governance, CSR management, thorough compliance, appropriate information disclosure, personal information management, and dialogue dialoguewith withstakeholders stakeholders Reductionofofenvironmental • Lowering environmental impacts burden • Increase in load efficiency • Promotion of the (Water and air pollutants, waste, noise, vibration, (Promotion of modal shifts) collection and use of odor, chemical substances, etc.) • Shortening of transportation wastepaper • Development distances (Strengthening of waste Development and andmanufacturing manufacturingofof paper processing capacity, environmentally and environmentally and socially sociallyconscious conscious (Pursuit of direct delivery and reorganization of distribution expansion of use of products warehouses) unutilized waste paper, improvement of recycled paper pulp quality) Climate change initiatives • The stable supply of products Providingenvironmentally • Providing environmentally • Promotion of wastepaper • Ensuring quality and safety socially conscious and socially conscious collection together with products products customers • Enhancement of product (Support for recycling safety organizations, establishment of waste paper collection • Pursuing customer satisfaction facilities, etc.) • Appropriate disclosure of product information • Addressing customer questions and opinions Appropriate information disclosure, promotion of communication, and environmental education activities Bussiness Continuation in time of emergency • Hiring practices that respect human rights • Ensuring safety in shipping • Securing diversity in the workforce (Promotion of transportation safety) • Human resource development • Occupational Occupational safety safety andand health health , disaster preparedness Creation of comfortable work environments Respect for basic human rights • Coexistence Coexistence with withareas areassurrounding surroundingmills mills • Reduction of impacts of • Working with local (Job creation, education support, contributions shipping communities to promote to local environments, cultural preservation, (Promotion of transportation wastepaper collection promotion of safety and disaster preparedness, safety, adoption of low emission etc.) vehicles, promotion of noise abatement measures) Promotion of appropriate information disclosure and communication Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 13 Business Activity Impacts and Materiality CSR Materiality at the Nippon Paper Group CSR Materiality Items among Initiatives in Our Value Chain (Addressed on pages 12-13) Scope of ISO 26000 Core Subjects Materiality Indicators External Impacts Organizational Governance, Fair Operating • Dialogue with stakeholders Society P.15 Practices (Management Responsibility) The Environment • Sustainable procurement Production sites, P.23 (Forest Management, Raw Material of raw materials people living near P.31 Procurement, and Environmental • Climate change initiatives company-owned Responsibility) • Reduction of environmental forests, and impacts suppliers • Preserving biodiversity Consumer Issues • Enhancement of product safety Customers P.47 (Responsibility to Customers) • Providing environmentally and socially conscious products Human Rights, Labor Practices • Occupational safety and health Subcontractors, P.53 (Human Rights, Employment and Labor suppliers Responsibility) Community Involvement and Development • Coexistence with local Production sites P.61 (Responsibility to Communities) communities and society at and people living large near companyowned forests The Nippon Paper Group, working from a foundation of sustainable forest management, contributes to better living and cultural progress as a comprehensive biomass company making full use of, and recycling, renewable High Materiality wood resources. Impact on stakeholders Proper management can make forests into sustainable resources and enable the preservation of biodiversity. High Sequestering CO2 in forests and using wood resources Importance of helps to fight global warming. And using renewable wood issues related to Nippon Paper Group resources prevents resource depletion. businesses Creating new products and expanding our activities as a Economic, environmental, High comprehensive biomass company, we manage and and social impacts operate expansive forests and large-scale production sites. We, therefore, have a significant impact on the local areas Process for Identifying Materiality Items and people who work there. Coexistence with these Identify social issues in the value chain communities, as well as reducing environmental impacts and securing the safety and health of our local employees, Specify materiality item candidates therefore, are critical to our own continued existence. (Nippon Paper Industries’ CSR Department) Moreover, the opinions of our stakeholders serve as Stakeholder opinions valuable opportunities to grasp issues that are important for Consider materiality items, establish (Employee surveys, objectives inquiries and coexisting and growing with society in a sustainable way. (Relevant departments) requests made by Therefore, the materiality items given above are of customers and local residents, supplier particular importance among our initiatives addressing Confirm materiality items and objectives opinions [see pages 21-22], etc.) social issues in our value chain (see pages 12–13). (Group CSR liaison meetings) We identify materiality items as described in the diagram to the right. Finalize materiality items and objectives (General Manager of the CSR Division) 14 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 Management Responsibility The opinions of stakeholders are important for bringing attention to issues that could affect the Nippon Paper Group’s coexistence with society and efforts to grow sustainably. Investor briefings Indicators Key Objective Performance (fiscal 2016) Materiality: Dialogue with Stakeholders Strive to gain understanding of the Nippon Paper Held 4 briefings on operating results and [Shareholders and Other Investors] Group’s corporate strategies and policies, listen management, and 176 individual meetings Constructive dialogue to shareholder opinions and to the business Made timely disclosures via the Nippon Paper analysis views of capital providers, and reflect these Group’s website and responded swiftly to perspectives in management inquiries [Suppliers] Surveys of main raw material (chips Exercise due consideration of human rights, worker Conducted surveys (22 chip suppliers, 14 rights, local community needs, biodiversity, and pulp suppliers), and noted no problems in field and pulp) suppliers, field interviews legality interviews [Customers] Responses to customer Responded rapidly and accurately to questionnaires and inquiries Respond rapidly and accurately questionnaires and routine inquiries [Employees, subcontractors, and Conducted training for Group helpline others] Privacy guarantee based on strict Ensure that potential whistleblowers can have responders and practiced strict information management of users’ personal information, confidence to report their concerns internally management communication content, and other information Received 11 whistleblower reports in fiscal 2016 [Local Residents] Dialogue and disclosure Share environmental risk information with Provided information and gathered opinions in of environmental information via risk stakeholders 27 risk communication meetings communication meetings and other means Corporate Governance and Position on Information Disclosure 18 Compliance Information Disclosure Participating in Organizations Compliance Structure 20 Basic Stance 16 in Japan and Abroad 18 Personal Information Protection 20 Corporate Governance Structure 16 Group Internal Whistleblower System 20 Compensation Paid to Directors 17 CSR Management Respect for Intellectual Property 20 Personnel & Remuneration Management Structure 19 Advisory Committee 17 Evaluating the Effectiveness of Dialogue with Stakeholders the Board of Directors 17 Basic Stance 21 Internal Control System 18 IR Activities 21 Dialogue with a Supplier 22 Management Responsibility Corporate Governance and Information Disclosure Further enhancing transparency and practicing fair management, while pursuing sustainable growth and medium-to-long-term increases in corporate value Basic Stance Corporate Governance Structure Striving to achieve sustainable growth Working to enhance management and medium-to-long-term increases in efficiency and credibility corporate value The Company’s Board of Directors is comprised of seven Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. established its Corporate internal directors and two outside directors, for a total of Governance Policy in November 2015 to achieve nine directors, as of June 29, 2017. By combining internal sustainable growth and medium-to-long-term increases in directors with outstanding track records and management corporate value for the Nippon Paper Group in ways that capabilities in the operations they oversee, and outside are consistent with the Group Mission (see page 5). The directors with high levels of knowledge and experience, the Company is acting in accordance with all of the fundamental Company has assembled a diverse Board of Directors that principles of Japan’s Corporate Governance Code. is exceptionally well-balanced in terms of knowledge, Our highest management priority is to achieve even experience, and capabilities. greater transparency toward shareholders and other The Management Execution Committee meets weekly, in stakeholders and engage in fair business practices. The principle, to support the business execution activities of the Company has adopted an executive officer system and is president, and to consider important operational matters. working to strengthen the oversight function of its Board of The Management Strategy Committee meets as needed to Directors to ensure the separation of business execution discuss management strategies for particular business and management oversight. In addition, as the leader of the areas, and other matters of importance for the Group. Nippon Paper Group, the company is implementing growth The Board of Statutory Auditors monitors the company’s strategies, monitoring businesses under its control, and management. Two of the four statutory auditors comprising promoting compliance. the board are outside statutory auditors responsible for strengthening the board’s monitoring and auditing functions by contributing opinions from a third-party perspective. Corporate Governance Policy http://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/ir/governance/ • Appointment of Multiple Independent Outside Directors Initiatives for Strengthening Corporate Governance In light of their importance, Nippon Paper Industries • Formulated the Basic Policy for Establishing the nominated an additional independent outside director who FY2006 Internal Control System was approved at the General Meeting of Shareholders held • Shortened director terms to one year, from two • Adopted an executive officer system on June 29, 2016. One of the Company’s two outside FY2013 • Began appointing independent outside directors directors is a legal expert and the other has accumulated • Established the Corporate Governance Policy considerable experience in corporate management, after FY2015 • Began evaluating the effectiveness of the Board of Directors serving as a government official. The outside directors use • Established the Personnel & Remuneration Advisory their broad knowledge and their understanding of Committee international affairs to supervise and advise the Company’s FY2016 • Increased the number of independent outside directors to two directors in the execution of their duties. Corporate governance structure (as of June 29, 2017) General Meeting of Shareholders Elect Elect Cooperate Elect Board of Corporate Auditors Audit Board of Directors Audit (4 members including 2 outside auditors) (9 members including 2 outside directors) Accounting Auditors Supervise Personnel & Remuneration Advisory Committee Representative Directors Cooperate Cooperate Management Execution Committee Management Strategy Committee Management Audit Office Cooperate CSR Division CSR Department Compliance Office Corporate Lawyer Nippon Paper Group Monitor Cooperate Corporate Auditor Liaison meeting ( audit and supervise ) Cooperate Business Execution Divisions, Group Companies 16 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 Management Responsibility Compensation Paid to Directors Evaluating the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors Determined on the basis of Corporate Governance and Information Disclosure responsibilities and performance Increasing the effectiveness of the Board of Directors Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. has defined the policy for officer remuneration in its Corporate Governance Policy To continuously strengthen the functions of the Board of Article 8. Directors Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. began in fiscal 2015 to have its Board of Directors engage in analyses and Fiscal 2016 total remuneration1 for directors and evaluations of their own effectiveness. corporate auditors Once each year, the Secretariat of the Board of Number Total remuneration for all Directors’ Meeting asks each director and corporate auditor Officer class of officers members of the officer class to complete a survey on matters such as board operations Directors 9 ¥389 million per year and deliberations. Based on survey results, the Board of Corporate auditors 52 ¥61 million per year Directors analyzes and evaluates its performance and then 1 Rounded down to the nearest million yen. uses what it has learned to improve its effectiveness going 2 Includes 1 corporate auditor who resigned during the year ended March 31, 2017. forward. Personnel & Remuneration Advisory Committee • Overview of FY2016 Evaluation Results Working to enhance management Based on the results of questionnaires the Company asked transparency each director and statutory auditor to complete regarding the effectiveness of the Board of Directors, in light of the To further enhance corporate governance, Nippon Paper establishment of the Corporate Governance Policy, and the Industries Co., Ltd. established the Personnel & results of amendments, etc. to the criteria for submitting Remuneration Advisory Committee in April 2016. Created agenda items for Board of Directors’ Meetings, the Board as an advisory body to the Board of Directors, the of Directors prepared a current-state evaluation of its committee is structured to include independent outside effectiveness and identified issues to be improved. directors as key members. Current Status When requested by the Board of Directors, the Efforts based on each principle of the Corporate Personnel & Remuneration Advisory Committee, with Governance Code have been progressing favorably and the appropriate involvement and input by the two outside effectiveness of the Company’s Board of Directors is committee members, considers matters concerning topics appropriate on the whole. such as the process for nominating Company director and Main Points for Improvement statutory auditor candidates; the quality of, and rationale 1. Further enhancement of reporting to the Board of Directors for, nominations; the criteria for judging the independence As a result of the evaluation in fiscal 2015, the Board of of independent outside directors; and the directors’ Directors identified the enhancement and reinforcement of compensation structure. The Board of Directors, after the Company’s basic policy on management, and of receiving recommendations from the Personnel & deliberation and reporting on matters related to corporate Remuneration Advisory Committee, makes decisions on governance, as an issue to be improved. By making director and statutory auditor nominations, compensation amendments to the Rules for the Board of Directors (put for directors, etc. into effect in April 2016), the Company clarified the types of matters that should be deliberated by the Board of Personnel & Remuneration Advisory Committee structure Directors, to enhance the quality of deliberations. With and functions respect to the evaluation in fiscal 2016, it was confirmed Board of Directors that the quality of deliberations at Board of Directors’ Input Advice Meetings had been further enhanced. For fiscal 2017, it Matters addressed: Officer candidates, officer remuneration, etc. was decided to further enhance the reporting of operational matters, to strengthen the supervisory function of the Board Personnel & Remuneration Advisory Committee of Directors. Structure: President and Representative Director, Director and General Manager of the General Affairs and Human Resources, 2. Ensuring training opportunities for directors and statutory Division independent directors (Administration: Manager of the Human Resources Department) auditors In fiscal 2015 and 2016, the Company invited outside experts as lecturers and held seminars for corporate officers. From fiscal 2017, the Company will work on improving training conditions further by, for example, arranging outside seminars. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 17 Management Responsibility Corporate Governance and Information Disclosure Internal Control System disclosure rules, when deemed to be of interest to our Complying with statutory and regulatory stakeholders and other members of society. requirements Information Disclosure Policy http://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/ir/disclosure/ In accordance with Japan’s Companies Act and related policy/ laws and regulations, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s Board of Directors approved the Basic Policy for Participating in Organizations in Japan and Abroad Establishing the Internal Control System in 2006 and has revised it as necessary since then. As called for by the Seeking to connect to and work with basic policy, systems that are required for the Board of external parties Directors to perform its duties in accordance with laws and regulations, and with the Company’s Articles of The Nippon Paper Group strives to share information with Incorporation, and systems that are required for the Nippon other companies, international organizations, governmental Paper Group to properly pursue its business activities have institutions, labor organizations, and NGOs in countries been established and are being used. around the world, and contribute to various activities together with these partners. • Financial reporting internal controls To comply with the internal control reporting system • The United Nations Global Compact requirements stipulated under the Financial Instruments and Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Exchange Act of Japan, the Management Audit Office announced its decision to support assesses the status and operation of financial reporting the 10 principles covering the four internal controls. Based on these assessments, it has been fields of human rights, labor, determined that effective financial reporting internal controls environment and anti-corruption were in place at Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., and 24 and joined the United Nations consolidated subsidiaries, as of March 31, 2017. Global Compact as a signatory in November 2004. Position on Information Disclosure United Nations Global Compact https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ Enhancing management transparency through active information disclosure Principal organization memberships (as of July 2017) The Nippon Paper Group constantly strives to enhance the Organization Position soundness and transparency of its management by Japan Paper Association Chairman disclosing company information in accordance with our Japan Tappi Vice President Action Charter (see page 19). This policy is provided in Forest Management Association Director the Nippon Paper Group Disclosure Policy adopted in Japan Overseas Plantation Center for Pulpwood Director October 2005. Japan Woody Bioenergy Association Director Following the guidelines of this basic policy, we comply Paper Recycling Promotion Center Vice President with the provisions of the Financial Instruments and Japan Association of Milk Packaging and Machinery Vice Chairman Exchange Act of Japan and other relevant laws and Committee for Milk Container Environmental Issues Vice Chairman regulations. We disclose information in a timely manner, Association of Large-scale On-site Power-plant Managing standing on the principles of transparency, fairness and Owners Director continuity. Furthermore, we disclose information that may National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science Chair not be required under applicable laws, regulations, or timely and Technology Nanocellulose Forum Working to strengthen corporate governance Comment Makoto Fujioka, Outside Director, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. I believe the purpose of corporate governance is to work for the benefit of shareholders and other stakeholders by ensuring highly transparent, fair management and helping the company realize ongoing growth and medium-to-long-term increases in corporate value. In my career, I have accumulated experience in government, working with economic and industrial matters, and in corporate management. As an outside director, I draw on my publicand private-sector experience and knowledge, and on my international experience, to participate in management oversight and provide advice from an objective perspective. 18 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 Management Responsibility CSR Management Management Responsibility Advancing CSR activities that help to build a sustainable society through business endeavors Management Structure Meeting social responsibilities through business activities Oversight through the CSR Division Corporate Governance and Information Disclosure / Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. established the CSR Mission Division to oversee the CSR activities of the Group as a The Nippon Paper Group aims to contribute to ➡P.5 better living and cultural progress everywhere whole. The CSR Department and Public Relations Office it does business. were set up within the CSR Division. The CSR Department promotes CSR activities based on the Action Charter and Initiatives for Solving Social Problems works closely with the various divisions and departments. CSR Management Management Responsibility ➡P.15 Forest Management and Raw Material The Nippon Paper Group’s Action Charter Procurement Responsibility ➡P.23 1. We shall pursue a sustainable growth for the future to Environmental Responsibility ➡P.31 contribute to society through our business activities. 2. We shall abide by the letter and the spirit of laws Responsibility to Customers ➡P.47 and regulations, and comply with the highest ethical standards and social codes of conduct, both in Human Rights, Employment and Labor Responsibility ➡P.53 Japan and abroad. 3. We shall conduct our business in a fair, transparent Responsibility to Communities ➡P.61 and liberal manner. 4. We shall win the trust of customers through the development and provision of socially useful and safe products and services. Identification of Social Problems and Needs 5. We shall disclose corporate information positively and fairly to all stakeholders of the Group. Dialogue with Stakeholders ➡P.21 6. We shall actively address environmental issues, and shall endeavor to conserve and enhance the Information Disclosure ➡P.18 environmental state of our planet. 7. We shall maintain consistency between corporate development and the personal contentment of individual employees, and create a company filled • Recognition as an ESG Investment with dream and hope. Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. is included in key ESG (environment, social, and governance) indices in Japan and abroad. • Supporting CSR activities by Group companies Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s CSR Department hosts Key indices of which Nippon Paper Industries is a component regular CSR liaison meetings with personnel in charge of FTSE4Good Index Series CSR at principal Group companies. These meetings are held Component since June 2017 Developed by FTSE Russell, a to communicate directions being taken with regard to CSR member of the London Stock Exchange Group plc matters and to share opinions. They are also used as MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index opportunities to hear discussions of CSR activity trends by invited consultants, and to hold workshops. FTSE Blossom Japan Index • Surveying Employees on Important CSR Matters Component since July 2017 Developed for ESG investment In February 2017, the Nippon Paper Group conducted a conducted by Japan’s GPIF survey to gather input from employees, as stakeholders, on (Government Pension Investment Fund) matters of CSR Materiality (see page 14). We considered and identified materiality items for fiscal 2017 in light of factors Ethibel EXCELLENCE such as impacts on outside stakeholders (see page 14). Investment Register Component since February 2013 An investment universe managed by • Mbusiness eeting social responsibilities through activities Forum Ethibel, a Belgian organization that promotes socially responsible investment The Nippon Paper Group aims to contribute to the Euronext Vigeo index: World 120 development of a sustainable society through its business Component since December 2014 An equity index developed by NYSE activities. Toward that end, we are committed to grasping the Euronext, which operates securities exchanges in Europe and the U.S., expectations and demands of our stakeholders, and fulfilling and by Vigeo Eiris, an enterprise that our social responsibilities from the perspectives of business assesses companies management; forest management and the procurement of raw materials; the environment; customers; human rights, employment, and labor; and local communities. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 19 Management Responsibility Compliance As a committed partner ensuring that employees are fully informed about compliance, the Nippon Paper Group engages in corporate activities in accordance with laws and social norms Compliance Structure Group Internal Whistleblower System Promoting compliance throughout the Encouraging reporting via a help line on Group activity in conflict with compliance The CSR Division of Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. The Nippon Paper Group has established its help line serves as a facilitator and driving force behind efforts to system to allow any employee of the Group to provide achieve and reinforce understanding of compliance direct notification of, or seek advice outside the chain-ofthroughout the Nippon Paper Group. command on, any action in the workplace that could violate Each Group company appoints a person to be in charge laws, social norms or corporate ethics. The Compliance of compliance within its organization, and Nippon Paper Office located within the CSR Department serves as a point Industries’ Compliance Office actively hosts Group of contact within the Group. We have also established Compliance Liaison Meetings to provide all employees in points of contact outside the Group for use by employees charge of compliance with information on important policies as appropriate. and measures, opportunities to share information, and The help line system guarantees the privacy of advice on education and training activities. whistleblowers and takes steps to ensure that they do not suffer because they have reported questionable activity or • Implementing compliance education have sought advice. The Nippon Paper Group conducts training on an ongoing basis to further enhance compliance awareness and Trends in the number of notifications received by the help line understanding. We, together with a consultant from outside Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 the Group, conduct practical training that involves group 21 26 19 11 discussions and is tailored to the specific needs of production sites and sales offices. Flow of the help line system Education on compliance is also provided through User avenues such as stratified training in the form of new-hire Group company employees, temporary workers, training and training for newly appointed managers at contract workers, dispatched staff, workers from contractors, etc. principal Group companies. Notification/consultation Notification/consultation Response In fiscal 2016, basic training was conducted for 960 employees, and stratified External Point of Contact training and training on Response Company specializing in Legal office telephone counseling topics such as Japan’s Antimonopoly Act was Notification/consultation Response conducted for Internal Point of Contact 200 employees. CSR Department Compliance Office Compliance training Coordination Consolidated Subsidiaries Personal Information Protection Employees in charge of compliance Maintaining a systematic structure and rules Respect for Intellectual Property Nippon Paper Industries has taken steps to ensure clear Education programs on intellectual understanding of the structure and rules applicable to the property rights and compliance handling of personal information. The personal information of customers, business partners and employees is The Nippon Paper Group’s emphasis on intellectual controlled by clearly stated rules and a manual, and is property is evident not only in research and development tracked and managed in control ledgers by individual but also in all of its business activities, and the Group related departments as required by the Private Information adheres strictly to all applicable laws and regulations. Protection Law. These ledgers contain details of the dates Members of the Intellectual Property Department of Nippon when personal information was obtained and the Paper Industries, and outside patent attorneys, conduct purposes for holding it, and are reviewed annually to intellectual property education programs for the benefit of eliminate data for which the holding period has expired and Group company employees. take other actions, as well, to ensure that information is A total of 469 employees attended the 17 programs in handled properly. fiscal 2016. 20 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 Management Responsibility Dialogue with Stakeholders Management Responsibility Actively creating opportunities for dialogue to promote coexistence with society Basic Stance in our management to promote sustainable growth and Actively promoting dialogue medium-to-long-term increases in corporate value for Compliance / Dialogue with Stakeholders the Group. The Nippon Paper Group actively establishes contact points and opportunities for direct dialogue with all Results of activities in fiscal 2016 stakeholders while regularly providing information on our Operating results and management briefings 1 time operations and promoting the exchange of opinions. Each Operating results briefings (Teleconference) 3 times of our business locations actively creates opportunities for Individual meetings 176 times regular communication on risks and other matters. And stakeholder opinions are received through channels such • Tours and other events as our website, Sustainability Report, and ShikiOriori, the The Nippon Paper Group conducts annual plant tours to CSR communication magazine we publish to provide plain promote a deeper understanding of its business activities. and simple explanations of our CSR initiatives. The tours of Nippon Paper Industries’ Akita Mill in fiscal We carefully consider the feedback we receive and 2016 attracted considerable praise from participants. reflect it in management decision making aimed at enabling the mutually beneficial ongoing development of society and • Gcommunications, eneral shareholders’ meeting, shareholder and IR website the Nippon Paper Group. Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. strives to disclose and otherwise provide information in a timely, appropriate manner to enhance dialogue with shareholders at the general shareholders’ meeting. In preparing general shareholders’ meeting announcements, for example, we provide shareholders with copious amounts of important information, which we strive to make as clear and straightforward as possible. For the general Prize of Excellence at the Environmental ShikiOriori shareholders’ meeting held in June 2017, we sent Communication Awards* * The Nippon Paper Group’s Sustainability Report 2016 was named winner of announcements early – 23 days before the meeting date the Prize of Excellence at the Environmental Communication Awards 2016, – and disclosed meeting materials even earlier – seven days sponsored by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment and the Global Environmental Forum. before we sent the announcements on our website and through other channels. In addition, we distribute shareholder communications IR Activities twice a year and make timely disclosures on our website, Promoting dialogue with shareholders which we also use to receive inquiries about the Nippon and investors Paper Group. Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. strives to gain Trends in dividends per share (Yen) understanding of the Group's business direction by March March March March 2014 2015 2016 2017 engaging shareholders and other investors in constructive Interim dividend 10 20 30 30 dialogue. Furthermore, we reflect the opinions of investors Period-end dividend 30 30 30 30 and the business analysis perspectives of capital providers Contact points for dialogue with stakeholders Stakeholder Major point of contact Means of communication Employees (executives, permanent employees, Human resource sections Labor–management councils, labor–management committees, etc. part-time employees, employee families) Sales sections Product safety Customers (business enterprises, consumers, etc.) sections Individual interviews, inquiries to customer relations sections, etc. Customer assistance channels Responsible sections Environmental explanatory meeting, risk communication, within mills and branches environmental monitoring system, mill presentation meetings, etc. Society and local residents (local communities, Responsible sections Interviews, etc. NPOs/NGOs, municipalities, the media, within each business segment students, etc.) Social contribution sections Social contribution activities, etc. Public relations sections Press releases, interviews, etc. Business partners (suppliers, Procurement sections subcontractors, etc.) Human resource sections Individual interviews, supplier surveys, etc. General affairs sections General shareholders’ meetings, shareholder communications, Shareholders (shareholders, investors, etc.) IR sections explanatory meetings, annual reports, IR site, IR information mail, etc. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 21 Management Responsibility Dialogue with Stakeholders Dialogue with a Supplier On Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials The Nippon Paper Group employees in charge of procurement visited Niwa Mokuzai, a company supplying domestic wood chips to Nippon Paper Industries’ mills in the Tohoku region of Japan. During their visit, they asked the company’s president, Mr. Ogasawara, about biodiversity, safety and health, and community coexistence initiatives that are critical for his company’s success. (Interviewers: Kenji Ishii and Yoshihiro Kohata of Nippon Paper Lumber Co., Ltd.) Mr. Ogasawara, President of Niwa Mokuzai Ltd. (left), and Nippon Paper Lumber Co., Ltd. representatives Kenji Ishii (center) and Yoshihiro Kohata (right) Kiyotaka Ogasawara President Niwa Mokuzai Ltd. information on initiatives in other regions and the active discussions we engage in have added new energy to our safety awareness. In addition, when we encounter a Company Profile problem, Nippon Paper Industries has been considerate in Name: Niwa Mokuzai Ltd. providing advice, based on its stance of solving Head office: Takizawa City, Iwate Prefecture problems together. Main business activities: Forest management, lumber –– What are your thoughts regarding staff management? milling, wood chip production Relationship with Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.: O: Well, to begin with, our stable relationship with Nippon Has been supplying wood chips to Nippon Paper Industries Paper Industries enables us to take advantage of continuously since 1973. management efficiencies. These provide resources that can be applied to compensation and used to promote workforce stability. –– What have you found to be critical for the –– What does your company do to promote continuation of your business? coexistence with the local community? Ogasawara: Stability in business relationships. Maintaining O: We hold company tours and accept students for business relationships makes it possible to shrink sales internships. Our purpose is to teach local residents, from costs, which involve various types of uncertainties, and the time they are children, about the forest and lumber achieve management efficiencies. This in turn makes it industries, and to have them understand that cutting trees possible to direct resources toward environmentally friendly is not equivalent to destroying nature. forest management. –– What do you expect of Nippon Paper Industries? –– What initiatives has your company taken for the O: That we do business with Nippon Paper Industries is environment and what impact has Nippon Paper encouraging for people working in the local community. The Industries had in this sense? cascade use of wood (see page 9), too, is possible O: In our part of Japan, we were the first company to gain because Nippon Paper Industries accepts this concept. SGEC certification (see page 26) and, in our operations, we There is an organization for young people working in the strive to maintain biodiversity through measures such as wood chip industry in Tohoku and the northern Kanto protecting soil, protecting trees along streams, and region*. Its members are thankful for their relationship with monitoring ecosystems, all in accordance with internal Nippon Paper Industries and, in engaging with the company rules. Before conducting thinning operations, we use a in plant tours and on other occasions, have come to see checklist to determine whether there are any rare species business with Nippon Paper Industries as the backbone of present (see page 44). We have also obtained CoC their industry. When Nippon Paper Industries’ Ishinomaki certification (see page 26) and have established a Mill restarted operations much sooner than anyone distribution system for timber from certified forests. In expected following the extensive damage it suffered from gaining SGEC certification, there were some hurdles to the Great East Japan Earthquake, local people gained a overcome and Nippon Paper Industries helped us with new sense of just how important Nippon Paper Industries is advice based on their own experience in gaining forest to their community. Going forward, I want to see the certifications. continuation of our business relationship with Nippon Paper –– What has been the impact of Nippon Paper Industries and its goodwill for the sustainability of our local Industries in terms of health and safety? community and forests. O: Nippon Paper Industries has provided us with * Mr. Ogasawara serves as the chairman of this organization. 22 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 Forest Management and Raw Material Procurement Responsibility The Nippon Paper Group, as a comprehensive biomass company pursuing business endeavors that are founded on sustainable forest management and promote sustainable growth by using, and later recycling, every bit of the renewable wood resources it harvests, contributes to better living and cultural progress. With sustainable forest management, biodiversity can be protected. Because forests act to sequester CO2, using wood resources actually helps to prevent global warming. Company-owned forest (Brazil: AMCEL) Indicators Key Objectives Performance (fiscal 2016) Materiality: Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials Maintenance of forest certifications for all company-owned forests inside and 100% of company-owned forests 100% outside Japan Ensure that all wood materials for pulp and paper are endorsed under forest 100% of wood used as raw material for paper 100% certification schemes Overseas chip and pulp supplier 100% of chip and pulp suppliers 100% (Overseas chip suppliers: 22; questionnaires domestic and overseas pulp suppliers: 14) Policy and Management Sustainable Procurement of Overseas Afforestation Basic Stance 24 Raw Materials Sustainable Management of Basic Stance 26 Overseas Afforested Areas 30 Philosophy and Basic Policy 24 Action Plan for Wood-Based Tree Farm Initiative 30 Sustainable Forest Management 24 Raw Material Procurement 26 Framework for Promoting Raw Materials Procurement Management24 Protecting and Nurturing Japan’s Wood Resources Current Status of Sustainable Management of Raw Materials Procurement Company-Owned Forests in Japan 28 Current Status of Paper Invigorating Japan’s Forest Industry 28 Raw Materials Procurement 25 Forest Management and Raw Material Procurement Responsibility Policy and Management Practicing sustainable procurement of raw materials in ways that consider environmental and social concerns in line with our philosophy and basic policy Basic Stance Sustainable Forest Management Pursuing sustainable and stable wood Practicing proper planning resources procurement and management Woodchips and wastepaper, as recycled material, are the Forestry management considers not only economic, but main raw materials for pulp and paper. Procurement of also environmental and social sustainability. The Nippon these materials entails the support not only of suppliers in Paper Group defines sustainable forest management as: and outside of Japan, but also the communities and 1) Biodiversity is conserved. government authorities of local production areas. Taking 2) T  he productivity and soundness of the forest ecosystem into consideration relationships with the environment and is maintained. society, the Nippon Paper Group recognizes the importance 3) Soil and water resources are conserved. of working closely with suppliers to establish a sustainable 4) Diverse social needs are satisfied. supply chain that incorporates production area forest Proper planning and management are important factors ecosystem, local community, occupational safety and in the sustainable management of forests. A considerable health as well as other concerns. amount of time is required to cultivate trees to their maturity. Accordingly, we have built and implemented a structure In putting together a viable sustainable forest management and framework that will allow us to sustainably procure plan, it is important to consider factors including the areas renewable wood resources. allocated to afforestation and harvesting, the rate of growth, the surrounding environment and the impact on society. Landscape concerns related to efforts to protect Philosophy and Basic Policy waterside forests and address other such needs must also Philosophy and basic policy reflecting be examined. Taking full advantage of its expertise in forest the opinions of stakeholders management, the Group is promoting proper planning and management. The Nippon Paper Group established its Philosophy and Basic Policy Concerning Raw Materials Procurement in fiscal 2005. In formulating this philosophy and basic Framework for Promoting Raw Materials Procurement Management policies, a draft proposal was released to the public so as to solicit the opinions of stakeholders in Japan and Overseeing raw material procurement overseas. The Group considered all of the close to 2,000 for the entire Group comments received, and incorporated several suggestions into revisions made to the draft. The Nippon Paper Group established the Raw Materials Committee, chaired by the general manager of the Raw Materials and Purchasing Division at Nippon Paper Industries. This subcommittee deliberates on a wide variety of important issues concerning raw material procurement, including the Group’s overarching procurement policy. Philosophy and Basic Policy Concerning Raw Materials Procurement (formulated on October 5, 2005) Philosophy We are committed to establishing a reliable raw materials procurement system through global supply chain management in consideration of the environment and society. Basic Policy 1. Environmentally friendly raw materials procurement 2. Socially aware raw materials procurement (1) We procure woodchips, lumber and pulp from forests (1) We pursue fair deals with suppliers on equal terms. under sustainable forest management. (2) We ensure that the entire supply chain has appropriate (2) We use and deal in no illegally logged lumber and we human rights and labor practices. support the eradication of illegal logging. (3) We make active use of recycled materials to help build a 3. Promotion of dialogues with stakeholders recycling-oriented society. (1) We engage in dialogues with stakeholders to improve (4) We make appropriate procurement of chemical the quality of our raw materials procurement in constant substances in compliance with relevant laws and consideration of the environment and society. regulations. (2) We proactively disclose information so that our initiatives (5) We build traceability systems to ensure the above policies are better known. are practiced throughout the supply chain. 24 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 Forest Management and Raw Material Procurement Responsibility Current Status of Raw Materials Procurement In addition to actively promoting the use of recycled paper, we procure wood resources from sustainably managed forests. Current Status of Paper Raw Materials Procurement • Initiatives aimed at stable wastepaper procurement With each passing year, the collection of wastepaper has Using wastepaper and wood resources Forest Management and taken on greater importance for reducing waste volumes as raw materials and reusing materials. For Japan’s paper industry, Raw Material Procurement wastepaper is an essential resource accounting for more The Nippon Paper Group is engaged primarily in the than half of the raw materials it uses. Responsibility manufacture of paper products. 55.1 percent of the raw Against this backdrop, the Nippon Paper Group has materials are composed of recycled paper and the maintained a stable system for procuring wastepaper. This remaining 44.9% consists of such wood resources as system, the product of many years of collaboration with the Policy and Management / Current Status of Raw Materials Procurement woodchips. Both types of raw materials are used to wastepaper industry, promotes the recycling of wastepaper. produce pulp. • Initiatives aimed at stable wood resource procurement Breakdown of main raw materials for paper manufacturing 1 Of the wood raw materials Nippon Paper Industries (Fiscal 2016) procures, slightly more than 60% are sourced from overseas and a little below 40%, from Japan. To help ensure stable supplies, overseas procurement is diversified Other pulp (Wood resources) Wastepaper pulp among multiple countries, including Australia. 44.9% 55.1%2 1 Consolidated Group companies in Japan 2 Wastepaper / (Wastepaper + other types of pulp) Geographic breakdown of wood raw materials procured by Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. (FY2016) (Bone dry units, kt = kilotonnes) Overseas 63% (2,648 kt) Japan 37% (1,541 kt) Afforested areas Secondary forests** Hardwood Softwood 77% Hardwood Softwood 23% 58% 5% 15% 22% (2,422 kt) (226 kt) (610 kt) (931 kt) Hardwood resource breakdown (3,032 kt) Softwood resource breakdown (1,157 kt) Secondary forests* 5% Afforested areas Secondary forests** Afforested areas 77% 23% 95% 40 20 80 100 60 0 * Forests that have recovered naturally or that have been artificially replanted after an event such as timber harvesting or fire. Tree species Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. procured from overseas, and their countries of origin (Fiscal 2016) Hardwood Softwood Secondary forests* 5% Country Percentage* Species Country Percentage* Species Australia Afforested 24%areas Eucalyptus Radiata pine, Australia 73% South Africa 9522% % Acacia 100 40 20 80 60 0 Caribbean pine U.S.A. 19% Douglas fir Brazil 20% Eucalyptus, Acacia Russia 8% Yezo spruce Vietnam 17% Acacia Total 100% Chile 16% Eucalyptus Total 100% * Sums of individual entries may not equal 100% due to rounding. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 25 Forest Management and Raw Material Procurement Responsibility Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials Practicing sustainable forest management and resource procurement using certifications as benchmarks Basic Stance Nippon Paper Group has been meeting in its raw material Focusing on legal compliance and procurement activities since before the Clean Wood Act transparency in the procurement of took effect. Going forward, the Group intends to register raw materials with additional third-party institutions maintaining records in support of legal compliance. The Nippon Paper Group is a strong advocate of sustainable raw materials procurement that takes into consideration environmental and social concerns. Our Action Plan for Wood-Based Raw Material Procurement procurement of wood raw materials rests on the principles of legality and emphasizes sustainability, clear identification Eradicating illegal logging while of the origin of wood resources, and full accountability. promoting environmentally and socially When purchasing from external suppliers, we make aware procurement every effort to enhance our supply chain management capabilities, taking into consideration environmental and The Nippon Paper Group has put in place its Action Plan social needs. At the same time, we use a system that for Wood-based Raw Material Procurement, in keeping with employs third-party forest certification programs to confirm the Group’s Philosophy and Basic Policy Concerning Raw the propriety of raw materials procurement. Materials Procurement. This action plan provides a In the context of procurement from company-owned roadmap that incorporates checks on the legality of forests, we pursue overseas afforestation projects to woodchips, and consideration for human rights, labor, local increase our plantation timber procurement. Moreover, we communities, and the protection of biodiversity, allowing the practice sustainable forest management by maintaining Group to practice CSR procurement. This action plan also forest certifications acquired for company-owned forests helps enhance traceability with respect to woodchips both in Japan and overseas. procured from overseas while placing considerable emphasis on trade association certification of the legality of Key points of sustainable wood woodchips produced in Japan. resources procurement Nippon Paper Industries, in connection with annual forest certification audits and audits performed by the • Sourcing from sustainable forests (sustainability) Japan Paper Association’s illegal logging monitoring project, • Clearly identifying the origin of timber (traceability) • Maintaining full accountability (accountability) has third parties perform objective assessments to determine whether it is conducting wood resource procurement in accordance with its basic policies. Suggestions from these assessments are then used to • About the Clean Wood Act make improvements. Japan’s Act on Promotion of Use and Distribution of Legally Action Plan for Wood-Based Raw Material Procurement Harvested Wood and Wood Products (the Clean Wood Act) http://www.nipponpapergroup.com/csr/forest/ took effect in May 2017. The act includes criteria for procurement/actionplan/index.html (Japanese only) confirming the legality of harvested wood – criteria the Overview of major forest certification programs Certification program name Details and features FSC®—Forest Stewardship Council® A forest certification program based FSC® is a non-profit international member-based organization that certifies that forests are being managed in on unified global standards compliance with its 10 principles and 70 standards. FSC® has adopted the FM and CoC certification system. (License No. FSC® C001751) PEFC—Programme for the PEFC bases its sustainability benchmark on a broad consensus expressed in intergovernmental processes Endorsement of Forest Certification and guidelines. It provides a mutual recognition system that endorses compatibility and comparability of the A program that promotes mutual responsible forest management systems of individual countries. Launched across countries in Europe, the recognition of the forest certification program encompasses the forest certification programs of 49 countries around the world. In similar fashion to programs of individual countries FSC®, PEFC has adopted the CoC certification system. Examples of certifications mutually approved by PEFC (for forests owned by Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) Australian Forestry Standard (AFS): Australia / CERTFORCHILE: Chile / CERFLOR: Brazil SGEC—Sustainable Green Ecosystem Council SGEC engages in an evaluation based on seven criteria while taking into consideration Japan's natural A forest certification program environment as well as its social customs and culture. SGEC has also adopted the CoC certification system. established in Japan Mutual certification with PEFC was approved in June 2016. * FM and CoC Certification The forest certification system is composed of two components—the Forest biodiversity, (3) respect for native and local resident rights, and (4) maintenance Management (FM) component, which certifies that forests are responsibly and improvement of forest productivity. managed, and the Chain-of-Custody (CoC) component, which certifies that CoC certification is a system covering all operators engaged in the processing products from certified forests have been properly processed and distributed. and distribution of timber materials. In addition to tracking products (certified Under the FM certification system, a third party certifies that the management of woodchips) from certified forests in each process including processing and forests is being undertaken in a sustainable manner based on various objective distribution, CoC certification confirms that a risk assessment of all non-certified benchmarks including (1) compliance with regulatory requirements and system woodchips has been undertaken. Products display a certification mark in the frameworks, (2) maintenance and conservation of forest ecosystems and event that all operators have acquired CoC certification across all processes. 26 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainable wood resource procurement scheme Forest Management and Philosophy and Basic Policy Concerning Raw Materials Procurement (see page 24) Raw Material Procurement Responsibility Action Plan for Wood-based Raw Material Procurement Japanese Resources Overseas Resources Basic Policy • Based on verifications by organizations approved • Verifications by individual companies using their and Scheme by forest, timber or lumber industry organizations own approaches, as provided in the Guideline for Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials specified in the Guideline for Verification of Verification of Legality and Sustainability of Wood Legality and Sustainability of Wood and Wood and Wood Products. Products established by Japan’s Forest Agency • Based on the Japan Paper Association’s guideline in connection with government procurement for measures against illegal logging. initiatives to fight illegal logging in accordance with the Law on Promoting Green Purchasing. Confirmation of • Traceability based on the Guideline for Verification • Document verifications are performed on a vesselLegality of Legality and Sustainability of Wood and Wood by-vessel basis to ensure that the area where the Products established by Japan’s Forest Agency wood was harvested and the supplier of the wood • Confirmation of basic information relating to are in compliance with relevant laws, and that no forest operations. Information examples include illegally harvested wood is included. compliance with laws and regulations, tree • On-site checks by employees assigned to local species, and whether forest certifications have offices been obtained. • Questionnaires and local interviews (Every effort is made to enhance traceability by confirming compliance with statutory requirements regarding forest management, tree species, and the acquisition of forest certifications. * In fiscal 2016, it was determined, based on questionnaire responses and shipping and other documents provided by each supplier, that no illegally harvested woodchips or pulp were procured from overseas suppliers. Confirmation of Based on information from sources such as results of supplier surveys and local interviews, the following has sustainability been confirmed. • Policies or systems have been established for addressing human rights and labor matters. • Social contribution initiatives have been undertaken to improve relations with local communities. • Biodiversity surveys have been conducted. • Areas requiring special consideration to protect biodiversity have been identified and logging and forest management activities have been modified appropriately. Independent The following have been implemented for all procured wood resources. Audits • Annual audits by the Japan Paper Association’s illegal logging monitoring project. • Annual risk assessments based on the due diligence system of the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC), a Forest certification organization. Implementation Results for the Action Plan for Wood-based Raw Material Procurement (Fiscal 2016) Procurement in Japan Procurement Overseas Coverage and 414 chip suppliers, 6 pulp suppliers 22 chip suppliers, 8 pulp suppliers Results No problems detected under the action plan No problems detected under the action plan Third-Party Sustainable Forest Management Validations Forest certification system: System for the certification by third-party organizations that forests are being sustainably managed At Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., • All company-owned forests in Japan and overseas have received forest certifications. •A ll wood-based raw materials have been certified by the PEFC or FSC® (All procured chips have been produced with wood from forests with an FM certification or have undergone a risk assessment for the CoC certification.) Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 27 Forest Management and Raw Material Procurement Responsibility Protecting and Nurturing Japan’s Wood Resources Maintaining a focus on forest management that takes into consideration the characteristics of each region in an effort to promote sound growth Sustainable Management of Company-Owned Invigorating Japan’s Forest Industry Forests in Japan Actively utilizing domestically produced Practicing sustainable forest management timber while contributing to the at company-owned forests over an area prevention of forest deterioration extending to 90 thousand hectares In recent years, deterioration of artificially planted Japanese Nippon Paper Industries owns approximately 90 thousand cypress and Japanese cedar forests throughout Japan has hectares of forest in around 400 locations in Japan, the become a concern. The reason for this deterioration is low second largest private-sector holdings of forest in the lumber prices that have squeezed forest industry profitability country. SGEC Forest Certifications have been obtained for and made it impossible to perform thinning and other all of the forest. necessary maintenance. To invigorate the industry and For the Nippon Paper Group, forests are not only an prevent further forest deterioration, the Japanese important business resource—as a corporate group whose government, under its Forest and Forestry Basic Plan, has existence is closely tied to the health and conservation of committed itself to promoting the use of domestically forests, we recognize and work to manage the integrity of produced wood, and lifting the nation’s wood selfthe multifaceted functions forests play within society. sufficiency rate to 50% by 2025. • Maintaining company-owned forests in Japan • Promoting the use of domestic timber Nippon Paper Industries allocates approximately ¥0.6 billion With its network for domestic timber collection in Japan, each year to the maintenance and management of and its ability to handle a comprehensive lineup of products, company-owned forests in Japan, which entails the clearing Nippon Paper Lumber is actively developing its domestic of undergrowth and thinning. As a company which has timber business. In fiscal 2016, the company handled continued to benefit from and grow through forests and approximately 830 thousand m3 of domestically produced forest products, we are committed to balanced, sustainable materials, and ranked second in its field in Japan. The forest management that allows forests to fulfill their company aims to lift this figure to 1 million m3, and, to this multifaceted functions—including ones that benefit end, is continuing to develop new applications while biodiversity protection and watershed conservation— working to boost exports. despite the fact that forests within Japan are not currently economically viable because of the stagnant price of Distribution of company-owned forests in Japan and domestic timber. composition by tree species (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) (As of March 31, 2017) • Econscious nvironmental forest designations, biodiversityforest management • Has established a bird sanctuary within its company-owned forests and is working closely with the Wild Bird Society of Japan to help protect Nippon Paper Industries has designated approximately Blakiston’s fish owl (see page 45) Hokkaido 43 k ha 20%, or 18 thousand hectares, of forest areas owned in Japan as “environmental forest areas.” In these areas, the logging of trees for the purpose of lumber production is prohibited and the Tohoku • Held a tree-planting 11 k ha activity at Marunuma environmental functions of Kogen in 2017 (see page 65) forests (forest ecosystems, Sugenuma company-owned forest • Support the activities watershed conservation, etc.) which includes an “environmental Sugenuma Forest of the Shirane-aoi, forest area” (Mt. Nikko-Shirane) (Gunma Prefecture) Glaucidium palmatum are conserved. Preservation Group Kanto (see page 46) Chubu 5 k ha Chugoku 5 k ha Hardwood 1% Other 4% 5 k ha Kinki 2 k ha Other softwood 3% Shikoku Native forests 55% 1 k ha • Has acquired forest certifications for all Japanese larch 4% Kyushu 18 k ha company-owned forests (see page 27) Hardwood 43% Toyono Forest Japanese cypress 6% (Kumamoto Prefecture) • Maintains approximately 20% of company-owned forests as environmental Spruce, fir 9% forest areas (see page 28) • Holds the School of Friendship for Japanese cedar 9% Forests and Paper within • Allocates approximately ¥0.6 billion each company-owned forests to provide year to the maintenance of company-owned Pine 9% Spruce, fir 8% hands-on courses on the natural forests (see page 28) environment (see page 65) Planted forests 41% Other softwood 4% • Engages in forest management that takes into consideration biodiversity (see page 44) Total 90 k ha * “k ha” = thousand hectares 28 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 Domestic timber sales results by product type (Nippon Paper Lumber Co., Ltd.) C as e Forest Management and (1,000 m3) Domestic unprocessed timber Products made with Japanese timber 900 832 Development of Large Scion Plantation for 736 773 703 Specified Japanese Cedar Mother Trees 632 Raw Material Procurement 600 562 529 In 2016, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. and Nippon Responsibility 300 Paper Lumber Co., Ltd. embarked on an initiative to develop a large scion plantation in Hitoyoshi City, 0 Kumamoto Prefecture. This initiative is a bid to facilitate 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) the quick propagation and full-scale production of cutting seedlings from Japanese cedar mother trees Protecting and Nurturing Japan’s Wood Resources chosen for their excellent growth ability and lower • Eforfforts paper to use more domestic wood as a raw material pollen counts. Nippon Paper Industries has developed an exclusive The Nippon Paper Group is working to increase the technology that enables it to propagate cutting seedlings much more quickly than is possible with conventional percentage of domestically produced wood it uses to make methods. Nippon Paper Lumber intends to use this paper. Having reached 30% in fiscal 2008, this figure rose technology to increase seedling production in line with to 36.8% in fiscal 2016. We aim to carry on with our efforts demand and will proactively market seedlings, making itself into a stable source of cutting seedlings in the to help invigorate Japan’s forest industry by using Japanese Kyushu region and a contributor to the steady renewal of timber whenever possible. Kyushu’s forests. Domestic timber utilization rate1 (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) C as e (%) The Nippon Paper Group’s domestic timber utilization rate (raw material for paper) Pulp and chip wood self-sufficiency rate (calendar year)2 Japan’s wood self-sufficiency rate (calendar year)3 40 37.2 36.5 37.4 35.8 36.8 Fukushima “Morino Chonai-kai” – 34.4 34.7 34.4 32.4 31.5 Protecting Fukushima’s forests 34.5 30 32.7 31.1 31.0 33.7 30.8 31.9 31.5 In Fukushima Prefecture, impacts of the Great East 28.6 29.6 27.8 26.6 27.9 Japan Earthquake have caused forestry management 26.0 20 and timber operations to stagnate, thereby endangering the watershed and disaster-prevention roles played 0 by forests. Responding to this situation, Nippon 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) Paper Lumber Co., Ltd. and Office Chonai-kai, an 1 The domestic (Japan) timber utilization rate includes sawmill residues. environmental NPO, concluded a memorandum of 2 Source: Yearbook of Paper and Pulp Statistics issued by the Ministry of Economy, understanding, under which the Fukushima Morino Trade and Industry of Japan Chonai-kai was launched in July 2016. 3 Source: Supply and Demand of Lumber (Lumber material self-sufficiency rate) issued by the Forestry Agency of Japan Fukushima Morino Chonai-kai comprises a scheme in which Morino Chonai-kai, which was established by • Organizing private-sector forest owners in Kyushu Office Chonai-kai in 2005, will be used to promote the thinning operations necessary for protecting forests. Increasing the competitiveness of Japan’s forest industry These activities will be supported through sales of paper requires that forest owners work together to maintain an and paper products. efficient road network and systematic thinning operations. Under a similar memorandum of understanding with The signing of a memorandum of understanding on the Office Chonai-kai, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. has agreed to produce Fukushima Restoration Support Desktop advancement of forest management in Kyushu by Nippon Calendars and use 150 yen from the sale of each to Paper Industries Co. Ltd., the Kyushu Regional Forest support forest protection activities in Fukushima Prefecture. Office; Oji Paper Co., Ltd.; Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd.; In pursuit of the Fukushima Morino Chonai-kai and others in 2009 set the stage for later developments. In scheme, Nippon Paper Lumber Co., Ltd. will purchase material from forest thinning operations in Fukushima March 2015, for example, an area covered by an agreement and use it as raw material for making paper at its concerning the promotion of forest maintenance in the Itsuki Ishinomaki and Iwanuma mills. region of Kyushu was designated as the site for a consolidation test project with the participation of the Japan Project-Industry Council’s Forestry Regeneration Committee. In a separate development, a forest management and lumber production agreement was concluded for the Yatsushiro region in March 2014. This groundbreaking wide-area model agreement calls for private-sector forest Fukushima Restoration owners to manage forests in Kyushu collaboratively. Support Desktop Calendar Participants in the agreement include Kumamoto Prefecture, Yatsushiro City, the Yatsushiro Shinrin Forest Cooperative, and Nippon Paper Co. Ltd. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 29 Forest Management and Raw Material Procurement Responsibility Overseas Afforestation Growing trees as a renewable resource, and coexisting with local communities Sustainable Management of Overseas harvesting trees. The Tree Farm Initiative manifests Nippon Afforested Areas Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s concept for overseas Developing an afforestation business that afforestation projects. contributes to the local community Presently, the Company oversees 91 thousand hectares (as of December 31, 2016) of afforested areas in Brazil, Recognizing the importance of mutual development the Chile, Australia, and South Africa. Nippon Paper Group strives to build positive ties with the local communities in and around its forests. We pay • Afforestation projects that help the local ecology particular attention to the concerns of local residents while The Nippon Paper Group performs afforestation work on taking into consideration the cultures and traditions of each grasslands, former farms and pastures and on harvested region as well as the natural environment and ecosystems. plantation land. We select species, focusing mainly on Considerable effort is also placed on promoting educational fast-growing Eucalyptus, according to individual climatic activities, and creating employment opportunities, within conditions and materials available for making paper. local economies. In order to maintain a balance between areas planted with Eucalyptus and the biodiversity needs of each region, • Acquisition of forest certifications (see pages 26-27) we implement appropriate measures and keep vegetation • Econsideration ngages in forest management that takes into biodiversity (see pages 44-45) along rivers and water courses where the potential effects on the ecology are large. • support, respectlocal  C oexisting with communities (Employment for indigenous people, see page 63) Tree Farm Initiative Nurturing renewable wood resources In similar fashion to the cultivation of crops in the field, the Tree planting that preserves riparian forests. (Right) The blue area indicates Tree Farm Initiative achieves sustainable procurement of riparian forests. raw materials through repeated cycles of growing and Overview of overseas forests under Nippon Paper Group management (as of March 31, 2017) Total forest area: Australia Afforested area: 15 k ha 91 k ha Company Name Background Nippon Paper Resources Wholly owned subsidiary of Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Australia Pty. Ltd. (NPR) (Manages PTP and BTP (see the table below)) Brazil Afforested area: 52 k ha Company Name Background Amapá Florestal e Celulose S.A. (AMCEL) Wholly owned subsidiary of Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Chile Afforested area: 13 k ha South Africa Afforested area: 11 k ha Company Name Background Company Name Background Joint-venture company established by Forest Resources Ltd. Joint-venture company established by Nippon Paper Volterra S.A. Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., Sumitomo (Forestco) Industries Co., Ltd., Sumitomo Corporation and BayFibre Corporation and Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. * “k ha” = thousand hectares Status of forest certification acquisition for overseas afforestation project Overseas plantation project by operating company Certification system name (License no.) Date of acquisition PTP (Australia) AFS June 2006 BTP (Australia) AFS April 2006 Volterra (Chile) FSC (FSC C120260) ® ® January 2014, CERTFORCHILE December 2007 Forestco (South Africa) FSC® (FSC®C012171) April 2003 AMCEL (Brazil) FSC® (FSC®C023383) December 2008, CERFLOR September 2014 30 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental Responsibility The Nippon Paper Group’s social responsibility is to use sustainable forest resources to contribute to the creation of a sustainable society. We protect biodiversity by properly managing forests and help to prevent global warming by making effective use of the ability of forests to sequester CO2 and by using wood resources efficiently. In transporting raw materials, manufacturing products, and performing other activities that bring our products up to the point of usage, however, we use significant amounts of resources and energy, and generate greenhouse gases and waste. At every stage of the value chain, therefore, we actively work to reduce our environmental impact by, for example, monitoring the effects of our activities to manage them and adopting new technologies and facilities to achieve greater energy efficiency. 10th Eco Photo Awards Grand Prize winner – “Aquatic Life Exploration Team” Indicators Key Objectives Performance (fiscal 2016) Materiality: Climate Change Initiatives Greenhouse gas emissions Reduce 10% compared to FY2013 result Reduced 1.5% Materiality: Reduction of Environmental Impacts Waste recycling rate Increase to 98% or higher 98.4% Materiality: Preserving Biodiversity Forest certifications for company-owned 100% 100% forests Check for rare species prior to harvesting in company-owned forests 100% 100% Policy and Management32 Noise, Vibration, and Odors / Preventing Promoting Recycling43 Soil Pollution / Water Supply Risk related Basic Stance / Environmental Action Plan to Our Water Usage / Recycling Industrial Expanding the Use of Wastepaper / (Green Action Plan) / Environmental Waste / Controlling Chemical Substances Waste Recycling Management Promotion Structure / Strengthening Environmental Compliance / Environmental Communication / Preserving Biodiversity44 Environmental Education and Training / Climate Change Initiatives40 Environmental Accounting Basic Stance / Progress Report for the Basic Stance / Initiatives in Our Core Green Action Plan 2020 Environmental Business Activities / Initiatives Leveraging Action Plan / Fuel Conversion Led by the Our Resources and Technologies Reduction of Adoption of Biomass Boilers / Initiatives Environmental Impacts36 for Saving Energy in Manufacturing Processes / Absorbing and Sequestering Material Balance / Measures for CO2 through Proper Management of Preventing Air Pollution / Initiatives for Company-Owned Forests / Advancing Preventing Water Pollution / Preventing Energy Efficiency in Logistics * The reporting scope for environmental data is described on page 3. In cases where a different reporting scope is used a notification to that effect is provided. Environmental Responsibility Policy and Management We are putting in place a Group-wide environmental management system based on our Environmental Charter and engaging in environmentally friendly corporate activities. Basic Stance Environmental Management Promotion Structure Endeavoring to reduce the environmental Putting in place a group-wide structure impact of our activities taking into consideration the unique characteristics of The Management Execution Committee makes decisions our business and wide-ranging social issues on environmental strategy and oversees environmental activities, for the entire Group. Chaired by the executive To reduce the environmental impact of its production officer responsible for environmental management, the processes, the Nippon Paper Group, in upholding the Nippon Paper Group Environmental Committee applies the principles and basic stance expressed in the Nippon Paper philosophy and basic policies of the Environmental Charter, Group Environmental Charter, emphasizes environmental which underpins the environmental management principles performance in selecting equipment and strives to increase of Group companies, by drawing up and monitoring daily operating efficiency. implementation of the Environmental Action Plan, and submitting progress reports to the Management Execution Committee. By deliberating and approving new initiatives, The Nippon Paper Group the Management Execution Committee promotes ongoing Environmental Charter improvement in the Group’s environmental activities. (Established on March 30, 2001, and revised on March 30, 2007) The Nippon Paper Group’s environmental management Philosophy promotion structure (as of March 31, 2017) The Nippon Paper Group is committed to helping preserve the global environment over the long term Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. President and Representative Director and contributing to the development of a recycling based society by carrying out its corporate activities Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Management Execution Committee in recognition of the importance of biodiversity. Report Approve Basic Policy The Nippon Paper Group Environment Committee 1. Act to counter global warming Chairperson: Executive officer responsible for environmental management 2. Protect and develop forest resources Executive officer, 3. Increase use of recycled resources Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. 4. Comply with environmental statutes and work to Environment & Safety Department minimize our environmental impact 5. Develop environmentally friendly technologies and Group companies in Japan Group companies outside of Japan products 6. Engage in active environmental communication • Strengthening environmental management systems At the Nippon Paper Group, the environmental departments at our headquarters and production facilities work together to strengthen the environmental management systems. Environmental Action Plan (Green Action Plan) Nippon Paper Industries, for example, has adopted a Setting forth specific objectives system for centrally managing emissions from the boilers of and actions individual mills. This effort illustrates how the company’s headquarters and production facilities work together to The Nippon Paper Group has established its Environmental ensure compliance with laws and regulations, and reduce Action Plan the Green Action Plan (GAP) – in accordance environmental impact. with the six basic policies expressed in its Environmental Charter. Group companies have each established their own • Introducing environmental management systems specific environmental action plans to reflect their own As one measure aimed at promoting environmental individual business circumstances based on the GAP. Their management, the Nippon Paper Group is introducing efforts to fulfill these plans are enhancing our ability to various environmental management systems including ISO accomplish the GAP. 14001, the international standard for environmental management, and Eco-Action 21. ISO 14001 certifications Framework for achieving objectives have been obtained by 93% of the principal production The Nippon Paper Group Environmental Charter sites of Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. and its consolidated subsidiaries. The Nippon Paper Group’s Environmental Action Plan Please refer to the following web page for information on Green Action Plan (GAP) conditions with regard to ISO14001 and Eco-Action 21 certifications. http://www.nipponpapergroup.com/csr/ 2017.3_ISO14001_e.pdf Environmental Action Plans of Group Companies 32 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 The Nippon Paper Group Environmental Action Plan (Green Action Plan 2020) Fiscal 2016 Progress Report Green Action Plan 2020 Progress Page Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 10% • Reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 1.5% compared to fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2013.1 by updating and consolidating facilities, and moving forward with fuel 40 conversion. 1. Anti-global warming action • Continuously working to reduce CO2 emissions by shortening Reduce logistics-generated CO2 emissions. transportation distances and advancing highly efficient modal shift 42 transport. Advance domestic company-owned forest operations and the overseas afforestation project (Tree Farm Initiative) to ensure the • As of the end of 2016, total afforested areas came to 91,000 ha. 30 sustainable nurturing of forest resources. Maintain forest certifications in all proprietary • Currently maintaining SGEC, FSC®2, and PEFC certification for 181,000 27, 28, forests, both domestically and internationally. ha of company-owned forests in Japan and overseas. 30 Ensure that all wood materials for pulp and Environmental Responsibility 2. Protection and • Using only PEFCor FSC® -certified wood materials (including controlled development of paper are endorsed under forest certification 27 schemes. material and controlled wood) for pulp and paper. forest resources • In working to enhance traceability through the use of forest certifications, Enhance traceability and facilitate the cleared the requirements of PEFC rules in their entirety and FSC® rules procurement of sustainable forest resources. to 97% with respect to the assessment of imported wood chip risk in 26, 27 fiscal 2016. Advance the use of wood fiber produced • Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. used domestically produced wood for from domestically grown trees to promote 37% of its needs. 25, 28 sound growth of forest resources in Japan. Promote greater use of wastepaper by • As a result of vigorous efforts to use wastepaper, wastepaper pulp Policy and Management achieving advances in wastepaper utilization accounted for 38% of pulp used to produce paper, and 89% of pulp 43 3. Recycling of technologies. used to produce paperboard. resources Increase the waste recycling rate to at • Waste recycling rate came to 98.4% because of efforts to reduce waste least 98%.1 generation and to recycle boiler ash. 39 Use the environmental management system • ISO14001 and other environmental management system standards to strengthen environmental management are being implemented in locations with high environmental impact to 32 4. Observance and reduce environmental impact. ensure regulatory compliance and reduce environmental impact. of environmentrelated laws and • In locations where chemical substances are being used, records on reduction of Properly manage chemical substances substance types and amounts are being kept, and safety data sheets environmental in accordance with the Nippon Paper are being used, to properly manage chemical substances. load 39 Group Chemical Substance Management • In fiscal 2016, water chillers were updated and recovery facilities Guidelines. were newly installed to reduce chloroform emissions at Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.'s Iwakuni Mill. • Developed Minerpa™, a functional material that is a composite of minerals and cellulose fiber, and offers excellent anti-odor, antibacterial, fire-resistance, and radiation shielding properties. • A high-capacity (annual capacity of 500 tonnes) production facility for Enhance the more sophisticated use of industrial TEMPO-oxidized CNF was installed at Nippon Paper Industries wood materials. 11, 52 Co., Ltd.'s Ishinomaki Mill. Operations began in April 2017. Finalized the decision to install a high-capacity (annual capacity of 30 tonnes) facility to produce CM-CNF at the Gotsu Mill. CM-CNF will be for use as a food and cosmetics additive. Operations scheduled to start in September 2017. 5. Development of eco-friendly Develop equipment technology for facilitating • Began test production of torrefied pellets, a new biomass solid fuel, a departure from reliance on fossil energy. 40, 41 technologies and in Thailand. products • Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. advanced the renewable energy business to help reduce its environmental load. It did this by starting to install wind turbines for a wind-power plant (scheduled to begin Reduce the environmental load through operating in January 2018) on land adjacent to the Akita Mill. the provision of ecofriendly products and • Sold CfFA® concrete admixture (making effective use of pulverized-coal 11, 43 services. boiler ash from Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.'s Ishinomaki Mill) for use in recovery construction in the Ishinomaki area of Miyagi Prefecture, Japan. • Began sales of NP-PAK Bio paper cartons (made almost totally from plant-derived recyclable biomass material) for chilled liquids. Disclose environment-related information to stakeholders and accelerate environmental • Shared risk information and invigorated dialogue with society through communication through dialogue and other publication of the Sustainability Report and through environmental risk 34 communication efforts undertaken at individual mills. 6. Environmental means. communication • Actively participated in environmental protection endeavors including Proactively participate in and support clean-up and greening initiatives organized by local communities, while 64 environment conservation activities. promoting various activities including mill tours and internships. • As a fiscal 2016 education activity on the importance of protecting 7. Biodiversity Advance companywide biodiversity initiatives biodiversity, conducted environmental e-learning, under the theme of commitments in accordance with the Nippon Paper Group Forests and Biodiversity, for Group and affiliate employees. 34 Basic Policies on Protection of Biodiversity. • Worked with the Wild Bird Society of Japan to conduct habitat surveys on birds in general, and the Blakiston's fish owl in particular. 1 Production sites in Japan. 2 FSC® Logo License No.FSC®C120260, FSC®C012171, FSC®C023383 Environment performance data http://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/csr/ Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 33 Environmental Responsibility Policy and Management Strengthening Environmental Compliance chemical tanks and other facilities to prevent environmental Taking action in a two-pronged approach accidents. A system of mutual audits has also been put in place by the Group as an additional step to strengthen In order to reduce the environmental impact of its business compliance and risk control. activities, the Nippon Paper Group is strengthening environmental compliance by placing equal emphasis on Environmental Communication preventing problems and on establishing a framework that ensures all problems come to light. Reflecting feedback into our We were not subject to any form of adverse disposition environmental activities (revocation of licenses, orders to suspend operation or the use of facilities, or fines) with respect to compliance with The Nippon Paper Group places particular emphasis on environmental regulations in fiscal 2016. sharing risk information with local communities in an effort to build strong ties of trust with them. To this end, the Group engages in environmental risk communication with To bolster environmental compliance local residents and government authorities, as provided in the Nippon Paper Group Risk Communication Guidelines. 1. Building systems to prevent problems •B  uilding a workplace that emphasizes the importance In cases such as the installation of large-scale equipment, of the environment (environmental compliance training) we also conduct explanatory meetings to provide a better •S  trengthening the system for identifying applicable laws and regulations understanding of any impact on the environment from • Implementing measures from both the facility and installation work and operation of the installed facilities. technology perspectives 2. Establishing a framework that ensures all problems come to light • Bolstering environmental audits • Responses to opinions and complaints In addition to receiving opinions and inquiries via its • Strengthening the environmental management structure •E  ngaging in environmental communication and active website, the Nippon Paper Group has established a information disclosure complaint and inquiry contact at each of its mills. We have also adopted environmental monitoring systems that encourage input from local residents. • Slaws trengthening the framework for reliably identifying to be observed Mills that receive complaints move swiftly to determine possible causes, and take remedial action. In those To accurately respond to wide-ranging and relatively instances where a permanent solution requires an extended frequent changes in environmental legislation, Nippon amount of time to implement, all appropriate provisional Paper Industries has retained legal experts as advisors and measures are taken as quickly as possible. With each implemented a legal and regulatory search system. complaint, the Group takes steps to explain the details of remedial action to be taken and to obtain the necessary • Ienvironmental ntroducing equipment and facilities to prevent accidents acknowledgement. Nippon Paper Industries identifies risks of environmental No. of environment-related complaints in Japan (fiscal 2016) accidents in terms of both probability and potential impact, Complaints No. Complaints No. and introduces the equipment and facilities needed for Noise 1 Vibration 1 prevention. Acting to prevent major chemical and oil spills Dust and mist dispersal 5 Smoke 0 considered a top priority again in fiscal 2016 the Odor 2 Other 1 company took steps like installing liquid containment walls Total 10 and surface oil detectors. Environmental Education and Training • Eand nvironmental audits emphasizing legal compliance risk control Supporting employees to learn The environmental management guidelines on pollution prevention issued by the Japanese Ministry of the The Nippon Paper Group provides basic to specialized Environment and Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry environmental education covering topics such as serve as the basis for internal audits by the Nippon Paper wastewater treatment plant operation. In addition, the Group’s various business locations, and for environmental Group encourages employees to participate in external audits by Nippon Paper Industry’s head office Environment training and take advantage of other opportunities to gain & Safety Department. The latter function as a double pollution prevention qualifications and expertise. confirmation of legal compliance and include inspection of To help elevate the environmental protection awareness 34 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 of employees, we hold the Nippon Paper Group Eco-Photo In 2017, large numbers of employees participated in our Contest and conduct environmental e-learning. These e-learning programs, which focused on forest certification activities take place in the month of June – Environment systems. Month in Japan. Environmental Accounting Environmental conservation expenses amounted to around ¥30.1 billion Environmental Responsibility Environmental accounting at domestic consolidated companies* Environmental conservation costs (Millions of yen) Categories Principal Activities Investment Cost (1) Business area costs 1. Pollution prevention costs Maintaining, managing and improving air and water pollution prevention facilities, etc. 1,260 11,119 2. Global environmental Preventing global warming as well as maintaining and managing company-owned forests, etc. 4,037 722 conservation costs 3. Resources circulation costs Effectively utilizing recycled paper as well as treating, reducing and recycling industrial waste, etc. 428 8,568 Policy and Management (2) Upstream / downstream costs Recovering pallets, etc. – 2,097 (3) Administration costs ISO 14001 inspection, operation and management; environmental information disclosure; – 297 employee environmental education; and workplace cleaning initiatives, etc. (4) R&D costs R&D relating to environmentally friendly products as well as the reduction of environmental load – 994 imposed by paper manufacturing processes, etc. (5) Social activity costs Local community natural conservation, tree planting, cleaning and landscaping activities, as well – 63 as donations and support for environmental organizations, etc. (6) Environmental remediation costs Levy for pollution-related health damage compensation system (SOx), etc. – 546 Subtotal 5,725 24,406 Total 30,131 Environmental conservation impacts Categories Environmental Impact Indicators Results YoY Change Effects related to resources Afforestation projects overseas Overseas afforestation areas 91 k ha Up 2 k ha introduced to business activities Energy-saving measures Fuel use (Heavy oil equivalent) – Up 37,358 kl Greenhouse gas emissions 7.17 Mt Up 0.27 Mt NOx emissions (NO equivalent) 8,002 t Up 167 t Air pollutant emissions SOx emissions (SO2 equivalent) 3,345 t Up 671 t Effects related to environmental Soot and dust emissions 1,183 t Down 52 t impact and waste from business activities Effluent 881 Mt Unchanged COD/BOD emissions 53,019 t Down 238 t Water contaminant emissions SS emissions 22,124 t Down 1,072 t Final waste disposal 10.7 kt Down 6.7 kt Recycled paper utilization rate (paper) 38.4% Up 0.6% Effects related to goods Product recycling and services produced from Recycled paper utilization rate (paperboard) 88.7% Up 0.1% business activities Shipping material recycling Pallet recovery rate 39.1% Down 9% * “k ha” = thousand hectares Economic benefits of environmental conservation (Millions of yen) Effect Amount Income from company-owned forests in Japan 430 Reduced expenses from energy saved 1,344 Reduced disposal expenses through the effective use of waste 4,495 Gain on sales from the recycled waste 451 Reduced expenses through the recycling of shipping materials 49 Total 6,769 * Accounting standards are based on Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 35 Environmental Responsibility Reduction of Environmental Impacts Ascertaining our material balance and reducing our environmental impact Material Balance total net sales. Constituting most of the Group’s material Identifying and reducing the environmental balance in Japan, this division is responsible for impact of our business activities approximately 92% of the Group’s water consumption and 96% of its CO2 emissions there. The Nippon Paper Group engages in a broad range of Woodchips and recycled paper make up the bulk of raw paper-related and other business activities driven primarily materials used to make paper. After converting these raw by the Pulp and Paper Division, which accounts for 83% of materials into pulp, the pulp is diluted with water to produce Balance of materials (principal materials) 1 [Units] GWh = Gigawatt hours BDt = Bone-dry tonnes ADt = Air-dry tonnes Input Energy input Other non-fossil fuels 2 6,184 kt Water consumption 957 Mt Raw materials Purchased electricity 2,148 GWh (Black liquor subtotal: 4,620 kt) River water 769 Mt Woodchips 5,361 BD kt Oil 177 Ml Chemical substances subject to Industrial water 133 Mt Logs 724 BD kt Coal 2,626 kt the PRTR Law 3 Well water 55 Mt Pulp 478 AD kt Gas 243 kt (Amount handled) 12,012 t Public water supply 1 Mt Recycled paper (pulp) 3,139 AD kt Other fossil fuels 18 kt Base paper 113 BD kt 1 In fiscal 2016, the scope of organizations covered in calculating the balance of USA Co., Ltd. materials was changed to include Amapá Florestal e Celulose S.A. (AMCEL) and 2 Biomass fuels and waste fuels Nippon Dynawave Packaging Company, and exclude Nippon Paper Industries 3 Japan only Material balance in the Pulp and Paper Business in Japan (principal materials) Production and supply Input Pulp manufacturing Raw materials Chemical pulp Sodium hydroxide, sodium sulfide Woodchips 4,164 BD kt In Logs 24 BD kt Cooking Pulp 404 AD kt (into fibers) Cleaning Recycled paper Woodchips (pulp) 3,066 AD kt Black liquor Chemical substances subject to Amount consumed 3,179 kt the PRTR Law Energy (electricity, Mechanical pulp Amount handled 383 tonnes steam) Energy (electricity) In Water consumption 835 Mt Energy input Grinding Purchased electricity 936 GWh Private power Woodchips, logs Out Oil 171 kl generation Effluent (COD/BOD, SS) Coal 2,040 kt facilities Gas 106 Mt Recycled paper pulp Other fossil fuels 18 Mt Sodium hydroxide In Other non-fossil fuels* 1,350 kt Removal of Out Separation foreign substances CO2 SOx Out * Biomass fuels except for black liquor and waste fuels NOx Wastepaper Vinyl, staples, Soot/dust adhesive in spines Combustion ash Materials procurement Waste generation Wastewater 810 Mt Afforestation areas and other 657 BD kt COD/BOD 45 kt SS 19 kt Timber processing Nitrogen 1.44 kt (Chipping) Phosphorous 0.24 kt Recycling of waste Final waste disposal 648 BD kt 9 BD kt Cutoffs and thinned wood 36 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 pulp slurry and then formed as wet thin sheets. The water Unfortunate byproducts of the pulp and paper is then removed by drying to make paper. In the pulp and manufacturing process are effluents containing water papermaking processes, steam is used as a heat source contaminants as well as steam containing air pollutants and electricity as a power source. Pulp and paper mills are and CO2. Moreover, the fuels combusted by boilers equipped with boilers that combust fuel to generate steam, produce ash waste. With this in mind, the Nippon Paper and generators that create electricity with turbines driven Group strives to reduce the environmental impact of by steam. these pollutants. Environmental Responsibility Output GHG Emissions 8.21 Mt Wastewater 933 Mt Total Waste Generated 911 BD kt Products manufactured SOx emissions 3.8 kt Public water 923 Mt Final disposal subtotal 106 BD kt Paper, household paper 4.47 Mt NOx emissions 9.4 kt Sewerage 10 Mt Recycled subtotal 805 BD kt Paperboard 2.16 Mt Soot and dust 1.4 kt COD/BOD 62.5 kt Pulp 227 kt Chemical substances subject to SS 25.5 kt Paper container 100 kt the PRTR Law 3 Nitrogen 1.48 kt Chemical products 111 kt Amount released 191 tonnes Phosphorous 0.25 kt Building materials 68 kt Amount transferred 83 tonnes Electricity 1,191 GWh Reduction of Environmental Impacts Waste paper Use, collection Chlorine dioxide, oxygen, ozone, Transportation hydrogen peroxide Fuel In Pulp In Output Bleaching Products Paper, household Out paper products 4.05 Mt Out Effluent (COD/BOD, SS) CO2 Paperboard 1.70 Mt Pulp 26 kt Hydrogen peroxide In Breakdown of products of the Pulp and Bleaching Paper Business (Japan) (2016 calendar year basis) Out Paper production Other Newsprint Effluent (COD/BOD, SS) Energy (heat) paperboard 2% 18% Surface Sodium silicate, hydrogen peroxide, In treatment Surfactant In thiourea dioxide White Printing and In paperboard 4% writing paper 33% Removal of ink Linerboard and (de-inking) Bleaching Dewatering Drying Rolling corrugated medium Out 23% Business Out Out communication Effluent (COD/BOD, SS) Miscellaneous paper 10% Effluent (COD/BOD, SS) Effluent (COD/BOD, SS) paper 4% Energy Packaging Sanitary paper 2% (electricity, steam) paper 4% Output Chemical substances subject to the PRTR Law GHG emissions 6.88 Mt Amount released 138 tonnes SOx emissions 3.1 kt Amount transferred 13 tonnes NOx emissions 7.6 kt Soot and dust 1.1 kt Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 37 Environmental Responsibility Reduction of Environmental Impacts Measures for Preventing Air Pollution emitted by boilers includes greenhouse gases, nitrogen Using chemical substances and filters to oxide (NOx), sulfur oxide (SOx), soot, dust, and other air reduce emissions of air pollutants pollutants. To lower its environmental impact, the Group uses denitrification, desulfurization, dust collection, and The Nippon Paper Group uses boilers and turbines to other equipment to bring these pollutants within regulatory generate power internally at its paper mills. The steam standards and standards agreed upon with local governments. Standard Approach for Processing Gas Emissions at Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s Paper Mills Combustion NOx removal Dust/soot removal SOx removal Release Turbine Exhaust gases are mixed with Filters and static electricity are Exhaust gases are passed through ammonia and other chemical used to remove dust and soot. an absorbent that contains N substances to break them down magnesium hydroxide. The into NOx, nitrogen, and water. absorbent traps sulfur oxide and S SD renders it harmless. N S S S S Absorbent SD SD S S N N S SD SD N SD N SD N S SD S SD S S S S Denitrification N SD S facility Dust/soot collection Desulfurization facility N : NOx S : SOx SD SD Measurement Boiler SD : Soot and dust Levels of NOx, SOx, dust, soot, and other substances contained in exhaust gases are measured to confirm they are within regulatory and agreed standards. Initiatives for Preventing Water Pollution the paper. The Nippon Paper Group uses wastewater Lowering discharges of water pollutants treatment facilities employing microorganism and other through the use of microorganisms technologies to reduce levels of water pollutants measured, for example, in terms of COD, BOD, and SS levels. Through Wastewater from the production of paper contains these measures and pH management, we are keeping suspended and organic matter originating from the minute pollutant levels within regulatory standards and standards pulp fibers, filler, and other materials that did not remain in agreed upon with local governments. Standard wastewater treatment process at Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. paper mills Removal of the top layer of Removal of organic matter clear water Removal of suspended solids (activated sludge processing) Release (activated sludge is reused) Wastewater is collected in Oxygen injected into Activated sludge Clear water is released. a large tank (clarifier), where wastewater in an aeration (microorganisms and suspended solids are allowed tank is used to activate sludge) is settled out in a to settle out. microorganisms that break sedimentation pond, allowing down organic matter. clear water to accumulate at Wastewater the top of the pond. from the paper Organic matter manufacturing Oxygen process Top layer of clear water Suspended solids Microorganisms Large tank (clarifier) Aeration Tank Sedimentation pond Reuse Measurement Clear water separated from the activated sludge is tested to measure COD, BOD, SS, pH, and other levels to confirm that they are within regulatory and agreed standards. 38 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 Preventing Noise, Vibration, and Odors Recycling Industrial Waste Putting in place measures to reduce the Working to make effective use of waste, impact on areas in proximity to mills while reducing waste generation • Prevention of noise and vibration • Green Action Plan 2020 (GAP 2020) Progress Report Pulp and paper mills use large machines incorporating Under GAP 2020 (see page 33), the Group is working to numerous motors and pumps that generate noise and increase its waste recycling rate to at least 98%. vibration. Acting even when complaints have not been To reduce the amount of industrial waste sent for final received, each mill takes steps such as installing sound disposal by burial in landfills or by other means, we have Environmental Responsibility insulation facilities or relocating machinery whenever an undertaken various initiatives. These include, for example, issue is determined to have arisen. revising production processes and using boiler ash as a construction material and for other purposes. As a result, our waste recycling rate rose to 98.4% in fiscal 2016. Waste generated and final waste disposal in Japan (1,000 tonnes) Waste generated Final waste disposal 800 736 762 718 704 690 Before installation of sound insulation wall (left) and after (right) (Fuji Mill, Nippon Reduction of Environmental Impacts Paper Industries) 600 98.4% • Prevention of odors 50 30 30 recycled When making kraft pulp, foul odors from substances such 14 17 11 as hydrogen sulfide, methyl mercaptan, methyl sulfide, and 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) methyl disulfide can be generated. In addition to installing facilities that contain odors or break down the substances Controlling Chemical Substances that emit them, we regularly measure odor levels and conduct patrols of surrounding areas to discover issues as Working to make effective use of waste, early as possible. while reducing waste generation Preventing Soil Pollution • Responding to the PRTR Law The Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) is a Fiscal 2016, another year free of soil mechanism for businesses to use in tallying and reporting contamination to authorities the wide variety of potentially hazardous chemical substances that are either emitted from their The raw materials and chemicals used by Nippon Paper factories or transferred from their factories in waste. Group mills contain almost no heavy metals, Through risk communication meetings the Nippon Paper trichloroethylene or other soil contaminants. Group holds at its mills, we explain to local residents how Fiscal 2016 was another year in which there were no chemical substances subject to the PRTR Law are instances of contaminated soil generated at Group companies. being managed, and we provide updates on emissions and transfers. Water Supply Risk related to Our Water Usage Amounts of substances subject to the PRTR Law handled, No Threats to Water Supplies released and transferred (Tonnes) Amounts handled Amounts released Amounts transferred 15,000 Presently, we have received no information from either 11,394 11,824 11,984 11,433 12,012 government authorities or local communities that water usage by Nippon Paper Group company mills is having 10,000 negative environmental impacts. Our operations are posing little risk to water supplies in Japan. 500 In addition, simple risk assessments performed by third 315 294 190 158 191 parties have not indicated that water supplies are seriously 74 80 62 78 83 0 threatened by our operations. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) Amounts of substances subject to the PRTR Law released and transferred http://www.nipponpapergroup.com/csr/2017.3_PRTR_ e.pdf Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 39 Environmental Responsibility Climate Change Initiatives Reducing greenhouse gas emissions at every stage of our business activities Basic Stance Fuel Conversion Led by the Adoption of Biomass Boilers Working to build a low-carbon society Actively using biomass and waste fuels Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) and the Japan Paper to reduce fossil energy usage Association both support the creation of a low-carbon society, and the Nippon Paper Group, as a member of both The Nippon Paper Group has installed two types of organizations, actively works to prevent global warming. boilers—high-efficiency boilers and boilers capable of The Paris Agreement, signed in 2016, has taken effect burning construction waste and other woody biomass and is expected to have a global impact on conditions fuels; used tires; RPF*; and other waste fuels. Our use of surrounding the problem of climate change. For its part, the these fuels allows us to reduce our usage of fossil fuels. Nippon Paper Group will continue to strengthen measures This fuel conversion initiative helps to prevent global supporting the creation of a low-carbon society. warming and slow the depletion of fossil resources. As a result of energy saving activities and fuel • Three core initiatives conversion, the Group’s fossil energy usage ratio in Japan As a part of our efforts to prevent global warming across fell to 54% in fiscal 2016, compared to 66% in fiscal 1990. every stage of our business activities, we are (1) converting * RPF (Refuse paper and plastic fuel): Fuel derived from paper that is unusable as recycled paper and from waste plastic. to non-fossil energy by employing boilers that use biomass and waste fuels, (2) conserving energy in each of our Change in fossil energy usage ratio (calories)(Japan) production and logistics processes, and (3) managing Non-fossil energy Non-fossil energy proprietary forests properly to ensure CO2 absorption/ 34 % 46% sequestration (see pages 40-42). Fiscal Fiscal 1990 2016 Nippon Paper Group environmental initiatives Fossil energy Fossil energy Prevention of Global Warming 66 % 54 % Reduction of CO2 emissions Absorption of CO2 in from operations proprietary forests Carbon Fuel conversion Energy saving sequestration Progress Report for the Green Action Plan 2020 Construction waste and RPF Used tires Environmental Action Plan other materials Working to achieve objectives In its Green Action Plan 2020 (see page 33), the Nippon One of the largest corporate users of Paper Group has established the objective of reducing biomass energy in Japan greenhouse gas emissions 10% compared to the fiscal The Nippon Paper Group actively applies biomass 2013 level. In fiscal 2016, the first year covered by the plan, energy from sources such as black liquor and we vigorously moved forward with investments aimed at construction waste. The amount consumed accounts for saving energy by, for example, consolidating facilities and up to 7%* of non-fossil energy (excluding nuclear and updating equipment. As a result, our fiscal 2016 greenhouse hydroelectric power) used in Japan. The Nippon Paper Group is one of the largest corporate users of biomass gas emissions declined 1.5% compared to the fiscal 2013 energy in Japan. level, despite lower production in our paper pulp operations. * In-house data prepared by Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. using energy supply information (fiscal 2015 finalized information) published by the Natural Resources and Energy Agency. Greenhouse gas emissions (Japan)* Biomass energy utilization at the Nippon Paper Group (Million t-CO2) Period covered by 10 Green Action Plan 2020 7.28 7.18 7.12 7.17 6.55 1.5% reduction Photosynthesis 5 vs. fiscal 2013 level Vegetation Wooden housing Biomass and Construction waste materials waste boiler 0 Biomass 2013 2014 2015 2016 2020 (FY) fuel (Base fiscal year) (Target fiscal year) Pulp * For companies covered by the Energy Conservation Act. These consist of certain consolidated group companies in Japan and certain nonconsolidated subsidiaries in Japan. Woodchips Recovery boiler Black liquor 40 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 • Development of a new biomass solid fuel Absorbing and Sequestering CO2 through Proper Management of Company-Owned Forests Trees absorb CO2 as they grow. When woody biomass fuel made from trees is burned, the CO2 that results is CO2 that Sequestering atmospheric CO2 in was absorbed from the atmosphere and sequestered as forests and wood products the trees were growing, so there is no net impact on atmospheric CO2 – woody biomass fuel, in other words, is • Sforests equestering CO with 181 thousand hectares of in and outside Japan 2 carbon neutral. Given this carbon-neutral characteristic of woody As trees grow, they absorb and sequester CO2 from the biomass fuel, the co-firing of woody biomass is being atmosphere. It is widely recognized, therefore, that the Environmental Responsibility advanced to reduce the CO2 emissions of coal-fired boilers. proper protection of forests helps prevent global warming. Woodchips and wood pellets, however, cannot be efficiently The Nippon Paper Group manages 181 thousand crushed and there are other issues, for example, with water hectares of forests, 90 thousand hectares in Japan and 91 repellency when stored outdoors. thousand hectares across four countries abroad. Through To address these challenges, Nippon Paper Industries sustainable forest management, the Group maintains the has applied torrefaction technology CO2 absorption and sequestration capabilities of trees. to carbonize woody biomass at a These forests, both in and outside Japan, continuously relatively low temperature to sequester approximately 33 million tonnes of CO2. Climate Change Initiatives develop a new biomass solid fuel We are helping to prevent global warming not only by that has pulverization properties restricting CO2 emissions but also by protecting forests. similar to those of coal and retains most of its energy value. New woody biomass solid fuel made with torrefaction technology Sequestering CO2 in various Initiatives for Saving Energy in wood products Manufacturing Processes CO2 sequestered in trees as carbon remains Actively adopting energy-saving facilities sequestered even after trees have been processed into products like construction materials and paper. Products Wastepaper pulp used as a raw material for paper includes made from wood, therefore, work to prevent increases in extraneous material such as glue used in the assembly of atmospheric CO2 concentrations. Using wood products and actively recycling wastepaper, in other words, by magazines. Before this pulp can be used to make paper, fixing CO2 for extended periods of time in products, therefore, it must be put through a screening process. In helps to hold down increases in atmospheric CO2 the screening process, wastepaper pulp is sent into a concentrations. vessel through an inlet pipe. Within the vessel, the pulp is Moreover, when wood products like construction materials reach the end of their useful lives they can be filtered through a basket with countless slits. Material too used as carbon-neutral biomass fuel, the burning of large to pass through the slits remains on the outside of the which does not increase atmospheric CO2. basket, where it is removed by a revolving agitator. Helping to prevent global warming through the To reduce its energy consumption, Nippon Paper cascade-use of wood* Industries Co., Ltd.’s Ishinomaki Mill has installed highly Forests efficient filtering facilities that employ lightweight agitators CO2 Materials equipped with modified fins to remove extraneous material CO2 CO2 at low RPM. ( Paper, construction materials, and other forestry products ) Energy This is just one example of how the Nippon Paper Group (Biomass fuel) adopts new facilities or updates existing facilities to Lumber logs, chips, etc. CO2 Construction waste materials, forest residues, black liquor, etc. continuously improve its energy-saving performance. CO2 光合成 植物 木材チップ 黒液 回収ボイラー Agitator Structure バイオマス 燃料 Pulp inlet パルプ Forests and forestry products, as The use of biomass fuels in carbon reservoirs, play a role in place of fossil fuels helps to preventing global warming. prevent global warming. 木造住宅 建築廃材 バイオマス ボイラー Agitator Basket * “Cascade-use” refers to the full use of an individual tree for applications Pulp outlet across the quality scale, from ones requiring very high quality to others for which quality is not a consideration, for maximum efficiency in resource usage. Rejects Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 41 Environmental Responsibility Climate Change Initiatives Advancing Energy Efficiency in Logistics • Obtaining Green Management Certifications Working to promote green logistics Green Management Certifications are awarded and registered by the Foundation for Promoting Personal The Nippon Paper Group focuses mainly on the two core Mobility and Ecological Transportation. Companies that initiatives of improving its loading efficiency and undertake at least a certain minimum level of initiatives shortening transportation distances to reduce logisticsbased on the Green Management Promotion Manual are related CO2 emissions. eligible for these certifications. Within the Nippon Paper Group, 16 business locations Logistics-related initiatives of 8 Group companies have received Green Management Certification. The Nippon Paper Green Logistics Group is actively implementing ecological driving, vehicle inspection Shortening Improving loading efficiency transportation distances and maintenance, reduction of Promoting a modal Pursuing direct vehicle disposal and waste shift to rail or delivery and marine transportation joint delivery generation, proper waste handling and recycling, and other practices consistent with green management. Green Management Certification logo Green Management Certifications (As of July 1, 2017) • Phighromoting a modal shift in transportation to secure loading efficiency Company NIPPON PAPER LOGISTICS, Kyokushin Transport, Nanko Logistics With a modal shift rate* of 89% in its operations in fiscal Support, Hotoku, NP Unyu Kanto, NP Unyu Fuji, NP Unyu Kansai, and NP Unyu Iwakuni 2016, Nippon Paper Industries remains a top performer in * Consolidated and non-consolidated subsidiaries in Japan the implementation of this transportation approach. * Modal shift rate: The percentage of rail or marine (including coastal shipping and ferries) transport in general cargo transported over 500 kilometers. Excellence Award Received under the Comparison of modal shift rates Chiyoda Ward Global Warming Action Paper manufacturing Plan System industry average 79% (Fiscal 2015: Data released by the Japan Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. was named a winner Paper Association) of an Excellence Award by Tokyo’s Chiyoda ward. Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. 89% Under its Global Warming Action Plan System, the ward, (Fiscal 2016 paper operations) which has been selected by the Japanese government 0 20 40 60 80 100 as an Environmental Model City, assesses the global warming action plans announced by eligible businesses. • W orking with logistics service providers to shorten transportation distances It then presents awards to the businesses with the best plans. Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. was The Nippon Paper Group is working with logistics service also named a winner in the Environmental Education Category in fiscal 2012. providers to bypass warehouses and deliver products For its fiscal 2016 Excellence Award, the Company directly to customers. This effort is intended to reduce CO2 received particularly high praise for its efforts to save emissions by shortening overall transportation distances. electricity and other forms of energy, and for the contributions of its environmental education and internal and external information dissemination efforts toward the Reducing the total distance by direct delivery from paper mills development of environmentally aware human resources. Marine, rail and truck transportation Taking this formal recognition by Chiyoda ward as an affirmation of its Warehouse environmental Customer for whom direct delivery means initiatives, the shorter overall transportation distance Company has Paper mill redoubled its commitment to Direct delivery Transportation pursuing various initiatives and information dissemination efforts to protect the environment. Presentation of the Excellence Award by the Mayor of Chiyoda ward, Tokyo 42 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental Responsibility Promoting Recycling Contributing to the development of a recycling-based society Expanding the Use of Wastepaper • Ewastepaper xpanding the production of products made with pulp in Australia Actively promoting paper recycling Australian Paper, located in the Australian state of Victoria, Despite efforts to secure forest resources through is that country’s only company manufacturing eco-friendly sustainable forest management, wastepaper continues to copier paper – a product that incorporates wastepaper be an important resource for the paper industry. pulp. And, responding to the country’s heightened The Nippon Paper Group is promoting paper recycling environmental awareness, the company is increasing its by working with customers to build wastepaper recycling production of eco-friendly products. systems, and by collaborating with citizens’ and industry In fiscal 2015, Australian Paper Environmental Responsibility groups to conduct educational activities on wastepaper began operations at facilities that collection. The Group has also been working to further are capable of producing 50,000 expand the use of wastepaper by developing technology tonnes of wastepaper pulp for using types of paper that have proven difficult to recycle. annually, and it is working to As paper and paperboard demand grows outside expand and enhance its line of Japan, it is becoming more difficult to procure sufficient products incorporating REFLEX brand copier paper amounts of wastepaper in Japan. We, however, will wastepaper pulp. incorporating wastepaper pulp continue with efforts to expand both wastepaper collection Beginning in 2016, Australian Climate Change Initiatives / Promoting Recycling and the kinds of wastepaper that can be recycled. Paper is putting to work its expanded capabilities to make products incorporating wastepaper pulp and strengthening Recycled paper utilization rate by the Nippon Paper Group its relationship with PLANET ARK – the country’s bestin Japan known environmental NPO to contribute to the building of (%) Paper Paperboard 92 a recycling-oriented society by promoting even greater use 100 89 90 89 89 of recycled products. 50 41 39 38 38 38 Waste Recycling 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) Making effective use of waste • Collecting Paper-Pak cartons Advancing efforts to make effective use of ash and other Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., a member of the manufacturing byproducts (see page 39.) Committee for Milk Container Environmental Issues (an organization composed of container manufacturers and C as e manufacturers of dairy products), is helping to achieve the committee’s goal of increasing the beverage carton collection rate to at least 50% by 2020. Project for making and selling CfFA® (Carbon-free Fly Ash), a concrete To increase collection rates and promote recycling, the admixture made with coal ash Company’s Paper-Pak Sales Division has conducted three Paper-Pak carton recycling campaigns targeting Group In April 2016, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. began employees. Participation rose on each occasion and manufacturing and selling CfFA®, a concrete admixture made from coal ash a byproduct from the coal-fired employees have come to embrace the campaigns. During power plant at the Company’s Ishinomaki Mill. a two-month period in 2016, Group employees contributed CfFA® consists of fly ash from which unburned approximately 16,300 Paper-Pak cartons from their carbon, a material that can have a negative effect on concrete quality, has been removed through a heat households. modification process. Going forward, we will continue efforts to place Characterized by consistent quality, CfFA® has collection boxes at Group business locations and promote already been used to make national highway tunnels, activities for Paper-Pak carton recycling outside the Group. breakwater tetrapods, seawalls, and other structures. Going Paper-Pak carton recycling campaign results forward, the Company Paper-Pak will focus on having Fiscal Year Participants Cartons CfFA® contribute to Collected disaster recovery 1st Campaign 129 5,721 and infrastructure (December 2013 January 2014) construction in the Breakwater tetrapods in a drainage 2 Campaign nd 201 16,512 Tohoku region of Japan. outlet at Nippon Paper Industries Co., (September-November 2014) Ltd.’s Ishinomaki Mill. 3 Campaign rd 255 16,277 (August-September 2016) Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 43 Environmental Responsibility Preserving Biodiversity Pursuing activities that protect the ecosystems of company-owned forests and leverage proprietary resources and technologies Basic Stance reduce our impact on biodiversity by, for example, treating Formulation of a new basic policy wastewater and controlling greenhouse gas emissions in our manufacturing processes. The business activities of the Nippon Paper Group entail the cultivation and utilization of forests and, therefore, have an inherently significant and wide-ranging impact on forest Basic Policy on the Preservation biodiversity. We recognize that the sustainable use of of Biodiversity forests is fundamental to our existence and development as (Established April 1, 2016) a going concern. The basic philosophy of the Nippon Paper Principle Group Environmental Charter (see page 32) states that the The Nippon Paper Group, a corporate group Nippon Paper Group will engage in corporate activities that to which forest resources are of fundamental recognize the importance of biodiversity. Our Basic Policies importance, appreciates the natural gifts bestowed on the Preservation of Biodiversity, established in April by biodiversity and, by preserving biodiversity, aims to help create a sustainable society that can 2016, provides guidance for the pursuit of such activities. continuously enjoy ecosystem services. Basic Policy Nippon Paper Group initiatives 1. Recognizing the protection of biodiversity as a Preserving biodiversity critical social issue, we will work to pursue business activities that are in harmony with the sustainable use of ecosystem services. 1 Initiatives implemented in 2 Initiatives leveraging our 2. In supply-chain management, we acknowledge the conduct of our core the impacts on biodiversity of cross-border use of business activities resources and technologies ecosystem services, and will manage our ecosystem • Protection of forest biodiversity •UUsese ofof proprietary company-owned forests service usage properly. • Reduction of environmental impacts of production activities • technologies 3. In an effort to reduce environmental impacts on biodiversity, we will actively work to recycle and save resources. 4. We will promote the development of technologies, 1 Initiatives in Our Core Business Activities products, and services that contribute to the preservation of biodiversity and the sustainable use of Pass thriving forests on to ecosystem services. future generations 5. Endeavoring to raise employees’ awareness of biodiversity, and collaborating with stakeholders, In pursuing sustainable forest management (see pages 28 we will contribute to the building of a society that and 30), the Nippon Paper Group conducts biodiversity nurtures biodiversity. surveys in company-owned forests. We also strive to Forest biodiversity protection scheme Basic Policy on the Protection of Biodiversity Biodiversity surveys Japan Topography confirmation of riparian forests and other areas, fixed-point surveys of forest Establishment of environmental forest areas ecosystems, etc. (see page 28) Ex.) Regular surveys in afforested areas (see page 45), surveys of Blakiston’s fish owls Particularly Protection of the environment by prohibiting conducted with the Wild Bird Society of Japan, ornithological and vegetation surveys in sensitive logging for the purpose of lumber production the company-owned Kitayama Forest in the city of Fujinomiya, Shizuoka Prefecture areas Establishment of protected areas (see page 45) Protection of the Blakiston’s fish owl by prohibiting Confirmation and Adjustment in Forest Operation logging Overseas •(Preserving Adjustment of Location and Timing for Logging Blakiston’s Fish Owl Habitat while Pursuing Forest Operation (see page 45)) Establishment of protected areas (see page 45) Other •Uafter se of a checklist based on prefectural Red Lists* to confirm conditions before and operations (Establishment of forest protection areas, protection of riparian forests, etc. (see page 30)) * List of threatened animal and plant species in Japan. Third-Party Sustainable Forest Management Validations Forest certification programs (see pages 26-27) Forest certifications have been awarded to Nippon Paper Industries in recognition of its practice of biodiversity-friendly forest management in all of its companyowned forests in Japan and overseas. Breakdown of company-owned forests in Japan according to IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature) categories http://www.nipponpapergroup.com/csr/IUCN2017_e.pdf 44 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 Ca s e Preserving Blakiston’s fish owl habitat while pursuing business activities – Collaborating with the Wild Bird Society of Japan In 2010, Nippon Paper Industries entered into an agreement preserving Blakiston’s fish owl habitat in company-owned with the Wild Bird Society of Japan where approximately forests located in the Kushiro region of Hokkaido. After 126 hectares of forestland owned by the company in the collaborative surveys conducted in an atmosphere of mutual Nemuro region of Hokkaido was identified as a sanctuary trust, we have agreed to standards for methods and timing for Blakiston’s fish owl. This sanctuary is home to three for continuing lumber production, while also protecting habitat confirmed braces of this endangered species. and breeding activity, without establishing protected areas. In May 2015, we signed a memorandum of * The activities pursued under this memorandum of understanding were understanding* for the pursuit of business activities while presented with a 2015 Biodiversity Action Award by the Japan Committee for the United Nations Decade on Biodiversity. Surveys undertaken with the Wild Bird Society Blakiston’s fish owl Standing 70 to 80cm high and weighing 3 Environmental Responsibility Fiscal Year Survey Description to 4.5 kg, Blakiston’s fish owl is the world’s 2010 Large trees suitable as Blakiston’s fish owl habitat largest owl, with a wingspan of 180 cm. 2011 Bird species habitat Formerly numbering over 1,000 and found throughout Hokkaido, Blakiston’s fish owls Nesting survey focusing on white-tailed eagles and Steller's are now found mainly in the eastern parts of 2012 sea eagles, and an audio survey of nocturnal bird species Hokkaido, with confirmed numbers of around 140, making up 50 braces. Blakiston’s fish 2013 Mammals and Blakiston’s fish owl habitat owl was identified as a national protected 2014 Geographic activity scope of the Blakiston’s fish owl species in 1971, and placed on the Red List of critically endangered species by Japan’s 2015 Blakiston’s fish owl habitat, other bird species habitat (Photo courtesy of the Ministry of the Environment. Wild Bird Society of 2016 Blakiston’s fish owl habitat, other bird species habitat Japan) Preserving Biodiversity Ca s e Conducting biodiversity research overseas (AMCEL S.A, Brazil and Volterra S.A., Chile) AMCEL S.A., located in the Brazilian state of Amapa, owns These areas are home to large numbers of plant and approximately 310 thousand hectares of land and has set animal species, many of which are rare or endangered. aside 170 thousand hectares as a conservation area. Protecting them, therefore, is very meaningful. Both AMCEL Volterra S.A., in Chile, owns approximately 19 thousand and Volterra undertake surveys and other initiatives to research hectares of forests and has designated about 5 thousand and monitor biodiversity in the areas they are protecting. hectares as protected forests. Vegetation survey Releasing yellow-spotted Amazon Pudu (a “near-threatened” species Water-quality survey River turtles on the IUCN Red List) Initiatives by afforestation companies in South America Activity Description AMCEL S.A. Regular water inspections Installation of equipment for monitoring the quality and level of water in the afforestation area, and performance of regular water inspections Cooperation in a wildlife release program Annual provision of the conservation area for use in a wildlife release program being conducted by the Brazilian Institute for the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources Ongoing monitoring by AMCEL following a joint mammalian habitat survey in cooperation with the university’s Collaboration with the Federal University of Para Department of Biological Sciences in afforested and other areas. Ongoing monitoring of fish populations in waters adjacent to afforested areas in cooperation with the university’s ecology research laboratory since 2016. Collaboration with the local environmental A vegetation survey was initiated in a protected area to determine the distribution and status of plant life. research institution in Amapa state Collaboration with the Sao Paulo Research Ongoing reproduction and survival surveys for yellow-spotted Amazon River turtles, an endangered species Foundation native to South America, were initiated in 2014 in protected and other areas. Volterra S.A. Joint activity with the Universidad de Concepcion Biodiversity surveys are being conducted on company land. The 2013 survey identified rare species including the endangered Chilean pine (Araucaria araucana). Wildlife surveys in the company’s protected Using camera traps and other tools, surveys have identified mammals (including pumas) and bird species. The forests 2015 survey confirmed the existence of the “near-threatened” pudu and several rare species. Regular river surveys To research impacts of forest operations on ecosystems, surveys of river water quality and biodiversity are performed on a regular basis in company-owned afforested areas. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 45 Environmental Responsibility Preserving Biodiversity 2 Initiatives Leveraging Our Resources and Technologies • Use of company-owned forests C as e Contributing to the protection of a variety of plant species Supporting the activities of the Shiraneaoi wo Mamoru Kai • Applying proprietary technology Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. is working to protect Shirane-aoi (Glaucidium palmatum: Japanese wood precious plant species. It does this by using a proprietary poppy) is designated as a “threatened II” species in the Red Data Book for Gunma Prefecture. To protect and technology that encourages cuttings to take root in breed this plant species, the Shirane-aoi Preservation containers kept in a special cultivating room. Group was set up in December 2000, mainly at the This technology encourages rooting by using a special initiative of Gunma Prefectural Oze High School and the cultivating room and cultivation containers to create ideal residents of the village of Katashina in Tone-gun, Gunma Prefecture. As recognition of its achievements to date, it conditions for photosynthesis. It has proven effective even received the Greenery Day Minister of the Environment's for producing seedlings of species that have been difficult Prize for Meritorious Service Related to the Natural to propagate with traditional methods. Nippon Paper Environment in April 2014. Industries, therefore, is using it to propagate endangered Since its inception, Nippon Paper Development, which manages Nippon Paper Industries’ Sugenuma plant species, to create offspring of beloved sakura trees in Forest, has supported the operation of the Shirane-aoi various places throughout Japan, and to undertake other Preservation Group, and Nippon Paper Industries has initiatives that help to protect biodiversity and preserve offered a portion of the Sugenuma Forest as a plantation site for Shirane-aoi. Since 2002, the Group has called for history and culture. Light volunteers to participate in planting, seed collection, and Carbon dioxide Carbon dioxide other activities. Even plant species that normally fail to root by cutting are able to root Planting Japanese wood poppies Ca s e Agreement for Citizen-Participation-Based Forest Management -Collaborating with the Iriomote Island Ecotourism Association In August 2017, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. entered into Nippon Paper Industries will collaborate with the Iriomote an agreement with the Okinawa District Forest Office the local Island Ecotourism Association to promote forest conservation arm of the Forestry Agency’s Kyushu Regional Forest Office to activities, harnessing the experience the Company has carry out forest conservation activities such as the eradication developed over many years of managing its own forests of non-native plants in the approximate 9 ha of national forest throughout Japan and through its collaboration with the on Iriomote Island. At the same time, the Company concluded Wild Bird Society of Japan to protect the Blakiston's fish owl an agreement regarding collaborative activities with the (an endangered species type IA) in a company-owned forest Iriomote Island Ecotourism Association, an NPO that has been in Hokkaido. working to preserve the natural environment and traditional culture of Iriomote Island since 1996. Iriomote Island is covered with highly diverse forests, including Japan's largest mangrove forest and subtropical broad-leaved trees, providing a habitat for precious animal and plant species. One such species is the Iriomote wild cat, which has been designated a special national treasure and is listed as an endangered species IA. However, large numbers of invasive non-native plants have been found over Agreement signed with the head of Agreement signed with the Iriomote an extensive area of the island. the Okinawa District Forest Office Island Ecotourism Association 46 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 Responsibility to Customers Stakeholder opinions are critical for bringing to our attention issues that are important for coexisting with society and growing sustainably. We now receive large numbers of customer questions regarding environmentally and socially conscious raw material procurement and product development. The Nippon Paper Group is committed to providing products that respond to customer concerns and desires. Paper gallery at headquarter of Nippon Paper Industries Indicators Key Objectives Performance (fiscal 2016) Materiality: Enhancement of Product Safety •CProduct onvened two meetings of the Group Safety Committee, which made decisions on Group-wide measures, shared information among Group Strengthening of the product safety companies, and discussed safety matters. Initiatives to reduce management system • Established a management system for brands used for food products, and product safety risk conducted audits to confirm operating conditions at mills making products under these brands. Establishment of a product safety management Specified risk management items for new system for new products products that cannot be handled under the existing management systems. Materiality: Providing environmentally and socially conscious products Company-owned forests with forest certifications: 100% 100% Forest certification coverage (the provision of products with forest certifications) Ensure that all wood materials for pulp and paper are endorsed under forest 100% certification schemes Policy and Management Enhancement of Product Safety Providing Environmentally and Basic Stance 48 Product Safety Management System  50 Socially Conscious Products Identifying Customer Needs 48 Approach toward Product Safety 50 Development of Environmentally Friendly Products  51 System for Advancing New-product Development 48 Providing Products that Help to Overcome Challenges for Society  52 Initiatives for Quality Stabilization 48 The Stable Supply of Products 49 Responsibility to Customers Policy and Management In addition to the development of various products that are indispensable to everyday life, we continue to pursue quality which meets the expectations of customers Basic Stance • Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd. Providing reliable products and services Nippon Paper Crecia conducts surveys to gather data on customer satisfaction and needs, and then uses what it The Nippon Paper Group engages in a broad spectrum of learns to create measures of success in serving customers. businesses including paper, films, healthcare products, chemical products, lumber, and construction materials, to System for Advancing New-product Development serve a wide range of both corporate customers and consumers as it continues to develop and grow in tune Building a system for with society. accelerating development Providing stable supplies of products that are indispensable to everyday life, and applying the Group’s The Nippon Paper Group has established its New Product strengths to develop products that please customers, are Development Committee to accelerate business structure how we fulfill our basic responsibility to play a useful role for transformation (see pages 10-11). New product society. Assuring quality and safety, we will continue to live development teams operating under the committee identify up to the trust society places in our products and services. research themes and present them in committee meetings held every three months. For themes approved by the committee, formal projects are established and provided Identifying Customer Needs with human, financial, and other resources. Proactive communication The committee is chaired by the General Manager of the Corporate Planning Division and its membership is The Nippon Paper Group engages in proactive composed of the president of Nippon Paper Industries and communication to identify customer needs across a wide the other members of the Management Execution range of areas. We receive numerous inquiries from Committee (see page 16). Depending on the meeting customers about the tree species, countries of origin, and agenda, presidents of subsidiaries or affiliates, and heads legality of our raw materials. In response, we explain of relevant divisions, may participate in committee meetings measures we have put in place to address these matters in order to speed progress toward commercialization. and provide information on third-party evaluations of our activities (see page 27). Initiatives for Quality Stabilization We also actively welcome customers for inspections and tours of mills and plants to give them a first-hand view of Properly managing quality for production facilities and, thereby, gain their understanding individual products of our production activities. Each Group company actively promotes efforts aimed at • NSales ippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s Paper-Pak Division acquiring ISO 9001 certification and engages in quality management suited to the characteristics of its products. Nippon Paper Industries’ Paper-Pak Sales Division ISO 9001 certification status conducts technical lectures for customers (dairy and http://www.nipponpapergroup.com/csr/ beverage companies) providing them with information on 2017.3_ISO9001_e.pdf how to properly use filling machines. At the same time, the division continuously strives to improve its products based • Qforuality liquids audits at companies making paper containers on valuable feedback from customers. Nippon Paper Industries’ Paper-Pak Sales Division performs • NCommunication ippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s Packaging Center annual quality audits of production companies. Audits are performed by a team which includes the division head and Nippon Paper Industries aims to help enrich daily life are a part of efforts to pursue continuous quality through packaging made from woody biomass. One of the improvement based on identified actual conditions products we are developing, the SHIELDPLUS® series of (including the “5Ss”*) in production facilities. paper-based packaging materials with outstanding barrier In addition to the quality audits, production companies properties, was the only paper-industry product included by also undergo food sanitation investigations focusing in Japan’s Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries in a particular on measures for dealing with critical collection of examples of highly functional containers and microorganisms, foreign matter, and pest control. packaging that reduce food loss. Nippon Paper Industries * The 5Ss mean sorting, setting-in-order, shining, standardizing, and sustaining, respectively. The 5Ss are used to maintain or improve workplace environments. is committed to working with processing companies and product manufacturers to provide the world with innovative packaging material and new processing technologies. 48 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 • Qpaperboard uality assurance systems in the paper and divisions management system. The proper operation of content management systems is confirmed in internal and external Nippon Paper Industries has adopted a Service Engineer audits, and customers verify that products are being (SE) system to shorten the distance between customers manufactured to content specifications. and production facilities. Under this system, SEs listen directly to customers’ voices. They do this, for instance, by The Stable Supply of Products visiting customers and conducting quality patrols in which they observe printing and processing lines where paper is Stable supply systems optimized used. To create even closer customer relationships, we by product revamped our quality assurance systems in 2013, assigning technical experts to sales divisions. In addition, to enable To secure on-demand-supply, we devote considerable swift responses to diverse customer needs, regular qualityeffort to maintaining stable production by securing reliable information meetings and other means are used to promote procurement of raw materials, and systematically collaboration between sales and technical divisions. maintaining and upgrading our production facilities. Sales departments and production units coordinate their activities • Responding to instances of defective products to provide customers with reliable supplies of products by For defective products, action is taken by individual Group developing flexible production plans that avoid waste, and Responsibility to Customers companies. managing inventories appropriately. In the Paper and Paperboard Division of Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., for example, sales technicians act as • Stable supply of newsprint the central contact point, working with the relevant mill and Newspapers are a highly public information medium, so the head office departments to develop solutions by using tools need for the stable supply of newsprint is especially strong. such as a database of safety-related problems. The paper industry, therefore, has prepared regional At Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd., which sells consumer emergency manuals for use when supply operations cannot products, contact information for the Customer Service be conducted in the usual manner. Policy and Management Office is provided on all products and the Customer Service In the event of a disruption to communication and Office itself is placed directly under the president to ensure transportation systems as a result of a major disaster, paper that all issues raised by customers are reported. companies follow these manuals to ensure the smooth Furthermore, the company’s website is configured to supply of newsprint. accept customer queries and comments. The company consistently acts in good faith to ensure that customers are • Addressing natural disaster risks fully satisfied. The Nippon Paper Group, having learned much from past natural disasters, has developed practical guidelines for Product defect response system addressing natural disaster risks. Working from these (Paper and Paperboard Division) guidelines, each mill and plant has examined its natural Customer disaster response measures and revised its disaster Relevant Departments response manual. Problem Report For its part, Nippon Paper Industries, in preparation for a Production Sales Departments major disaster that could disable its headquarters, has (Including technical experts) Collaboration established a backup facility that could immediately take Product Safety Office Investigation Investigation Use of a database over headquarters functions. The company also conducts request report and other tools Research Laboratory training in the transfer of functions from its headquarters to Mill the backup facility. • Business continuity management system • Vratios erification and audit of wastepaper pulp blending and use of thinned wood Nippon Paper Industries’ Paper-Pak Sales Division has developed its own business continuity guidelines and Nippon Paper Industries has established a management established its own management system, so that it can system for providing customers with guarantees that maintain production even in times of emergency. The products are made with a certain percentage of wastepaper division is moving ahead with procurement of key raw pulp content and with wood from forest thinning. materials from multiple manufacturers. It has also diversified Steps are taken to manage and review production its production across multiple production sites to lower its procedures at each of the Group’s mills, based in part on disaster risk exposure. In fiscal 2016, emergency-response the standards and criteria of the ISO 14001 environmental education and training were conducted at the head office and production sites. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 49 Responsibility to Customers Enhancement of Product Safety Responding to customer faith by establishing the Product Safety Management System to enhance safety Product Safety Management System Approach toward Product Safety Establishing a Group system System for legal and regulatory management and compliance The Nippon Paper Group Product Safety Committee, chaired by the General Manager of Nippon Paper Industries The Nippon Paper Group, acting in compliance with laws, Co., Ltd.’s Technical & Engineering Division oversees all including Japanese laws such as the Act on the Evaluation activities concerning product safety. The committee of Chemical Substances and Regulation of Their deliberates and makes determinations on important matters Manufacture, PRTR Law, and Food Sanitation Act, works concerning product safety policies and activities. to ensure product safety by employing management Reporting directly to the committee, the Product Safety approaches adapted to the characteristics of particular Subcommittee monitors and manages activities at each operations and products. Group company. Drawing on information and the exchange of opinions among Group companies, the subcommittee Product safety management approach also deliberates on optimal responses to matters of Overall Level concern and submits its findings to the Product Safety • ISO 14001 Environmental Management Committee. Each Group company establishes its own Management of chemical substances included in raw materials product safety committee and engages in appropriate Brands for Food Products (Paper and Paperboard businesses) product safety activities. • Product safety management guidelines for paper and paperboard with direct exposure to food products Specification of brands and production facilities subject to safety management measures; implementation of enhanced facilityand Product safety management system management-system-based measures to prevent contamination by insect and other foreign matter; promotion of hygiene management; chemical substance Group management based on Japan Paper Association voluntary standards; and annual confirmation of the functional status of the above measures. Product Safety Committee Food, beverages, and their containers (Paper-Pak Division) Chairperson: General Manager of Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s • HACCP1 hygiene management (Food containers) Technical & Engineering Division Adoption and enhancement of facilities that emphasize production environment Constituent members: General managers of related departments within Nippon hygiene, the use of defect-detection devices to monitor products, and wearing Paper Industries Co., Ltd. and general managers of clothing to prevent contamination by hair responsible for product safety at each Group company • FSSC 220002 food safety standard • Food defense measures Prevention of intentional threats to food safety by equipping paper-pak Product Safety Subcommittee manufacturing plants with entry and exit controls, cameras for quality control, tight controls on access to chemicals, and other such security measures. Group companies (9 companies*) 1 HACCP Product Safety Committees An acronym for “Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point” 2 FSSC 22000 * Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd., Nippon Paper FSSC 22000 is a food safety management system certification scheme Papylia Co., Ltd., Nippon Paper Lumber Co., Ltd., Kitakami Paper Co., Ltd., integrating the ISO 22000 international food safety management system Nippon Seitai Corporation, NP Trading Co., Ltd., Nippon Paper Development standard, which calls for implementation of HACCP, the ISO/TS 22002 Co., Ltd., Akita Jujo Chemicals Co., Ltd. (As of March 31, 2017) prerequisite program on food safety, and other requirements. Acquisition of FSSC 22000 certifications (as of March 31, 2017) Philosophy and Basic Policy on Product Safety Company Name Mill, Operating Division, Production Company (established on October 1, 2004, revised on August 1, 2014) Nippon Paper Gotsu Mill3, SOKA PAPER-PAK CO., LTD., Industries EGAWA PAPER-PAK CO., LTD., MIKI PAPER-PAK Philosophy Co., Ltd. CO., LTD., ISHIOKA KAKO CO., LTD. We pledge to work to improve safety at every stage Nippon Dynawave Packaging Co. of the life cycle of our products, from design to manufacture, supply, and disposal, and to provide 3 CMC (carboxymethyl cellulose), cellulose powder, and stevia and licorice products and services that the public can trust. sweeteners (all for use in food) Basic Policy 1. To provide safe products and services in response to the continued trust of our customers. 2. To respect related laws and standards in order to • Halal certification obtained guarantee the safety of our products and services. In March 2017, Halal certification4 was obtained for the We pursue safety not only as expected under nucleic acid (RNA-M) and dissolving pulp produced at the Japanese laws but also from a global perspective. Gotsu Mill. Halal certification enables exportation of these 3. To provide customers with precise information on the products to Islamic countries. Preparations to gain the safety, features, and correct usage of our products. certification for CMC (carboxymethyl cellulose) are 4. To set up a product and service safety management structure and ensure that all group employees have a currently underway. 4 Halal certification thorough awareness of the importance of product safety. Halal certification is presented for products that, upon inspection of raw materials, production processes, ingredient and product storage conditions, and other matters, have been determined to be in keeping with Islamic law. Products exported to Islamic countries should be Halal certified. 50 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 Responsibility to Customers Providing Environmentally and Socially Conscious Products We provide products that meet customer demands including forest certified products Development of Environmentally Friendly Products Points of environmental concern from a product lifecycle Raw materials Considering every stage of the procurement Procuring raw materials from sustainable forests product lifecycle PP.23–30, 44–46 Recovering and reapplying products Nippon Paper Group products use wood raw materials that can be recycled and reused renewable biomass resources – and are recyclable. Production Building on the fact that our products have a low Post-use PP.32–42, 44 environmental impact by their very nature, we strive to Reducing the emission develop products that are cognizant of the environment at PP.39, 43 of substances that cause global warming every stage beginning with raw material procurement and and impose a burden on the environment proceeding through production, consumption, postconsumption, and disposal. Preventing the Disposal emission of Marketing products that help environmental Use conserve resources and energy pollutants; reducing P.39 the amount of waste P.52 Environmentally Friendly Raw Materials Procurement Responsibility to Customers Ca s e Providing certified paper by starting with properly managed forests (Nippon Paper Group) The forest certification system is composed of two products from certified forests have been properly processed components—the Forest Management (FM) component, and distributed. The Nippon Paper Group has obtained which certifies that forests are sustainably managed from CoC certifications at its principal mills, and provides certified environmental, social, and economic perspectives, and the paper products. Chain-of-Custody (CoC) component, which certifies that Enhancement of Product Safety / Status of CoC certification acquisition at principal production sites (as of March 31, 2017) FSC® PEFC Company Name Mill, Production Company (License no.) Mill, Production Company Kushiro Mill (FSC®C129049); Hokkaido Mill (Yufutsu, Asahikawa,Shiraoi) (FSC®C00952); Nippon Paper Akita Mill (FSC®C133166); Iwanuma Mill (FSC®C134786); Nakoso Mill Hokkaido Mill (Shiraoi), Akita Mill, Industries (FSC®C020977); Ishinomaki Mill, Fuji Mill, Otake Mill, Co., Ltd. Kanto Mill (Soka) (FSC®C133163); Kanto Mill (Ashikaga) (FSC®C133164); Iwakuni Mill, Yatsushiro Mill Fuji Mill (Yoshinaga) (FSC®C133678); Otake Mill (FSC®C132226); Iwakuni Mill (FSC®C115436); Yatsushiro Mill (FSC®C133585) Providing Environmentally and Socially Conscious Products SOKA PAPER-PAK CO., LTD., EGAWA PAPER-PAK CO., LTD., MIKI PAPER-PAK CO., LTD., ISHIOKA KAKO SOKA PAPER-PAK CO., LTD.; EGAWA CO., LTD. (FSC®C128733); Nippon Paper Papylia Co., Ltd. (Harada Mill, Kochi PAPER-PAK CO., LTD.; MIKI PAPEROther Nippon PAK CO., LTD.; ISHIOKA PAPER-PAK Mill (FSC®C005984)); Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd. (Kaisei Mill, Koyo Mill, Paper Group Kyoto Mill, Tokyo Mill (FSC®C124287)); Kitakami Paper Co., Ltd. (Ichinoseki CO., LTD.; Nippon Paper Papylia Co., companies Mill (FSC®C133225)); Nippon Dynawave Packaging Co. (FSC®C131932); Ltd. (Harada Mill, Kochi Mill); Nippon Dynawave Packaging Co.; Jujo Thermal Siam Nippon industrial Paper Co., Ltd. (FSC®C125026); Jujo Thermal Oy (FSC®C012566); Paper Australia Pty Ltd. (Maryvale Mill (FSC®C002059)) Oy; Paper Australia Pty Ltd. (Maryvale Mill) Environmental consciousness in raw material procurement and waste handling Ca s e SPOPS® Paper Containers Replacing the Refill Pouch (Nippon Paper Industries Co. Ltd.) In fiscal 2016, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. completed Refilling with SPOPS® development work on SPOPS®, a replaceable paper container designed to take the place of plastic pouches for refills of shampoo and other products. Commercialization efforts for this new product are now moving forward. With SPOPS®, there is no need for pouring from a pouch into a dispenser; product refills are accomplished simply by replacing a cartridge. PAPER-PAK manufacturing technology is what makes the SPOPS® approach to product refills possible. SPOPS® makes daily life more convenient by simplifying refills. And because it uses paper a recyclable material – and contributes to greater efficiency in distribution, SPOPS® also “SPO!” is the sound made when an empty SPOPS® cartridge is separated from the dispenser. “PS!” is the sound made when a new cartridge is installed has a lower environmental impact than do plastic pouches. in the dispenser. Together, they form the product name “SPOPS®.” Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 51 Responsibility to Customers Providing Environmentally and Socially Conscious Products Environmental consciousness throughout the Providing Products that Help to Overcome product lifecycle Challenges for Society Ca s e Responding to changing quality demands SHIELDPLUS oxygenand flavorbarrier materials C ase (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. is developing Super Jet Fiber insulation material (Nippon Paper Lumber Co., Ltd.) SHIELDPLUS, an environmentally friendly packaging material made from paper, which is recyclable and Nippon Paper Lumber manufactures Super Jet Fiber, ultimately renewable. a residential heat insulation material that, because it is Performing as well as existing products, made primarily of recycled newspapers, is close to a SHIELDPLUS offers outstanding barrier properties and natural material. is seen as a substitute for aluminum and barrier-film As a blown-in thermal insulation options. As a replacement for aluminum, SHIELDPLUS material, Super Jet Fiber offers enables the use of metal detection devices for the benefits of low environmental inspection procedures. As a replacement for barrier film, impact and high insulating SHIELDPLUS reduces the use of plastic, which is made efficiency, which have made it from petroleum, a depletable resource. It, therefore, Super Jet Fiber increasingly popular for use in ZEH results in lower CO2 emissions, from manufacturing (insulator) (net zero energy houses). through disposal, than do conventional packaging materials made only from plastic. In addition to its outstanding barrier properties, SHIELDPLUS offers environmental benefits that make it appropriate for use under a wide range of circumstances C ase and for various types of packaging applications. A product line for a wide range of needs (Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd.) Nippon Paper Crecia goes to great lengths to develop products that respond to customer needs. It pays meticulous attention to feedback received through its Customer Service Office and sales channels, and works Examples of SHIELDPLUS applications to develop products that meet newly emerging needs and performance demands. Post-use environmentally friendly disposal Ca s e MinerPa™ A new, recyclable material KLEENEX® tissue SCOTTIE® Fine Triple POISE® made from wood fiber with a high PREMIUM length Kitchen towel SARASARAKYUSUI Panty liner Skin care mineral content (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) In January 2017, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. C ase completed development of MinerPa™, a new functional material with mineral particles densely bonded onto the surface of wood fiber. In so doing, it has succeeded Participation in the “ifia® JAPAN2017,” in creating a product that retains the reusability and Fine Chemical Trade Show (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Chemical Sales thermal recyclability of wood fiber while also offering Division and Innovative Material Sales Division) various functions and characteristics of minerals. Going forward, attention will focus on application development The Chemical Sales Division is focusing on food, health and commercialization in areas such as fire-resistant and food, and beverage applications. Participating in “ifia® radiation-shielding construction materials, and nursingJAPAN2017,” Japan’s largest food ingredient/additive care and sanitary products for which deodorizing and tradeshow, the division antibacterial functions are required. featured information on woodderived CMC (carboxymethyl cellulose) and cellulose powder, and the natural sweetener, Stevia. It also gave a presentation on a new 1μm 100nm Nippon Paper Industries material, cellulose nanofiber. tradeshow booth Surface of MinerPa™ fiber 52 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 Human Rights, Employment and Labor Responsibility Large numbers of people work in the Nippon Paper Group's expansive company-owned forests and large-scale production sites. Securing their safety and health is the Nippon Paper Group's top priority. Nippon Paper Group presentation conference for Small Group Activity Indicators Key Objectives Performance (fiscal 2016) Materiality: Occupational Safety and Health Prevention of injuries to any person at a mill site Number of serious occupational accidents •Elimination of serious occupational accidents No serious occupational accidents Frequency rate for occupational accidents requiring time off from work •Frequiring requency rate for occupational accidents time off from work = 0.30 or less Frequency rate for occupational accidents requiring time off from work = 0.39 Policy and Management Occupational Safety and Health Creating Workplaces that Support Basic Stance 54 Basic Stance 55 Diverse Human Resources Philosophy and Basic Policy 54 System to Promote Occupational Basic Stance 57 Safety and Health 55 Recruitment and Employment 57 Initiatives in Respect of Human Rights 54 Status of Occupational Accidents 56 Women in the Workplace 58 Efforts regarding Safety and Promoting Work-Life Balance 59 Disaster Prevention 56 Initiatives Aimed at Developing Efforts regarding Hygiene and Health 56 Human Resources 59 Fair Evaluation and Compensation 60 Industrial Relations 60 Human Rights, Employment and Labor Responsibility Policy and Management Building a healthy and safe workplace environment in which employees, who serve as the driving force behind the Group’s corporate activities, can take full advantage of their individual capabilities while conforming to the highest ethical standards Basic Stance responsibilities. The Group established its Philosophy and Focusing on the optimal application of Basic Policy on Human Rights, Employment and Labor diverse human resources while ensuring based on this understanding. safety and disaster prevention Initiatives in Respect of Human Rights The Nippon Paper Group respects human rights and aims to develop a working environment that makes the most of a Confirming, verifying, and educating with diverse range of human resources. Work-style reform, for the help of a third-party perspective example, has gotten much attention in recent years, and we are moving proactively to help ensure that employees • Exchanging opinions with Amnesty International Japan can maintain work-life balances that suit them. In 2014, divisions in charge of procuring wood chips and We also make every effort to maintain and enhance safe managing labor relations at Nippon Paper Industries each working environments and to take all appropriate measures met with Amnesty International Japan to share opinions. for safety and disaster preparedness. The meetings helped us to deepen our understanding of global trends in human rights issues. They also gave us an opportunity to explain and discuss conditions at the Philosophy and Basic Policy company and prioritize our actions going forward. Aiming to be a company where Later, in fiscal 2015, we embarked on an examination of employees can look to a better future human rights conditions at subcontractors in Japan and at overseas chip suppliers. Based on examination results, we Gaining the trust of society and fulfilling our responsibilities are making changes by employing PDCA cycles as we requires that Nippon Paper Group employees act with high continue our dialogue with Amnesty International Japan. morals and strong motivation. Promoting employee awareness and behavior consistent with that belief, helping • Pcompanies aying attention to human rights issues at affiliated in Japan individual employees improve their capabilities, and rewarding performance are among our most important In fiscal 2015 and 2016, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. examined human rights issues at affiliated companies in Japan. Fiscal 2015 was set aside for self-examinations and Philosophy and Basic Policy on Human Rights, in fiscal 2016 the results of that work were summarized in Employment and Labor reports, and responses to issues were considered. (established on October 1, 2004) Philosophy • Concern for human rights across the supply chain Concern for human rights and labor across the entire Respecting fundamental human rights at all times and making the most of the individuality and capabilities supply chain is clearly defined in the Nippon Paper Group’s of a diverse range of human resources, we aim to Philosophy and Basic Policy Concerning Raw Materials create a company overflowing with dreams and hope. Procurement, and the Group conducts supplier surveys Basic Policy and interviews regarding these concerns (see pages 24 and 1. Respect for human rights 27). Furthermore, employees responsible for procurement We pledge to respect fundamental human rights and perform on-site checks of human rights conditions. These not to engage in any behavior that disregards such were conducted in South Africa in fiscal 2015 and in rights, including discrimination based on matters such as nationality, race, place of birth, sex, religion, Australia and Vietnam in fiscal 2016. Each, supplemented medical conditions or disabilities, sexual harassment with interview results, provided information on matters such and the abuse of power. We also pledge to manage as health, hygiene, safety, disaster preparedness, and local personal information appropriately in order to prevent environmental concerns. In managing forests, the Group infringements on privacy. devotes significant attention to protecting the culture and 2. Prohibition of forced and child labor We pledge not to force any employees to carry out traditions of residents in each region of its overseas unreasonable work. We also pledge not to employ afforestation operations (see page 30). children aged under the minimum employment age stipulated in local laws and regulations. 3. Promotion of personnel training and skill development • Education and training In pursuit of personnel management cognizant of human We pledge to promote personnel training and skill development programs to help improve rights, the Nippon Paper Group has employees responsible individual employees’ abilities and skills through the for personnel matters participate in training courses hosted establishment and maintenance of structures to by government agencies. The Group is also conducting make the most of the individuality and capabilities of human rights education for personnel in charge of CSR, a diverse range of human resources. new hires and newly appointed managers. 54 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 Human Rights, Employment and Labor Responsibility Occupational Safety and Health By working daily to uncover inherent risks, maintaining a workplace environment in which employees can go about their duties without undue anxiety Basic Stance and security measures. Securing safety and health, and At Nippon Paper Industries, labor and management preventing disasters occupational safety and health meetings are held once each year. The persons responsible for occupational safety Providing a safe work environment is a basic responsibility and health from the head office, mills, and labor union come of any business. In fulfilling this responsibility, the Nippon together to discuss a variety of issues, including the annual Paper Group advances initiatives focused on safety and occupational safety and health management plan. Safety health, and disaster preparedness. and health committees are also established at each mill and Maintaining an unwavering daily commitment to office. These committees deliberate on and determine uncovering and minimizing risks is key to that effort. important management matters and activity policies. Consistently engaging in sound management while Employees are notified of the details of decisions through responding to the trust of employees is also important for department meetings and internal mill newsletters and then building a pleasant and comfortable workplace that helps execute the determined activities. to maintain and improve employees' health. We have created labor safety and health systems and continuously System to promote occupational safety and health strive to prevent accidents and provide safe, pleasant The Safety and Disaster Prevention Committee (controlling the whole Group) working environments, based on the Philosophy and Basic Policy on Safety and Health Measures established in 2004. The Secretariat of the Safety and Disaster Prevention Committee Mills of Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Group companies Philosophy and Basic Policy on Safety and Examples of organizations for safety Health Measures (established on October 1, 2004) Mill Manager Safety Supervisor Union Health Supervisor General Safety and Industrial physician Philosophy Health Supervisor Health Controller in In addition to acknowledging that it is the company’s Human Rights, Employment Health Engineering Safety and duty to guarantee safety and health, and to strive to Health Committee Working Environment Measurement Expert develop pleasant, improved working conditions, we pledge to work ceaselessly to prevent any and all and Labor Responsibility accidents, minor or major. Manager by position Safety and Environmental Safety and Health and status Control Dept. Promotion Council Basic Policy on Safety and Health 1. To respect the Industrial Safety and Health Law. Safety and Health 2. To establish self-imposed standards and step up Employees Liaison Council daily management. 3. To set up a management structure and clearly define roles, responsibilities, and authority. •Occupational safety and health management system Policy and Management / 4. To strive to improve safety and health training. In 2009, the Nippon Paper Group implemented its own 5. To develop and maintain a safe, pleasant working environment. system for continuously pursuing occupational safety and health management activities at the organization level. Basic Policy on Safety and Risk Prevention 1. To respect laws and regulations pertaining to safety Under this system, a three-tiered approach is used for risk Occupational Safety and Health and risk prevention. assessments by employees and at the management level, 2. To establish self-imposed standards and step up and information on risks and daily management. management measures, such as 3. To set up a management structure and clearly define roles, responsibilities, and authority. mutual risk assessments within a 4. To strive to improve safety and risk prevention business location, is shared. To education and training. raise safety standards across the 5. To work in cooperation with related government and Group, events are held to share local communities and share information. Sharing expertise on safety (Nippon Paper Industries, expertise in performing risk Hokkaido Mill) assessments. System to Promote Occupational Safety and Health •Mill safety audit system To build a safe workplace environment The Nippon Paper Group conducts mill safety audits to raise the level of safety management. In addition, mutual The Nippon Paper Group has established the Safety and safety audits among the Group companies were introduced Disaster Prevention Committee, which coordinates Groupin 2010. Audits are being improved from the bottom up by wide occupational safety and health, disaster prevention promoting closer communications within the Group. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 55 Human Rights, Employment and Labor Responsibility Occupational Safety and Health Status of Occupational Accidents • In-plant safety measures Eliminating occupational accidents Based on its mission of eliminating all personal injuries within its mills, Nippon Paper Industries has implemented In fiscal 2016, the Nippon Paper Group (including safety patrols and education initiatives in collaboration with subcontractors)* experienced no serious occupational the labor union and subcontractors. In safety patrols, we accidents and its frequency rate for occupational accidents provide instructions and guidance for immediately requiring time off from work came to 0.39, with an correcting unsafe conditions. As a principal employer, we occupational accident severity rate of 0.03. Despite a also provide information, reference materials, venues, and decrease in occupational accidents among Group other resources, and have confirmed that subcontractors employees, there was no decline in accidents involving are conducting safety education properly. Furthermore, we employees of subcontractors and other companies enhance workplace safety by providing guidance on, and performing work at Group production sites. To help ensure encouraging voluntary efforts, including risk prediction and the safety of all workers, we are taking steps to enhance risk assessment before engaging in work. communication and coordination with subcontractors and other companies and devoting even greater attention to • Natural disaster and fire countermeasures safety patrols and the provision of education and guidance. In preparation for natural disasters, each location of the Nippon Paper Group has created disaster preparedness Frequency rate for lost-worktime injuries manuals reflecting local hazard map information and the Indicates how often occupational accidents occur, in terms of the number characteristics of their particular operations and geographic of accidents causing injuries or deaths per million work hours. location. They also cooperate with local fire departments 2.0 1.79 and other public safety authorities to conduct regular 1.46 1.42 1.31 1.5 1.30 disaster preparedness training. 1.00 1.06 1.06 1.0 0.94 1.15 At Nippon Paper Industries, individual business locations 0.77 0.56 0.65 0.43 0.39 undergo regular disaster prevention surveys by a company 0.5 0.55 0.30 specializing in risk assessment. 0 0.40 0.40 0.10 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (Year) • Traffic safety initiatives Occupational accident severity rate The Nippon Paper Group actively participates in traffic Indicates the seriousness of occupational accidents, in terms of the safety education and in various traffic safety campaigns of number of workdays lost per 1,000 work hours. local police authorities. Every effort is made to ensure that 0.9 0.74 0.76 all employees remain conscious of the need to drive safely. 0.6 0.54 0.38 0.35 Efforts regarding Hygiene and Health 0.3 0.19 0.06 0.07 0.17 0.30 0.09 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.02 0.03 Taking into consideration the importance 0.10 0.10 0.02 0.01 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (Year) of mental and physical health Nippon Paper Group Pulp, paper and processed paper product manufacturing industry Manufacturing industry Nippon Paper Group (including affiliates) The Nippon Paper Group strives to keep its employees * The manufacturing facilities of Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., Nippon Paper healthy and to detect health problems in their early stages. Crecia Co., Ltd., Nippon Paper Papylia Co., Ltd., and Kitakami Paper Co., Ltd. For example, at Group companies that are members of the Nippon Paper Industries Health Insurance Union, examinations focusing on lifestyle diseases are performed Efforts regarding Safety and Disaster Prevention together with regular physical examinations. In addition, Working steadily from various angles industrial physicians regularly visit workplaces and the Group uses the results of these visits in efforts to improve • Safety education working environments. The Group also provides medical In its efforts to ensure high safety awareness, the Nippon examinations for the spouses of employees. Paper Group places considerable weight on safety education for all employees, including those in management. • Tackling mental health Nippon Paper Industries puts in place an annual Nippon Paper Industries has organized Internet-based Occupational Safety and Health Management System plan mental health care and counseling services for all at each of its mills and offices, which then implements employees. Under this system, employees are asked to various education programs covering every stage of an complete an annual survey designed to detect needs for employee’s career from initial hiring through to supervisor mental health care services. training. Constantly renewing safety awareness, we are endeavoring to achieve accident-free workplaces. 56 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 Human Rights, Employment and Labor Responsibility Creating Workplaces that Support Diverse Human Resources With a deep respect for fundamental human rights and the unique characteristics of each individual, the Nippon Paper Group consistently recruits new graduates and actively employs women and people with disabilities. Basic Stance Employment data Units FY2016 Developing a dynamic organization No. of employees on a consolidated basis1,2 Persons 13,057 where diverse employees can Men Persons 11,691 demonstrate their capabilities Women Overseas Persons Persons 1,366 2,810 Men Persons 2,468 Employees with different personalities stimulating one Women Persons 342 another and helping each other deepen their knowledge Percent of upper management from the % 74.1 local community serve to invigorate the workplace. Amid forecasts of a drop New graduates hired3 Persons 265 in Japan's working-age population, diversification of Men Persons 239 workforces is becoming increasingly vital to ensuring Women Persons 26 ongoing growth. Our aim is to be a vigorous organization Mid-career hired3 Persons 163 emphasizing the spirit of Challenge, Fairness, and Men Persons 141 Women Persons 22 Teamwork the values included in the Group Mission we Average age of employees1,3 Age 43.3 definitively stated in 2015. Men Age 43.3 Women Age 43.1 Average years of employment1,3 Years 19.1 Recruitment and Employment Men Years 19.2 Women Years 18.2 Advancing discrimination-free hiring Turnover rate1,3 (Includes employees leaving at the mandatory retirement age) % 2.9 The Nippon Paper Group employs over 13,000 employees in Dispatched workers1,3 Persons 77 Men Persons 27 and outside of Japan. In its efforts to fulfill its responsibilities Women Persons 50 to communities, the Group strives to ensure stable 1 Fiscal year end employment while continuously recruiting new employees. 2 Data scope: Consolidated companies 3 Data scope: Consolidated companies in Japan Furthermore, based on its Philosophy and Basic Policy on Human Rights, Employment and Labor, the Group Numbers* of overseas subsidiaries and employees by region Human Rights, Employment promotes discrimination-free recruitment and employment. (as of December 31, 2016) The Group employs a selection process that bases decisions on test and interview results. Factors including Europe (3 companies) and Labor Responsibility Total 190 employees North America (5 companies) nationality, place of birth, gender and level of school (Men 142, Women 48) Total 699 employees completed have no place in selection decisions. Asia (12 companies) (Men 589, Women 110) Total 661 employees (Men 432, Women 229) •Hiring of people with disabilities With uneven hiring performance at its various business Occupational Safety and Health / South America (2 companies) Australia (4 companies) Total 601 employees sites, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. did not achieve the Total 1,204 employees (Men 541, Women 60) (Men 1,080, Women 124) statutory 2.0% employment rate for people with disabilities. To achieve a steady improvement in performance, action Total 26 companies, 3,355 employees plans for hiring people with disabilities will be developed (Men 2,784, Women 571) and executed at individual business sites. * Overseas subsidiaries (including non-consolidated subsidiaries) The rate of employment of people with disabilities Performance in reemploying workers who reach the (%) Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. mandatory retirement age 1,2 1.82 (Regular employees of Nippon Paper Industries and consolidated Creating Workplaces that Support Diverse Human Resources 2.0 1.91 1.99 1.98 1.94 companies in Japan) (Persons) 1.78 1.0 Fiscal years 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Nippon Paper Ind. 0 Employees seeking 44 57 51 112 172 185 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) reemployment People reemployed 43 67 53 112 172 185 •Promoting the employment of elderly persons Consolidated companies in Japan — — — 309 327 331 The Nippon Paper Group has implemented its People reemployed Reemployment System to respond to the needs of a 1 Beginning with fiscal 2014, figures cover consolidated companies in Japan and management employees. Until fiscal 2013, figures covered only nonsuper-aging society and to facilitate the passing on of skills. management employees at Nippon Paper Industries. In fiscal 2002, Nippon Paper Industries introduced a 2 Depending on staffing conditions and other factors, the company may request employees to continue working beyond the retirement age, and some employees reemployment system to allow employees to work up to the have agreed to do this. This is why the number of people reemployed sometimes age of 65. And in response to the amended Law exceeds the number of retirees requesting to be reemployed. Concerning Stabilization of Employment of Older Persons, in effect from April 2013, the Company prepared new rules that allow employees of retirement age to continue working based on their desire and skills, at least until they begin to receive pensions. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 57 Human Rights, Employment and Labor Responsibility Creating Workplaces that Support Diverse Human Resources Women in the Workplace • Female management participation and recruiting Creating greater opportunities for women At Nippon Paper Industries a large proportion of jobs is in mill settings and so low recruitment of women in the past is Organizational invigoration, and securing human resources a major reason for their low participation in our against the backdrop of a declining birthrate, are two management ranks now. To remedy this situation, and considerations that add to the importance of giving women double the participation of women in management by fiscal opportunities to succeed in the workplace. The Nippon 2020, we are expanding the range of workplaces to which Paper Group, with the establishment of a Human women are assigned. Resources Planning Office in fiscal 2015, is creating conditions that promote their participation here. Percentage of female employees in management (consolidated entity in Japan) Nippon Paper Group, Inc. + Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Nippon Paper Group (Japan)1 Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Ca s e (%) Nippon Paper Group (Overseas)2 25.0 20.4 16.0 17.8 23.2 Diversity seminar 15.0 (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) 2.50 2.09 2.14 Creating work environments that embrace diversity and 1.63 1.70 1.81 1.90 enable women and all other employees to exercise their 1.25 1.60 1.86 full potential is essential for maintaining and strengthening 1.49 1.49 1.48 1.57 competitiveness. Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., 0 therefore, held a diversity seminar in September 2016 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) to provide managers with an opportunity to examine the Beginning with fiscal 2013 percentages have been adjusted retroactively to exclude importance of promoting diversity. associate directors, employees commissioned for specific purposes, employees In the first part of this two-part seminar, on temporary assignment from other companies, and other non-full-time personnel representatives from the CSR Division and the to present percentages of only full-time employees. 1 Figures are for the Nippon Paper Group’s consolidated companies in Japan. Human Resources Planning Office of the Personnel 2 Includes all managers of sections and higher level organizational units as of Dept. provided an overview of social trends and the December 31. Company’s career development initiatives for women. In the second part of the seminar, Naoko Ishihara, the then editor-in-chief of Works magazine, published by the Hiring for career-track positions (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) Recruit Works Institute, gave a talk on why maintaining Fiscal years 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 and strengthening competitiveness relies on diversity in Career-track hires 43 56 34 52 65 work approaches for all employees. Over 100 managers Women 6 8 7 11 11 participated in the seminar and, based on their enthusiasm in asking questions, found that it provided Men 37 48 27 41 54 much to think about. Percent women 14 14 21 21 17 * Figures reflect total new hires (including mid-career hires) by category for each fiscal year. •RParticipation esponding to the Act on Promotion of Women’s and Advancement in the Workplace • Follow-up system In working to create conditions that enable women to At Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., female career-track advance their careers, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. employees are organized in a network that spans the established in April 2016 an Action Plan based on the Act company, crossing organizational unit and workplace on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement boundaries. Within the network, veteran employees in the Workplace. collaborate with the Human Resources Planning Office to help their younger colleagues address concerns and build careers. In addition, we conduct career training aimed at helping female Action Plan based on the Act on Promotion of career-track employees overcome career building challenges Women’s Participation and Advancement with the assistance of their immediate supervisors. in the Workplace (Adopted by Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. in April 2016) Female career-track employee network 1. Make women at least 25% of new graduate hires for Human Resources Department Manager career-track positions. Human Resources Planning Office Regular liaison meetings, guidance, support 2. For career-track women hired 8 to 12 fiscal years Groups of 4-5 ago*, achieve an average continuous employment individuals rate that is at least 80% that of the rate for men. 3. To expand the range of roles performed by women Network leaders at production sites, identify issues that would arise with the assignment of women to each workplace, consider solutions for these issues, and develop Members concrete plans for the workplaces to which women will be assigned. * Women who joined the company during the fiscal years 2004 to 2008. 58 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 Promoting Work-Life Balance Initiatives Aimed at Developing Human Resources Realizing a balanced workplace environment Support for the improvement and exercise of professional skills The Nippon Paper Group strives to establish an ideal workplace environment that allows employees to reach The Nippon Paper Group has identified five key elements their full potential while balancing work and family needs. for providing employees with equal opportunities for Nippon Paper Industries, for example, has introduced learning and for creating a framework enabling ambitious, flextime work hours for its head office, research facilities, capable individuals to further enhance their skills. branches, and the administrative sections of its mills. (1) S upport for self-development and voluntary • Work-style reform approaches skill acquisition To encourage work-style reform, Nippon Paper Industries The Nippon Paper Group supports employee selfCo., Ltd. is striving to reduce the overall number of hours development and voluntary skill acquisition through means workers spend on the job. The Company believes that such as group training and rewards for acquiring helping individual employees maintain a desirable work-life professional qualifications. In addition, job-level-based balance will result in more vibrant working environments training, such as that for new hires and new managers, is and that the time and energy employees gain will ultimately conducted jointly by Group members to promote the result in added growth for the Company. development of employees throughout the Group. And training is pursued from a broad perspective; job-level• Helping employees balance work and child care based training at mills, for example, is conducted not just The Nippon Paper Group revised its action plan, in April for a single mill but together with neighboring mills. 2016, and strives to support its employees in maintaining Furthermore, Group employees can meet selfwork and child-care balance in accordance with Japan’s determined skill needs by taking any of approximately 150 Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next correspondence courses and joint training. Every employee Generation Children. is offered not only the ability to Human Rights, Employment As one example, Nippon Paper Industries has choose courses they want to implemented systems that exceed the provisions stipulated take but also precious, mutually under Japan’s Child Care and Family Care Leave Act. This stimulating opportunities for joint and Labor Responsibility includes extensions to the exemption period for overtime training with colleagues from working hours, the application period for child care and Internal training session other Group companies. paid leave for child rearing. Based on these actions, we have been designated by Japan’s Minister of Health, Labour Training time for individual employees and Welfare as a company that supports child rearing and (Consolidated companies in Japan) Creating Workplaces that Support Diverse Human Resources have obtained the right to display the Kurumin mark. 7.6 hours/year (2) Assignment of the right people to the right positions Data on balancing work and personal lives Nippon Paper Industries periodically surveys employees to Unit 2016 ascertain what kind of job assignments they wish to have. Employees taking child-care leave1 Persons 26 Based on the results of these surveys, every effort is made Men Persons 0 to match employee strengths with job types. Women Persons 26 In addition, the Nippon Paper Group has implemented recently giving birth % 100 an internal recruitment system. Under this system, individual who returned to work % 100 employees can consider their skills and how they want to Employees taking maternity/paternity leave1 Persons 186 develop their career, and then apply for a position posted Men Persons 160 by a Nippon Paper Group member. Women Persons 26 Average number of days taken for maternity/ paternity leave1 (3) Development of employees capable of acting on a Men Days 3.0 global stage Women Days 64.9 Nippon Paper Industries and other Group companies have Employees taking nursing-care leave1 Persons 1 put in place programs such as one for overseas study. This Total number of working hours2 Hours 1,927 program is supported by the dispatch of personnel to The rate of annual paid leave taken by employees2 % 68.3 overseas education institutions and by overseas 1 Data scope: Consolidated companies in Japan 2 Data scope: Non-management employees of Nippon Paper Industries assignments to the various offices of Nippon Paper Group. Through actions such as this, the Company is striving to strengthen awareness and education, so that all of its career-track employees will be capable of taking on overseas assignments. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 59 Human Rights, Employment and Labor Responsibility Creating Workplaces that Support Diverse Human Resources Fair Evaluation and Compensation Ca s e Evaluation based on skills Adoption of an overseas internship / and performance training system As part of its efforts to practice fair and transparent personnel As part of its effort to develop human resources capable of undertaking overseas assignments, Nippon Paper evaluations, Nippon Paper Industries lays out clear evaluation Industries Co., Ltd. has adopted an overseas-company criteria and conducts review sessions, in which managers internship system for administrative employees. The goal provide feedback on performance evaluations, for all nonof this system is to boost employee interest in working management employees. Review sessions are an overseas by having them experience daily life and culture while working for a period of one month at an overseas opportunity to ensure that employees understand and company (mainly in Asia) that is not a member of the accept evaluation results and for setting the skill development Nippon Paper Group. In fiscal 2016, the first year of the direction for individual employees. For decisions on program, 11 employees participated in internships in promotions to management and other positions, the three countries. assistance of outside companies specializing in human resource assessment is called upon to enhance objectivity. Ca s e Industrial Relations Implement small group activities globally Improving the workplace The Nippon Paper Group is implementing small group environment through labor and activities in and outside Japan. The purpose of these management consensus activities is to achieve improvements in areas such as operations, quality, and costs. In fiscal 2016, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. held its 24th companyThe Nippon Paper Group strives to maintain a sound wide presentation meeting, while the Group held its relationship with its employees. Labor unions have been eighth presentation meeting, with participation by 10 formed at Nippon Paper Industries and the majority of its Group companies located in Japan and overseas. The consolidated subsidiaries. Irrespective of the existence of a presentations helped attendees to better understand their own workplaces and consider good practices from labor union, however, every effort is made to maintain other workplaces in Japan and abroad. smooth industrial relations at all Group companies. For example, under the common objective of building a better company, Nippon Paper Industries has established a (4) Reinforcement of production frontline capabilities variety of committees that cover such fields as the Human resource capabilities at the production frontline operations of labor and management agreements, and represent the heart of the manufacturing process. The staffing adjustments. Labor-management agreements Nippon Paper Group passes on to each generation the provide the basis for a variety of initiatives, as well as efforts technologies and skills nurtured over a lengthy period to to improve the workplace environment. On the top of these maintain and improve the capabilities of its human endeavors, regular central meetings of both sides’ leaders resources. provide a forum to discuss diverse issues including Nippon Paper Industries created a committee to corporate management and working conditions. strengthen frontline capabilities in fiscal 2006. Nippon Paper At Nippon Paper Industries, there are 4,766 labor union Industries has organized and is operating systems under members (as of March 31, 2017). Workplaces are union which technologies and skills that should be carried forward shops and all of the employees covered by collective at individual production sites are identified, and training is bargaining agreements are union members. prioritized based on analyses of the strengths and weaknesses of, and skills needed by, individuals. • Discussions of working conditions Major changes to working conditions, such as alterations to (5) Support for the planning of lives and careers personnel systems and personnel downsizing, are in principle Given the hike in the public pension eligibility age and implemented on the basis of prior discussions between labor increasing diversification of lifestyles, employees must and management. Nippon Paper Group companies do not consider a number of factors when planning their careers unilaterally impose changes on employees. and life after retirement. Therefore, core companies within Routine communication is critical for gaining employee the Nippon Paper Group offer Life Plan Seminars to understanding of company actions. The Group strives to enhance employee understanding of each company's and engage in dialog with employees and labor union to provide the government's programs, as well as the need to develop such information as financial results. meaningful life plans that include health management. 60 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 Responsibility to Communities As a comprehensive biomass company creating new products and growing its businesses, the Nippon Paper Group manages broad expanses of forests and owns large-scale production sites, so it has significant impacts on local communities and the people who live and work in them. Coexistence with these communities is critical to our own continued existence. Planting trees at Marunuma Kogen Indicators Key Objectives Performance (fiscal 2016) Materiality: Coexistence with Local Communities and Society at Large Gaining understanding of the Nippon Paper Welcomed local school, neighborhood Communication opportunities Group’s business activities, in local communities association and other groups for tours, and and society at large engaged in other activities, such as joint sponsorship of events As a member of society, we shall proudly Gathered various opinions and evaluations Evaluations by stakeholders promote activities that contribute to social from stakeholders connected with our development. activities (To be used to improve activities) (Philosophy for social contribution activities) Policy and Management Coexistence with Local Corporate Identity Sharing Basic Stance 62 Communities and Society at Large Utilizing Company-Owned Forests 65 Employment Support 63 Respect for Indigenous People 63 Environmental Protection Activities 63 Advancing Science and Technology 63 Promoting Social Welfare Activities 64 Cleaning activities 64 Providing Opportunities to Tour Group Companies and Their Mills 64 Responsibility to Communities Policy and Management The Nippon Paper Group engages in a variety of social contribution activities to garner the trust of and remain close to local residents. Basic Stance The Nippon Paper Group’s principal social contribution activities Principal activities Specific examples Page Coexisting with local communities, Local community activities contributing to the advancement of Cleaning activities Appreciation event at Asahiyama Zoo 64 society as a whole Children’s “emergency 110” patrol project (110 is the number to dial for emergency — Local community assistance in Japan) As one of its members, the Nippon Paper Group aims to safety and disaster Traffic safety initiatives 56 prevention contribute to society as a whole. While continuing to provide Participation in fire brigades — needed products, we would like to play a useful role in Preserving local Supporting Asukayama Takigi Noh plays — protection of the global environment and in the advancement community cultures Respect for Making wild herb habitat available to of culture and local communities. We are confident that indigenous people indigenous people 63 building a consistent track record along those lines will earn Participating in and sponsoring local events — Holding and the trust of society and allow us to continue our business participating in local Opening of recreational facilities to the public — activities in coexistence with local communities. events Holding summer festivals and other events — The initiatives we engage in, both inside and outside Copier-paper sale in support of the Pink 64 Japan, include cleanups of the areas around our mills and Ribbon Campaign Participating in and cosponsoring social plants, support for vocational training in afforestation Social welfare welfare events — activities areas, and other locally focused activities; and operation of Purchasing products made by social — welfare groups the School of Friendship for Forests and Paper, mill tours, Provision of a venue for a charity horse race — and other activities making use of forests and other Community education Holding of CSR lectures (public seminars) — Group resources. Advancing science Supporting the Fujihara Foundation of Science 63 and technology Disaster relief Donations of money and emergency supplies — activities Philosophy and Principles for Environmental activities Social Contribution Activities Tree planting activities Marunuma Highland Tree-Planting 65 (established on April 1, 2004) Utilizing the Group’s cultivating cuttings in container tech 46 Philosophy Conducting business activities while 45 Preserving protecting Blakiston’s fish owl habitat As a member of society, we shall proudly promote biodiversity Supporting the activities of the Shirane-aoi activities that contribute to social development. Preservation Group 46 Promoting Fukushima Morino Chonai-kai Principles 29 activities 1. We shall pursue activities that contribute to cultural Environmental River cleanup activities 63 protection activities heritage and development. Operating the Recycle Plaza Shiyukan — 2. We shall pursue activities that contribute to conservation and improvement of the environment. Supporting the recycling activities of — Promoting recycling organizations 3. We shall pursue activities that contribute to the activities Recycling Paper-Pak containers 43 development of communities. Recycling wood waste — Accountability to local Environmental risk communication 34 communities Educational activities Providing Specific activity themes opportunities to tour group companies and Mill tours and paper making 64 • Increase the community involvement of Group their mills company mills and overseas affiliates Utilizing companyHolding the School of Friendship for Forests 65 •P  romote activities that effectively utilize the resources owned forests and Paper and expertise of each Group company Internships, and programs that allow students to experience a workplace 64 •P  romote corporate citizenship activities in which our Employment support employees play an active role Sponsoring workshops 63 •E  ffectively use the company-owned forests in Japan Classes taught by (about 90,000 hectares) employees Cooperation in teaching school classes 64 • Employ effective PR inside and outside the Group Music appreciation Inviting students to concerts — Baseball tournaments — Providing educational • Structure for promoting social contribution activities opportunities through sports Ice hockey championships Cosponsoring the Fukuchiyama Marathon — — The CSR Division takes the lead in promoting Group-wide Providing products to Provision of paper products, printed social contribution activities. Each Group company appoints a classrooms materials and publications — person responsible for overseeing social contribution activities. Each responsible person develops a thorough understanding of social contribution activities undertaken to date, and works to upgrade and expand their content and details. 62 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 Responsibility to Communities Coexistence with Local Communities and Society at Large Continuing to pursue business activities in coexistence with local communities Employment Support Environmental Protection Activities Ca s e C ase Sponsoring workshops in line with Cleaning up the Suikawa River local desires (Kitakami Paper Co., Ltd.) (Brazil, AMCEL S.A.) In fiscal 2004, Kitakami Paper Co., Ltd. embarked AMCEL, which holds expansive land, strives to maintain on activities aimed at cleaning up the riverbed of the harmonious relationships and to further dialogue with Suikawa River, which the company uses to provide local residents. As part of that effort, it asked local water for its operations and dispose of industrial communities what workor daily-life-related topics they wastewater. These activities take place once or twice a would like to learn about, and in 2014 began to host month and involve 20-30 of the company’s employees workshops based on the responses received. and employees of affiliated companies. In the past, local In fiscal 2016, workshops were held on filtering residents had experienced problems that originated with water for drinking, baking bread, eating a healthy diet, wastewater from Kitakami’s mill. In 2001, therefore, the farming fish, making traditional pottery, and knitting. company installed oxygen-activated sludge treatment Led by AMCEL-invited experts, these workshops took facilities to stabilize water quality, and, in 2002, it place in five areas, Amapá, Santana, Ferreira Gomes, entered into an environmental protection agreement with Itaubal, and Tartarugalzinho, and lasted 3-6 days each. Ichinoseki City, the location of its mill, to strictly manage Participants, who numbered over 600 in total, indicated water quality. that they were very pleased with the workshops and felt In addition, the company meets annually with an that what they learned would be useful in daily life. organization of Ichinoseki community leaders focused on looking after the Suikawa River. In these meetings, the company has won praise from the citizens’ group for its sincerity in acting to clean the Suikawa riverbed and control the quality of its wastewater. Cleaning the Suikawa riverbed Workshop on eating a healthy diet Class on knitting Respect for Indigenous People Advancing Science and Technology Ca s e C ase Making wild herb habitat available to Supporting the Responsibility to indigenous people Fujihara Foundation of Science (Chile, Volterra S.A.) (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) The Mapuche are indigenous people who have inhabited Considered the “Nobel Prize of Japan,” the Fujihara Communities southern Chile since well before the arrival of Europeans Award, presented by the Fujihara Foundation of Science, and maintained their own distinct traditions and culture. a public interest incorporated association, recognizes In recent years, availability of native wild herbs the outstanding contributions to science and technology Mapuche value for medicinal purposes has declined with by Japanese scientists. Nippon Paper Industries lends the development of land for agriculture, housing, and financial support to the Foundation to promote science other purposes. and technology. Policy and Management / Volterra, as part of its preservation activities on At the 58th Fujihara Awards company-owned land, is protecting habitat for the presentation ceremony, held scarce herbs and has made it available for their use. in June 2017, Dr. Susumu Kitagawa, Deputy DirectorGeneral and Distinguished Professor at the Kyoto University Institute for Advanced Study, and Dr. Akira Isogai, a Professor at the University of Tokyo Graduate School of Coexistence with Local Communities and Society at Large Agricultural and Life Sciences, Dr. Susumu Kitagawa were each presented with a (center) and Dr. Akira Isogai (2nd from right) certificate and gold medal, Ñanco, a wild herb used by the Mapuche together with 10 million yen. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 63 Responsibility to Communities Coexistence with Local Communities and Society at Large Promoting Social Welfare Activities Providing Opportunities to Tour Group Companies and Their Mills Ca s e In fiscal 2016, 14,374 people (including 6,884 students and teachers) toured Nippon Paper Group facilities worldwide. Copier-paper sales in support of the Pink Ribbon Campaign (Nippon Paper Industries Co. Ltd.) C ase In fiscal 2016, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. became an official supporter of the Pink Ribbon Campaign. The Welcoming local junior high school campaign, an endeavor aimed at raising breast-cancer students to experience a workplace awareness, is a project of J. POSH (Japan Pink-Ribbon (Nippon Paper Development Co., Ltd.) of Smile and Happiness campaign), a Japanese NPO. To support the campaign, the Company launched a new Since fiscal 2005, the Tokyo metropolitan government brand of copier paper Pink Ribbon PPC. Products has held Work Work Week Tokyo, an annual event sold under this brand include a pink ribbon, the symbol that allows junior high school students to experience of breast-cancer awareness, on their packaging as a a workplace. This is an opportunity for every public means of helping to boost recognition of the Pink Ribbon junior high school student in Tokyo to take up to a fiveCampaign. Furthermore, day leave from school to experience a workplace for the Company is donating example, in a local shopping district, manufacturing or a portion of the sales of other company, or public facility. Pink Ribbon PPC copier Nippon Paper Development Co., Ltd. operates Oji paper to J.POSH. Ekimae Sun Square, a commercial facility in Tokyo’s Kita The Company is ward. There, the company welcomes students from local proud to have its copier junior high schools that have prearranged their visits, and paper one of its lets them get a taste of a wide variety of jobs, beginning longest-selling products at the reception counter. – play a role in enhancing Following each year’s event, polite letters of thanks recognition of the Pink Pink Ribbon PPC are received from students. Ribbon Campaign. For employees these letters serve as additional motivation to maintain Oji Ekimae Sun Square as a Cleaning activities place that is loved by, and continues to contribute to, Ca s e the local community. Inspecting and cleaning facilities at Oji Ekimae Sun Square Appreciation event at Asahiyama Zoo (Nippon Paper Industries, Co., Ltd., C ase Hokkaido Mill – Asahikawa) Every spring, the Hokkaido Mill – Asahikawa holds a Mill tour and classroom presentation volunteer event to express appreciation for Asahiyama (Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd.) Zoo in Asahikawa City. This event, which began in fiscal 2009, is also meant Every year, Nippon Paper Crecia Co. Ltd.’s Kaisei as a gesture of appreciation to the local community. In Mill conducts a mill tour and gives a social studies fiscal 2017, the ninth annual event drew participation class presentation to help local elementary school from 130 mill and affiliated company employees and students learn about the people who work at the mill their family members. and what they do. In its most recent presentation, Asahiyama Zoo is positioned on a slope and its paths mill employees, responding to the school’s request become treacherously slick with snow and ice in the for a talk on the efforts and innovation that go into winter. The zoo, therefore, spreads sand on the paths to responding to consumer demands, explained how the help prevent visitors from slipping and falling. In spring, mill makes products that meet consumer needs. They after the snow and ice have largely melted, volunteers also let students handle samples of Kleenex® AQUAVeil remove the sand for reuse the coming winter. Adults and moisturizing tissues to feel the smooth, supple texture even small children gather before opening time, perform created in response to consumer feedback. After each their work using bamboo presentation, all of the students send letters of thanks to brooms and shovels, the mill. They also recognize and finish before the first mill employees and greet visitors arrive. them when they happen Through this activity, the to see them. Building this Hokkaido Mill – Asahikawa is kind of relationship with the making a valuable, ongoing local community is valuable contribution to the Asahiyama and the Kaisei Mill will be Volunteers removing sand at Zoo and local community. proactive in maintaining it. Kaisei Mill employee giving a Asahiyama Zoo classroom presentation 64 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 Responsibility to Communities Corporate Identity Sharing Conducting activities that enable local residents and employees to physically experience the essence of the Nippon Paper Group Utilizing Company-Owned Forests Ca s e Conducting the annual School of Friendship for Forests and Paper (Nippon Paper Industries Co. Ltd., Nippon Paper Development Co., Ltd.) Comments from elementary school children (September 2016) A ceremonial photograph of all involved parties All the flowers and trees made me happy. We made paper from wood we picked up in the forest. Now I know how paper is made. Walk in a forest owned by Nippon Paper Industries The School of Friendship for Forests and Paper is a handsfrom general public with the cooperation of the Japan on course on the natural environment utilizing forests Philanthropic Association. Since its inception at the (approximately 90,000 hectares) owned by Nippon Paper Sugenuma company-owned forest, through fiscal 2016, Industries in Japan. With the aim of introducing participants the school has been conducted 21 times, for a total of 700 to the beauty and abundance of forests owned by the participants, including parents and children, and students company, the school is also an opportunity to experience from local schools. the connection between forests and paper, an essential Since 2007, the Toyono School of Friendship for Forests item for everyday life. This initiative was first launched in the and Paper has been held in Nippon Paper Industries’ Toyono Sugenuma forest of Gunma Prefecture in October 2006. forest in Kumamoto Prefecture. Organized mainly by the The common programs that make up the school draw company’s Yatsushiro Mill, particular emphasis is placed on heavily on the knowledge and experience of employees. activities deeply rooted in the local community. One program With Group employees serving as guides, for example, of this school incorporates such activities as a mill tour and is participants enjoy walking through the forest and making one example of how activities are modified to accommodate Responsibility to paper from twigs they pick up. Participants are gathered the needs of each region. Communities Ca s e This was a precious experience for kids and Marunuma Highland Tree-Planting 2017 held (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) parents. Nippon Paper Industries is advancing initiatives aimed at leaving a thriving forest to future generations. As part of that Coexistence with Local Communities and Society at Large / effort, tree-planting activities were begun in the company’s Sugenuma Forest in Gunma Prefecture in May 2010. The sixth iteration of this activity—the Marunuma Highland Tree Planting 2017—took place in May 2017. The number of participants—both Nippon Paper Group people and others, mainly from Tokyo—came to about 100 in all. Under the guidance of staff, participants used transplanting trowels to plant 1,000 seedlings of six types of Participants planting trees trees, including Japanese beech and Japanese oak. Corporate Identity Sharing Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 65 Outline of the Nippon Paper Group Company Profile (As of March 31, 2017) Trade Name Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Shares issued 116,254,892 Incorporation August 1, 1949 Shareholders Financial institutions 42.32%, foreign by category investors 24.73%, individuals and others Capital ¥104.873 billion 20.93%, other Japanese corporations 9.94%, securities companies 1.78%, Address 4-6 Kandasurugadai, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan treasury stock 0.28% Telephone +81-3-6665-1111 Shareholders’ ¥393,486 million Listing Tokyo Stock Exchange (Securities code 3863) equity Total liabilities ¥953,974 million The Status of Debt Ratings (As of March 30, 2017) Rating and Investment Information, Inc. (R&I) Japan Credit Rating Agency, Ltd. (JCR) Long-term bonds: BBB+ Long-term bonds: A Major Financial Indicators Trends Consolidated net sales Consolidated ordinary income Pulp and Paper Business Paper-Related Business (Millions of yen) Wood Products and Construction Related Business Other Businesses 30,000 28,188 26,994 (Millions of yen) 23,081 23,204 1,200,000 1,081,277 1,052,491 1,007,097 992,428 1,025,078 68,579 70,584 66,694 28,469 19,621 20,000 17,123 60,725 69,543 59,242 62,155 63,530 94,460 93,004 91,033 88,912 89,229 800,000 10,000 801,312 848,145 835,521 827,560 820,047 400,000 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 0 Consolidated net income or loss 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) (Millions of yen) 30,000 Consolidated operating income 22,770 23,183 Pulp and Paper Business Paper-Related Business 20,000 Wood Products and Construction Related Business Other Businesses (Millions of yen) 30,000 28,536 10,652 10,000 8,399 25,145 3,647 23,656 23,764 3,232 2,403 22,623 2,749 2,912 2,424 2,718 2,481 20,000 5,045 2,123 0 3,639 4,760 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 6,238 3,760 2,661 5,244 Total assets (consolidated)1 10,000 17,440 15,022 (Millions of yen) 12,955 13,840 10,847 2,000,000 0 1,497,729 1,480,894 1,495,622 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 1,390,918 1,388,885 1,000,000 Employees (consolidated)1 Pulp and Paper Business Paper-Related Business Wood Products and Construction Related Business Other Businesses 2 Cross-organizational 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 15,000 13,057 13,052 13,107 12,771 214 Interest-bearing debt (consolidated)1 221 237 214 11,741 213 1,226 2,397 2,399 2,263 1,238 (Millions of yen) 10,000 2,273 1,000,000 1,669 1,670 1,671 1,636 1,316 1,285 1,286 1,297 830,220 1,286 775,597 731,834 703,831 678,504 5,000 7,449 7,516 7,337 7,368 8,047 50,000 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 1 Fiscal year-end data 0 2 Employees responsible for multiple divisions 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 66 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 Third-Party Comments / Action in Response to Third-Party Comments Third-Party Comments A key point for judging the quality of sustainability reporting is the appropriateness of reporting boundaries. In the case of a publicly listed company, reporting boundaries, even for a CSR report, which is a voluntary disclosure, must cover the entire corporate group, in the same way that financial statements are prepared on a consolidated basis. In Japan, where many companies find it difficult to follow this simple, reasonable rule in setting their CSR reporting boundaries, the Nippon Paper Group is a precious example of a company preparing CSR reports on a consolidated basis. The Nippon Paper Group places great emphasis on transparency and its commitment to thorough disclosure is manifested in its extension of the environmental information reporting scope to cover all principal manufacturing sites, including nonconsolidated subsidiaries. Yoshinao Kozuma Many points concerning the Nippon Paper Group’s value chain activities also bear special Professor, Faculty of Economics, Sophia mention. Though it is now common practice for CSR management to include the value chain in University the management scope, actual practice is often perfunctory and ineffective. In the case of the Profile Nippon Paper Group, however, the company has continuously undertaken multidimensional After leaving the doctoral assessments of both value-chain impacts of, and issues stemming from, its business activities. For program at the Sophia the fiscal year under review, the company also examined connections between these business University Graduate School of Economics, Professor Kozuma activities and SDGs. Regarding CSR procurement, a key tool for managing supply chain risk, the became a research assistant at the Nagoya Institute of Nippon Paper Group collects information through surveys and interviews, but it also goes to great Technology and worked at the lengths to gather information through other means as well. For example, it uses stratified surveys Limperg Instituut, InterUniversity Institute for and confirmation procedures to ensure it does not purchase illegally logged timber, and dispatches Accounting and Auditing, in the employees responsible for procurement to supplier locations to visually confirm that human and Netherlands, as a guest researcher funded by the Dutch labor rights are being protected throughout the supply chain. government. He became an associate professor at the One reporting item of special interest for the fiscal year under review is the assessment of water University of Shizuoka School supply risk related to the company’s water intake. Until now, reporting on water management has of Administration and Informatics, and then took up focused mainly on water quality. Across the globe, however, the crux of the matter when it comes his current position as professor in the Faculty of Economics at to water risk is the serious impacts industrial users of water can have on local water systems. Sophia University. He has held Environmental management to reduce these impacts, therefore, is critically important. The Nippon successive positions as the chair or member of various Paper Group’s disclosures on this matter, however, provide no insight on conditions at their CSRor environment-related overseas manufacturing sites, where the risks are greatest. This point bears improvement going advisory panels, study groups, and research conferences for forward. Another aspect of the 2017 report that stood out was the company’s use of a 3D, the Ministry of the Environment; the Ministry of Economy, Trade integrated materiality assessment of impacts on stakeholders, sustainability, and business and Industry; the Ministry of activities. This approach for presenting information is unique and deserves praise. Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism; the Cabinet Office; Looking to the future, two areas in which the company should improve its performance are and the Japanese Institute of employment of people with disabilities, a point I have previously cited, and accident-prevention for Certified Public Accountants. In fiscal 2017, Professor Kozuma employees of affiliates and subcontractors. Regarding the former, in particular, the company’s chaired a committee considering revisions to the performance is below the legally mandated employment percentage and trending lower year by Environmental Reporting year. This is a concern especially in light of the phased raising of the legally mandated employment Guidelines issued by Japan’s Ministry of the Environment. percentage set to begin in April 2018. Action in Response to Third-Party Comments The Sustainability Report discusses the Nippon Paper Group’s CSR initiatives. Sustainability Report 2017 presents SDGs that have great relevance for the Group in its value chain and it clearly shows how we remain cognizant of these SDGs as we pursue R&D from a medium-to-long-term perspective. It improves on prior reports by presenting information that is more extensive and clearly stated. This is achieved, for example, by including more extensive coverage of matters such as corporate governance and by using illustrations to explain processing of exhaust gas and wastewater. At the same time, the report has been slimmed down by relying on the Nippon Paper Group’s website for disclosures of information including the guideline comparison table and detailed data section. Professor Kozuma gave positive assessments of the propriety of our reporting boundaries, our value chain activities, CSR procurement initiatives, and other aspects of our CSR endeavors. We see this as resulting from the steady stream of improvements we have made over the years. At the Kazufumi Yamasaki same time, we clearly recognize that we must make additional efforts to improve our employment Executive Vice President, of people with disabilities – a point Professor Kozuma commented on last year, as well – and to Representative Director prevent occupational accidents. The Nippon Paper Group is committed to meeting its corporate and General Manager of the CSR Division social responsibilities, so that we can coexist with society. We look forward to hearing your candid Nippon Paper Industries opinions and comments on this report. Co., Ltd. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2017 67 Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Head Office: 4-6 Kandasurugadai, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-0062, Japan Issued: December 2017 Previous issue: December 2016 Next issue: December 2018 Inquiries: CSR Department Phone: +81-3-6665-1015 Fax: +81-3-6665-0309 Website: http://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/csr/ The cost of the paper used in this report includes a portion of expenses for the use of timber Cover Photograph discarded in forests following tree thinning. The Paper Used in This Report Covers: U-Lite Green 70 (PEFC) , Base weight: 157 g/m 2 Text pages: U-Lite Green 70 (PEFC) , Base weight: 104.7 g/m2 Blakiston’s fish owl in a forest owned by Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Photo courtesy of the Wild Bird Society of Japan Waterless printing with vegetable oil ink.
