PERFORMANCE & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT A REPORT CREATED BY OUR PEOPLE OUR COVER: A LEGACY OF SUSTAINABILITY worlds of health and beauty, and hygiene and nutrition. More OUR COLLEAGUES’ BOUNDLESS CREATIVITY FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE FUTURE than a means of creating a colorful metamorphosis, it is a As a family-owned company with a heritage spanning The idea of using a 19th-century engraving as a basis for design to emphasize transition, creativity, and the message 122 years, we know that people are the heart of everything current design is probably as old as design itself. The of Pathways to Positive. we do. In fact, the success of our products is based craftsmanship and the sheer output of those steel engravers on our people’s passion, innovative thinking, and who created the original illustrations are sobering to sustainability focus. contemplate. Sometimes completely straightforward, This is our 12th published sustainability report. We issue this sometimes romantic, they show us what was known about report annually to share our sustainability work with our the appearance of things: real, mystical, practical, ancient, Mikel Cirkus, Global Director, Conceptual Design, Firmenich stakeholders. While numerous colleagues build this report new, preposterous, scientific, or sacred. And, in the case of each year, this year we decided to go a step further to make the origin of the plate that I used for this cover illustration, this document truly a report of “Our People”. This year, a encyclopedic in the truest sense. wide cross section of Firmenich colleagues wrote it in its entirety, and its cover as well as all pictures were either taken Originally published in 1851 in the Iconographic Encyclopaedia by or feature our colleagues. For example: of Science, Literature, and Art, this work was based on the famed Bilderatlas, by Friedrich Arnold Brockhaus. I found a • Wildflowers by Heather Landfield, Strategic Innovation copy of the more recent edition in a bargain bin at a bookstore, Marketing Associate, Firmenich.“In capturing the scene, in New York City, in the autumn of 1986. I was captivated by I wanted the viewer to feel as if they were immersed in an both the completeness of the subject matter, as well as the entire field of purple flowers.” (p. 10) delicacy and precision of the engravings. Of the 500 • Sunrise in Dubai by Emmanuel Frenck, VP Global Account, meticulously detailed plates in The Complete Encyclopedia Firmenich. “When day and night meet in a city born in the of Illustration, I chose to use Plates 58 and 59 – “Various desert... The sun rises and pushes the night away before Aromatic Plants of Economic Importance: Ornamental, Edible throwing its burning rays on the skyscrapers.” (p. 18) PERFORMANCE & and Medicinal” – as the concept and the foundation for my SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • Endless Opportunities by Jennifer Luzes, Global Innovation illustrated reinterpretation on the cover of this year’s © Mikel Cirkus Foresight Manager, Firmenich.“From the top of the Eiffel sustainability report. Tower, there is endless opportunity and possibility, even beyond what the eye can see.” (p. 24) Using a variety of mediums, including color pencil, watercolor, • Ajanta Caves by Christine Spilka, Perfumer Trainee, tempera paint, marker, and pen, I used the engraved Firmenich. “Inside the Ajanta Caves in India, two illustration like a page taken from a master coloring book. workers converse, almost oblivious to the stunning valley The concept was to show how the science of botany can backdrop.” (p. 30) inspire a variety of executions – from classical art techniques to more modern graphic interpretations – just as it does for • A Better Future by Matthieu Sueur, Deep Roots Team, us in our world of inspiring fragrance and flavor creation. Firmenich. “Through our responsible sourcing initiatives, The subject matter of the illustration itself bridges the we aim to preserve the planet and create a better world importance of these plants in the global economy and the for future generations.”(p. 36) Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 Firmenich OUR WORLD TABLE OF CONTENTS Firmenich is the world’s largest privately-owned company in the and environmental responsibility has remained unwavering. fragrance and flavor business. Founded in 1895 and headquartered We aim to drive our industry towards sustainable practices as we A REPORT CREATED IFC in Geneva, Switzerland, Firmenich has created many of the world’s continue to carry out our sustainability strategy around five pillars: BY OUR PEOPLE best-known perfumes and flavors enjoyed every day by people Ethics and Excellence; Environment and Resources; Innovation, around the world. Science, and Society; Partnerships; and People and Communities. OUR WORLD 1 As a business-to-business company, our impact and governance Our financial results and sustainability initiatives are reported, CHAIRMAN AND CEO LETTER 2 matters to our customers. And, as a family company, we have following the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, on a always integrated sustainability into our business strategy. Since fiscal-year basis ending June 30. In this report, all references to MILESTONES ALONG OUR 4 signing the International Chamber of Commerce Business Charter “FY17” relate to the 12 months that ended June 30, 2017. PATHWAYS TO POSITIVE for Sustainable Development in 1991, our commitment to corporate A YEAR IN REVIEW 5 OUR SUSTAINABILITY 8 STRATEGY No. No. Privately owned In Fine 4.4% 7,000 25 R&D company in the flavor Fragrance growth (vs. FY16) employees manufacturing sites centers ETHICS AND EXCELLENCE 10 and fragrance industry ENVIRONMENT AND 18 RESOURCES INNOVATION, SCIENCE, 24 bn AND SOCIETY Swiss francs (CHF) Integrated Perfumery Flavor Division Sustainability 7 Ethical Business in sales and Ingredients Division • Sweet Goods pillars new offices in FY17 Award 2017 • Home Care • Beverages PARTNERSHIPS 30 • Body Care • Savory • Fine Fragrance PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES 36 • Ingredients ABOUT THE REPORT 44 EXTERNAL VERIFICATION 44 THE FIRMENICH IBC FUNDAMENTALS Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 Firmenich 1 CHAIRMAN AND CEO LETTER ADVANCING OUR LEADERSHIP Our creativity was further celebrated by the industry this year when Harry Frémont was honored with the Fragrance IN INNOVATION AND CREATION Foundation’s Lifetime Achievement Award. In France, our Firmenich’s growth was fueled by leading innovation and Perfumer Fabrice Pellegrin was named Perfumer of the Year creativity in many ways this year. by Cosmétiquemag for his best-selling creations and mastery In line with the United Nations Sustainable Development of our natural ingredients. Goals (UN SDGs) and our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact‘s 10 principles, we put our innovation to work EXCELLENCE IN NATURALS to address key societal challenges, such as hygiene and Recognizing our leadership in responsible sourcing in sanitation, health and nutrition, and climate change. Indonesia, we were honored to receive the country’s To address today’s sanitation crisis, we successfully launched Presidential Award, acknowledging our positive impact in breakthrough technologies that effectively counter malodor, enhancing the livelihoods of patchouli farming communities. From left to right: Patrick Firmenich, Chairman of the Board; in partnership with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, to Gilbert Ghostine, CEO. We acquired a majority stake in Essex Laboratories this year reinvent toilets at the base of the pyramid. to lead in natural mint solutions. With a common commitment To enable responsible nutrition solutions, we advanced our to responsible sourcing, we combine our unique innovation to A YEAR OF STRATEGIC leading taste modulation technologies to reduce sugar, salt, deliver top-quality sustainable and traceable mint. ACHIEVEMENTS and fat without compromising on taste. We estimate that our To build the most sustainable and traceable value chain for Fiscal year 2017 (FY17) was a year of strategic achievements solutions removed 100,000 metric tonnes of sugar, equivalent our natural ingredients, we hosted our third Naturals Together for Firmenich. to 500 billion calories, from our customers’ food and beverage event in Singapore. Working hand in hand with our partners at brands this year. With steady growth and breakthrough innovation across all the source, key experts, and customers, we harvest our most our business units, Firmenich recorded 3.34 billion Swiss Gaining traction with our pioneering bio-based ingredients, we pristine ingredients from nature sustainably. francs (CHF) in net sales, an increase of +4.4% in CHF versus reached significant growth with our latest molecule Ambrox® the previous year. Super, building on the success of Clearwood®. Beyond their LEADING IN ENVIRONMENTAL unique olfactive profiles, these molecules deliver optimized Taking our legacy of excellence forward, we evolved our Board environmental performances. MANAGEMENT of Directors, starting with the appointment of Patrick Firmenich We advanced our leadership in environmental management as Chairman of the Board and Barbara Kux as Vice-Chair. this year, achieving industry-leading ratings from agencies We also welcomed two new board members: Richard Ridinger, WORLD-CLASS CREATORS that rank companies’ environmental performance. With CEO of Lonza, and Pierre Bouchut, COO of Ahold Delhaize. Strengthening our prestigious circle of world-class creators, EcoVadis, we ranked in the top 1% of all companies, while we proudly appointed two perfumers, Nathalie Lorson and with CDP, we joined its “A List” for the third consecutive Tony Reichert, as Master Perfumers, recognizing their iconic year, and were named Best Supply Chain Company in the body of work and legacy in developing our next generation “Switzerland, Germany, and Austria” region. Confirming our of talent. commitment to combating climate change, we participated in the Marrakech COP22 and signed the Cancun Business and Biodiversity Pledge. Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 2 Firmenich Our commitment to environmental sustainability was TAKING OUR LEGACY FORWARD evidenced by the launch of our new cutting-edge Léman We are all very proud of how we lived up to our legacy in FY17, Perfumery Plant in Geneva. While the building and a year of many strategic achievements. implementation of the manufacturing site came with numerous challenges, it is today fully operational with a 90% Our performance was driven first and foremost by the trust compounding automation rate, optimized environmental of our customers. It was fueled by our industry-leading footprint, and 100% use of renewable energy. Also, in investment in world-class research and creativity, where we partnership with the local government in China, we hosted can make the biggest difference for our customers and society. the groundbreaking of our new flavor plant in Zhangjiagang, It was brought to life by the breadth of our creative talent, as designed to operate according to the highest sustainability well as the passion and commitment of all our colleagues standards. around the globe. We thank you for your interest in our company and our SHAPING SUSTAINABLE sustainability journey. We hope that you find this report From left to right: Mr. Michel Firmenich, Mr. Richard Ridinger, Dr. Antoine Firmenich, Ms. Barbara Kux (Vice Chair), Mr. Patrick LIFESTYLES engaging and informative and that you will gain a real sense Firmenich (Chairman), Ms. Karen Jones, Dr. Ajai Puri, Mr. Pierre of the progress we are making. Bouchut and Mr. André Pometta. As co-chairs of World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD)’s Sustainable Lifestyles Cluster, On behalf of the Board and Executive Committee, we would like alongside Procter & Gamble, we played an active role in the to thank all of Firmenich’s 7,000 colleagues for their efforts, ReNEWW House project. We also joined FReSH, the Food energy, and the successes that you will read about in this Reform for Sustainability and Health initiative, launched at the Performance and Sustainability Report. World Economic Forum in Davos. Furthermore, as a founding member of the Toilet Board Coalition (TBC), we contributed to Warmest regards, the pledge of US$15 million to support innovative sanipreneurs who are reinventing the business model of toilets across India and Africa. We were acknowledged for our leadership in responsible business with the Better Society Network’s Ethical Business Patrick Firmenich Gilbert Ghostine Award 2017 and the Swiss Chamber of Commerce People Chairman of the Board Chief Executive Officer Focus Award in Singapore. The WBCSD also distinguished Dr. Bérangère Magarinos-Ruchat, our Vice President Executive Team. From left to right: Mr. Eric Nicolas (Group Chief Finance Officer, Corporate Vice-President Strategy and Global Sustainability Partnerships, with its Leading Women Award, Services), Ms. Mieke Van de Capelle (Chief Human Resources for advancing the UN SDGs. Officer), Mr. Bhavesh Shah (Chief Purchasing Officer), Ms. Jane Sinclair (General Counsel and Secretary of the Board), Mr. Gilbert Ghostine (CEO), Prof. Geneviève Berger (Chief Research Officer), Mr. Armand de Villoutreys (President Perfumery and Ingredients Division), Mr. Christopher Millington (President Flavor Division), Mr. Boet Brinkgreve (Chief Supply Chain Officer). “Firmenich’s growth was fueled by leading innovation and creativity this year, as we put our experts to work to solve some of the world’s greatest societal challenges.” Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 Firmenich 3 MILESTONES ALONG OUR PATHWAYS TO POSITIVE JOINT TWO “FIRMENICH LIFETIME NAMED CDP VENTURE NEXT GENERATION” ACHIEVEMENT AWARD “SUPPLY CHAIN LEADER” with Essex Laboratories, world leader RESEARCH PROGRAMS honoring Master Perfumer Harry Frémont across Germany, Austria, in natural mint solutions in Neurosciences at Stanford University, U.S., and Switzerland and the EPFL, Switzerland bn PARTNERSHIP CALORIES ILSE EUROPE WBCSD’S LEADING with Jalalli Agarwood in Bangladesh to of sugar removed from food elected Dr. Benjamin Smith, Firmenich VP Toxicology WOMEN AWARD sustainably harvest high-quality oud and beverage products in 2016 and Scientific Services, to join their Board of Directors given to Bérangère Magarinos-Ruchat, Vice President Sustainability Partnerships NATURALS TOGETHER JOINED SHIFT’S BUSINESS ACHIEVED ZERO WASTE RENEWABLE ENERGY EVENTS LEARNING PROGRAM TO LANDFILL powered the electricity needs of seven in Singapore and Indonesia focused on human rights in 44% of our manufacturing sites manufacturing sites JOINED THE HYGIENE AND RECOGNIZED BY BETTER SOCIETY LAUNCHED LEMAN SUSTAINABILITY SANITATION FOR ALL NETWORK FOR ETHICAL BUSINESS PERFUMERY PLANT CONSORTIUM with breakthrough malodor with its 2017 Ethical Business Award 90% automation – 30% increased capacity to create more sustainable products control technologies 30% water reduction – 20% energy reduction 100% renewable energy Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 4 Firmenich A YEAR IN REVIEW Consistent macroeconomic trends over the past year (such R&D PERSPECTIVES Perspectives on the Future: A Responsible as demographic changes, disposable income growth, and urbanization) continue to support our long-term prospects. Firmenich consistently delivers forward-thinking solutions and Sustainable Portfolio of Ingredients that meet consumer needs because our innovation community Firmenich products touch the lives of billions of people Short-term political and economic uncertainties, however, (comprising a cross-functional blend of scientists, perfumers, every day, in developed and emerging countries alike. lead to slower growth across mature and emerging markets, flavorists, and application specialists) rely on proprietary In products like hand soaps or washing-up liquids, fragrance which affects our entire industry. These political and economic knowledge and ingredients developed by our own teams. can make the act of washing enjoyable, increase frequency uncertainties, combined with climate change, also affected sourcing of natural raw materials, with limited quantities and In FY17, our R&D achieved: and, therefore, improve health. Without fragrance, high prices for some, such as vanilla. Our customers’ world also research shows that usage (such as hand washing • Breakthrough performance in malodor control to improve continues to change rapidly with digitalization, fast-growing and latrine use) drops.1 consumers’ lives in the developed world and to foster health local companies challenging global brands, and significant and wellness in developing countries. While consumers may be drawn to products and fragrances mergers and acquisitions. with increasing naturality, availability and price of many • Completion of our malodor research project with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and a visit from Bill Gates natural raw materials may limit the use of natural fragrance. and other members of the Foundation to our Corporate Science can play a critical role in meeting consumer Research Laboratories in Geneva. expectations while preserving natural resources. To this end, Firmenich is committed to using biodegradable ingredients, • Cutting-edge processes for new and supply-critical biotech strenuous toxicology standards, and green chemistry. As a and natural ingredients. result of our efforts, the health and environmental impact • Programs to improve traditional methods for making natural of our ingredients is outstanding. flavor and perfumery raw materials. Synthetic ingredients can bring social, environmental, and • Leading position in the “white biotechnology” space with economic benefits with their low environmental impact, and the development of a new proprietary process for Ambrox®, can make health and hygiene products more appealing and a renewable ingredient now free of previous supply affordable for vulnerable communities. limitations. • Steady progress in natural taste enhancers and modulators, Our science-driven and nature-inspired solutions play Joyce Pereira, Perfumery Trainee, Firmenich. in line with our health and wellness ambitions. a critical role in our balanced portfolio of ingredients, alongside botanicals. 1 http://www.firmenich.com/en_INT/company/news/World-Toilet-Day-2016.html Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 Firmenich 5 A YEAR IN REVIEW – CONTINUED PERFUMERY AND INGREDIENTS • Further diversified our responsibly sourced Naturals with • Developed new biodegradable synthetic ingredients, which 17 active responsible sourcing projects. reinforced our leadership in discovering, manufacturing, PERSPECTIVES and launching new ingredients. • Designed creation and development centers and offices of Firmenich is committed to advancing innovation and the future in Singapore, UK, Mexico, Spain, and South Korea. Perspectives for the future: creativity so our fragrances sustainably meet consumers’ needs. With our new Perfumery and Ingredients Division, we • Closed the year with the announcement of the acquisition of • Breakthrough processes and green chemistry as drivers will be even more creative and agile in offering the widest and Agilex Fragrances, a premier fragrance company in North of sustainability. richest palette of sustainable fragrances to our customers America’s middle-market. • Natural ingredients and nature-inspired molecules to and their consumers. • Appointed Armand de Villoutreys as President, Perfumery satisfy increasing global demand while ensuring the most and Ingredients, to advance our excellence across both sustainable and traceable supply chains of nature’s In FY17, our Perfumery business: businesses. precious resources. • Consolidated our leadership in Fine Fragrance with strong growth in Europe and emerging regions. Perspectives for the future: • Had a soft start but rebounded in the last quarter fueled by • Extend our market share in Perfumery and Ingredients, a strong pipeline across all clients. capitalizing on our core competencies. • Strengthened our leadership in technologies with cutting• Accelerate the deployment of encapsulation and proedge encapsulates for Laundry and Body Care products, fragrance delivery technologies to sustain our market new malodor control technologies, and a superior cooling leadership. modulator in Oral Care. • Celebrated our world-class creativity with Harry Frémont INGREDIENTS PERSPECTIVES receiving the Fragrance Foundation’s Lifetime Achievement Pioneering extraordinary flavor and fragrance ingredients is Award, making Firmenich the recipient of three out of five at the heart of Firmenich. Our ingredients are the cornerstone of these awards to date. In France, Firmenich Perfumer of our creativity and the foundation of our lasting success. Fabrice Pellegrin was named Perfumer of the Year for his With the most sophisticated techniques, our scientists best-selling fragrance Azzaro Wanted and his mastery of explore the structure of nature’s own molecules, reproduce our Naturals palette. their purity in the laboratory, and apply their expertise to • Won an industry-leading 23 awards from the Fragrance invent new ones. Each year Firmenich works on thousands Foundation in the U.S. and its partner organizations of potential new molecules, and introduces the best four to worldwide. six new ingredients in our flavor and perfumery palettes. • Named two Perfumers, Nathalie Lorson and Tony Reichert, In FY17, our Ingredients business: as Master Perfumers, recognizing their iconic work and • Posted solid growth driven by both historic products and legacy in developing talent. new ingredients, sustained by an increasing demand for natural specialties. Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 6 Firmenich FLAVOR PERSPECTIVES • Growth of our natural flavors capabilities and portfolio, including in key tonalities such as vanilla, citrus, and mint, Our sensory and consumer insight methods decode the as well as in seafood. In the U.S., we strengthened our USDA preferences that are essential to understanding and building natural flavors (for Savory) and our organic portfolio (for creative flavor design. With representation on all major flavor Sweet Goods and Beverage). industry associations around the world, we are committed to staying ahead of the compliance and regulatory issues Perspectives for the future: that impact our customers’ businesses. In this way, we go • Advances in green protein, as we actively work with global beyond customer expectations by helping them navigate experts to catalyze a system shift to more sustainable protein the dynamic global regulatory landscape. This is why we production and consumption. Firmenich is the only flavor are Preferred Beyond Taste! company involved in the Protein Challenge 2040, a coalition In FY17, our Flavor business achieved: led by Forum for the Future that brings the meat, plant, and alternative protein industries together to shape sustainable • Increased sales globally and across all three segments: protein solutions. Beverage, Sweet Goods, and Savory. • Meeting growing consumer demand for natural, healthier, • Growth in multiple Beverage categories including special traceable, and sustainable products. We can help our soft drinks and hot drinks, with sustained demand for fruity customers improve their products’ nutritional value while tonalities and brown notes. maintaining consumer preference. • Increased sales in Sweet Goods led by Dairy and Bakery & Cereal. Because of our deep experience, we continue to be 2017 Flavor of the Year: Cucumber the preferred choice of consumers in brown notes, vanilla, Firmenich predicts a bright future for cucumber. In addition and nut flavors. to its healthy, clean taste, the natural notes of cucumber • Greater interest in, and demand for, natural mint tonalities reflect the new consumer preferences for products that in Sweet Goods applications, from sweets and gums to ice offer a sense of well-being and refreshment in a busy, cream and candy, where we have leveraged our recently stressful world. “I love working with cucumber and find acquired global leading expertise in mint from Essex. its adaptability inspiring,” says William Moldt, Senior • Solid global growth in the Savory market, as we remain our Flavorist. “Our customers never tire of its fresh, green customers’ partner of choice in protein, noodles, and soups, and juicy notes, and there is really no limitation on what as well as in the food service channel. we can create with cucumber.” • Success in reducing wastewater, decreasing the amount of raw materials used, as well as improving cycle time and productivity across our flavor sites. • Launch of an enriched vanilla palette with sustainable and cost-effective natural tonalities. Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 Firmenich 7 OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY MATERIALITY ANALYSIS STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Some 2017 global sustainability trends in our industry include: At the end of 2014, we conducted a materiality assessment with At Firmenich, our internal and external partners have always the think tank Forum for the Future. This exercise helped us been involved in defining, prioritizing, and implementing identify the sustainability issues most material to Firmenich and our sustainability strategy. Our main stakeholders include our stakeholders, as well as inform our long-term sustainability shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, industry strategy. associations, NGOs, social entrepreneurs, academia, and government. TRANSPARENCY INNOVATION Firmenich conducted in-depth interviews with company personnel, global business partners, customers, and external We engage directly and indirectly with our partners throughout experts in critical areas such as chemistry, nutrition, global the year, and set goals to further strengthen our engagement health, climate change, and regulatory affairs. Forum for with each stakeholder group. the Future analyzed the interviews and conducted additional research to identify relevant material factors. GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY SDGs NUTRITION Each year, we review our materiality matrix, reassessing all PERSPECTIVES material aspects and adjusting as needed. In FY17, we surveyed As the world’s largest privately-owned flavor and fragrance internal and external stakeholders, including employees, company, we supply numerous ingredients and compounds shareholders, customers, nongovernmental organizations to global, regional, and local consumer goods companies. (NGOs), suppliers, academia, and government personnel. This Through innovation, leading delivery systems, and ecodesign survey provided us with a clear vision of the current and future sustainability issues most material to Firmenich. products, as well as our focus on health and wellness, and SUSTAINABLE SANITATION AND hygiene and sanitation, our sustainability achievements LIFESTYLE HYGIENE Following this engagement, we posted the materiality matrix positively affect our customers, improve our business, and at www.firmenich.com. The identified issues are covered in reduce our impact on the natural environment. this report. As a leader in sustainability, Firmenich collaborates with global think tanks, universities, NGOs, and governments on numerous sustainability issues. This effort gives us unique insights on current and future sustainability trends, which SYSTEM SCIENCE-BASED help us design better flavors, fragrances, and ingredients. THINKING GOALS RESOURCE DEPLETION AND CLIMATE CHANGE Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 8 Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 Firmenich 8 Firmenich OUR FIVE PATHWAYS TO POSITIVE Partnerships Starting 122 years ago, our sustainability journey has achieved tangible change for the long-term interests of employees, local communities, customers, and the environment. Our sustainability strategy, anchored in the SDGs, is focused on initiatives that are relevant to our Fragrance, Flavors, and Ingredients businesses. While keeping our 2020 sustainability targets unchanged, we have slightly evolved our strategy to further integrate our sustainability pathways into our Environment People and business. and Resources Communities Ethics and Excellence Innovation, Science, and Society Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 Firmenich 9 Firmenich 9 ETHICS AND EXCELLENCE Raise the bar to ensure the highest standards of governance © Heather Landfield, Strategic Innovation Marketing Associate, Firmenich Ethics and Excellence Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 10 Firmenich OUR PATHWAY OUR 2020 GOALS OUR RESULTS Companies are key to promoting •A udit and validate human rights Started training and engaging across the Firmenich value chain key strategic purchasing sustainable economic growth and colleagues, and joined Shift’s1 peaceful and inclusive societies. Business Learning Program At Firmenich, we hold ourselves to a high standard •B e the first flavor and fragrance house Asked 49 suppliers to report of excellence by embedding ethics throughout with a transparent supply chain via CDP carbon and water impacts our value chain, respecting human rights and (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) biodiversity, and ensuring the quality and safety of our products. •L ead the industry in operationalization Created an internal biodiversity We plan to provide this standard through our of the Nagoya Protocol organization, conducted a portfolio Pathways to Positive Goals for 2020 and beyond, due diligence, and started designing providing a benchmark of ethics and excellence an integrated management system for the next generation. Our ambitious strategy actively supports the •F urther improve our excellent Achieved 20.7% quality improvement following SDGs: product quality in our Customer Product Quality (CQI) – or product defects per 1,000 sales order lines • Maintain a best-in-class Further strengthened our legal compliance program internal organization 1 Shift is the leading center of expertise on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Ethics and Excellence Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 Firmenich 11 ETHICAL GOVERNANCE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL LEGAL COMPLIANCE AND THE FIRMENICH FUNDAMENTALS COMPACT (UNGC) BUSINESS INTEGRITY The Firmenich Fundamentals (Customers, People, Creativity, Sustainability, and Legacy – see IBC) delineate 2008 2020 Signed the UNGC in 2008. Goal: Implement a best-in-class legal compliance program. the values that have been the foundation of our culture and identity for more than 120 years. The Firmenich 2011 A UNGC Switzerland board Fundamentals guide our every action, enabling us to member since 2011. As a family-owned company, we know that shared values remain true to ourselves and make a difference in an are essential to success. To that end, we continue to build ever-changing world. The UNGC is a collaborative platform in which companies processes, tools, and guidelines to achieve excellence daily, commit to align strategies and operations with 10 guiding reflecting our deep sense of responsibility. principles on human rights, labor, environment, and antiIn FY17, our Business Integrity Program was built on corruption, and take action to advance societal goals. five pillars: leadership, risk assessment, standards and Firmenich signed the UNGC nine years ago and has control, training and communications, and oversight. sponsored the Foundation for the Global Compact since We further trained our General Managers on legal 2011. We report our progress on the 10 UNGC principles compliance and formalized the reporting process between in this report. our local operations and our Corporate Ethics Committee. Firmenich chaired the board of the Global Compact Network Switzerland from 2011 to 2016. In February 2017, our CEO, Gilbert Ghostine, joined like-minded Swiss CEOs in the first Swiss Global Compact Dialogue, called “Let’s Make the Global Goals Local Business,” to share how Firmenich applies the Global Goals across our business. Firmenich CEO, Gilbert Ghostine, joined like-minded Swiss CEOs in the first Swiss Global Compact Dialogue. Ethics and Excellence Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 12 Firmenich ETHICAL VALUE CHAIN To reach our goal of designing the most sustainable and creative flavors and fragrances, we collaborate with our suppliers to create an ethical, transparent, and sustainable supply chain. THE FIRMENICH SOCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY STANDARDS Percentage of our raw material spend purchased through suppliers that have confirmed their compliance with these requirements: FY16 90% FY17 97% In 2007, we established the Firmenich Social Accountability Standards through which we comply with national laws, International Labour Organization (ILO) conventions and recommendations, and the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Critical areas of focus include child labor, forced labor, health and safety, freedom of association and collective bargaining, discipline, discrimination, working hours, and wages. To support our goal of fostering an ethical and transparent supply chain, we asked our suppliers and subcontractors to formally confirm their acceptance of our Supplier Code of Business Conduct and Social Accountability Standards. In FY17, suppliers representing 97% of our raw material spend Top: At Firmenich, the success of our products is based on our people’s passion, innovative thinking, and sustainability focus. have confirmed their compliance with these requirements. Bottom left: Thays Tanaka, Fragrance Development Manager, Firmenich. Bottom right: Fernando Pereira, Production Operator, Firmenich and Fagne Nunes, Production Operator, Firmenich. Ethics and Excellence Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 Firmenich 13 ETHICAL VALUE CHAIN – CONTINUED GLOBAL SUPPLIERS NATURALS TOGETHER AUDIT PROGRAM 16 Of the world’s best natural Number of raw material, packaging, and ingredient producers work together with Firmenich and our toll-manufacturing suppliers audited in FY17: customers to foster sustainability 85 in the Naturals supply chain. Low-to-medium risk suppliers LM audited by a third party. Firmenich hosted its third signature “Naturals Together” event in Singapore, building on the success of its New York 79 Higher-risk suppliers audited by Firmenich. H and Paris programs. Bringing together 16 leading natural ingredient producers, the three-day event focused on the importance of responsible sourcing and best practices with Beyond asking our suppliers to formally commit to our smallholder farmers to shape a sustainable future for the Social Accountability Standards, we conduct regular audits Naturals supply chain. at our suppliers’ facilities. If a supplier does not meet our standards, we will put in place action plans to help the supplier meet them. CDP SUPPLY CHAIN 2020 In FY17, we deployed our new, extended Global Supplier Goal: Become the first flavor Audit Program, which now combines audits conducted and fragrance house with a transparent supply chain via CDP. by a Firmenich auditor (for higher-risk suppliers) and 49 assessments led by a third party (for low-to-medium-risk 49 suppliers were asked to share their water and carbon impact suppliers). via CDP. In FY17, we audited 164 global suppliers of raw materials In FY16, we were the first in our industry to join the CDP and packaging, as well as toll manufacturers, to assess Supply Chain program to support our suppliers’ climate their compliance with our Global Supplier Excellence and water disclosure through CDP. Program and our quality, health, safety, security, and environmental requirements. In early FY17, 49 suppliers representing more than 65% of our spend were asked to publicly share their water and climate change performance on the CDP platform. We also asked nine suppliers to report their potential impact on deforestation via CDP Forestry. Ethics and Excellence Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 14 Firmenich BIODIVERSITY ECOVADIS 2020 1% Goal: Lead the industry in the Scored in the top 1% of all suppliers Nagoya Protocol. assessed on their sustainability performance; Firmenich is a FY17 Signed the Cancun Business and leader in the flavor and fragrance Biodiversity Pledge at the COP13 industry. Convention on Biological Diversity. For the third consecutive year, Firmenich received a In December 2016, Firmenich signed the Cancun Business gold rating from EcoVadis – a collaborative platform that and Biodiversity Pledge at the COP13 Convention on enables companies with global supply chains to measure Biological Diversity, held in Mexico. Through this pledge, and report sustainability performance across 150 sectors the signatories agree to nurture biodiversity across their and 99 countries. EcoVadis evaluated Firmenich’s ecosystems and preserve it sustainably for the well-being sustainability performance following 21 criteria that cut of present and future generations. across the environment, labor, fair business, and sustainable To further protect biodiversity, we created an internal procurement practices. Nagoya governance mechanism in FY16. In FY17, a crossEcoVadis analyzed Firmenich’s sustainability policies, divisional biodiversity steering committee – composed initiatives, and results, according to the international CSR of 10 senior executives and supported by a third-party standards of the GRI, UNGC, and ISO 26000. In 2017, EcoVadis independent expert – completed a comprehensive Nagoya assessed more than 30,000 companies in 110 countries diagnosis, trained Firmenich colleagues, conducted covering 150 purchasing categories, and Firmenich scored workshops with clients, and started developing a in the top 1% of all suppliers assessed on their sustainability biodiversity management system. performance. UNION FOR ETHICAL BIOTRADE THE SUSTAINABILITY CONSORTIUM (UEBT) (TSC) The UEBT is a nonprofit association that promotes The Sustainability Consortium (TSC) is a global nonprofit “Sourcing with Respect” for ingredients that come from organization working to transform the consumer goods biodiverse sources. Ethical BioTrade advances sustainable industry by helping leading companies define, develop, and business growth, local development, and biodiversity deliver more sustainable products using a science-based, conservation. The platform developed a set of business metrics-driven approach. Firmenich joined TSC in 2017 and practices that follow the Ethical BioTrade Principles and benefits from engaging with other members – including Criteria and contribute to ethical sourcing of biodiversity. manufacturers, retailers, corporations, and NGOs – on Firmenich has been a UEBT trading member since complex sustainability issues. March 2014. Ethics and Excellence Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 Firmenich 15 ETHICAL VALUE CHAIN – CONTINUED HUMAN RIGHTS UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights 2020 Goal: Audit and validate human The UN Guiding Principles are a set of guidelines for rights across the Firmenich value chain. states and companies to prevent, address, and remedy human rights abuses committed in business operations. FY17 Joined Shift’s BLP program on human rights. To hold businesses accountable, the Guiding Principles require companies to establish a policy that upholds their Increasingly, governments and NGOs, as well as customers responsibility to respect human rights. This policy should and consumers around the world, are asking global include a due diligence process that identifies, prevents, businesses to demonstrate due diligence on human rights mitigates, and accounts for problems that may impact risks in their supply chains. At Firmenich, we strive to be human rights, as well as processes for remediating as transparent as possible in our value chain. any adverse human rights impacts they cause or to which they contribute. In November 2016, we attended the UN Forum on Business and Human Rights in Geneva, which focused on In FY16, we organized a workshop in Geneva, Switzerland, how to effectively embed human rights in the rules and with Shift’s support and guidance, to build our internal relationships that drive the global economy, examining capacity on business and human rights, including the the roles and responsibilities of states, businesses, and introduction of tools to help us identify and prioritize financial institutions. potential human rights risks. In FY17, to uphold our commitment to transparency and human rights across In January 2017, we conducted a constructive dialogue our value chain and continue engaging relevant internal with a Swiss Human Rights NGO to share best practices. functions, we further trained and engaged our responsible To strengthen our approach to human rights and effectively sourcing team on the UN Guiding Principles and appropriate implement the UN Guiding Principles on Business and methodologies for their implementation. Human Rights into our policies and practices, we participated This year, Firmenich also joined Shift’s Business Learning in the Business Learning Program of Shift, the leading Program, which encourages collaboration among center of expertise on the UN Guiding Principles of Business several global companies to create leading practices and Human Rights, with a focus on human rights risks in our for implementing the UN Guiding Principles. In June, supply chain. we attended the Program’s workshop in Cambridge, Massachusetts, to better understand how to balance the tension between scale and impact in human rights due diligence processes. Ethics and Excellence Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 16 Firmenich ETHICAL PRODUCTS LEADING IN PRODUCT QUALITY FOOD SAFETY TOXICOLOGY In FY17, Firmenich: Firmenich’s Toxicology and Scientific Services group 2020 Goal: Set the standard for product quality. • Won two food safety awards continues to collaborate with academia to improve our knowledge of product safety and strengthen our 20.7% Quality improvement achieved in • Completed 16 food safety and quality projects commitment to sustainability. Over the last year, we FY17. • Celebrated Global Handwashing Day in 20 manufacturing continued our efforts in the field of “Green Toxicology” sites with our work on animal testing alternatives1,2, including the To reach our goal of leading the industry in product • Deployed Global Allergen Awareness Training with investigation of new, higher-tiered, nonanimal techniques quality, we focus on preventing issues and continuously a specific focus in the Asia-Pacific region for assessing genotoxic potential.3 We are also working strengthening our quality control and analytical capabilities throughout our products’ life cycles. • Maintained FSSC 22000 (Food Safety System Certification) closely with the Research Institute for Fragrance Materials in 20 manufacturing sites (RIFM) and Creme Global to further the use of the CremeIn FY17, supported by a capital investment of CHF 4.57 RIFM model within the Industry’s safety testing program million, Firmenich exceeded our goal for Customer Quality and better understand the uncertainties of aggregate Index (CQI) – product defects per 1,000 sales order lines – exposure to fragrance ingredients.4,5 with a 20.7% improvement from last year, reaching a CQI rate of 1.11. FY16 FY17 <1.4 CQI rate 1.11 CQI rate (99.8% of customer sales orders (99.88% of customer sales defect-free) orders defect-free) 1 Canipa et al (2017). A quantitative in silico model for predicting skin sensitization using a nearest neighbours approach within expert-derived structure – activity alert spaces. Journal of Applied Toxicology, February 28: DOI 10.1002/jat.3448 2 Wahler, J. et al. The BlueScreen™ assay in combination with DEREK structural alerts to predict the genotoxic potential for fragrance materials. Poster Presentation, Society of Toxicology 56th Annual Meeting, Baltimore, Maryland, USA, March 12 – 16, 2017. (Page 415.) 3 Williams, G.M. et al. Testing of flavor and fragrance materials in turkey egg genotoxicity assay (TEGA) and comparison of the results in ovo, in vitro and in vivo. Poster Presentation, Society of Toxicology 56th Annual Meeting, Baltimore, Maryland, USA, March 12 – 16, 2017. (Page 302.) 4 Safford, B. et al (2017). Application of the expanded Creme RIFM consumer exposure model to fragrance ingredients in cosmetic, personal care and air care products. Regulatory Toxicology and Pharmacology, 86, June 2017:148–156 5 Comiskey, D. et al (in press). Integrating habits and practices surveys to estimate aggregate exposure to fragrance materials in soaps, cosmetics and air care products. Regulatory Toxicology and Pharmacology, Available online 27 May 2017: DOI 10.1016/j. yrtph.2017.05.017 Ethics and Excellence Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 Firmenich 17 ENVIRONMENT AND RESOURCES Reduce and positively impact our environmental footprint and maximize efficiency © Emmanuel Frenck, VP Global Account, Firmenich Environment and Resources Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 18 Firmenich OUR PATHWAY OUR 2020 GOALS OUR RESULTS Firmenich is firmly committed to •R  educe absolute Scope 1 and 2 9.3% in FY17* CO2 emissions by 20%* leading the industry in sustainability by minimizing our environ•R  educe the rate of water use 6.9% in FY17* mental footprint and maximizing in stressed areas by 25%* efficiency. • I mprove our waste efficiency 5.9% in FY17* We acknowledge that climate change presents a rate by 15%* threat to our planet and are taking steps to mitigate our contribution, build adaptive capacity, •E  nsure all of our manufacturing sites 44% in FY17* and drive change. can claim zero waste-to-landfill We are addressing these critical environmental issues by efficiently managing our water use and •E  liminate R22 from our global 32% in FY17* wastes, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and manufacturing refrigerant inventory setting ambitious science-based targets. Our goal is to preserve the planet for the gen•O  btain 100% of electricity for Level 1 61% of electricity from erations to come, and our projects support the sites from renewable sources or offsets renewable sources in FY17 following SDGs: *These results are in comparison with our FY15 baseline. Environment and Resources Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 Firmenich 19 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE In FY17, we continued to deliver exemplary environmental performance and improved OUR GLOBAL PROJECTS on all of our six 2020 environmental targets, compared to our FY15 baseline. We remain fully committed to, and focused on, important environmental challenges such as climate Manufacturing Sites Energy Emissions Waste Water change, water conservation, and waste management, and we will strive to be a leader in Geneva (Meyrin), Switzerland √ √ shaping a more environmentally sustainable approach to manufacturing. Geneva (La Plaine), Switzerland √ √ √ Roadmap of our 2020 Environmental Targets Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium √ √ 2020 Target Results Changes in FY17 Comment Grasse, France √ in FY17 Anaheim, California, U.S. √ √ Reduce absolute Scope 130,917 ↓9.3% in FY17 vs. FY15 On track Newark, New Jersey, U.S. √ √ 1 and Scope 2 emissions tonnes ↓4.7% in FY17 vs. FY16 by 20% Lakeland, Florida, U.S. √ Reduce the rate of water 6.7 m3/tonne ↓6.9% in FY17 vs. FY15 On track Princeton, New Jersey, U.S. √ use in stressed areas of production ↓10.7% in FY17 vs. FY16 New Ulm, Minnesota, U.S. √ √ √ by 25% São Paulo, Brazil √ √ Improve our waste 31.8 kg/ ↓5.9% in FY17 vs. FY15 On track efficiency rate by 15% tonne of Bogotá, Colombia √ √ production Buenos Aires, Argentina √ √ Ensure 100% of our 11 out of 25 44% in FY17 vs. 28% in FY15 In FY17, the proportion of waste Shanghai, China √ √ √ manufacturing sites can sites to landfill has fallen to 5.9% from claim zero waste-to6.3% in FY16. Dahej, India √ landfill Ibaraki, Japan √ Eliminate R22 from our 8 sites out of 32% of Level 1 sites R22-free Although the number of sites that Singapore √ global manufacturing 25 sites are No change in FY17 vs. FY16 are R22-free has not changed refrigerant inventory R22 free since FY16, many sites are still Karawang, Indonesia √ actively reducing their R22 inventory. Obtain 100% electricity 61% of +19% in FY17 vs. FY15 While there is no change from for Level 1 sites from electricity No change in FY17 vs. FY16 last year, Firmenich signed new renewable sources or from renewable contracts in FY17 offsets1 renewable which will deliver significant sources improvement in FY18. 1 A Level 1 site is any manufacturing site with more than 50 employees. Offices, labs, joint ventures, and tolling operations are excluded. Environment and Resources Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 20 Firmenich CO2 AND ENERGY CAPITAL SPEND SCIENCE-BASED TARGETS TO 2020 CO2 and energy-related goals: Reduce Scope 1 and In FY17, Firmenich spent almost CHF 5.6 million on projects 2 CO2 emissions by 20% by 2020, compared with our FY15 baseline, and source 100% of our electricity2 MITIGATE CLIMATE CHANGE aimed at reducing our environmental footprint. from renewable sources or through purchasing 273 offsets of renewable energy generated elsewhere Firmenich is one of 273 companies in the electricity grid. to have committed to scienceProject focus Number of projects based targets. 9.3% Renewable energy projects 13 Reduction in our Scope 1 and 2 CO 2 (photovoltaic and hot water, emissions compared with FY15. wind, and biomass) We have made a commitment to setting science-based targets 61% Of electricity sourced from Energy reduction and measurement 17 renewables. (SBTs) to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The consensus in the scientific community is that these ambitious Waste reduction 8 reduction targets – to keep global warming well below 2°C Water reduction 11 In FY17, we reduced our CO2 emissions by 4.7% vs. FY16, and compared to pre-industrial temperatures – are necessary to R22 elimination 5 by 9.3% vs. our FY15 baseline, and we are well on the way to mitigate the worst impacts of climate change. achieving our 2020 goal. Sixty-one per cent of the electricity used at our Level 1 sites is from renewable sources – a 19% We are working with external specialists to model our emissions CDP SUPPLY CHAIN LEADERS increase vs. FY15. With two U.S. manufacturing sites (Port and set goals that will reduce our absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG We have participated in the CDP Supply Chain Climate Newark and Princeton) recently signing renewable electricity emissions by 69% by 2050. While the targets are ambitious, Change reporting program for eight years. In 2016, we contracts, we now operate seven plants solely with renewable we are already on track to cut GHG emissions by 20% by 2020. achieved a “Leadership A” climate change ranking and, electricity. We are well on our way to achieving our 2020 CO2 We are also engaging with suppliers to address emissions in for the third consecutive year, CDP listed Firmenich on emission and renewable energy goals. our value chain. the Supplier Climate A List, which identifies the company Major projects to reduce emissions include the construction When we purchase electricity, we seek vendors with the ability as a world leader in taking action against climate change. of a biomass boiler in Dahej, India, and solar power projects to supply electricity from 100% renewable sources. Contracts This year, we were also awarded the distinction of being in New Jersey and Florida, U.S. have already been signed for our sites in Alesund, Norway; CDP’s Supply Chain leader (#1 position) in Germany, Thirsk, UK; Geneva, Switzerland (2 sites); Louvain-la-Neuve, Austria, and Switzerland. CDP also ranked Firmenich Biomass Boiler in Dahej, India Belgium; Princeton and Port Newark, New Jersey, U.S. We among the top 2.5% of suppliers assessed for excellence We are currently constructing a renewable solid fuel boiler are actively exploring similar opportunities around the world. in greenhouse gas management. to replace the gas-fired boilers at our plant in Dahej, India. These achievements and honors reflect our deep This is scheduled for completion in December 2017. SCOPE 3 commitment to environmental management and The boiler will burn briquettes made from agricultural Our Scope 3 emissions (from purchased raw materials, motivate us to continually improve our efforts to mitigate waste (lentil, rice husks, etc.), and is considered to have downstream transportation and distribution, operational climate change. zero reportable Scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions, according waste, business travel, and commuting) were 667,658 tonnes to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. of CO2e in FY17, an 8% change from FY16. Approximately half of this increase is due to a change in methodology. We estimate the project will reduce our reportable CO2 footprint by 2,800 tonnes per year. This is approximately 2% of our global Scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions (FY15 base year). 2 For Level 1 sites. Environment and Resources Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 Firmenich 21 WATER AND WASTE OUR WATER IMPACT CDP WATER PROGRAM Solvent Waste Reduction in Singapore 2020 2nd Goal: Firmenich plans to reduce the CDP Water ranked Firmenich Recognizing that our use of solvent for cleaning rate of water use in water-stressed second out of 35 companies perfumery equipment has increased, we developed a areas by 25%1. in our industry group. program to recycle the solvent rather than disposing of 10.7% Water use reduction in our locations it as hazardous waste. Working together with the quality designated as water-stressed As participants in the CDP Water Program in FY17, we compared to FY16. department, the project team is implementing plans to were awarded a ranking of Leadership A-, and in our recycle the used solvent without compromising product industry activity group (Chemicals), we ranked second out Projects to reduce water use in water-stressed locations quality. This innovative project is estimated to reduce of 35 companies. Our score reflects our positive actions in include the reclamation of wastewater in Shanghai, China, the disposal of this hazardous waste by approximately corporate water stewardship, including our ambitious 2020 and the elimination of a single-pass cooling water system 90% (18 tonnes) a year. water reduction goal and the successful implementation of in Anaheim, California. the Water Access, Sanitation, and Hygiene (WASH) program at our manufacturing sites. Landfill Reduction in California Elimination of Cooling Water in California In Anaheim, California, we are sending nonhazardous In Anaheim, California, a site targeted for water conservation, we have begun to eliminate the use of a single-pass cooling WASTE IMPACT waste from dust collectors and unusable product to an energy-from-waste (EfW) facility, rather than to landfill. water system and replace it with two different closed-loop 2020 Goal: Improve our waste efficiency by 15% and ensure all of our Currently, we send 24% of our site’s nonhazardous cooling systems. We estimate this will reduce total water manufacturing sites can claim zero process waste for energy recovery; we plan to reach consumption by 19% based on the 2016 baseline. waste-to-landfill. 100% by 2020. 5.9% Improvement in our waste efficiency rate (compared with FY15). The EfW facility burns the waste in special boilers that Reclamation of Wastewater in Shanghai, China ensure complete combustion, to recover energy as 44% Of our manufacturing sites claimed In FY17, we continued to build on the successful project to zero waste-to-landfill – a 16% steam and electricity. This is used to help power the recycle wastewater from the perfumery spray dryers at our improvement since FY15. community in which the facility operates. The boilers Shanghai site, one of our higher water-stressed locations. are fitted with state-of-the-art pollution control 5.9% Of our waste was sent to landfill in An additional tank was added at the site and is dedicated FY17. equipment to remove and filter emissions, preventing to collecting and recycling spray dryer wash water, which their release into the environment. The result is cleaner can be reused to produce new batches of the same energy and a reduction in waste-to-landfill. perfumery product. Projects that contributed to these improvements include the recycling of solvents in Singapore and landfill reduction This project reduces water consumption by approximately in Anaheim, California. 200 metric tonnes a year and hazardous waste generation by the same amount, as this water was previously disposed of as hazardous waste. 1 Six of our manufacturing sites are in areas where water stress is higher (although they still rank as moderately stressed on a global scale), and an additional four sites are in less water-stressed areas (but of potential concern). Environment and Resources Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 22 Firmenich THOUGHT LEADERSHIP IN ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY THE FIRMENICH CDPʼS FORESTS PROGRAM The CDP, which helps companies and investors manage this risk and continue the transition to a low-carbon economy, INGREDIENTS INDEX Comprising 31% of the land area on our planet2, forests has created a standardized and widely recognized reporting house people and wildlife, produce oxygen, and provide 413 Ingredients. system to make measuring impacts efficient and easy. In basic livelihoods for over one billion people. Forests also FY17, we started participating in CDP’s Forests Program play a vital role in mitigating climate change, as they absorb and asked nine suppliers to join as well. Together, we 93% In volume of a typical Firmenich emitted carbon dioxide. For all these reasons, deforestation will gather information on managing the risks linked to perfumery compound. is a major global issue that threatens our environment. deforestation, with the goal of mitigating our environmental Addressing deforestation is also important to our business impact. We will share our results in FY18. 50 New flavor ingredients analyzed in FY17. success, and engagement with our supply chain on deforestation management is a priority. Firmenich understands that the way we source and manufacture many of our products – and how they are used – has environmental repercussions that matter deeply to our clients. As a supplier to the largest consumer goods companies and leading luxury brands, we strive to be as transparent as possible in offering the best product with the smallest environmental impact. To uphold this commitment to transparency, we developed the Firmenich Ingredients Index, which analyzes the impacts of more than 400 key ingredients throughout their life cycles. The goal is to improve measured impacts each year. By measuring and reporting, the Index has produced quantifiable data on the environmental and health impacts for each of our key ingredients. In FY17, we expanded the number of flavor ingredients included in the Index and are in the process of analyzing more than 50 flavor ingredients. We also started working with GreenCircle Certified, LLC to begin an independent certification. Through the pursuit of this certification, we aim to demonstrate to our customers how we measure our ingredientsʼ life cycles and how we can improve our 2 https://w w w.worldwildlife.org/ processes to continually reduce our impact. threats/deforestation Environment and Resources Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 Firmenich 23 INNOVATION, SCIENCE, AND SOCIETY Reach the next level of scientific excellence © Jennifer Luzes, Global Innovation Foresight Manager, Firmenich Innovation, Science, and Society Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 24 Firmenich OUR PATHWAY OUR 2020 GOALS OUR RESULTS At Firmenich, we pride ourselves on • I mprove quality of life through The Toilet Accelerator – launched by nutrition, hygiene, and sanitation the Toilet Board Coalition which was fostering a culture of innovation, which co-founded by Firmenich – named stems from our continued investment finalist at Fast Company’s 2017 in research and development. World Changing Ideas Awards We are recognized as a leader in the industry •D  evelop sustainable and cost-effective Decreased organic hazardous waste for our breakthrough science and innovation. flavor and fragrance ingredients and production for several key ingredients As such, we plan to build on our innovation to technologies reach the next level of scientific excellence and inspire and encourage the next generation of •D  eliver malodor control systems to Trained the sanitation community scientists. home care consumer products for on our malodor control technologies From creating safe, quality products to base of the pyramid consumers developed with the Bill & Melinda Gates improving health and hygiene in developing Foundation countries, our scientists are essential to the success of our sustainability initiatives. •S  trive for leadership in environmental Analyzed 50 more flavor ingredients Our initiatives echo the following SDGs : assessment of our ingredients and in the Firmenich Ingredients Index technologies •A  ccelerate go-to-market through Introduced new proprietary process co-innovation partnerships for Ambrox®, a renewable ingredient now free of previous supply limitations Innovation, Science, and Society Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 Firmenich 25 LEADING IN RESEARCH: GREEN CHEMISTRY AND GREEN ENGINEERING 12 Principles of Green Chemistry 2020 Goal: Develop sustainable and cost-effective flavor and fragrance ingredients and technologies. Waste Prevention – Plan ahead Use of Renewable Feedstock – to prevent the accumulation of Use renewable raw material or A new distillation column used in the manufacturing 1 waste rather than cleaning up and treating waste. 7 feedstock whenever practical. of Hedione® allowed us to: ↑ yield by 5% ↓ organic hazardous waste by 280 tonnes/year Atom Economy – Design synthetic Reduce Derivatives – Minimize ↓ e-factor to reach 0.311 methods to incorporate all or avoid using temporary Revisiting Isospirene® with green engineering 2 materials used in the process into the final product. 8 derivatives, if possible, which require additional reagents and successfully led to: generate waste. ↑ yield by 50% By making two Galbanum ingredients L e ss H a z a rd o u s C h e m i ca l Catalysis – Choose catalytic Syntheses – Design synthetic reagents, as opposed to ! from one intermediate, we achieved: ↓ e-factor by 60% 3 methods to use and generate s u b st a n ce s t h a t m i n i m i z e 9 stoichiometric reagents, to increase selectivity, minimize toxicity to human health and the waste, and reduce reaction times ↓ hazardous materials environment. and energy demands. By improving the key transformation of Designing Safer Chemicals – Design for Degradation – Design our muguet note Lilyflore®, we observed: Design the most effective chemical chemical products so they break ↑ productivity by 330% 4 products while minimizing their toxicity. 10 down into innocuous substances t h a t d o n o t p e rs i st i n t h e ↓ hazardous solvent environment. Our R&D work is deeply engaged in sustainability when designing new molecules or reinventing new manufacturing Use of Safer Solvents – Choose Real-time Analysis for Pollution processes of legacy ingredients. the safest solvent available and Prevention – Develop analytical During FY17, the Firmenich chemistry development team 5 minimize the required amount. 11 methodologies for real-time, inprocess monitoring and control implemented green chemistry principles in several of our before formulating hazardous substances. key processes. Green chemistry is an approach to chemistry designed to maximize efficiency and minimize hazardous effects on human health and the environment. Design for Energy Efficiency – Inherently Safer Chemistry for Choose the most energy efficient Accident Prevention – Design 6 synthetic process, by avoiding heating, cooling, and long reaction 12 chemical processes that are safer and inherently minimize the risk times. of accidents. 1 The e-factor is defined as the number of kilograms of waste generated to obtain a kilogram of product. Innovation, Science, and Society Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 26 Firmenich Our use of green chemistry principles is an essential part • Isospirene®, a fruity cassis note molecule, is another of developing new molecules and new chemical routes, as example of process intensification. A team of chemists well as preserving and enhancing our existing ingredients. and chemical engineers, with a focus on energy efficiency, drastically simplified the production process and, as a Chemical engineers are able to implement green chemistry result, successfully increased yield by 50%. principles without changing the chemistry. This is referred to as green engineering. • By overhauling the chemical process of our key Galbanum ingredients, our chemists simplified the synthetic routes Chemists and chemical engineers in our R&D community, in so that we can now produce two separate ingredients collaboration with our manufacturing personnel, have made from a single, common intermediate. Additionally, they positive strides in green chemistry and engineering (GC&E) implemented novel, cutting-edge catalytic technologies, to improve the environmental impact of our products. which suppress the use of reagents and solvents and led A key outcome of GC&E is yield improvement, resulting in to a 60% decrease of the e-factor. This corresponds to a more valuable products made with fewer raw materials reduction of 600 tonnes/year of waste. and less energy. • By improving two key steps in the synthesis of our muguet note Lilyflore®, our chemists were able to fulfill Five molecules that our scientists have recently developed several green chemistry principles: suppress the use using green chemistry principles are Hedione®, Isospirene®, of hazardous solvents, and increase the productivity two Galbanum notes, and Lilyflore®. by 330% by using a novel, highly reproducible chemical • For Hedione®, chemists focused on waste prevention, process. identifying impurities generated along the process responsible for yield losses. A process engineer was Firmenich will continue to invest in green chemistry in able to design a new distillation column to remove these areas such as organoand metalo-catalytic chemistry, in impurities, which improved Hedione®’s yield by 5% and order to devise cleaner processes, extract the most out of eliminated 280 tonnes of organic hazardous waste the raw materials, reduce hazardous waste, and minimize per year. the energy required to transform the materials. Frank Fei Zhang, Scientist, Firmenich. Innovation, Science, and Society Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 Firmenich 27 MALODOR CONTROL THE TOILET BOARD COALITION 2020 Goal: Improve quality of life In FY17, Firmenich continued its active role on the TBC’s through nutrition, hygiene, and Steering Committee by enlisting a core team of our colleagues 2.4bn sanitation. 2.4 billion people still lack access to to coach sanipreneurs (sanitation entrepreneurs) and train sanitation1. the sanitation community on our malodor control technologies OUR WORK ON developed with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation – in 2017 The Toilet Accelerator named a alignment with the TBC’s role as an advocacy platform aiming MALODOR CONTROL World Changing Idea Finalist in Fast Company’s 2017 World Changing to generate a global sanitation movement. Aligned with our 2020 Pathways to Positive target to improve Ideas Awards. Firmenich’s collaboration with the TBC complements our quality of life through nutrition, hygiene, and sanitation, our Firmenich is a founding member of the Toilet Board Coalition research on malodor. The TBC helps us identify partners Malodor Control Project aims to unravel the mysteries of (TBC), a business-led public-private partnership, launched in to ensure our new technologies will widely reach base of malodor – as olfaction (sense of smell) is one of the least 2014, that includes multinational corporations, development the pyramid consumers, particularly in India. In FY17, we understood of all the senses. In fact, malodor plays a role expert NGOs/IGOs, sanitation entrepreneurs, and investors. supported two strategic feasibility studies with the TBC: on in the lack of latrine use in developing countries and, as a The TBC connects large and small companies and ensures sanitation and digitalization, and on sanitation and circular result, they face economic, social, and cultural challenges close collaboration between all sectors to accelerate the economy. due to lack of sanitation. business of sanitation and achieve universal access to To address these problems, organizations are coming sanitation before 2030. together to tackle the technological, psychological, and The Toilet Accelerator, launched by the TBC in 2016, is a business challenges. program that works with promising sanitation business In this context, Firmenich is reaching out to potential partners models with the potential to overcome current barriers to to help translate our prototypes – including such products as access, use, and adherence at scale. More than toilets alone, bleach powders, air fresheners, and cleaning products – into the accelerator supports commercially viable businesses real, affordable solutions for base of the pyramid consumers. operating at every stage in the sanitation value chain. From left to right, Gilbert Ghostine, CEO Firmenich; Patrick Firmenich, Chairman, Firmenich; Bill Gates, Co-Chair Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. 1  http://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/water-and-sanitation Innovation, Science, and Society Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 28 Firmenich SUSTAINABLE FLAVORS ENHANCING HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT FRESH WITH SWISS SCIENCE INDUSTRIES – 2020 Goal: Improve quality of life through nutrition, hygiene, and sanitation. THE WBCSD NUTRITION GROUP FY17 Joined the Food Reform for In FY17, Firmenich worked with the World Business The Association for Swiss Industries was created to foster Sustainability and Health Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the a strong culture of innovation in Switzerland in order to program led by the WBCSD EAT Foundation to help launch FReSH, the Food Reform for maintain the country’s number one global position in and the EAT Foundation. Sustainability and Health program, thereby reinforcing our innovation, as ranked by the World Economic Forum’s commitment to accelerate change in global food systems. Global Competitiveness Index. GREEN PROTEIN FReSH is designed to catalyze a shift towards a healthier Firmenich, Nestlé, Bayer, DSM, and Lonza are the five The Protein Challenge 2040 led by Forum for the Future and more sustainable food model. The program was industry members of the Nutrition Working Group, formed In 2014, Firmenich joined the Protein Challenge 2040, a launched at the EAT Stockholm Food Forum in June 2016, in 2014. The group’s mission is to promote sustainable multidisciplinary innovation forum led by Forum for the bringing together 25 companies from the private sector lifestyles for the Swiss people. The two main areas of Future, one of the world’s leading think tanks on sustainable that have the potential to enact transformational change focus: collaborating in the private sector to ensure greater development. The program aims to reinforce protein in food systems all over the world. The program focuses availability of healthier food and meals, and encouraging as a crucial part of a sustainable food system, shift the on the following work streams: individuals to favor balanced diets. conversation from “good” and “bad” protein to a balance of 1. Developing guidelines on healthy and sustainable As an industry member from the Nutrition Working Group’s sustainable protein, propel action and increase investment diets, taking into account social and environmental inception, we are helping to drive the dialogue between in sustainable solutions, and influence policy across the considerations. industry members, policy makers, and consumers to help system for greater sustainability. 2. Food production adjustments, including formulations support the Swiss Nutrition Strategy: “With the Swiss In order to drive action to help achieve the 2040 goals, that help consumers achieve healthy and sustainable Nutrition Strategy, the government aims to promote a varied three innovation areas and six pilot projects were chosen. diets. and balanced diet. People who eat a healthy diet are less 3. Food consumption reorientation to strengthen demand susceptible to noncontagious diseases and have a better for healthy and sustainable diets. chance of staying healthy.” In FY17, important progress has been made to bring the industry and policymakers 4. Improvement of food sourcing and reduction of food closer together. loss and waste. 5. Measuring, reporting, and communicating progress. Firmenich has also been involved in several consumer awareness campaigns, such as supporting nutrition education in school through the program, “Simply Science”, which aims to make science accessible to children. Innovation, Science, and Society Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 Firmenich 29 PARTNERSHIPS Work together with the world’s leading experts and academic institutions © Christine Spilka, Perfumer Trainee, Firmenich Partnerships Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 30 Firmenich OUR PATHWAY OUR 2020 GOALS OUR RESULTS Multistakeholder partnerships are •C  ollaborate with at least Conducted collaborative research, 10 leading academic institutions teaching and mentoring with six key to tackle the complex challenges on sustainability innovation leading universities and systemic changes needed to foster sustainable economies. •D  evelop sustainability projects Partnership with the ReNEWW with 50 customers globally house project A core component of Firmenich’s success in sustainability has been collaborating and •E  xtend our innovative base of the Built our base of the pyramid partnering with the world’s leading experts and pyramid consumer insight program methodology into a collaborative academic institutions. from India to Africa social enterprise with the Naandi It is our goal to utilize these multistakeholder Foundation and academic partners partnerships to create innovative solutions for positive systemic change. •G  enerate gold standard carbon credits Continued to play an active role Our unique partnerships approach supports the through collaborative investments in the Livelihoods Carbon Fund following SDGs : governance to monitor positive outcomes of carbon projects Partnerships Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 Firmenich 31 SHARING EXPERTISE IN PARTNERSHIPS STRATEGY At Firmenich, we have always nurtured a culture of constant learning. In order to continuously build on our sustainability expertise and fast track our positive impact, we partner with best-in-class individuals and organizations. We also collaborate regularly with our external sustainability council – in May FY17, the council was hosted by our CEO and executive committee members in Geneva. As the Sustainable Development Goal 17 suggests, sustainable development will only be met through collaboration. Partnering is at the heart of our sustainability journey. Our long-time partners challenge us and help us thrive. Our strategy is to carefully select and evaluate a limited number of strategic partners using the ambitions of our Pathways to Positive framework as a filter. 2020 Goal: Collaborate with at least Our Firmenich offices in Brazil. 10 leading academic institutions on sustainability innovation. FY17 Collaborated with St. Gallen, For the past three years we have collaborated with the St. our involvement in the class, Professor Petkoski also wrote a Switzerland; The Wharton School Gallen Institute of Management in Switzerland and the case study on Firmenich’s commitment to sanitation and our of the University of Pennsylvania, “Sustainability as a Strategic Opportunity” class led by Barbara work with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the Toilet U.S.; Science Po Paris, France; HEC, France, among others. Kux, a Firmenich board member. Through this course, Board Coalition. This year, we partnered with Wharton and students gain professional experience and work closely the World Bank as Jury Members of the Partners in Action with leading global companies to find innovative solutions competition aimed at identifying the best young professionals’ PARTNERING WITH ACADEMIA to key sustainability challenges. In FY17, we worked on a initiatives to positively impact the SDGs. Firmenich is driven by science. Collaborating with academic project with five students for three months. The students Firmenich is also regularly invited to present at Sciences institutions is critical to delivering the highest level of scientific visited our Naturals Center of Excellence in Grasse, France, Po Paris, in the Philanthropy and Social Investing course excellence for positive change. Traditionally, we focus on and conducted extended interviews with a wide range of conducted by Judith Symonds. In FY17, Firmenich’s class natural sciences, but we also recognize the increasing Firmenich experts. Their research focused on the risks and focused on improving the understanding of public-private importance of social sciences for our business. And, of course, opportunities around natural trends in the Home Care and partnerships and sharing systemic changes needed to address we understand the importance of engaging directly with future Body Care market. current and future sustainability challenges. We also led the sustainability leaders, to share our passion, ensure their Firmenich is collaborating with Professor Djordjija Petkoski writing of a case study – with Science Po’s research faculty – on commitment to a sustainable future, learn from them, and from the Legal Studies and Business Ethics Department at the our inclusive business model and the integration of visually listen to their vision of a sustainable business and society. Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, U.S. In FY17, impaired people in our sensory panels. (More information Firmenich taught two classes in business ethics. In addition to on our inclusive sensory panels can be found on page 40.) Partnerships Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 32 Firmenich SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLES FIRMENICH NEXT GENERATION It operates as a live-in research lab and sustainable living 2020 Goal: Develop sustainability projects with 50 customers showcase. Along with our partners, we leverage our In keeping with our efforts to encourage innovation and globally. expertise and work together at the house to accelerate the promote sustainable change, we continue to support FY17 development of new sustainable lifestyles that are smart, Partnership with the ReNEWW leading academic institutions to help solve global house project. healthy, and enjoyable. sustainability issues. Firmenich’s vision is to create systemic change, serve as a During the summer of 2016, the partners initially focused Massachusetts Institute of Technology, U.S. leader in our industry and beyond, and make sustainability a on exploring a range of lifestyle activities around the use of Firmenich created a Professorship Fund at the primary focus for businesses worldwide. By communicating water and energy. They plan to focus on food and diet in the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), a permanent our initiatives, sharing our experiences, and creating leading fall of 2017, aiming to develop sustainable, desirable, and part of the University’s endowment since 1979. This platforms for change, we are actively bringing sustainability enjoyable solutions. professorship, given in honor of Dr. Roger Firmenich to the forefront of our industry. and Dr. Georges Firmenich, reflects our commitment to educating and inspiring the next generation of chemists. This year, we engaged a number of our customers in our sustainability efforts. This collaboration has been essential to Over the years, the Firmenich Professorship Fund has our success, enabling us to innovate for sustainable growth. expanded to include a senior professorship and a senior faculty member. As part of this new addition, Professors One example of our commitment to such partnering is our Jeremiah A. Johnson and Jeffrey Van Humbek were work in the Sustainable Lifestyles cluster, convened by selected for three-year professorships, both of which the World Business Council for Sustainable Development commenced January 1st, 2015. (WBCSD) and co-chaired by Firmenich CEO, Gilbert Ghostine. The overarching goal of the Sustainable Lifestyles cluster Stanford University, U.S. is to develop solutions that enable, inspire, and engage Firmenich’s endowment at Stanford, established in 2015, individuals toward more sustainable lifestyles: if nine billion helps support faculty members who are starting their people are to live well within planetary boundaries, we must careers in the field of sensory neurosciences or the field of explore new infrastructures, technologies, business models, environment and sustainability, and encourage their academic and individual behaviors. work and research. Xiaoke Chen, an Assistant Professor in the Biology department at Stanford, was the first recipient of In 2016, we participated in a new collaboration focused on the Firmenich Next Generation Fund. With this funding, Chen the “sustainable lifestyles of the future” specifically the aims to further his research on how sensory information and Whirlpool ReNEWW House (Retrofit Net-Zero Energy Water physiological state integrate to drive decisions and behaviors. Waste), a live-in laboratory on Purdue University’s campus in Indiana, U.S. The ReNEWW house is a 1920s three-bedroom EPFL, Switzerland home that has been extensively retrofitted and refurbished Firmenich’s grant at the Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de to be as energy and water efficient as technically possible. Lausanne aims to encourage breakthrough science and support the next generation of scientists by enabling the school to recruit an assistant tenure track professor in Renata Ferraz, Senior Fragrance Development Manager, Firmenich. neurosciences. Partnerships Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 Firmenich 33 PARTNERING FOR SOCIAL INNOVATION BASE OF THE PYRAMID The results were presented at the Annual Meeting of the In FY17, the Juice CSR Platform focused on three supply Toilet Board Coalition in Amsterdam, in February 2017. CONSUMER INSIGHT The quality of the results was especially useful to the initiatives: identifying hotspots in the orange supply chain in Brazil and the apple supply chain from Poland 2020 Goal: Extend our innovative sanipreneurs who very often do not have the ability to (the Platform wrote an inventory report on CSR issues in Consumer Insight program conduct consumer insight studies. Poland’s apple supply chain), and fostering dialogue with from India to Africa. pineapple processors in Thailand. FY17 FRUIT JUICE CSR Firmenich, Naandi, and HEC Paris integrated the Shared By continually working with the Juice CSR Platform, Senses methodology into a Firmenich has been an active member and sponsor we hope to extend our impact beyond the flavor and social business called AZAO. of the Juice CSR Platform since its inception in 2013. fragrance industry and create positive systemic change. The Juice CSR Platform is a sustainability initiative for We recognize that to truly achieve scale, we must utilize Firmenich and the Naandi Foundation have been the fruit juice industry, which aims to support, guide, our multistakeholder partnerships to inspire, innovate, collaborating since 2011 and have jointly developed and inspire stakeholders to integrate corporate social and support sustainable practices. the Shared Senses and Sensibilities Methodology, a responsibility (CSR) throughout the supply chain. The breakthrough market research approach for low-income consumers. Our objective was to design and implement platform facilitates collaboration among all sector and supply chain stakeholders to address sustainability-related GOLD STANDARD CARBON CREDIT 2020 alternative market research methodologies to better opportunities, challenges, and concerns. Goal: Generate gold standard understand low-income consumers in India. carbon credits through Firmenich is the only flavor house associated with the collaborative investments. In FY17, Naandi and a professor from HEC Paris, a leading European Fruit Juice Association (AIJN) Sustainability FY17 Nine ongoing projects. French business school, created AZAO, an independent Expert Group, which helped to launch the Juice CSR social business, and offered Firmenich colleagues who platform. In 2015, we became a board member of this designed the Shared Senses program a seat on AZAO’s multistakeholder, global organization focused on increased advisory committee. sustainability in the fruit juice industry. Through our investment in Livelihoods Funds, Firmenich seeks to create mutual value for smallholder farmers, AZAO works side by side with corporations, institutions, and Many of our flavors, like citrus, are often created with businesses, and society as a whole. The Livelihoods NGOs to bring innovative solutions to social issues. Beyond by-products from the juice industry. By collaborating and Funds attract investors from companies and institutions consulting services, AZAO also manages a specialized sharing knowledge with juice industry stakeholders, we are committed to sustainability, which includes offsetting their training module and a research unit dedicated to base of working to ensure the sustainability of certain crops and carbon footprint and transforming their fragile farming the pyramid strategies, which will help Firmenich tackle flavors central to our operations. Our approach is threefold: supply chains. Investors share knowledge and experiences challenges of sanitation and nutrition models for the strive to create more efficient production methods, focus to generate sustainable solutions for development in rural lowest-income populations. innovation on the future when we may need alternative communities. In FY17, with AZAO, we conducted a qualitative and solutions, and support increased sustainability throughout the juice sector. Firmenich is, with Danone, the only company to have invested quantitative study on low-income consumers’ usage in both Livelihoods-operated funds. and attitude towards sanitation in Pune, India. Twentyfive students of the Mahindra Pride School of Pune were recruited and trained to conduct more than 300 interviews. “The Shared Senses approach fills one of the most urgent needs of strategies aiming at emerging Partnerships customers: accurately understanding their aspirations and creating products based on their preferences Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 and not on preconceived ideas. This approach’s motto is, as one says in India, ‘Nothing for me without meʼ.” 34 Firmenich — David Menasce, Academic Director of the Innovation and Social Business Major at HEC Paris, AZAO CEO The Livelihoods Carbon Fund (LCF) has nine ongoing projects delivering tangible results. These projects seek to improve the livelihoods (revenues, health, and empowerment) of one million people by planting 130 million trees and equipping 120,000 households with efficient cook stoves. They will also help mitigate climate change by sequestering about 10 million tonnes of CO2 over 20 years. Launched in 2015, the Livelihoods Fund for Family Farming (L3F) will invest € 120 million over 10 years, to convert 200,000 farms to sustainable agricultural practices and positively impact the lives of two million people. Projects are currently being designed in Africa, Asia, and Latin America. In November 2016, Firmenich attended the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP22) in Marrakech and spoke at a panel organized by the Livelihoods Fund. In Marrakech, we reconfirmed our commitment to combating climate change and demonstrated how we are putting the Paris Agreement into action. Our presence at COP22 builds on our participation at last year’s United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP21), where we announced our industryleading environmental goal to become carbon neutral. In Madagascar, Firmenich has been partnering with its local supplier on sustainability initiatives since 2007. Partnerships Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 Firmenich 35 PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES Use the knowledge, skills and talent of our people and communities for a positive impact © Matthieu Sueur, Deep Roots Team, Firmenich People and Communities Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 36 Firmenich OUR PATHWAY OUR 2020 GOALS OUR RESULTS As a family business, we deeply value •S  ustain and further improve our TRC of 0.21 (-16% vs. FY16) industry-leading safety performance our talented workforce and seek to by maintaining a total recordable utilize their diverse backgrounds as case (TRC) rate below 0.25 sources of innovation and forward •F  ormalize a program to further Inclusive sensory panels thinking. integrate people with disabilities in three countries We strive to make positive contributions to throughout our business society and across our value chain, pledge to empower women and youth, and support •C  ertify all Firmenich sites Assessed 23 Firmenich affiliates the next generation of smallholder farmers for gender pay equality covering 90% of our total workforce by improving their livelihoods and investing in their future. Our initiatives support the •B  uild 40 responsible sourcing projects 40% target met following SDGs: with smallholder farming communities •C  reate a Firmenich Sustainability Trained Firmenich colleagues Academy to train 100% of our workforce on sustainability and identified on social and environmental topics scaling-up learning solutions •E  xtend our apprenticeship program Seven apprentices graduated to all geographic regions and hired from our program in four countries in FY17 People and Communities Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 Firmenich 37 EXCELLENCE IN HEALTH AND SAFETY WORLD-CLASS SAFETY SAFETY CULTURE ROADMAP • PPE management – to improve the choice, use, and management of PPE PERFORMANCE Maintaining world-class safety performance is a critical measure of our management performance and can only • Competencies and induction – to develop an inventory 2020 of safety competencies Goal: Improve our industry-leading be achieved by establishing and maintaining a world-class safety performance by maintaining a TRC rate below 0.25. safety culture. Together, our compliance and supply chain teams have developed a comprehensive safety culture FIRE PROTECTION 10.4 Investment CHF 10.4 million roadmap, to help engage employees and build a strong case 15 for safety culture change. As a pilot, 10 sites completed CHF 15 million 0.21 Total recordable case (TRC) invested in four years. baseline surveys to measure the maturity and resilience (-16%) 48% of their safety culture. Our North American sites also Improvements in 48% collaborated with DuPont to conduct a more detailed Safety of production facilities. 0.09 Lost time case (LTC) (-10%) Perception Survey. To support this program, we have also documented and shared the most effective management FY17 was the fourth year of our global fire protection capital practices that support an enhanced safety culture. These investment program, designed to upgrade fire and flood In FY17, our TRC and LTC rates fell by 67% and 40% against tools will be made available to all Firmenich production protection at our manufacturing sites, adopt measures our rolling five-year baseline (FY12). facilities to further develop and promote a company-wide beyond local code requirements, and reach industry best During FY17, a total of 18 manufacturing sites achieved a safety culture. practices. In FY17, we invested an additional CHF 1.3 million full year with zero recordable injuries with five achieving in nine facilities to improve fire protection and minimize risks. over one million exposure hours injury free. During this SUPPLY CHAIN SAFETY INITIATIVES period, we also invested CHF 10.4 million in new projects to further improve safety and enhance our fire protection In addition to the Safety Culture Team, we have established LABORATORY CHAMPIONS additional supply chain teams focused on: Our laboratory safety program is designed to manage the systems. • Optimizing safety tools – to maximize the benefits of risks faced by our 1,200+ laboratory workers around the Our safety performance and TRC rate are now amongst existing safety initiatives and tools world. We have now trained 116 Lab Safety Champions the best in our industry. However, the absence of injuries and have created a laboratory safety network to share best • Serious injuries and fatalities – to define proactive is not the best indicator of the presence of safety. In the practices and improve laboratory incident communication. initiatives to prevent serious incidents next financial year, we will focus on safety management Our new laboratory safety intranet site is used to register and performance reporting, particularly in the areas of • Forklifts and industrial trucks – to document best laboratory employees, and share best practice and training process safety, incidents with serious potential, and site practices materials including our soon-to-be updated Laboratory and personal security. • Drum handling – to standardize approved best practices Safety Guide. Each laboratory, with the support of their • Equipment failure – to better understand and remediate Lab Champion, will be required to conduct a self-audit equipment-based incidents against the new guide requirements and must develop a comprehensive action plan to address opportunities to improve performance. People and Communities Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 38 Firmenich ENGAGING EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITY FOSTERING A CULTURE OF GENDER EQUAL PAY DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 2 Two sites certified under Gender Equal Pay Principles. 40% Our female colleagues represent 40% of our global workforce. Firmenich supports equity and fairness in compensation 33% Of our senior management are women. for similar jobs and performance. A state-driven study on gender-equal pay in Switzerland ranked us in the top-tier as an equal-pay employer in Switzerland, with It makes solid business sense to foster a culture that endorsement from the Swiss Confederation certifying we mirrors the diversity of our world and encourages different operate according to Gender Equality Pay Principles. points of views. Studies on gender diversity, for example, show that companies with a higher proportion of women A second study, conducted on our second-largest campus on senior management teams outperform market peers. worldwide in Princeton, New Jersey, U.S., revealed similar With the gender gap not expected to change until 2186, results. In FY16, we began reviewing our compensation according to the World Economic Forum1, decisive action structure globally, using the same external methodology or is needed if we are to accelerate this opportunity. relying on local governmental certifications when available. Continuing this analysis in FY17, we carefully benchmarked At Firmenich, we are actively nurturing our culture of compensation to be consistent with market standards inclusiveness and diversity across all levels of the company. and individual performance, and we globally reviewed all This starts with our Executive Committee, represented compensation data to be sure that our pay practices reflect by eight nationalities and with a third of its membership our commitment to gender pay equity. female. Globally, our female colleagues represent 40% of our global workforce and 33% of our senior management. Of the 23 affiliates that were studied, 70% showed no significant (<5%) disparity in pay between men and women We are committed to going beyond just closing the gender for similar roles. During the recruitment and salary review gap by embedding key diversity performance indicators processes, gender pay equality is taken into account to directly into our programs and processes. We have also ensure we move toward our target of equal pay for equal formed a compelling range of leadership trainings, roles and performance. cross-generational programs, and succession planning, which focuses on the development and growth of emerging market talent. 1  https://www.weforum.org/press/2016/10/beyond-our-lifetimes-prospectsfor-workplace-gender-equality-slip-to-2186 People and Communities Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 Firmenich 39 ENGAGING EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITY – CONTINUED INTEGRATING VISUALLY INTRODUCING I AM FIRMENICH ONE YOUNG WORLD IMPAIRED PANELISTS This year we introduced the I am Firmenich campaign, an 6 Firmenich colleagues IN OUR SENSORY PANELS engaging video series that brings to life the world-class met in Ottawa. creativity, expertise, and passion of our colleagues. A true 20 snapshot of Firmenich’s diversity and inclusiveness, the 1,300 Visually impaired people hired and Young leaders. trained in two years. videos feature colleagues from all age groups, regions, cultures, and businesses telling their unique stories about 190 Countries. In 2014, the Sensory team at Firmenich Mexico wanted to why they chose to join Firmenich and how they uniquely foster an inclusive workforce while developing sensory contribute to the company’s success in their daily work. capabilities. To this end, they built an inclusive sensory Supporting global recruitment initiatives, the I am Firmenich panel – a group of trained testers who assess products on For the first time, Firmenich sent a group of millennials to video series is showcased on our careers page to provide the basis of taste, smell, or feel. experience “One Young World”, an annual global leadership potential candidates with authentic insights into our culture event for young leaders under 30 years of age. During Sensory panels at Firmenich Mexico were comprised of and the passion of the people of Firmenich. the four days in Ottawa, our six colleagues joined 1,300 Firmenich employees from various functions who would young leaders from global and national companies, NGOs, dedicate a few hours per week on panel work. In order to MILLENNIALS @ FIRMENICH and universities representing more than 190 countries. develop capacity while putting the Firmenich Fundamentals Together, they shared innovative ideas on pressing world Developing our talent is a key focus of our overall into action, Firmenich Mexico partnered with Comité issues, spanning human rights, global business, education, strategy. With millennials representing 62% of all new Internacional ProCiegos to train and hire visually impaired and the environment. The delegates had the privilege hires worldwide, we are committed to developing our next sensory panelists. of being listened to and coached by an inspiring set of generation of professionals, who will play a significant role Following the success of the Mexican panel, our London and in driving our long-term success. world leaders. Mumbai Sensory teams set up similar programs, working This year, Firmenich championed a Millennials Community, with the Middlesex Association for the Blind in the UK and which was designed, produced, and executed by millennials the College of Fragrance for the Visually Impaired in India. for millennials. The three goals of this initiative are: Both teams hired their first visually impaired panelists in 2016. Our Singapore and Geneva Sensory teams are • Ensure active participation of millennials in key strategic currently building similar inclusive panels. From FY14 to initiatives sponsored by our Executive Committee FY17, 20 visually impaired people have found employment • Inspire our millennial talent and make Firmenich the in one of Firmenich’s inclusive sensory panels around place where millennials choose to be the world. • Increase collaboration and drive our business with millennial consumers in mind In FY17, Firmenich sent a group of millennials to experience “One Young World”, an annual global leadership event for young leaders. “I used to be very insecure, People and Communities I was afraid of talking to people.” Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 — Mexican panelist 40 Firmenich TELL US HOW YOU FEEL SURVEY FIRMENICH 4 SOCIETY COMMUNITY DAY 2016 Our “Tell Us How You Feel” survey (a biennial employee Building on our commitment to join our sustainability platform 2,648 Colleagues. engagement survey issued to all colleagues) helps us shape and the communities where we source around the world, we our company’s future and ensures ongoing professional have introduced a new, nonmonetary recognition program 107 fulfillment for employees worldwide. This year, more called Firmenich 4 Society to bring to life the values of our Projects in FY17. than 80% of our colleagues participated in the survey, company. Leveraging our employees’ individual skills and representing an impressive 5,300 voices. We are proud that interests, Firmenich 4 Society offers all of our colleagues the +10% Projects in FY17 vs. FY16. our employee engagement level continues to increase – now opportunity to be a force for good by contributing directly to at 7.2 up 0.2 compared to FY15, positioning Firmenich as a our sustainability and community efforts. “High Performing Company” according to global industry Firmenich 4 Society projects cover two main themes: September 2016 marked the 12th anniversary of our benchmarks. • Firmenich Social Entrepreneurship – helping local Community Day event. This year, 2,648 employees This positive result is a testament to our culture of businesses with an entrepreneurial spirit volunteered in 107 projects across 48 sites worldwide. inclusiveness and reflects our strong sense of: • Deep Roots Program – sourcing our natural ingredients in Projects included: • Confidence in our 2020 strategy the most ethical and sustainable way • Supplying about 200 bags to Partage, the Geneva food bank • Alignment with the Firmenich Fundamentals across that collects food and hygiene products for 53 charities Employees recognized under this program will be given the everything we do within the Canton of Geneva. The bags consisted of a opportunity to visit one of our sustainability initiatives and work • Unparalleled focus on customer engagement with our local partners on a variety of projects (e.g. teaching remarkable 780 kilograms of food and hygiene products • Collaboration and commitment to best-practice sharing at the Firmenich School in Haiti, working at a health clinic in that truly made a difference to the local community. Madagascar, etc.) • Engaging 43 colleagues from our North American team Of the 43 Firmenich affiliates, 85% reported engagement to restore the wetlands in Newark Bay in New Jersey. scores superior to country-specific industry benchmarks, Participants planted native shrubs and trees, created indicating that Firmenich colleagues are more engaged than tidal trails, and built bird sanctuaries. employees from other companies in those countries. • Raising funds to purchase hundreds of LED lamps and Our millennial talent had slightly higher engagement scores nonperishable foods for two Brazilian institutions that compared to other generations, while all generations showed assist disabled children in the community. similar growth in engagement compared to our 2015 survey. • Hosting an exhibition of artisanal products made by underprivileged women in India to raise funds for the NGO Women’s India Trust, a charitable organization that empowers disadvantaged women through education, training, and employment. • Creating an entertaining sensory experience – a perfumery workshop – where disadvantaged primary school children September 2016 marked the 12th anniversary of our Community Day event. in Shanghai learned through the senses of smell and taste. “I am happier and I have something to do. I really have a bit of my self-confidence back. [Working at Firmenich] brings me out and gives me something to look forward to.” People and Communities Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 — London panelist Firmenich 41 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING PROJECTS Firmenich is taking a further step in our responsible The Deep Roots team, along with their sourcing partners, sourcing program with a company commitment to engage constantly share experiences, challenges, and best Case study: Ylang in an impactful program: Deep Roots 2020. practices to move toward more sustainable supply chains. In FY17, Firmenich partnered with a client, a supplier, and In February 2017, the team met in Grasse, France, to an NGO to enhance the livelihoods of smallholder Ylang In FY15, we set targets for our Deep Roots 2020 Strategy: farmers, distillers, and pickers in the Comoros Islands, discuss local certifications, our renewed commitment to off the southeast coast of Africa. This collaboration aims 40 Build 40 responsible sourcing the Union for Ethical Biotrade (UEBT), and the human rights projects. assessment of our Naturals supply chain. to enhance Ylang sustainability and profitability, ensure full traceability, and improve the livelihoods of all value100k Reach 100,000 beneficiaries chain actors, especially female pickers and distillers. directly through our projects. The Ylang flower serves as an important resource for 20 Work with 20 key suppliers in our Naturals Together strategic local livelihoods and is essential to the perfumery palette. platform. Ylang and spices are the main exports for the Union of 50 Involve 50 suppliers in a continuous Comoros, an archipelago ranked 160th on a scale of improvement program. 186 of the Human Development Index. This archipelago produces the best Ylang oils, which are commonly used 100 Impact 100 supply chains. in fragrances, cosmetics, and aromatherapy. The fragile Ylang supply chain is facing several challenges, including lower production volumes, adulteration Overall program FY17 FY20 increases, producer and worker impoverishment, Production Facilities at Source 2 5 and water scarcity. Our joint project, supported by the Enhancing Livelihoods Fund, focuses on: Naturals Together Partners 17 20 • Establishing 14 cooperatives Deep Roots Projects 17 40 Deep Roots Beneficiaries 53,050 100,000 • Renovating 40 alembics • Training 144 workers In FY17, we established a structured and global responsible • Planting and distributing 26,000 trees sourcing organization to establish a physical presence on • Creating health programs benefiting 712 farmers the ground at all our Deep Roots projects. These colleagues collaborate locally with our suppliers, producers, With funding provided by a client partner, two femalesmallholder farmers, NGOs, and governments to develop owned cooperatives will be created and equipped with responsible sourcing programs more easily and conduct innovative energy-efficient distillation equipment and regular in-person assessments to make sure they are a new and improved remuneration system for 200 on track. female pickers. Firmenich Deep Roots team works with Styrax harvesters from Honduras to build responsible sourcing programs. People and Communities Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 42 Firmenich CARDAMOM STYRAX VETIVER ACACIA GUMS JASMINE KEY 551 18 2,380 20,908 GRANDIFLORUM 3,705 FARMERS INCLUSIVE SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITY DISTILLATION NGO IMPACTED BUSINESS AGRICULTURE CARE EQUIPMENT PARTNERSHIPS BY PROJECT HAITI PATCHOULI 157 HONDURAS INDIA CHAD GUATEMALA EL SALVADOR COPAIBA PATCHOULI 1,512 452 COMOROS SUMATRA, INDONESIA JAVA, TONKA INDONESIA 702 BRAZIL PERU BALSAM 87 MADAGASCAR YLANG 1,527 ORANGE MANDARIN VANILLA VANILLA PATCHOULI 150 105 ORANGE 12,851 3,840 2,070 2,035 People and Communities Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 Firmenich 43 ABOUT THE REPORT EXTERNAL VERIFICATION This is our 12th annual sustainability report; as with the Nature and scope of the assurance/verification conflicts of interest with the organization, its subsidiaries previous reports it covers the past fiscal year (FY17) starting SGS Société Générale de Surveillance SA was commissioned and stakeholders. on July 1, 2016 and ending on June 30, 2017. It follows by Firmenich to conduct an independent assurance of the The assurance team was assembled based on their our 2016 annual sustainability report. We have chosen to Firmenich Performance and Sustainability Report 2017. The knowledge, experience and qualifications for this separate the GRI elements from our sustainability report. scope of the assurance, based on the SGS Sustainability assignment, and comprised auditors with Lead Quality, Our online GRI report, also assured by SGS, can be found Report Assurance methodology, included all text, and data Environmental and SA8000 Auditor and experience in the at www.firmenich.com. in accompanying tables, contained in this report, excluding flavors and fragrance industry. This report and our previous reports have all been fully the pages 1 to 3 and the section “A Year in Review” contained in pages 5 to 7, since these sections reflect opinions and Verification/assurance opinion assured by a third party in order to maintain a level of truthfulness and ensure that all the information, data market analysis. On the basis of the methodology described and the and stories have not been embellished and are exactly verification work performed, we are satisfied that The information in the Firmenich Performance and how they have been implemented/observed/calculated. the information and data contained within Firmenich Sustainability Report 2017 and its presentation are the This level of assurance helps us make sure that we report Performance and Sustainability Report 2017 is accurate, responsibility of the directors and the management of only the facts and that we are protected from falsehoods reliable and provides a fair and balanced representation Firmenich. SGS Société Générale de Surveillance SA has and misinformation, whether intentional or unintentional. of Firmenich sustainability activities in financial year not been involved in the preparation of any of the material ending 2017. The Materiality boundaries of this report are based on included in the Firmenich Performance and Sustainability the materiality analysis published in our 2015 report Report 2017. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on The assurance team is of the opinion that the Report can and updated in FY17. The boundaries of this report cover the text, data, graphs and statements within the scope of be used by the Reporting Organization’s Stakeholders. We the global operations of the Firmenich Group, including verification set out below with the intention to inform all believe that the organization has chosen an appropriate affiliates in 32 countries and both manufacturing and Firmenich’s stakeholders. level of assurance for this stage in their reporting. nonmanufacturing locations. In the report we refer to our This report has been assured at a moderate level of Signed for and on behalf of SGS Société Générale de 25 manufacturing sites. The environmental, workplace scrutiny using our protocols for the evaluation of content Surveillance SA Geneva, September 2017 and HR data reported, unless otherwise indicated, covers veracity. The assurance comprised a combination of preall operations owned or controlled by the group (including Stéphane ROMBALDI assurance research, interviews with relevant employees production sites, sales offices, laboratories, administrative SGS Société Générale de Surveillance SA at the Headquarters in Geneva; documentation and record office or combinations of such facilities). The employee Certification & Business Enhancement review. Data has been assured at corporate level; original data is reported for both fixed and temporary headcount. WWW.SGS.COM data has not been assured at site level. Financial data drawn To highlight our performance, the previous year’s data directly from independently audited financial accounts has and rolling five-year data are included in this report. not been checked back to source as part of the assurance Some of this data may differ from figures reported in process. previous sustainability reports. These variations reflect improvements made in the calculation and consolidation Statement of independence and competence methods as well as changes made once more accurate data The SGS Group of companies is the world leader in became available. Any changes in data reporting below inspection, testing and verification, operating in more a 5% threshold are deemed not material to this report than 140 countries and providing services including unless they are found to be of sufficient importance to our management systems and service certification; quality, management team; in these cases the explanation for the environmental, social and ethical auditing and training; variation will be detailed. environmental, social and sustainability report assurance. SGS Société Générale de Surveillance SA confirms our independence from Firmenich, being free from bias and Cover printed on Munken Pure. Inner printed on Oxygen Offset which is 100% recycled. Production and design by SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP. Printed by Pureprint.
