Noble Group Sustainability Report 2O17 Our People | Business Integrity | Environment | Responsible Supply Chain Sustainability Report 2017 Head Office 2 Co-CEO’s Message 102-3, 102-53 3 About Noble Group Noble Group Limited 4 About This Report 18th Floor, China Evergrande Centre 38 Gloucester Road, Hong Kong 5 Understanding Our Responsibility For enquiries and feedbacks 6 Our Material Topics Investor Relations: ir@thisisnoble.com 8 Targets and Performance Highlights Tel: +852 2861 3511 9 Identifying Opportunities to Advance Sustainable Development Goals 11 Our People 12 Maintaining Motivation 13 Building a Balanced Team 14 A Safe and Healthy Workplace 15 Community Outreach 16 Business Integrity 17 Roles and Governance 18 Risk Governance and Compliance 18 Precautionary Measures to Prevent Corruption 19 Ongoing Training and Communication 20 Environment 21 Energy and Emissions 21 Supplying the Growing Demand for Cleaner Fuels 22 Pollution Prevention and Mitigation 24 Responsible Supply Chain 25 Community and Growth 25 Social and Environmental Risk Management in Project Finance 26 Due Diligence for Minerals Supply Chains 28 GRI Content Index 31 Ernst & Young’s Assurance Statement 1 Sustainability Report 2017 Co-CEOs’ Message 102-14, 102-12, 102-13 Dear Stakeholders, Since taking on our new roles continue to seek and value in the late spring of 2016, we constructive feedback. have continued to ensure our In our sourcing regions, we entrepreneurial culture is aligned pave the way towards sustainable with the highest standards of economic development. We promote integrity, while sustainability prosperity through creating decent remains embedded into our core jobs and address inequality by businesses. As a testament to improving access to quality education Noble’s sustainability performance, and healthcare services. Additionally, the Group has been included in all worthwhile community initiatives four constituent lists of the newly receive multi-year philanthropic launched Singapore Exchange support from the Noble Foundation. Sustainability Indices. Our programmes resonate with As a Group, we have had a busy the vision of the United Nations year repositioning the firm to focus Sustainable Development Goals, on key activities, rationalising our which call for concerted efforts cost base and raising liquidity to towards building an inclusive, William James Randall, drive growth. The steps necessary sustainable and resilient future Co-Chief Executive Officer to achieve these goals have been for people and for the planet. For and Executive Director challenging, especially for the example, our multi-year community people at the firm, but the resilience plans in Jamaica, Australia and and resolve of our colleagues has Indonesia have been tailored to been exceptional. We are building support development in rural areas. momentum for future success These efforts also strengthen our and have exceeded our targets on relationships with local communities. capital raising. We remain committed to building We have been a signatory to the on the ten UN Global Compact UN Global Compact since 2010, pillars in the coming years, and and continue to reaffirm Noble’s to contributing to the Sustainable commitment to the 10 principles Development Goals. on human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and anticorruption, principles that remain at the core of Noble’s approach to how we conduct business. We are mindful that Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) factors, or sustainability criteria, are increasingly used as inputs Jeffrey Frase, in the investment decisions of Co-Chief Executive Officer professionally managed assets. and Executive Director We work relentlessly to bring these commitments to life, ensuring that we create value for all our stakeholders, while we also May 31, 2017 2 Sustainability Report 2017 About Noble Group 102-1, 102-2, 102-4, 102-5, 102-6, 102-7, 102-9 Noble Group (SGX: N21) is a leading company in the world at moving of relationships with producers, supply chain manager: we buy physical physical commodities from global consumer customers and our people commodities and transform them into producer networks to the consumer who provide value-added services to customised, consumable products and managing the market, credit, our customers and clients. that meet the requirements of our and operational risk associated with Our objective is to build long customers through (1) our logistics and that process. Comprehensive due term value for our shareholders, transportation services (2) our price diligence ensures that our trading partners, customers and employee, risk management and hedging services activities are fully compliant with all with sustainable focused franchises (3) our processing and blending applicable economic sanctions laws. built upon long term producer and capabilities and (4) our structured and We seek to be partners rather customer relationships. trade financing solutions. than competitors with our producers, Headquartered in Hong Kong, customers and investors alike. Our our core strategy is to be the best most valuable asset is our network Our Business Mix and How We Have Changed Focus on Core Franchises and Key Regions Global Asia US Oil Iron Ore & Gas & Energy Met Coal Energy Liquids Metals Special Power Coal & Coke Retail Ores Prioritisation and Focus on High-Return, Market-Leading Franchises & Regions Global Americas Asia + EMEA Iron Ore & Oil Energy Gas & Base Met Coal & LNG Aluminum Special Liquids Coal Power Metals Coke Ores Crude oil Bituminous Iron ore Alumina Copper Light ends coal Natural gas Met coal Chrome ore LNG Alumininum Nickel Distillates Subbituminous Electrcity Met coke Manganese Bauxite Zinc Renewables coal ore You can find more information about our corporate responsibility work at http://thisisnoble.com/responsibility.html 3 Sustainability Report 2017 About This Report Financial 102-46, 102-50, 102-52 This Sustainability Report provides with the Singapore Stock Exchange’s Highlights an annual update on important nonsecurities trading listing rules 711A and FY 2016 financial topics within the Group’s 711B, which will come into force for the (US$ million) global operations and majority owned 2017-2018 reporting period. 201-1 subsidiaries for the calendar year ending Performance data is accompanied 31 December 2016. by a brief description of our policies and Minority investments and associated management systems, as well as our companies that are not consolidated activities and their impact on our day-toin the Group’s financial statements are day business. This year we have aligned Revenue in: excluded from the statistical summaries provided in this report. The Group has limited control over these operations. our sustainability reporting cycle to our annual reporting. This report serves multiple 45,524 However, these relationships are covered communication functions. It in our broader responsibility programmes, enhances our internal efforts towards through product stewardship processes, transparency and disclosure and Employee pre-investment due diligence and supplier supports communication with many of Benefits policies and standards. our external stakeholders. This includes Expenses: This report has been prepared in many of our shareholders and banks accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. that have aligned themselves with the Principles for Responsible Investment 462 The report was submitted to the GRI and the Equator Principles and seeks Materiality Disclosures Service which to understand the way in which Noble verifies that the General Disclosures addresses environmental, social, and GRI 102-40 to GRI 102-49 from the GRI governance matters. The report also Corporate Standards are correctly located in both serves as our annual Communication Taxes: the GRI Content Index and the text in On Progress (COP), as required by the this report. This report also complies United Nations Global Compact. 66.4 External Assurance Adjusted 102-54, 102-56 Net profit: We seek to provide reliable information on sustainability to our intended readers has been compiled in accordance with the “Core Option” of the GRI 252.1 and use an external assurance process Sustainability Reporting Standards. to support our efforts. Internally, these A copy of Ernst & Young’s assurance reviews have assisted us to improve the statement is on page 31-32. robustness and completeness of our The focus on reporting the most Tonnage: reporting practices. The Board requested the Group’s external auditor to review the annual relevant matters has led us to identify and prioritise topics that are core to our business and key stakeholders. 222 mil tonnes sustainability report. Hence, Ernst In addition, the company’s greenhouse & Young has provided independent gas emissions figures for year 2016 were assurance on our sustainability data independently verified by TÜV Nord and disclosure for this report, which according to the ISO 14064 standard. 4 Sustainability Report 2017 Understanding Our Responsibility 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 Our approach to responsible business co-financing and project finance. Our well as providing a safe and healthy is fostered by our desire to understand extensive relationships with a diverse workplace. These drive our aspirations the concerns and expectations of our group of banks in different markets to attract and retain the best. All key stakeholders. Throughout our allow us to maintain adequate liquidity employees receive regular performance supply chain operations, we maintain in challenging periods and to invest in and career development reviews. a constructive dialogue with our new opportunities as they arise. stakeholders across a spectrum of Local communities are impacted topics to improve decision making and Customers and suppliers by our operations. Dedicated the accountability of our partnerships. partner with Noble because of our personnel lead relationship and We endeavour to grow our business, understanding of their requirements engagement programmes in our and at the same time, drive economic and needs. Supported by our key locations to serve and benefit and social progress by moving customer-focused culture and global the communities. To minimise essential materials to where they supply networks, we engage with our environmental footprint, our are needed, whilst managing our customers on a daily basis. The operations follow international the complexity of the process. formation of strategic marketing standards in environmental It is our responsibility to create agreements between Noble and joint management. We regularly meet long-term value for shareholders, venture partners delivers competitive with our communities via formal and which cannot be achieved without advantages. Ensuring a smooth informal consultation to understand balancing the myriad interests of our flow of products and capability to their interests and concerns, customers, banks, employees and the and safeguard our corporate deliver a diverse range of products reputation. Close interaction with communities we impact. is vital to the goal of building longthe communities in which we operate term relationships across our global continues to shape our programmes Shareholders invest in Noble’s customer and supplier bases. addressing the key challenges of recognised track record, commodity poverty and underdevelopment. market insights and robust governance Governments and regulators and risk management systems. set the legislative frameworks and The Board welcomes the views of statutory requirements for our sector, shareholders on matters affecting covering market access, product the Company, either at shareholders’ flows, labour and environmental meetings, or on an ad hoc basis. standards, property rights and Queries may be raised with the taxation. Our governance structure Director, Corporate Affairs via and Board procedures ensure the Company’s website. There are appropriate supervision and control regular meetings with investors, fund over these processes. Where possible, managers and analysts, and quarterly our business activities aim to build conference calls which are entirely greater recognition and goodwill open to anyone who wishes to use the with governments. publicised toll free numbers. Employees share our values in Banks benefit from our high recognising entrepreneurialism and compliance standards and best the benefits of high performance practice risk management systems teamwork. Town hall meetings, regular when providing us services. Banks newsletters and employee surveys enable Noble to secure stable and ensure good information flows within flexible financing directly and through Noble. Our focus is on improving staff syndicated prepayment facilities, development and performance as 5 Sustainability Report 2017 Our Material Topics 102-46, 102-47 Knowing what is important to Noble to the changing context of our We reviewed our material topics Group and our stakeholders is essential business and key stakeholders. The in 2016 using input from internal and for us to focus resources on those areas Group’s CSR Advisory Committee, external stakeholders, including media that will have the most significant comprising senior executives from coverage of our peers and the commodity sustainability impact. Health key functions in major locations, sector more broadly. The CSR function and safety, workplace wellbeing, leads the engagement processes. We developed surveys to obtain feedback environmental impact, and compliance adopt internationally recognised from Noble’s senior functional managers, are examples of topics that are relevant reporting frameworks (GRI key customers, analysts and investors to both the business direction and our Sustainability Reporting Standards on the relative importance of different corporate responsibility efforts. and UN Global Compact) in setting sustainability topics. We undertake periodic materiality the boundaries for reporting, and This report reviews material nonassessments to identify pertinent to guide thinking on business and financial topics, with disclosure on topics and consider their relevance stakeholder relations. overall management approach and 6 Sustainability Report 2017 102-46, 102-47 relevant performance indicators. The topics that were a priority for our dialogues, as a part of the limited surveys were broader and included internal and external stakeholders. assurance procedures. The results economic and operational topics, The topics relate to four focus areas – corroborated our disclosure on such as financial performance, our people, business integrity, material topics and performance brand management, and customer environment and responsible supply indicators. The Board of Directors satisfaction. We communicate on these chain. To assist users of this report, acknowledged the alignment of the in Noble Group’s annual report and we have provided a mapping of our prioritised topics with our strategic quarterly announcements. Corporate material sustainability topics to the objectives and approved the content governance and risk management are GRI G4 terminology and framework. presented in this report. covered in both the annual report and Ernst and Young benchmarked the this report. key issues raised in external media The materiality matrix shows the reports, Noble’s peers sustainability relative priority of the 14 non-financial reports and Noble’s stakeholder 2016 Sustainability Materiality Assessment Supply chain management Risk management Board leadership Product quality Corporate governance IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Legal compliance Talent attraction Greenhouse gas emissions and energy Human rights Employee training and development Diversity and equal opportunities Pollution prevention Indigenous rights Occupational health and safety OUR PEOPLE BUSINESS INTEGRITY ENVIRONMENT REPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN IMPACT ON BUSINESS SUCCESS 7 Sustainability Report 2017 Targets and Performance Highlights Our Sustainability strategy is together with the global business continuous improvement in managing integrated into Noble Group’s business divisions and corporate functions. our most material issues. This is in execution and governance system. To The following table presents line with the SGX’s requirements on track our performance against the performance against these indicators, sustainability reporting. strategy, we set measurable targets highlighting our efforts to drive TARGETS / KPIS PERFORMANCE IN 2016 OUR PEOPLE • Occupational health • Zero fatalities • Zero fatalities and safety • All key offices and assets routinely report health and • We launched a Group level health and safety policy in December • Human rights safety metrics 2016, with improved data collection from January 2017 • Talent attraction • Safety incident rate of Noble owned ships and tonnage • Noble’s owned ships and tonnage had a lost time injury • Employee training and • 100% of employees paid at least national minimum wage for frequency (LTIF) of 1.05, and an average total recordable case development their country frequency (TRCF) of 1.421 • Diversity and equal • Percentage of new hires that are recruited from their local region • 100% of employees paid at least national minimum wage for opportunities • Number of positions that were filled internally their country • Percentage of staff voluntary turnover • More than 81% of our new hires with a known birth region were • Zero credible complaints of discrimination reported in Noble’s recruited in their local region offices and/or assets • 38 employees took the opportunity to move country and 46 moved to a different business unit or job function • 22% staff voluntary turnover rate • No credible complaints of discrimination reported in Noble’s offices and/or assets BUSINESS INTEGRITY • Corporate governance • More than 50% of the Board comprises independent • 62% of our Board comprises independent non-executive directors • Board leadership non-executive directors • No breaches or non-compliance of applicable laws or regulatory • Legal compliance • Zero breaches or non-compliance of applicable laws or requirements in Noble’s operations. • Risk management regulatory requirements in Noble’s operations. • About 67% of employees attended compliance training • More than 80% of employees attend compliance • 5 audits were conducted across 8 Noble Group’s operations training annually • Integrated the World-Check screening process in the new • Numbers of relevant business units audited internally centralised counterparty management technology solution • Automate the World-Check screening process to monitor counterparty credit risk ENVIRONMENT • Pollution prevention • Zero spills across our marine fleet operations • Zero spills across our marine fleet operations • Greenhouse gas emissions • 10% reduction of CO2 emissions per product traded (MtCO2e/Mt) • Intensity in 2016 was above the base year, it declined by 7% and energy between 2013 (base year) and 2018 (target year) in 2015 • 10% reduction of CO2 emissions due to business travel per • 1.3% reduction on carbon intensity of business travel full-time employee between 2015 (base year) and 2020 (target year) RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN • Supply chain management • 100% of minerals traded from the Democratic Republic of Congo • 100% of minerals traded from the Democratic Republic of Congo • Product quality and adjoining countries comply with the iTSCi responsible and adjoining countries comply with the iTSCi responsible • Indigenous rights production requirements production requirements • 100% compliance with our customer requirements and our • In 2016, we tested the quality of our shipped bulk commodities at contractual commitments on bulk commodity shipment load port, and on the basis of this load port quality analysis. This is • Zero formal complaints reported on any violations of the rights a new target, we will report progress next year of indigenous people • No formal complaints reported on any violations of the rights of indigenous people 1 The frequency rates are calculated per million exposure hours 8 Sustainability Report 2017 Identifying Opportunities to Advance Sustainable Development Goals The United Nations Sustainable 39 high school students in two rural consequences and can cause air Development Goals (SDGs) are a new schools. These students come from one pollution as well as contribute to set of universal goals and targets of the poorest townships in Guizhou climate change. that came into force in January 2016. and most live in remote mountain Asian countries are addressing These goals apply from now until areas with limited road access. these direct impacts through 2030 and provide a framework for Across India, we have been shifting to coals with a higher governments and business around the partnering with Room to Read since calorific value and lower world to stimulate actions in areas of 2013 to eradicate illiteracy and environmental consequences. Our critical importance for humanity and gender inequality in some of the energy coal division is strengthening the planet. most underserved communities. In our f lows of top quality thermal As a global supply chain manager, primary schools where educational coal with low ash and low sulphur we play a role in promoting prosperity materials and training for teachers is content from Australia, which helps through trade and innovation. Adding lacking, our funds are used to support mitigate the impact of coal burning to our commitment to the United children’s books publication, assist and improve efficiency in coal-fired Nations Global Compact, we pursue in curriculum development, set up power generation. opportunities to solve social challenges libraries and provide teachers with To capture the opportunities and advance SDGs that are relevant workshops on reading and writing that are arising in the low-carbon to our operations. This year, we have instruction. These efforts aim to help energy transition, our clean fuel and prioritised our efforts on these four children obtain reading skills and renewables business supplies ethanol goals where we believe we can make develop the habitof reading. and biodiesel across North America. In the most positive contribution. Recognising that girls are 2016, we acquired a 100% ownership of at a much higher risk of dropping the Noble Mansfield Renewable Energy Ensure inclusive and out in secondary school, we joint venture to consolidate our role in equitable quality education have also funded over 150 girls trading clean fuels. and promote lifelong learning in the last two years to participate opportunities for all in a holistic education programme Reduce inequality within and We promote access which includes mentoring, among countries to quality education financial and academic support, At Noble, we apply through life skills training, and an equal scholarships and community engagement. employment teacher training opportunity and programmes in our Ensure access to affordable, non-discrimination countries of operation. Our reliable, sustainable and modern policy to ensure our scholarship beneficiaries range from energy for all staff are hired and rewarded based on primary school pupils to postdoctoral Energy access is their ability and contribution. Being a researchers. Here are two examples of crucial for physical commodity trader, we our programmes. achieving almost all originate trade flows from various In China, there remain disparities the Sustainable developing countries and endeavour to in educational attainment between Development Goals. advance equality through rural and urban areas. Financial As a fuel source, infrastructure investment and social barriers for students in rural areas coal provides an affordable, safe and renewal projects. exacerbate the challenges they face in reliable energy supply that has allowed Rural roads play a critical role in accessing quality education. Starting the advancement of billions of people connecting people to facilities and in autumn 2015, we have funded a out from poverty. However, it has services. In Kalimantan and Papua, 3-year living subsidy programme for significant environmental Indonesia, we support ongoing road 9 Sustainability Report 2017 Being able to read and write is essential. In Uttarakhand, India, Noble improves the quality of primary education through Room to Read’s literacy programme, which helps build children’s reading skills, and cultivates a habit of reading books. development in hard to reach villages Take urgent action to combat we have offset more than 1,250,000 by providing heavy equipment and climate change and its impacts tonnes of carbon emissions. embankment materials for road Since 2007, We set reduction targets across maintenance. The improved quality Noble has sought our operations, including for energy of the roads allows better connection to mitigate and key material inputs. These between towns and villages, so helping environmental targets are aggregated at the Group to widen the economic participation of issues in our value level. Our Group GHG inventory local communities. chains as well has been certified to the ISO 14064 In Jamaica, we are funding a as work systematically on climate standard since 2010, as a commitment 3-year comprehensive community and environmental risks across to consistent and transparent empowerment programme. Facilities our corporate offices and communication of our climate upgrade and social renewal are physical operations. mitigation actions. priority elements in the programme We initiated the Carbon Neutral that promote social inclusion and Project to reduce the Group’s See the Environment chapter on page improve access to primary social greenhouse gas (GHGs) emissions and 20 for more details. services. In 2016, we funded multiple raise awareness on climate change at renovations and equipment upgrades, our global offices. In 2016, we achieved including at a youth activities centre, carbon neutrality in all Noble offices a health clinic, two hospitals and a worldwide and printed publications. homeless shelter. Since the inception of the project, 10 Sustainability Report 2017 Our People Following a turbulent period in the Our Commitment markets, a significant component of 102-16 our people and HR activities in 2016 were focused on Noble’s transition Noble Group is committed to achieving to a simpler and nimbler Group. This Zero Harm across our business. Zero created a challenging context in which Harm means zero fatalities, accidents and to uphold our commitment to keeping injuries, and taking all possible steps to our workforce motivated and engaged. ensure the health, safety and welfare of all Recruiting and staffing decisions play a employees and other persons engaged in critical role in ensuring that we put the work for the organisation. right people in the right roles and the right Our Equal Opportunities Policy places. We value diversity at every level applies to every employee in the Group of our organisation and respect the rights and commits Noble to eliminating of all our employees. As at December 31, discrimination, harassment and 2016, our 1,036 employees represented victimization in the workplace. We more than 48 nationalities, working across support freedom of association and 18 countries. collective bargaining for our employees The top drivers in talent attraction and diligently comply with local labour and retention include a sense of laws and regulations in the countries in ownership, training opportunities and which we conduct business. career advancement. Beyond this we Forced or compulsory labour of have rooted the wellbeing of our people any kind is not tolerated, nor do we in our day to day activities to assure safe exploit child labour in any of our global workplaces and enhance a culture of good operations. The majority of Noble’s health. We enable our staff to volunteer staff are office based with permanent and give back to the community through contracts, hence forced and child labour our outreach programmes. are not an issue in our direct operations. For potential human rights topics in product origination, you can refer to the chapter – Responsible Supply Chain. 11 Sustainability Report 2017 102-7, 102-8, 405-1 Maintaining Motivation gym membership or health screening. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Noble Group operates a number of defined contribution plans (including By Region Our success is only made possible by mandatory and voluntary schemes) and Gender* our people. Capable leaders, along throughout the world – in 2016, with skilled and motivated staff employer pension contributions F M TOTAL APAC 215 331 546 are particularly critical for Noble totalled US$7.8 million. EMEA 36 98 134 during times of change. To enhance performance while reducing our AMER 105 251 356 Internal mobility 1,036 workforce, we focus on incentive Personal development plans and packages, fill vacant positions with practical actions are key to help realise suitable internal candidates, and each individual’s potential. Against the By Management maintain a constructive dialogue backdrop of strategic repositioning, we Level and Gender with all staff via our internal are building greater visibility around communication mechanism. F M TOTAL the different career paths available to Directors our employees on a global basis. The Compensation and Benefits (Senior 12 81 93 internal mobility afforded to our people manager or 201-3 above) is a mark of our entrepreneurial spirit. Manager Noble Group offers our permanent We seek, reward and support a sense of (Experienced 115 300 415 employees a competitive compensation ownership among our employees, which professional or above) and benefits package2. Pay for encourages initiative from all levels. In Professionl & performance underpins our 2016, 38 employees took the opportunity 195 198 393 support compensation strategy, which we believe, to move countries and 46 moved to No Declared 33 102 135 different business units, job functions enhances the culture of partnership and 1,036 teamwork across the firm. and increased job scope. This includes Under our compensation framework, multiple transfers to the Metals and Base a proportion of employees’ annual Metals desk in Dubai office, as we seek to By Employment build out new business in this key region. bonuses are deferred, and subject Contract and Gender to continued employment and other F M TOTAL qualifying conditions. This not only Constructive Dialogue aligns the interests of our employees 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 402-1, 404-3, 407-1 Permanent 352 674 1,026 with those of our shareholders, but Temporary 4 6 10 also creates a sense of ownership Mutual respect and loyalty are key 1,036 and accountability that is central to attributes of communication that our corporate culture. In addition, enhance performance and productivity. employees in key roles may also receive One step to achieve this is our employee By Employment share options, which provide a further performance appraisal. A discussion Contract and Region linkage to the long-term interests of the between managers and employees takes business and our shareholders. place to review achievements, provide P T TOTAL We also offer benefits programmes feedback against objectives, and to set APAC 540 6 546 that include medical, health and the framework for compensation. In EMEA 130 4 134 disability covers, pension plans, parental 2016, we conducted a review on the AMER 356 0 356 1,036 leave, and wellness programmes. In current process and evaluated the Singapore and Dubai, we offer a flexible effectiveness of with people managers benefits programme which enables across business functions. By Employment Type employees to adjust their coverage levels Our employees are kept up to date on and Region and spend any remaining funds on a the latest news of the company via emails range of health related products such as and our internal magazine – Noble F M TOTAL Full-Time 354 676 1,030 Part-Time 2 4 6 2 The eligibility to participate fully in Noble Group’s benefits programme depends on local employment contracts, which can vary according to local employment laws. 1,036 * Noble Group’s human resources data and processes are maintained over a robust software application. 12 Sustainability Report 2017 World. We gather feedback through town hall meetings in the major offices and provide opportunities for employees to directly interact with the senior Noble Americas management team. Wellness Program 102-41 The Noble Americas Wellness Program is in its third year and Noble abides by local minimum going strong. Launched in 2014, the Program encourages Noble notice requirements for informing Americas Corp. employees to understand that health is their employees when there are significant greatest asset. changes in our operations. We honestly By participating in an annual biometric screening, engage with our staff to agree on employees learn “their numbers” in five health risk factors: alternatives or severance packages. body mass index (BMI), blood pressure, blood glucose, Noble’s Code of Conduct embraces our triglycerides and HDL (“good”) cholesterol. Awareness of these employees’ right to exercise freedom of numbers is the first step for employees to maintain and monitor association and to have representation their health. The second step is taking action to improve or of their choice. As of 2016, most of our maintain their biometric screening results. workforce was not covered by specific In March 2016, 115 employees in the US and Canada collective bargaining agreements. participated in the Noble Americas Fitness Challenge. The goal of the challenge was to walk 10,000 steps a day. Any employee Building a balanced team who hit the goal 5 days out of a week was entered into a weekly 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 406-1 raffle. Five employees hit the 10,000 steps a day goal every day of the month and a trophy was awarded to the San Diego office, Our people work across multiple who had the highest number of average steps per employee. functions, locations and languages. With New for 2017, we have included spouses in the biometric 1,036 employees, our diverse workforce screening process. Any spouse who is enrolled in Noble’s represents 48 nationalities across 18 Medical Benefits for 2017, is encouraged to participate in countries. A culture of diversity and the Noble Americas Wellness Program by taking a baseline equal opportunities is one of our greatest biometric screening. So far, we have 99% of enrolled spouses strengths and allows us to operate participate in the program. cohesively across borders and businesses. Overall, both Noble Americas Corp. employees and spouses We have clear policies on equal are an extremely healthy group, and 92.8% of those who were opportunity to enhance diversity and screened have at least 3 of the 5 health risk factors in the promote inclusiveness. It is a strategic healthy range. decision for our business to provide a workplace culture that embraces different cultures, ethnicities, genders and backgrounds. Permanent employees represented 99% of our workforce. Female representation was 37% in our global offices (2015: 35%) and 34% of our overall workforce. Our people managers are responsible for ensuring that the Equal Opportunities Policy and other labour principles are adhered to in their departments. In our offices, employees receive mandatory training on workplace conduct and business ethics. We encourage and promote procedures for reporting any unwelcome attitudes in the workplace. Moreover, Noble takes any alleged breach 13 Sustainability Report 2017 401-1 New hires by Age Group and Gender F M TOTAL <30 25 22 47 30-50 38 49 87 >50 5 19 24 Not declared 1 1 159 New hires by Region Group and Gender Richard Samuel Elman (Chairman and Executive Director) presented a 15-year Long Service Award to Wildrik de Blank (Group Treasurer) at Noble’s Christmas party 2016 F M TOTAL AMER 24 49 73 of discrimination standards seriously. In and succession planning initiatives APAC 33 27 60 2016, we received no credible complaints cover key leadership roles and top tiers EMEA 11 15 26 of discrimination in any location. of the senior management team across 159 We prioritise recruiting and the Group. We reward the loyalty of our developing local talent. By doing so, we employees by providing long service bring in local knowledge that is crucial awards to honour their many years of Turnover by Age Group for our business growth and contribute service to the company. and Gender human capital development in our The turnover rate in 2016 reflected a operating locations. More than 81% of challenging year for Noble in which, we F M TOTAL our new hires with known birth region in repositioned into a smaller, more nimble <30 61 94 155 2016 were recruited in their local region. company. As we focused on our core 30-50 58 166 224 franchises, this has led restructuring >50 8 35 43 Talent Acquisition and in several of our business areas aand 422 Development inevitably high turnover. Some employees 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 with transferrable skills moved to other industries, which had a consequential Our award winning Global Associate impact on voluntary turnover. Turnover by Region Programme attracts the best graduates Group and Gender from universities around the world. A Safe and Healthy Workplace F M TOTAL Many of the alumni from previous 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 years are quickly advancing through AMER 30 66 96 the organisation. We embed leadership Noble Group is committed to achieving APAC 62 130 192 development as a part of our Zero Harm across the business. Health EMEA 35 99 134 succession planning. and safety policy and guidelines are 422 The real strength of the programme implemented to ensure the necessary comes from the dedicated support and focus on safety systems at work, response input we receive from Noble’s managers, to incidents and provide medical aids. including associate selection, mentoring At the end of 2016, we launched a Group and development. Associates take part level health and safety policy. This in multiple, in-house training activities, policy built onto our regional policies assignments and on-the-job rotations. to monitor and streamline reporting, The programme offers extensive insights which exceeds legal health and safety into commodities markets, global supply requirements applicable in the countries chains and risk management. in which we operate. Across our US To support personal and career locations, we are also helping employees development, our comprehensive review to make informed health and lifestyle 14 Sustainability Report 2017 decisions through Noble Americas Wellness Programme. 403-2 Mobile Family Planning and For our owned fleets and tonnage, the lost time injury frequency and total Health Clinics in Kenya recordable case frequency rates were 1.05 Imagine trying to feed a small family on US$1.5 a day, and and 1.42 in 2016. Both figures meet the imagine how much more difficult it would be if you had six safety performance indicators of our fleet children and no access to contraception? managers. We take health and safety Community Health and Sustainable Environment matters seriously across our investment (CHASE Africa), a UK registered charity, is working in rural portfolio. However, the operations at these Kenya and Uganda to address the complex and related projects are often beyond our sphere of issues of poverty, ill health, population pressure and operational control. To minimise health environmental degradation. and safety risks, we partner with reputable Their programme provides access to free, voluntary production facilities in developed regions, family planning and basic healthcare services using mobile conduct site visits, and exercise board clinics. These clinics offer contraception service and advice, oversight where appropriate. vaccinations, and HIV testing. As a part of the programme, trusted local mobilisers are deployed to the area that Community Outreach the clinics will operate in to create an understanding of 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 413-1 contraception and maximize attendance at the clinics. In 2016, Noble Foundation provided a grant to fund this Noble goes beyond promoting an project for two years. Our contribution has given more than active lifestyle for our employees. We 2,800 families access to contraception, many for the first reach out to the communities in which time. With smaller families and longer spaces between births, we work and live, helping numerous resources do not need to be stretched so far. Women with healthcare, educational, environmental fewer children have more time available for productive work and charitable efforts to enrich our lives and income generating activities. and the lives of others. We have a vision to work for the greater good outside of our daily activities it is in our culture to contribute and give back to society. Our people lead many community initiatives, identifying where help is most needed. We volunteer and aim to inspire. This includes community volunteering schemes such as fundraising, providing teaching and mentoring services, as Noble Foundation well as participating in charity runs Founded in 2007, the Noble Foundation provides philanthropic and challenges. contributions to address the root cause of poverty and From marathons to obstacle racing, underdevelopment. Through collaboration with local Noble teams participate in multiple organisations, we are dedicated to acting at the grassroots level. events to raise funds for local charities We have put in place a formal procedure to select, monitor and touch the communities in the and review programmes, and welcome applications year places where Noble operates. In Noble round from our staff. In 2016, we implemented programmes Americas, more than 15 charities in 12 countries focusing on literacy, rural infrastructure, benefited from our dollar-for-dollar medical and nutritional assistance, boosting local employment matching gift programme, benefiting opportunities and biodiversity protection. To enable the stable qualified charities. We look to advance delivery of services and activities that align with our visions, social objectives and build lasting the Foundation generally makes grants to programmes that are partnerships. Regular site visits and brought to our attention by staff, offering support over one to meetings with local government officials three year periods. are also an important complement to our evaluation of community needs. 15 Sustainability Report 2017 Business Integrity Business integrity is the foundation for Our Commitment Noble Group’s values and operations. 102-16 We implement systems and processes to ensure accountability and responsibility Noble is committed to operating throughout the organisation and across with the utmost integrity. Noble’s our relations with our stakeholders. This Code of Conduct sets out compliance includes the structure of governance requirements and guidelines on and oversight set through the board key ethical issues. Our policies and of directors and the risk governance management systems explicitly emphasise and compliance measures that apply to anti-corruption, anti-bribery and antioperational teams. We take precautionary trust behaviour. measures to address key business integrity At a minimum, Noble acts in risks from corruption or bribery, including accordance with its statutory or investments in IT systems to assess regulatory requirements and expects counterparty risk and ongoing training for all employees to comply with the law in staff. We view these measures as critically every jurisdiction in which we operate. important to ensure a strong foundation We hold onto our core values of being for the business. accountable and responsible, which extend to our shared commitment to prevent fraud and misconduct. 16 Sustainability Report 2017 Roles and Governance identifies, monitors and implements 405-1 good corporate governance practices 102-11, 102-16, 102-18 and procedures for the Group. Board of Directors Our Board of Directors is committed The Corporate Social to maintaining a high standard of Responsibility & Government F M TOTAL corporate governance within the Relations Committee is responsible 30-50 3 3 Group. We take pride in having a for reviewing the social and >50 1 9 10 deep and high quality Board, whose environmental issues that affect the 13 objective judgement on corporate Group’s business, as well as overseeing affairs and collective experience is government relations in specific invaluable for our decision making. countries. It approves or recommends With a total of 13 directors, 8 for Board approval the Group’s of whom are Independent Noninvolvement with and sponsorship Executive Directors, the Board is or support of activities, to further responsible for the strategic direction the Group’s social responsibility of the Group and has oversight of objectives. The Committee also senior management. oversees government relationships, The Board maintains close monitors and responds to government consideration of investment, financial actions as appropriate, and builds, risks, governance, remuneration, where possible, greater recognition government relations, health and and goodwill with governments. safety, and environmental and social Business integrity is a matters. The directors constructively responsibility for all employees. challenge and help develop proposals Consequently, the Noble Group Code on strategy, review the performance of Conduct applies to all Directors, of management in meeting agreed officers and employees of the Group goals and objectives, and monitor and each of its subsidiaries. The the reporting of performance. Good Code of Conduct sets out principles corporate governance establishes to guide employees, directors and and maintains a legal and ethical officers in carrying out their duties environment, which strives to and responsibilities to the highest promote and preserve the interests standards of personal and corporate of all stakeholders. integrity when dealing with the Group, The committee structure of our its customers, suppliers, competitors Board enables separation of duties and the community. Our policy is and differentiates responsibilities to in line with our commitment to the focus on critical functions. The Audit United Nations Universal Declaration Committee provides oversight on of Human Rights and the principles of financial accounting and reporting the United Nations Global Compact. obligations; oversight of the external In keeping with our dedication and internal auditors and their work; to professionalism in our operations, adequacy of internal controls and the risk, compliance and internal audit financial risk management system. functions are mandated to oversee The Corporate Governance Committee the implementation of our policies 17 Sustainability Report 2017 regarding ethical conduct. As part of Noble’s Risk Committee comprises comply within the legal obligations our efforts, the Group has adopted senior managers and division heads. and laws in every jurisdiction in which and implemented a policy whereby It meets on a weekly basis to discuss we operate. Noble’s Code of Conduct employees may, in confidence, raise significant risks and progress against imposes specific obligations in respect concerns regarding unlawful activity, strategy. Among other mandates, the of anti-corruption, anti-trust, antipolicy or practices, suspected fraud, committee reviews Noble’s policies and money laundering, combating financial corruption, dishonest practices or internal controls to ensure appropriate crimes, counter financing of terrorism, other matters. Senior management in procedures are in place. sanctions and fraud. global human resources and technical In the past year, we launched the Our experienced Compliance operations implement Noble’s Noble Group Economic Sanctions Team is dedicated to ensuring that our environmental, health and safety Policy to reinforce the roles of all business conforms to applicable laws management programmes. This is employees to comply with applicable and regulations. Compliance Team complemented by locally defined and sanctions laws as well as the personnel are based in our trading asset specific requirements, depending responsibility of legal and compliance offices and serve as a valuable resource on the operating activity of the functions. The goal is to minimise for providing technical assistance respective business line. potential legal and reputational risks to and training in the regulatory sphere. our staff and business units. The policy During the reporting period, we had Risks Governance sets out procedures that are intended to no confirmed cases of corruption in and Compliance focus on economic sanctions imposed our operations. by the United States, European Union, Noble employees worldwide are 205-1, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 419-1 United Nations and Monetary Authority given explicit guidance on ethical Noble’s holistic approach to risk of Singapore. During the reporting business practices, such as conflicts governance underpins our strong period, we had no fines or nonof interest, entertainment and gifts. risk management culture. A clear monetary sanctions relating to the nonEvery employee must acknowledge segregation of duties for risk managers compliance of laws and regulations. they have read and understood Noble’s and business managers ensures full Code of Conduct and policies, as part 102-13 accountability and ownership within of their induction and on an ongoing our risk management structure. We pay close attention to evolving basis. Regular refresher training is We have a dedicated internal laws and regulatory frameworks, and organised to maintain the effectiveness audit team conducting systematic actively support reforms that require of compliance programmes and audits across all of Noble’s operations. higher standards. Often, collective highlight some of the perception gaps Its role is defined and overseen by actions by investors, companies and and possible “grey areas”. the Audit Committee. The review regulators helps to promote better Specific rules on securities and audit of Noble’s operations is standards of governance in Asian trading when in possession of a continuous process. The team companies and counter corruption internal, confidential information engages in discussion and consultation and malpractice. Noble is a member are circulated among employees with various operations addressing of the Asian Corporate Governance and set out in a separate policy. This financial, operational, compliance Association (ACGA) and actively includes a procedure for the good and information technology risks. The participates in their conferences and faith reporting of any infringement of team provides independent assurance advocacy initiatives. the Code of Conduct or other Noble of our overall systems of control and policy. Concerned employees are ensures compliance with sanctions Precautionary Measures to encouraged to report without fear to legislation and anti-bribery measures, Prevent Corruption the Compliance or Legal departments such as the UK Bribery Act. In the when any suspicions arise. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 205-3 reporting period, five audits were Noble has adopted and conducted across Noble Group’s eight Our Group-wide policies state clearly implemented a whistle-blowing policy primary business units. that all our business functions must through which employees may, in 18 Sustainability Report 2017 confidence, raise concerns regarding corrective actions. Not only does and jurisdictions. Important matters not only about work place this initiative increase visibility into notifications are communicated via misconducts, but also any unlawful customer profiles, it also enhances compliance emails to employees activities, policies or practices, customer experience by avoiding globally. Education and refresher suspected fraud, corruption, dishonest duplicate requests for information. trainings on compliance, financial practices or other similar matters. From day to day, our team categorises crime, anti-bribery and anti-money There are also arrangements for an each counterparty into one of three laundering (AML) are delivered via independent investigation of such tiers, depending on its locations, e-learning programmes and classroom issues and for appropriate follow up beneficiaries and the nature of its sessions. New joiners undertake actions where necessary. activities. Before entering into any mandatory compliance training on the contracts with new counterparties, Group’s policies. Centralised Platform for we undertake a World-Check risk Up to 700 employees (1,330 in the Counterparty Acquisition search as a key component of our previous reporting cycle) attended As a listed public company with a mandatory risk screening. training in 2016. Among these, around global footprint, we acknowledge We faced some internal resistance 12% of attendees were management that our actions are constantly when introducing these voluntary level staff. Refresher training covers under scrutiny. Global regulations processes, but we overcame the AML, illegal conduct, the UK bribery on financial crime and anti-trust are challenge by actively communicating Act, and the US Foreign Corrupt being tightened as regulators place with our internal stakeholders on the Practices Act. In the US, training was greater emphasis on transparency necessity of subjecting all of Noble’s held on sanctions and trade policies and accountability. counterparties to high standard from the Office of Foreign Assets We continue to adapt to the monitoring measures. Our business Control. All staff receive annual changing regulatory landscape by development and relationship recertification on their regional regularly reviewing our policies and management teams also appreciated compliance manual. procedures. Taking into account the ability of the new system to In 2016, we complemented face these developments, industry provide holistic customer profiles to face training sessions with online guidance, customer experience and and to position ourselves better as compliance training, while e-learning societal expectations, we implement an important part of our customers’ modules remain the major delivery internal controls that safeguard our businesses. We will continue to tool at our global locations. This operations against regulatory and streamline our processes to ensure that enables flexibility for employees to reputational risk. they suit each business division. access training materials and allows After a successful roll out of us to maintain a centralised tracking the new centralised counterparty Ongoing Training and system for course attendance. management technology solution Communication This programme caters to the and Know Your Counterparty (KYC) different needs of different business 205-2 Programme across global divisions, we functions. For example, front office have enhanced our control mechanism Every Noble employee is informed members receive training on financial by integrating various internal about our policies and practices. crimes, bribery acts, market abuse systems. In 2016, we reviewed and Corporate policies are reviewed and and index manipulation, which is less completed due diligence of 3,600 new updated on a regular basis. Training relevant in other business areas. Other counterparty relationships and also on business ethics and conduct training includes regulations related to reviewed nearly 4,000 is regularly held in our offices to illegal conduct and references antiexisting relationships. reinforce the procedures for reporting corruption laws and published cases. Centralised intelligence any potential violations. maintained at a global level provides All relevant staff are given regular valuable information for risk updates on rules and regulations identification and determining in-time relevant to their particular markets 19 Sustainability Report 2017 Environment Noble understands the fundamental Our Commitment importance of managing our impact on 102-16, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 307-1 the environment, as our core business inherently relies on natural resources. We support a precautionary approach Land and water use, air and soil pollution, to environmental challenges and work and resource depletion are some of the intensively to minimise our environmental environmental pressure caused by the footprint across our supply chains. production and transport of traded We do this by deploying resource commodities. We seek to operate management systems and controls. responsibly to prevent pollution and Regional environmental policies and plans minimise our environmental footprint are complemented with site-specific across our supply chains. requirements. Technical staff, quality Energy access enables development managers and dedicated staff are present and can bring life transforming benefits. in all key locations and play a leading role However, International Energy Agency in their implementation. scenarios highlight that countries face In line with legal requirements and increasing pressure to secure access to principles, we conduct environmental affordable energy while boosting lowimpact assessments before purchasing carbon energy supply. Noble pursues new installations to manage the opportunities to supply conventional environmental risks to our investments. fuels as well as renewable energy We also work in collaboration with products to meet rising energy demand. industry associations to address broader environmental issues. During the reporting period, we received no significant fines and only one self-reported environmental digression involving Noble Americas South Bend Ethanol. To secure our long-term flow of energy products and help our customers to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, we support alternative fuel development and the diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 20 Sustainability Report 2017 Energy and Emissions and shipping business at the level of survey. In some of our major offices, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 302-4, 305-5 individual assets to manage our energy bike storage and shower facilities are use and carbon emissions. These available to facilitate cycling or walking The landmark Paris Climate Change targets, include energy and key material to work. In the US, we offer a commuter Agreement was ratified in 2016 and inputs. The targets are aggregated at the benefit programme to encourage staff leading countries have set out to Group level. In 2010, we started to set to use public transportation. implement their self-imposed national emission targets on the carbon intensity climate targets. Strong governmental of product traded and business travel Supplying the Growing leadership is key for a smooth transition per full time employees. Both targets Demand for Cleaner Fuels to a low-carbon future. Businesses can were met ahead of time, the cumulative 102-13, 201-2 play a role to mitigate the environmental progress made led us to set further goals impact of their physical operations, by in 2013 and 2015. Noble trades a broad mix of energy investing in low-carbon fuels and power The Group level travel policy has products. Our business strategy production, and advocating for actions also been effective at reducing overall has evolved to incorporate climate through business associations. business travel and encouraging the change considerations to meet the Since 2007, Noble has sought use of video conferencing. In 2015, challenges of an increasingly carbonto mitigate environmental issues we endeavour to further reduce our constrained business environment. in our value chains as well as staff business travel for an additional These considerations include work systematically on climate 10% reduction per full-time employee regional regulatory developments, and environmental risks across in 2020. For more information about shifts in market demand and supply our corporate offices and physical our energy efficiency initiatives in as well as anticipated changes in operations. We initiated the Carbon chartering, see the section Pollution weather patterns. Neutral Project to measure, reduce Prevention and Mitigation. Our Clean Fuels division supplies and offset the Group’s greenhouse Our flagship Carbon Neutral fuel solutions with reduced carbon or gas (GHGs) emissions. We launched Project has now continued for 11 years, other environmental impacts. Further a centralised environment data covering all Noble offices worldwide to a multi-year supply agreement assessment system in 2010. and publications. We make every effort made to Egypt, in December 2015, we In our Jamalco bauxite mining and to improve resource management are expanding our footprint to supply alumina refinery joint venture, managing across our operations, including energy liquefied natural gas (LNG) cargoes to energy and fuel efficiency performance and fuel use, paper, water and waste. end users in the US and Asia Pacific. is at the heart of day to day operations. Our efforts save costs and enhance We are becoming a major player in this Process engineers look at every aspect productivity. As the final step to segment. LNG has several advantages, of the production life cycle to optimise neutralising the remaining emissions, including being a clean-burning fuel that energy and fuel use. Jamalco entered a we retire verified carbon credits from produces virtually no particulate matter joint development agreement to build renewable and low carbon energy during combustion and emits less GHGs a combined heat and power facility projects that bring positive sociocompared to other fossil fuels. to secure a long-term energy solution economic benefits. Since inception of Across North America, we operate and alleviate the impact of oil price the project, we have offset more than our ethanol and biodiesel marketing volatility. The cogeneration plant, which 1,250,000 tonnes of carbon. business through Mansfield Oil. will be powered by LNG, is expected to In our offices, we encourage staff In 2016, we increased our stake in this achieve significant monetary saving and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions venture to 100% to expand our role in considerably decrease its emissions. through making conscious daily trading clean fuels. The entity works Total carbon emissions (scope 1 and choices. We raise awareness and with a network of renewable fuels 2) in 2016 amounted to 2.34 million promote eco-friendly habits through production facilities, and its marketing tonnes CO2 equivalent. We set intensity our publications and with our regular and extensive distribution system reduction targets across our operations commuting and business travel reaches over 200 trading locations. 21 Sustainability Report 2017 Carbon and Energy Performance in Our Operations1 302-1, 302-3, 302-5, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4 2016 2015 2014 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (MT CO2e) Total emissions2 2.373 3.066 2.943 Direct (scope 1) GHG emissions 2.332 3.034 2.937 Gross location-based energy indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions 0.042 0.032 0.006 Gross market-based energy indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions 3 0.042 Other indirect (scope 3) GHG emissions 4 0.009 0.011 0.015 CO2 emissions per products traded (MtCO2e /Mt) 0.0107 0.0113 0.0137 CO2 emissions on business travel per employee (t CO2e /office employee) 5.23 5.29 7.50 ENERGY CONSUMPTION (MWH) Fuel 8,233,040 10,736,419 10,366,161 Electricity 78,352 73,002 11,961 Heat 40 29 110 Steam 112 Cooling 1,252 1,093 1,106 Energy intensity per products traded (MWh/Mt) 0.031 0.040 0.048 1 Noble Group greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions inventory is defined by adopting the operational control approach in the GHG Protocol. The GHG inventory includes Noble Group’s beneficiary ships, chartering, assets, worldwide offices and publication. The GHG inventory is assured by TÜV NORD CERT GmbH according to ISO 14064 standard. This GHG emissions calculation covers all relevant GHGs: carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) and nitrogen trifluoride (NF3). The inventory has been maintained in a centralised environment data assessment system since 2010. 2 Data includes scope 1 and 2 emissions of Noble Group 3 The calculation of market-based GHG emissions is supplemented with location-based emission factors, in case the emissions data of the purchased electricity is unavailable 4 Data includes business travel, commuting, water and waste, paper use and publication in Noble Group’s offices Our world-class corn ethanol Pollution Prevention environments, we have installed ballast facility, located in South Bend, Indiana and Mitigation water treatment systems on 5 ships. began production in 2016. The facility While ships are universally recognised Related investment was estimated to be meets the surging demand in ecoas the most fuel efficient mode of bulk US$ 2.5 million in 2016. friendly transportation fuels with its transportation, the shipping sector has We partner with qualified fleet 102 million gallons of annual ethanol been working for decades to mitigate its operators that place safety and pollution production capacity. We are a member impact on climate change, air pollutants prevention high on their agenda, whose of the Renewable Fuels Association, and ballast water pollution. Noble management systems are accredited an ethanol industry coalition in the Chartering is recognised for providing with ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS United States that advocates the use high-quality, safe and efficient logistics 18001. We require our partners to hold of domestically produced ethanol as a solutions. A major component of its the International Safety Management clean fuel solution. success comes from our strategy to use Code compliance certification in Thermal coal with high caloric modern ships responsibly. line with International Maritime value, and with lower environmental Organization (IMO) requirements. 201-2 consequences remains in strong demand 302-4, 305-5 in many Asian countries. In our energy Noble is modernising its owned fleet coal business, we continue to strengthen of ships to meet the growing demands Running at a speed optimised for lower our flows of top quality coal with low ash of its integrated supply chain strategy. fuel consumption saves fuel, money, and low sulphur content from Australia, Our new ships are equipped with and greenhouse gas emissions. Noble’s which helps mitigate the impact of coal modern fuel efficient engines. To owned tonnage has been, depending on burning and improve efficiency in coalcontrol and minimise the introduction various factors, frequently sailing at the fired power generation. of nonindigenous species to marine “Super Eco Speed” and/or “Eco Speed” 22 Sustainability Report 2017 since 2012. A monitoring parameter “Energy Efficiency Operational Indicator” is applied across our fleet to measure and improve our overall fuel Conservation Efforts use efficiency. Five of Noble’s owned ships have Environmental Awareness Around the World (EA) certification or equivalent notation. We pursue pragmatic partnerships supporting nature and Likewise, our ships comply strictly biodiversity conservation. In our two Indonesian palm oil with the latest IMO regulations to plantations, our conservation efforts ensure that we not only reduce the emissions of sulphur oxide, meet certification standards for sustainable palm oil production, nitrogen oxide and particulate matter by but also create long-term structural improvements to lessen our switching to low sulphur content fuels in environmental impact. We are a member of the Roundtable on Emission Control Areas. In 2016, Noble’s Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) and both plantations are on track owned ships emitted 27% less CO2e emissions (scope 1) per nautical mile to achieve the RSPO certification. compared to 2010. A dedicated team of conservation field staff conducts inventory counts regularly on flora and fauna within, and 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 306-3 adjacent to, the plantations. The ongoing biodiversity monitoring Noble adopts a Vessel/Barge Chartering is supported with the use of automatic field cameras and mist and Vetting Policy to ensure that all netting. Information is catalogued in an extensive database that vessels chartered for the transportation tracks species distribution and abundance, among other of petroleum, petroleum products, data points. chemicals and LPG meet certain Illegal logging and hunting of protective wildlife causes soil specified criteria and undergo screening erosion and destruction to important habitats. Throughout 2016, by external vetting experts. These we continued to install boundary markings and informative assessments cover factors such as sign boards at the conservation reserve areas. We monitor emergency preparedness, ensuring that the locations of destruction and rehabilitate the land through an Emergency Oil Spill Response Plan our tree planting and community education programme. is in place to respond in the event of oil Engagement with local communities is a key component to the spills. We are pleased to report that in success of our programme. Staff exchange knowledge and best 2016 we had no spills overboard across practices with local villages to promote sustainability and to our owned fleet operations. help preserve traditional ways of life. In 2016, we planted more Furthering our commitment to than 6,600 seeds in our two seedbed maintenance nurseries and be cost effective and reduce greenhouse 3,300 seedlings of forest plants, while maintaining over 2,000 gas emissions, we continue using the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions planted trees around our mill. Rating, a tool developed by RightShip In 2012, we started to support scientific research, wildlife to assess vessel fuel efficiency. The GHG management and habitat restoration at El Carmen, a private emissions rating, alongside RightShip’s trans-boundary nature reserve along the border between Mexico safety rating, form a part of the vessel and the United States. Spanning nearly 200,000 hectares, El selection process in our chartering Carmen is considered to be one of the five great wilderness procedures, we also voluntarily use ecosystems of the world. It is home to incredible biodiversity. this mechanism to rate our own fleet’s In Hong Kong, we are a corporate member of Worldwide environmental performance. Fund for Nature (WWF). We recognise their vision in creating solutions that serve nature and people, and we are a long-term supporter of their wide-reaching conservation initiatives and environmental education programmes in Hong Kong and the South China region. 23 Sustainability Report 2017 Responsible Supply Chain A thorough understanding of our trade Our Commitment flows enables us to create value for 102-16 customers and society at large. Wherever we source products, we believe the Noble is committed to uphold the workers that have produced them and United Nations Universal Declaration of the communities living near the sourcing Human Rights. The Declaration proclaims locations should be treated with dignity fundamental human rights principles, and respect. We want to ensure that there while at a community perspective, is no link between our business activities the access to public services are the and adverse human rights impacts through foundation for growth and economic our business relationships. development. Our effort to prevent, We take a holistic approach to address and remedy human rights issues managing these supply chain risks. This is guided by the United Nations Guiding includes implementing robust due Principles on Business and Human Rights. diligence and continuous monitoring Our policies set out ethical principles programmes to evaluate and manage to guide employees in carrying out foreseeable risks and social impact from their duties and responsibilities. These our supply chains. Through ongoing principles require the highest standards community involvement and consultation, of personal and corporate integrity when we tailor engagement programmes dealing on behalf of the Group with its to address community concerns; in customers, suppliers, competitors and particular, we acknowledge the rights of community members. indigenous people to customary land. From 2016, we will publish an annual We support rural social infrastructure statement on the efforts we take to and improve access to quality education, address human rights issues, following healthcare, clean water and sanitation to the newly enforced United Kingdom benefit host communities. Together, these Modern Slavery Act 2015. The statement steps help us develop supply chains in a underscores our commitment to supply responsible manner. chain accountability. Together with our sustainability report, it illustrates how we prevent slavery and human trafficking at Noble and in our supply chains. 24 Sustainability Report 2017 Community and Growth we have a significant presence. and know-how to bring product to 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 413-1 Our partnerships on the ground world markets. provide local understanding and When we participate in a project, When we build out our supply networks to allow us to identify and we ensure our partners are conducting chains into new territories and deliver services that surrounding their business in a socially and activities, the business and financial communities need the most. environmentally sound way, and free service functions are responsible from the risks of modern slavery for investigating any past, current Indigenous Relations and human trafficking. Our asset or potential liabilities and breaches development team and technical 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 411-1 of human rights as a part of the due consultants (in-house and external) diligence process. Alongside these Noble recognises its responsibility visit target locations to evaluate reviews, we identify and subsequently to foster a respectful and enduring the inherent risk factors for each support infrastructure improvements relationship with traditional land transaction. These assessments include and address basic needs such as owners near our activities. We are consideration of risks arising from past education, health and wellbeing, in committed to obtain their Free, Prior or potential environmental damage, order to serve our employees and and Informed Consent in advance of including any possible negative community members. any development. Our engagement impacts on community health, In Asia, the expansion of trade programmes are designed to respect wellbeing and livelihood. has been a major contributor to the significant cultural values of the We have a formalised process to prosperity in recent decades. We areas where we originate resources, review and approve capital investment, wish to understand the contribution conforming to our Sustainability Policy. and internal experts are involved to of international trade to sustainable Regular meetings with indigenous evaluate the analyses and consider any outcomes. To address this question, groups in the host regions provide issues that arise. A typical transaction we participated in the development of an open platform to align business may include the acquisition of a small the Hinrich Foundation Sustainable practices with community needs and stake in a production asset, a preferred Trade Index. Launched in April 2016, expectations. We are pleased to report offtake or marketing partnership, the index aims to measure the capacity that in 2016 we received no formal or may involve working capital of Asian economies in supporting complaints of any violations of the financing which sometimes results in long-term domestic and global goals rights of indigenous people. an exclusive provider agreement for of economic growth, environmental supply chain management and protection, and strengthening Social and environmental risk logistics services. social capital. management in Project Finance We typically work in partnership In 2016, we continued to make with market-leading asset managers 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 significant community investments and owners, who originate product in Jamaica and Indonesia, amongst Strategic investments along the supply for us. The vast majority of whom other places. At a global level, we chain enable greater flexibility to meet are public companies, this of itself have invested over US$ 1 million in our needs for infrastructure, logistics, provides an additional source of our global outreach and community storage and transport access. In line transparency. We also usually will projects, not including the costs of with our asset-light strategy, we assist have Board representation and, administration. The 34 programmes our origination partners through where necessary, we commission we support have a footprint in participating in funding solutions and further external industry experts 67% of the countries in which using our financial expertise, networks to conduct detailed assessments on 25 Sustainability Report 2017 the health and safety, and the social Our partners also have explicit counterparty procedures. It focuses and environmental performance policies in place to manage the on reducing potential reputational of our potential investments and environmental and sustainability and compliance risks, including origination sources. Following the risks associated with the raw material human rights practices of suppliers, assessments, we collaborate with our production. Those policies are aligned to by implementing further integrity partners to implement recommended international management and essential checks to complement existing risk policies or processes. performance standards. These process systems. Noble representatives regularly standards help us, and our partners, visit suppliers, freight-forwarders, 412-3 meet demanding bulk commodity warehouses and port terminals to In 2016, we closed two significant specifications and standards. Details evaluate compliance effectiveness. transactions3 (above US$5 million), about our partners and associates can be 102-13 neither of which required enhanced found on Noble Group’s website. human rights screening as in one Noble is a member of the ITRI Tin 417-1 case, it was a continuation of an Supply Chain Initiative (iTSCi) existing contract, while for the other The minerals industry continues to Programme and International transaction, since it is a greenfield address human rights issues, especially Tungsten Industry Association. Under project, an environmental impact when extraction takes place in regions the iTSCi chain of custody system, assessment will be conducted before of conflict. There are particular programme compliance requires that construction begins. concerns in Central Africa that mineral all minerals we handle are tagged sales can provide possible funding for at both points of extraction and Due diligence for minerals armed groups. processing with detailed information supply chains For Noble, these risks are relevant on their production profile. We support to our minerals trade with the a joint industry approach to address 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Democratic Republic of Congo and concerns over mineral traceability and Noble trades a variety of physical adjoining countries. Consequently promote local economic development. commodities and provides valuewe continue to focus on this area enhancing solutions to our network of concern to mitigate potential of customers across the globe. Our reputational risks and conform to scale provides certain benefits and the Organisation for Economic Coeconomies as well as challenges. operation and Development (OECD) Natural-resource use, environmental due diligence guidance to assure we concerns, and customer expectations source solely with responsible supply are among the top challenges in supply chain participants. chain management. In 2012, we formalised our practice As our teams unlock new into the Conflict Minerals Policy and opportunities to secure long-term created a mechanism to implement the physical flows, we form strategic policy. Both our policy and due diligence partnerships with market-leading framework are reviewed annually. In raw materials producers and asset the reporting year, all minerals trades developers with a strong focus on supply have successfully embedded a new chain integrity and sustainable sourcing. technology solution into our know your These collaborations enable a high level of product traceability and transparency 3 The threshold of above US$5 million is used to define transaction as significant. A committee made up of senior across our value chains. management executives participates in the review process for such transactions. 26 Sustainability Report 2017 Prioritise Rural Infrastructure, Education and Health Care Service In Indonesia, we tailor our community support to address the root causes of poverty, and tackle developmental challenges in underprivileged regions. Improve Road Access in Remote Villages Rural roads play a critical role in connecting people to facilities and services. In Kalimantan and Papua, we support ongoing road development in remote villages by providing heavy equipment and embankment Support Child and materials for road Maternal Health maintenance. This Service includes improving Child malnutrition and structural conditions maternal health are some of roads, road of the major challenges in resurfacing and repairing the health sector. In some pot holes. Improved of our sourcing areas, road quality saves maternal healthcare, travel time and makes nutritional advice and the areas accessible to vaccinations is limited to Developing rural road network to connect villages to social facilities motorised transport. a monthly gathering in the village with health clinic staff and volunteers. We are supporting improved health services through Boost School Attendance a programme that funds According to World Bank statistics, primary school net enrolment rates are multiple service centres below 60% in poor districts of Indonesia, while net enrolment rates in Senior in Sorong (Klamono, Secondary education are below 50%. To increase access to education, we have Klasafet, Malalilis) provided multiple levels of scholarships to more than 66 villagers. Funding and Timika. also covers schools’ facilities and teachers’ wages in South Barito. In Ipumea village, Attendance rates in schools are often hindered by the lack of basic East Barito, we have facilities and most children are living in remote areas. In 2016, we donated a been supporting school bus and table and chair sets to a community in Sorong to help remove a supplementary barriers to attending school. Our staff volunteers lead scout activities at a feeding programme in junior high school. collaboration with the regional community health service centre. The programme provides eggs, milk, rice, chicken porridge, green bean porridge, and bread. Currently, 45 children and 50 elderly persons In Sorong, we donated a school bus to shorten benefit from having extra Staff volunteer to lead scouting activity commute time to school nutrition in their diets. 27 Sustainability Report 2017 GRI Content Index 102-55 GENERAL DISCLOSURES EXTERNAL ASSURANCE PAGE REMARKS/OMISSIONS ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Noble Group About Noble Group (3) 102-2 Primary brands, products and services About Noble Group (3) 2016 Annual Report (9-11) 102-3 Noble Group's headquarters Head Office (1) 102-4 Countries of operations About Noble Group (3) 2016 Annual Report (8-11) 102-5 Ownership and legal form About Noble Group (3) 102-6 Market served About Noble Group (3) 2016 Annual Report (6-7) 102-7 Scale of the organisation About Noble Group (3) Our People (12) 2016 Annual Report (6-7, 46-54, 145) 102-8 Employee and workforce information Our People (12) 102-9 Supply chain description About Noble Group (3) 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation 2016 Annual Report (2-4) 102-11 Precautionary approach Business Integrity (17) 102-12 External charters and principles Co-CEO’s Message (2) 102-13 Memberships of associations Co-CEO’s Message (2) Business Integrity (18) Environment (22,24) Responsible Supply Chain (26) STRATEGY 102-14 CEO message Co-CEO’s Message (2) ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms Our People (11) Business Integrity (16,17) Environment (20) Responsible Supply Chain (24) GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure Roles and governance (17) 2016 Annual Report (28-45) STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Understanding our Responsibility (5) 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Our People (13) Noble’s workforce being mostly office-based is not covered by specific collective bargaining agreements. 102-42 Indentification of stakeholders Understanding our Responsibility (5) 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Understanding our Responsibility (5) 102-44 Key concerns raised by stakeholders Understanding our Responsibility (5) REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the financial statements 2016 Annual Report (145) http://www.thisisnoble.com/images/ ar2016.pdf 102-46 Report content and aspect boundaries About this Report (4) Identifying Material Issues (6-7) 102-47 List of material aspects identifying material issues (6-7) 102-48 Effect of any restatements No restatements from previous year 102-49 Significant changes to scope and aspect boundaries No significant changes from previous year REPORT PROFILE 102-50 Reporting period About this Report (4) 102-51 Date of previous report May 31, 2016 102-52 Reporting cycle About this Report (4) 102-53 Contact point Head Office (1) 102-54 This report has been prepared in accordance with the External Assurance (4) GRI Standards: Core option GRI content index (28-30) 102-55 GRI content index GRI content index (28-30) 102-56 External assurance policy and practice External Assurance (4) Ernst & Young’s Assurance Statement (31-32) 28 Sustainability Report 2017 TOPIC-SPECIFIC STANDARDS EXTERNAL ASSURANCE PAGE REMARKS/OMISSIONS ECONOMIC ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management Approach 2016 Annual Report (2-4) 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2016 Annual Report (46-54) Financial Highlights (4) 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Environment (21,22) for the organization's activities due to climate change 201-3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan 2016 Annual Report (161) obligations Our People (12) ANTI-CORRUPTION 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management Approach Business Integrity (18-19) 205-1 Total number and percentage of operations asessed Business Integrity (18) for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption Business Integrity (19) policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Business Integrity (18) ENVIRONMENTAL ENERGY 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management Approach Environment (21) 302-1 Energy Consumption Within the Organization Environment (22) 302-3 Energy Intensity Environment (22) 302-4 Reduction of Energy Consumption Environment (21-23) EMISSIONS 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management Approach Environment (21) 305-1 Direct Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions (Scope 1) Environment (22) 305-2 Energy Indirect Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Environment (22) (Scope 2) 305-3 Other Indirect Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Environment (22) (Scope 3) 305-4 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Intensity Environment (22) 305-5 Reduction of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Environment (21-23) EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management Approach Environment (23) 306-3 Total number and volume of significant spills Environment (23) COMPLIANCE 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management Approach Environment (20) 307-1 Monetary value of significant fines and total number Environment (20) of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations SOCIAL EMPLOYMENT 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management Approach Our People (12-15) Our disclosure includes both employees and contractors. 401-1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and Our People (14) employee turnover by age group, gender and region LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management Approach Our People (12-13) 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational Our People (12-13) changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management Approach Our People (14) 403-2 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational Our People (15) We had no fatalities recorded during diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total the reporting period. Health and safety number of work-related fatalities, by region and policies and location specific emergency by gender response measures are implemented across our locations to control risks and ensure workplace safety. Noble targets to report other occupational health and safety data in 2017. TRAINING AND EDUCATION 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management Approach Our People (12-14) 29 Sustainability Report 2017 TOPIC-SPECIFIC STANDARDS EXTERNAL ASSURANCE PAGE REMARKS/OMISSIONS 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular Our People (12-13) It is our regular practice to include performance and career development reviews, permanent employees who are employed by gender and by employee category on 30 September of the performance year in our appraisal process. In 2016, we did not enforce the appraisal process for all employees, as we focused on macro changes around our business, and secondly, there was wider dialogue on the effectiveness of this process. DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management Approach Our People (13-14) 405-1 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown Our People (12,17) of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity NON-DISCRIMINATION 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management Approach Our People (13-14) 406-1 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Our People (13-14) corrective actions taken FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management Approach Our People (12-13) Our disclosure includes both employees and contractors. 407-1 Operations and suppliers identified in which Our People (12-13) the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights CHILD LABOR 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management Approach Responsible Supply Chain (24-26) 408-1 Operations and suppliers identified as having Noble’s major operations are significant risk for incidents of child labor, and office-based, therefore child labor measures taken to contribute to the effective is not a significant risk to us. Having abolition of child labor said that, we make routine visits and due diligence on Noble's origination partners to minimise supply chain risk on child labour. FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management Approach Responsible Supply Chain (24-26) 409-1 Operations and suppliers identified as having Noble’s major operations are officesignificant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory based, therefore forced labor is not labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination a significant risk to us. Having said of all forms of forced or compulsory labor that, we make routine visits and due diligence on Noble's origination partners to minimise supply chains risk on forced or compulsory labour. INDIGENOUS RIGHTS 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management Approach Responsible Supply Chain (25) 411-1 Total number of incidents of violations involving Responsible Supply Chain (25) rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken INVESTMENT 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management Approach Responsible Supply Chain (25-26) 412-3 Total number and percentage of significant Responsible Supply Chain (26) investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening LOCAL COMMUNITIES 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management Approach Responsible Supply Chain (25) 413-1 Percentage of operations with implemented local Our People (15) community engagement, impact assessments, and Responsible Supply Chain (25) development programs PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management Approach Responsible Supply Chain (26) 417-1 Type of product and service information required Responsible Supply Chain (26) by the organization's procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements COMPLIANCE 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management Approach Business Integrity (18) 419-1 Monetary value of significant fines and total Business Integrity (18) number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 30 Sustainability Report 2017 Ernst & Young’s Assurance Statement 102-56 Independent Limited Assurance Report in relation to Noble Group Limited’s Sustainability Report 2017 To the Board of Directors of Management’s Responsibility of a Type 2 assurance engagement Noble Group Limited The Report has been prepared in AA1000 Assurance Standard by management of Noble (the 2008 (“AA1000AS(2008)”) issued by Scope “Management”), who are responsible AccountAbility. The reporting criteria We have been engaged by the for the collection and presentation as set out in the ‘Core Option’ of the management of Noble Group Limited of the information within the Report GRI Standards and the Principles as (“Noble”) to perform a limited assurance in accordance with the reporting set out in AA1000APS(2008) have engagement on the information in criteria, namely the Principles in been used as criteria against which to Noble’s Sustainability Report 2017 (the AA1000APS(2008), and the specific evaluate the Report. “Report”). Noble has defined the scope criteria from the ‘Core Option’ of the of the Report in the GRI Index on pages GRI Standards. Work Performed 28-30 in the Report. Further, Noble’s management The limited assurance procedures is responsible for establishing and performed included, but were not Subject Matter and Applicable maintaining internal controls relevant to limited to: Criteria the preparation and presentation of the • Conducting a site visit to The Subject Matter for our limited information contained within the Report Noble’s headquarters in Hong assurance engagement included: that is free from material misstatement, Kong and interviewing selected • The selected sustainability whether due to fraud or error, selecting business units and group performance indicators listed on and applying appropriate criteria, level personnel to understand pages 28-30 (except for indicators maintaining adequate records and the current overall status of under “Energy” and “Emissions”) for making estimates that are reasonable in sustainability activities and the the year ended 31 December 2016. the circumstances. report information collection and • Disclosures on compilation approach; stakeholder engagement and Assurance Practitioner’s • Determining whether material materiality assessment. Responsibility topics and performance issues • Reported alignment to the selfOur responsibility, in accordance with identified during our procedures declared ‘Core Option’ of the ‘in Noble management’s instructions, had been adequately disclosed, accordance’ requirements of the is to carry out a limited assurance by benchmarking against the key Global Reporting Initiative’s (‘GRI’) engagement in respect of the Subject issues raised in external media Sustainability Reporting Standards. Matter contained within the Report, reports, sustainability reports and to express a limited assurance of Noble’s peers and Noble’s The following criteria have been applied: conclusion based on our engagement. stakeholder dialogues; • The principles of Inclusivity, Our assurance engagement has been • Understanding the expectations Materiality and Responsiveness planned and performed in accordance and needs of Noble’s major (“the Principles”), in AA1000 with International Standard on stakeholders, how Noble responds AccountAbility Principles Standard Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 to these expectations and needs, 2008 (“AA1000APS(2008)”) issued (Revised), Assurance Engagements and the communication channels by AccountAbility. Other than Audits or Reviews of between the stakeholders and Noble • Specific criteria from the ‘Core Historical Financial Information, through interview and checking Option’ of the GRI Sustainability issued by the International Auditing related supporting documents; Reporting Standards (the “GRI and Assurance Standards Board and • Performing analytical tests and Standards”) issued by the GRI. in accordance with the requirements detailed testing for material 31 Sustainability Report 2017 qualitative and quantitative level of assurance (as set out in ISAE Report and, as a result, the subject information on a sample basis; 3000) to draw our conclusion. The matter information may not be suitable • Checking the arithmetical accuracy procedures conducted do not provide for another purpose. of the calculations performed; all the evidence that would be required • Checking if data and statements in a reasonable assurance engagement Independence and Quality Control had been correctly transcribed and, accordingly, we do not express a We have complied with the from corporate systems and/or reasonable assurance conclusion or an independence and ethical requirements supporting evidence into audit opinion, as the level of assurance of the Code of Ethics for Professional the Report; obtained in a limited assurance Accountants issued by the Hong Kong • Sample testing of reported data, engagement is substantially lower than Institute of Certified Public Accountants performance statements, claims and the assurance that would be obtained and the Code of Ethics issued by the case studies in the Report, against had a reasonable assurance engagement International Ethics Standards Board the relevant reporting criteria as set been performed. While we considered for Accountants which are founded on out in GRI Standards; and the effectiveness of the Management’s fundamental principles of integrity, • Assessing Noble’s disclosures internal controls when determining the objectivity, professional competence associated with the alignment to the nature and extent of our procedures, and due care, confidentiality and Principles in AA1000APS(2008). our review was not designed to provide professional behavior. assurance on internal controls. Our firm applies Hong Kong Inherent Limitations Standard on Quality Control (HKSQC) 1, There are inherent limitations in Limited Assurance Conclusion “Quality Control for Firms that performing assurance. Assurance Based on the limited assurance Perform Audits and Reviews of engagements are based on selective procedures specified above, nothing has Historical Financial Information, and testing of the information being come to our attention that causes us to Other Assurance and Related Services examined, and it is possible that believe that the Subject Matter has not Engagements” which conforms with fraud, error, or non-compliance may been reported and presented fairly, in International Standard on Quality occur and not be detected. Adherence all material respects, in accordance with Control (ISQC) 1, “Quality Control for to AA1000APS(2008) and the GRI the applicable criteria. Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews principles is subjective and will be of Historical Financial Information, interpreted differently by different Use of Report and other Assurance and Related stakeholder groups. Our responsibility in performing our Services Engagements”. Our assurance was limited to assurance activities is to the directors Noble’s Sustainability Report 2017. We of Noble only and in accordance have only sought evidence to support with the terms of reference for this key information and data contained engagement as agreed with them. We in the Report. We did not assess do not therefore accept or assume any the accuracy or fairness of financial responsibility for any other purpose or information or forward-looking to any other person or organisation. Any statements made by the Management. reliance any such third party may place on this report is entirely at its own risk. Level of Assurance The applicable criteria are designed Ernst & Young Our evidence gathering procedures solely for the purpose of the preparation Hong Kong have been designed to obtain a limited of the Subject Matter included in the 26 May 2017 32 www.thisisnoble.com
