At the heart of modern life Sustainability Report 2016 ROCKWOOL Group Life This is ROCKWOOL At ROCKWOOL, we’re committed to enriching the lives of everyone who experiences our product solutions. Our heritage is rooted in stone wool and we’re the world leader in this field. From energy efficiency to acoustic comfort, water scarcity to urban aesthetics, ROCKWOOL solutions help customers meet the needs of modern living. Our products are in many landmarks around the world, here are just a few examples. UN City, OKO Towers, Absolute Towers, Copenhagen Moscow Toronto Hermitage Museum, St Petersburg What’s in stone wool? Eiffel Tower, Paris ROCKWOOL stone wool Marina Bay, Singapore products are made up of Courtyard by Marriott, New York City approximately 97 percent minerals such as volcanic Prince Mahidol concert hall, Bangkok rock, as well as upcycled and recycled materials from our factories and other industries. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 2 ROCKWOOL at a glance Five brands, one common purpose: to release the natural power IN THIS REPORT of stone to enrich modern living. Our products are diverse and all contribute to shaping a circular Welcome from our CEO 4 economy, enhancing resource efficiency, and nurturing the safety, health and wellbeing of those who make and use our products. Our purpose 6 Tackling global challenges 8 Fire safe insulation for all types of buildings and installations Circular economy 12 – Building insulation – Technical insulation – Core solutions Resource efficiency 18 Safety, health and wellbeing 24 Precision Growing for the horticultural industry Responsible business 30 Appendix Engineered stone wool for composite applications, noise and vibration control, Our sustainability goals 32 and water management Performance Data and GRI Index 33 Acoustic ceiling and wall solutions Exterior cladding for buildings ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 3 Welcome from our CEO Jens Birgersson on sustainability and modern life “We need to continue working hard to produce even better products and leaving a smaller footprint in the process Q – that includes thinking How is sustainability linked to ROCKWOOL’s purpose? sustainability into our products, operations, and Sustainability means meeting the needs of the present without compromising R&D as well.” the future. This is also true of the ROCKWOOL Purpose. We take a massively abundant natural resource Q and transform it into products that What is your sustainability strategy? match the needs of our customers today and make the world a better place for Our sustainability and commercial future generations. strategy are one in the same. We are in the privileged position of creating We want our products to be at the a more positive impact on the planet heart of modern life by saving energy by selling more of our product. That and water and reducing CO2 emissions. said, we need to continue working All issues that are high on the global hard to produce even better products agenda today. and leaving a smaller footprint in the process. This means that it is not In addition, they protect people and sufficient to think sustainability into buildings from the spread of fire; reduce our products and our research and waste in a building’s lifecycle; improve development, we also need to work acoustic comfort and aesthetics; and on our operations and internal raise the efficiency in fresh food processes. Leveraging these efforts production – in short, tackling resilience will not only strengthen our brand, it to the physical, social and economic will support our efforts to attract and challenges of our century. retain talented colleagues. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 4 Welcome Q Q Why have you committed to meeting An estimated one million people UN Sustainable Development Goals? move to urban environments each week. What implications does this The SDG framework highlights the have for the future? needs of billions of people. By aligning our work with the global need for People spend up to 90 percent of their development we can focus our attention time indoors. This massive urbanisation on the business opportunities this presents many challenges in terms of represents, while acting responsibly. people’s general health and wellbeing, In fact, we have chosen to pursue and safety, and overall quality of life. By prioritise the 10 SDGs that are most building new and renovating existing strategically aligned with our business buildings to be energy efficient, fire competencies and where we can have resilient, and acoustically comfortable, the greatest impact. we can make cities healthier, safer, and more sustainable. And the good thing is, we have the means to do so with existing technology and products. Q How are you progressing against your six sustainability 2030 goals? “By building new and We formally launched this effort in renovating existing August 2016, so most of our buildings to be energy performance last year reflects actions initiated before then. Nevertheless, efficient, fire resilient, we reduced our CO2 emissions and and acoustically the amount of production waste sent to landfill; and had zero fatalities in comfortable, we can 2016. Less positively, we experienced make cities healthier, a negative trend in terms of water efficiency, which we’ll be working safer, and more Click here to view video interview with on to improve. sustainable.” Jens Birgersson ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 5 Our purpose How we enrich society Our purpose is simple and compelling: to release the natural power of stone to enrich modern living. ROCKWOOL products save energy and water and reduce CO2 emissions, protect buildings from the spread of fire; reduce waste; improve acoustic comfort, building performance and aesthetics; and enhance Precision Growing, thereby improving the efficiency of fresh food production. Stone is our core raw material and the bedrock on which our business is based. It is naturally resilient and essentially inexhaustible as the earth makes 38,000 times more rock every year (through volcanic and oceanic activity) than we use to make stone wool.1 While the stone we use may be millions of years old, what we do with it is cutting-edge. Every day, ROCKWOOL colleagues are developing and applying new technologies to release yet more potential of stone The Royal Arena in Copenhagen will host thousands of people for concerts, sports, and other cultural events. ROCKWOOL insulation and acoustic products contribute to creating enjoyable guest experiences – as well as wool to enrich modern life. to the sustainability and recyclability of the building. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 6 Delivering impact A net positive impact From household walls and 155m t Energy efﬁciency greenhouses; to power Potential lifetime carbon savings of 155m tonnes for building insulation stations and railways – (based on amounts sold in 2016)2 ROCKWOOL stone wool CREATING A traps heat, keeps cold out, NET POSITIVE Buildings (new and renovated) 16,000 t protects from fire, blocks IMPACT insulation, acoustics, aesthetics Circularity 16,000 tonnes waste reclaimed sound, repels or retains water INNOVATING from construction and demolition sites (depending on its application) THE UNNOTICED SOLUTIONS BEHIND Transport vibration, noise and enables sustainable MODERN LIVING Operations and absorbers for railways and brakes for cars +55 years food production through ENGINEERING technology A skilled and diverse Durability Over 55 years of functionality – horticultural systems. STONE WOOL workforce Sustainability the insulation performance of ROCKWOOL stone wool research remains unchanged during the lifetime of a building RELEASING THE Horticulture By introducing ROCKWOOL products Recyclable, Precision Growing into your home, office or greenhouse, NATURAL POWER volcanic stone you’ll save energy and reduce CO2; OF STONE 1,000ºC Waste from Insights from Fire resilience protect people from fire, and unwanted other industries customers, ROCKWOOL stone wool noise; improve building performance (secondary raw industry experts resists temperatures up to materials) and science 1,000°C and aesthetics; enhance Precision Water management climate change Growing and save water. 65bn litres Water efﬁciency If all the tomatoes grown in stonewool in Benelux greenhouses in 2016 Industry instead had to be replaced by soil technical insulation grown tomatoes from open fields in the Mediterranean area, 65 billion more litres of water would have 100,000 to be used for irrigation25 Noise and vibration 100,000 households are protected from noise and vibration on Stockholm train tracks through Rockdelta stone wool mats ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 7 Tackling global challenges The world is changing… In 2016, the world saw continued upward trends in population growth, urbanisation, and resource use, with downward trajectories in energy affordability and quality of living in cities.3 Below are just some of the megatrends that drive us to think differently about the urban environment. 54m 5x Around 54m Europeans cannot afford to Fires today develop more adequately heat their homes in winter7 than 5 times faster than 50 years ago because buildings contain more 11% flammable materials11 Energy poverty affects 11% of the EU population8 2050 1m By 2050, the world will need 20% people move to urban to double the amount of 20% of the EU’s environments every week4 food it produces, while using population are exposed half the resources6 to noise levels that disturb their sleep12 50% of emissions in major cities 3bn are from buildings5 3bn tonnes of raw materials are used to manufacture building products each year10 Growing, urbanising population Energy poverty Unsustainable consumption City living and wellbeing In 2050, the earth’s population will be 9 billion, The causes for energy poverty are everywhere The construction industry is the single largest Our built environment is changing. In urban 70 percent of whom will be living in cities. The the same: high energy bills and low quality and global consumer of resources and raw materials.10 areas where land is scarce, high rise buildings combination of a larger future population poorly insulated buildings. Energy renovation, Decoupling economic growth from runaway are the norm and made increasingly of together with increased demand for access to including improving the insulation of the building resource use remains an ongoing challenge, lightweight materials. This increases the risks modern housing and energy is likely to result envelope is the most efficient and readily exacerbated by a growing world population, of fire and means potentially more devastating in a twoor three-fold rise in global energy use available solution to alleviate energy poverty which is adding pressure on water, land and consequences should one occur. Furthermore, for the building sector by 2050 – with a similar at scale.9 energy resources. excessive noise has emerged as a leading public impact on associated emissions if no further nuisance in Europe.12 See page 21 for how we’re finding ways to bring See page 15 for how we are working with actions are taken.6 energy bills down, while enhancing life quality. circular business models. See page 27 for how we’re creating spaces that See page 21 for how we are contributing to keep us safe and well. energy efficiency in new and existing buildings. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 8 Tackling global challenges …and so are we Our goal is for ROCKWOOL products and operations to make a net positive impact to society and the environment – in other words, we want the benefits of our products to significantly outweigh any impacts associated with our operations. Our six Group Sustainability Goals to 2030 help us drive this focus across our product range as How do we know we’re making a difference? We measure the impact of our products on The ROCKWOOL Group actively contributes well as in our direct operational footprint. The society where feasible. For several years, we’ve towards achieving 10 of the 17 SDGs aim is to maximise the net positive contribution tracked the net positive carbon impact of our to society and environment, while at the same offering. For example, our building insulation time minimising day-to-day impacts of throughout its lifespan typically saves operations. The SDGs help guide businesses in approximately 85 times the carbon emitted addressing key global challenges while at the during its production. This positive impact same time identifying business opportunities. increases to saving on average 15,000 times the Last year we publicly declared we would work carbon emitted when using technical insulation strategically with the SDGs. Based on a for large-scale industrial applications.13 We will materiality assessment, we selected 10 SDGs continue working with external partners to widen where ROCKWOOL can have the most impact, the scope of our assessments to include adding the Partnership goal this year, as it is additional impacts and products. As an example, through external collaboration that we can in a study endorsed by Wageningen University, maximise this impact. we recently calculated the potential water savings of our Grodan growing media in the Benelux countries (see page 21). You will see how we’re performing against the SDGs and our own Sustainability Goals in each section of this report, with a summary of performance on page 32. In line with our commitment to transparency, this report shows where progress is being made, as well as where we need to do better going forward – and how we plan to do so. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 9 Tackling global challenges Focusing on 10 SDGs Contributing to 10 SDGs requires minimising ROCKWOOL’s operational Positive impact on society through use of our products footprint and maximising the positive impact of our products. We will Reduction in operational impacts measure progress against selected targets within each SDG either through SDG target selected by ROCKWOOL the Group’s Sustainability Goals or through the positive impact of our Sustainable Development Goal selected by ROCKWOOL products where feasible. See page 32 for our sustainability goals progress. More efficient More energy water-use in More effective food production Positive health & economic impact efficient horticulture through Increase water Increase systems through sustainable, soilless, of acoustically sound buildings and buildings and Zero fatalities and reduction in sustainable, soilless, efficiency in energy efficiency Precision Growing solutions. reduced noise and vibration from industry through Lost Time Incidents. Precision Growing factories. in own buildings. cars and trains. insulation. solutions. Reduce deaths/illnesses from Double the global Protect labour rights Sustainable food production systems hazardous chemicals, air, water Increase water-use efficiency. rate of improvement and promote safe and secure and soil pollution. in energy efficiency. working environments. Good Health Clean Water Affordable and Decent Work and Zero Hunger and Well-being and Sanitation Clean Energy Economic Growth Increase the More carbon efficient More safe and affordable Effective collaboration within our More durable and number of countries Reduce landfill buildings and industry Reduce CO2 housing and thereby less energy key business areas across sectors resilient infrastructure through where we offer take waste from through insulation. emissions poverty through energy efficient and geographies. fire resilient insulation and more. back services. production. in factories. insulation solutions. Develop sustainable and Access to safe and Substantially reduce Strengthen resilience and Encourage and promote effective resilient infrastructure. affordable housing. waste generation. adaptive capacity. public, public-private and civil society partnerships. Industry, Innovation Sustainable Cities Responsible Consumption Partnerships Climate Action and Infrastructure and Communities and Production for the Goals ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 10 Tackling global challenges Collaborating to make your homes and cities more sustainable ROCKWOOL has been selected to be a member “Copenhagen wants to be the world’s of the Hanover and Hamburg stock exchanges first carbon neutral capital in 2025. This Global Challenges Index of 50 international stocks is an ambitious plan requiring long-term action, but it is realistic. We are already of sustainability-conscious businesses that make well underway. Copenhagen has significant or pioneering contributions to reduced CO2 emissions by 50% from 1995 to 2014. It is extremely valuable for overcoming the largest global challenges (2017). cities like Copenhagen with ambitious climate plans that we can develop and implement new, innovative solutions in cooperation with companies and research institutions.” ROCKWOOL Group had the highest sustainability rating improvement amongst the OMX Nasdaq Nordic Large “Circular business models have enormous Frank Jensen Cap companies (2014–2016).14 innovation and sustainability potential for Lord Mayor of the City of Copenhagen industry. They often allow companies to go ROCKWOOL achieved a score of 97 in CDP into new customer segments, develop new (Carbon Disclosure Project), performance band B. offerings, and improve profits. Equally We have committed to the 10 universal principles of the important, they create a new type of growth, UN Global Compact, a voluntary initiative for sustainable, one that is positive for both prosperity responsible business (2016). and planet. For cities, this means durable, mixed-use buildings designed for disassembly and constructed with looped and non-toxic materials. “At Van Alen Institute, we believe ROCKWOOL’s stone wool products are design can transform cities, a natural fit with that vision, and they landscapes, and regions to improve are on the leading edge of evolving “The success of our ambitions to keep global people’s lives. We collaborate with and accelerating circularity.” warming to within 1.5˚C to 2˚C will depend communities, scholars, policymakers, on our ability to advance net zero buildings Per-Anders Enkvist, Founder and CEO of Material and professionals on local and global Economics. Author of ‘A Good Disruption – – those that are highly energy efficient and initiatives that rigorously investigate Redefining Growth in the Twenty-First Century’. produce no net carbon emissions. the most pressing social, cultural, and The support of major companies such as ecological challenges of tomorrow. the ROCKWOOL Group demonstrates Because ROCKWOOL pursues the huge appetite amongst businesses to this same passion, we are delighted design, build, invest in and operate net to work closely together to share zero buildings.” with, learn from and inspire Terri Wills each other.” Chief Executive Officer World Green Building Council David van der Leer Executive Director, Van Alen Institute ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 11 Circular economy Built to last: shaping ROCKWOOL Circular economy a circular economy IN THIS SECTION Our opportunity: closed loop products for modern living 13 Inside ROCKWOOL: how we’re doing 14 Shaping a circular economy 15 Linear consumption – the ‘take, make, waste’ approach to products that dominates In action 16 today – is reaching its limits. Along with many other businesses, governments Insights 17 and civil society groups, at ROCKWOOL we see immense opportunities in the ‘closed material loops’ of a circular economy. But it’s in the unique durability and recyclability of innovative products where we see the greatest potential to create more resilient buildings and cities – and ultimately for enriching modern living. The potential We believe a circular perspective helps us become Grodan solutions are designed for Precision Growing, “Very few have tried to apply circular economy principles to the an even stronger, more commercially successful a method that ensures an optimal growing environment built environment. By participating in this experiment our aim business. We’ve already incorporated this thinking for plants. It means that growers can produce more yield has been to test if this approach could be widely adopted. The into our production: we upcycle waste materials on less land, using less water and fertiliser compared to Circular Building shows that through collaboration and digital and recycle own waste in closed loops. In a circular soil-based cultivation. What’s more, Grodan growing technology, we can design buildings where the materials can be economy, products should be used as long as media are fully recyclable – today approximately re-used. As an industry, we should aim to eliminate waste and possible. ROCKWOOL provides solutions for 70 percent of our sold volume is recycled. See page 15. design for re-use.” See page 17. buildings that last more than 50 years and can Stuart Smith be recycled indefinitely. See page 15. Director Arup Associates See how we’re working in partnership with others to shape a circular economy on page 17. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 12 Circular economy Our opportunity: closed loop products for modern living The building sector produces approximately a third of all waste, CONSTRUCTION much of which ends up in landfill.15 SITE But it doesn’t have to be this way. LEAKAGE TO LANDFILL We turn abundant raw materials PRODUCTION WASTE TO LANDFILL GOAL: 85% REDUCTION OF WASTE and upcycled secondary materials TO LANDFILL BY 2030 into a range of long-lasting stone USE OF wool products. Owing to the ease PRODUCTS RCE MATE SOU with which they can be separated O UR RIA LS when a building is renovated or demolished, they can be g EXTRACTION OF ABUNDANT STONE EXTERNAL RECYCLING AND transformed back into materials al recycl UPCYCLING ern in LONG with commercial value, including nt LIFESPAN via our take back services. I UPCYCLED SECONDARY RAW MATERIAL FROM PRODUCTION OTHER INDUSTRIES OF STONE WOOL LEAKAGE PRODUCTS TO LANDFILL END OF USE (RENOVATION/ DEMOLITION) TAKE BACK SERVICE GOAL: TAKE BACK SERVICE IN 30 COUNTRIES BY 2030 ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 13 Circular economy – Sustainability goals Inside ROCKWOOL: how we’re doing Landfill waste Reclaimed waste Our goal: Reduce landfill waste from our Our goal: Increase the number of countries (currently factories (tonnes) five) where we offer the reclaiming of product waste from market 2016 3% Reduction 2016 No change 3% Target: 40% reduction Target: 85% reduction 15 countries 30 countries 2015 2022 2030 2015 2022 2030 2016 highlight: 2016 highlights: Challenges: –– We have been preparing action plans to install recycling –– Approximately 16,000 tonnes of reclaimed products received The 70 percent recycling target in the EU is based on weight, equipment at a number of factories. at 16 factories – 14 in Europe and one each in Russia and China which means that the collection of lightweight product waste equivalent to increase of 28 percent on 2015. like stone wool is not prioritised. –– 32 percent average recycled content of our products, a decline Transportation distances in a number of our markets are so of 5 percent on 2015. This is mainly due to a more consistent great that it is not economically or sustainably feasible to take methodology for calculating recycled content in accordance back waste. with best practice.16 For take back systems to work effectively, methods for waste separation at demolition and construction sites need to be developed. See our collaboration efforts to address these barriers on page 17. What’s next? What’s next? In 2017, we will establish internal closed loop stone wool recycling In 2017, we will be completing and rolling out our reclaimed waste plans. We will also continue developing our existing reclaimed waste systems at factories in Malaysia, Thailand and Czech Republic. scheme in France. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 14 Circular economy Shaping a circular economy Re-using raw materials The high yields of soilless horticulture Did you know? Unchanging thermal properties ? Due to the nature of stone wool production, it’s Hydroponic cultivation on stone wool growing media Recent studies have shown that possible to use materials that might otherwise be results in a higher yield per square meter compared to even after 55 years of use, the thermal property (lambda value) landfilled or downcycled. Approximately one-third cultivation in soil. Furthermore, professional growers of ROCKWOOL products remains of our raw materials is repurposed waste from can return our products after use. Once the growing the same. Stone wool delivers a amongst others the steel and aluminium industries, season is over, stone wool can be recycled into raw consistent performance without power plants and municipal waste water treatment. material for the brick making industry amongst others. degrading over time.17 The exact proportion varies by region, depending on market maturity and regulatory frameworks. More than 90 percent of EU Grodan customers have access to recycling solutions, and we’re continuously A long-lasting product working on extending the availability of recycling The insulation performance of stone wool remains solutions for non-EU customers. unchanged during the lifetime of the building. Long-lasting, easy to dismantle products that can Sustainable Building Rating Schemes also be reused and recycled are key to a circular Our products contribute to customer credits under business model. Rockfon ceilings are very flexible and sustainable building rating schemes such as LEED®, versatile, allowing quick and easy installations. They BREEAM, DGNB (German Sustainable Buildings also allow for easy access to services in the ceiling Council) and HQE (Haute Qualité Environnementale). void, all of which helps make spaces more modular. The majority of Rockpanel products are certified within the BRE Environmental Profiles Scheme, all of which ? earn the highest rating of A+. Did you know? Stone wool is fully recyclable. In fact, it can be recycled again and again without degrading its quality. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 15 Circular economy – In action Our Rockcycle® service Pioneering reclaimed waste CASE STUDY Business: ROCKWOOL building insulation CASE STUDY Business: ROCKWOOL building insulation Daimler roof renovation Danish take back system Working with Daimler on a fire-safe, For more than 20 years, we have offered a sustainable roofing system at its take back service from construction sites in Denmark. warehouses in south-west Germany. In 2012 we expanded this to take back stone wool insulation from renovation and demolition sites. Daimler’s global parts distribution centre was looking to upgrade its 20-year-old warehouse In 2016 we reclaimed just under 2,000 tonnes roofs to meet new building regulations for energy of stone wool from building waste in Denmark. efficiency and fire safety. We worked with the While we are experts in producing quality roofing contractor to install non-combustible stone wool, we recognise the need to partner insulation and achieved a higher level of energy with others to handle ‘waste’. We have a take efficiency than required by current building back system in Denmark in cooperation with regulations. But more than this, we also managed our partners Combineering and RGS90. the process of removing the old roof material for recycling in our Rockcycle® service. Through this partnership, we’ve learned several valuable lessons to replicate our “Offering a waste take back service increasingly is approach in other countries. For example, a differentiator for us when we supply insulation it’s important that incentives are provided material. Many customers insist on knowing what to recycle, such as via landfill prices and taxes happens to the waste post-construction or as well as legislation requiring separation and renovation. The fact that stone wool is recyclable recycling of building waste. is definitely a plus.” “Working closely with ROCKWOOL and Peter Peters other stakeholders, we are demonstrating Sales Director that the building sector of the future can ROCKWOOL Central West Europe pursue closed resource loops such that waste or end-of-life products can profitably be reused.” Henrik Grand Petersen CEO of RGS90 ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 16 Circular economy – Insights In partnership for a circular European economy Redesigning the EU economy into a circular system is a challenge far beyond the reach of our business alone. However, when we work with governments, businesses and non-governmental organisations, we begin to see small steps adding up, showing that a transition is both possible and commercially beneficial. As the largest stone wool manufacturer in the world, we work with key stakeholders to scale our ambitions and shape the agenda. This means continually advocating for a policy framework that will expand the circular economy. At a time of change for the EU, there is an opportunity to show global leadership on alternative production and consumption models. In 2016, we continued to support an EU circular economy vision by: –– advocating for actions to tackle construction and demolition waste and by contributing insight to the European parliament’s response to the European waste directive; The circular building of the future –– stimulating circular building approaches in the construction Alongside Arup, Frener & Reifer and BAM, with support from sector around green public procurement together with The Built Environment Trust, we were part of the circular GLOBE EU Parliament group and front-running companies; building exhibition at the London Design Festival 2016. The partnership demonstrated a prototype of the most advanced –– actively engaging in projects resulting from the European and reusable building yet. Designers and manufacturers input Commission’s Circular Economy package; and, information into a cloud-based materials database, which –– contributing to European standardisation work for sustainable feeds into a building information modelling (BIM) system construction (we strongly support a full sustainability assessment, that can be viewed via QR codes displayed inside the including environmental, social and economic aspects circular building. of buildings). ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 17 Resource efficiency More with less: spaces ROCKWOOL Resource efficiency that enrich our planet IN THIS SECTION Our opportunity: net carbon positive 19 Inside ROCKWOOL: how we’re doing 20 Preserving resources; enriching modern living 21 Thermal insulation has the potential to reinvent buildings and infrastructure into In action 22 spaces that enrich modern living and avoid carbon emissions. At the same time, Insights 23 Precision Growing techniques are showing greater yields while using less land, water and fertilisers than conventional horticulture. The potential The International Energy Agency calls energy reports that we need to be renovating at By using Precision Growing techniques, “ROCKWOOL is using its partnership with efficiency the ’first fuel’ for decarbonisation.18 three-times the rate we are today.20 Grodan growing media allow growers to Climate-KIC23, to actively participate in innovative With insulation being one of the most recirculate water. This can result in the use projects with real climate impact. It is businesses like Governments, businesses, and consumers cost-effective ways to save energy,19 of 75 percent less water in crops grown in ROCKWOOL that can and do contribute significantly, are increasingly adapting their investment ROCKWOOL has a responsibility – and a stone wool growing media in a high tech both through maximising the positive impact their and consumption decisions to bring global unique commercial opportunity – to help greenhouse in the Benelux compared to products have as well as minimising the negative climate temperatures within levels identified customers transform spaces where people soil grown tomatoes from open fields in impact of their operations. ROCKWOOL is on the by the COP21 Paris Agreement. In addition live, work, play, study into net zero energy/ the Mediterranean area.22 right track with ambitious efforts on both fronts…” to its energy and climate benefits, an carbon environments. Increasing the energy Susanne Pedersen, ambitious energy-efficient building renovation rate of existing buildings is the Managing Director renovation programme could also result in most effective way to do this, and the Global Climate-KIC Nordic two million more direct, local jobs by 2020.21 Alliance for Buildings and Construction See how we’re working in partnership with others to achieve better resource efficiency on page 23. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 18 Resource efficiency Our opportunity: net carbon positive2 From household walls and roofs, to Technical Buildings the vast tanks and pipes of a power station – stone wool keeps heat where 12 Hours 200 Days it’s needed. ROCKWOOL building The time it can take for The time it can take insulation can become ‘net carbon ROCKWOOL insulation for ROCKWOOL positive’ in as little as 200 days – used in industrial applications to become insulation in building applications to become meaning the carbon emitted during net carbon positive net carbon positive the production of building insulation is offset by the avoided emissions 1 DAY 1 YEAR of the insulation’s use in buildings. For industrial insulation, this can ROCKWOOL pipe insulation ROCKWOOL happen in as little as half a day. Pipework insulation slabs Common types of Common types of installation include installation include the the insulation of insulation that goes in walls, industrial pipework floors and roofs A wide range of industries use All kinds of buildings ROCKWOOL insulation, including use ROCKWOOL fossil fuel and solar power plants insulation, from homes to office blocks Potential carbon savings of stone wool insulation product segments of the ROCKWOOL Group and corresponding global warming potential of those segments and the corresponding assurance report issued by PwC in May 2017. This calculation assumes a zero insulation baseline for technical insulation. www.rockwool.com/carbonsavings ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 19 Resource efficiency – Sustainability goals Inside ROCKWOOL: how we’re doing CO2 Emissions Energy Efficiency Water consumption Our goal: Reduce CO2 from our factories (t CO2 / t wool) Our goal: Reduce energy usage within own Our goal: Reduce water consumption within our (non-renovated) building stock (kWh/ m2) factories (m3/t wool) 2016 1.7% Reduction 2016 No change 2016 5% increase 1.7% Target: 10% reduction Target: 20% reduction Target: 35% reduction Target: 75% reduction + 5% Target: 10% reduction Target: 20% reduction 2015 2022 2030 2015 2022 2030 2015 2022 2030 2016 highlight: 2016 highlight: Whilst actions to achieve the goal have yet to be implemented, –– Introduced new melting technology at a factory in Poland. –– Initiated an energy efficiency baseline mapping of all owned this increase was nonetheless unsatisfactory. Actions going forward building stock using a consistent methodology developed will therefore be intensified. Challenge: together with the external consultancy firm INNAX. As an energy intensive business, we have been continuously 2016 highlight: implementing energy efficiency improvements for many years. –– Initiated a global water mapping of our factories. Making step-change improvements remains a challenge and we –– Environmental engineering firm Ramboll Environ conducted recognise the need to intensify our efforts in energy efficiency as a water scarcity assessment of all ROCKWOOL stone wool well as looking at ways to further develop our melting technologies, production sites in early 2017. See Appendix page 36 Key which are currently predominantly based on foundry coke. performance data, Note 11. What’s next? What’s next? What’s next? In the coming year, we will run a group-wide energy efficiency In 2017, we will complete our energy efficiency baseline mapping Over the next year, we plan to finalise our global water mapping workshop with all factories to share best practice. We will also and develop our renovation strategy. and implement water efficiency improvements at a number further develop our energy efficiency action plans and implement of factories. energy efficiency improvements at a number of factories. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 20 Resource efficiency Preserving resources: enriching modern living Products that avoid carbon emissions Water management Throughout its lifespan ROCKWOOL stone wool building insulation Precision Growing with Grodan products use significantly less typically saves approximately 85 times more carbon than is emitted water and nutrients compared to conventional cultivation in soil – during its production. This is equivalent to 155 million tonnes of in fact, tomatoes grown in the medium, consume three to four carbon savings over the lifetime.2 (see page 7). times less water per kilogram, compared to in a field. BiosPHera Grodan’s wireless growing tool, GroSens Multisensor ® enables Unveiled in 2016, BiosPHera is a 25m2 prototype house that growers to optimise irrigation by measuring parameters such as enables high quality living without the need for external power. temperature, fertiliser and water content in the root zone. In 2016, Using PassivHaus and Minergie standards in energy efficiency, it e-GroTM was introduced to help customers link GroSens® to an app. was built using innovative technologies and materials to optimise Lapinus products can help customers manage extreme rainfall by temperature, acoustics and interior comfort. Our expertise in absorbing up to 95 percent of their volume in water, while acting as energy, safety, comfort and aesthetics contributed to the house. a natural filter. In parallel, we established partnerships with academic organisations and think tanks to show the potential for models Off-grid sanitation like BiosPHera in cities of the future. The BIOROCK system uses Lapinus materials to filter domestic effluent into a quality clean enough for discharge into the “Collaboration with academia and other industries to drive environment. The system has been installed in hundreds of off-grid innovation is a core activity for ROCKWOOL. City planners locations around the world, working silently without the need for and researchers have welcomed this very tangible showcase.” external electricity and requiring minimal maintenance. Steen Lindby Vice President, Group Development ROCKWOOL Group Reducing energy poverty Energy efficiency has benefits beyond mitigating climate change; it’s recognised as one of the most effective long-term measures Did you know? If all the tomatoes grown in stone ? for lifting people out of energy poverty. In the EU, the Energy wool in Benelux greenhouses in 2016 and Climate Commissioner estimates that just one percent instead had to be replaced by soil improvement in energy efficiency could lift seven million people grown tomatoes from open fields in the out of energy poverty.24 Mediterranean area, 65 billion more litres of water would have to be used Treehouses – without the trees for irrigation.25 Rockpanel® Woods looks like wood but are made from stone wool. In addition to the clear fire safety and environmental benefits compared to timber, these panels allow the architect to express a vision with natural-looking shapes and varied colour tones that create beautiful facades and roofs. BIOROCK showed 99 percent cleaning efficiency at a holiday home in South Africa. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 21 Resource efficiency – In action Helping Marriott meet ROCKWOOL Technical Insulation Manhattan’s energy goals delivers for world’s largest solar CASE STUDY Business: ROXUL building insulation power complex Marriott Hotel CASE STUDY Business: ROCKWOOL technical insulation Around three quarters of greenhouse gas Government of Morocco emissions in New York City come from buildings,26 90 percent of which is from Rapid development is leading to swiftly rising energy demand heating and cooling. Marriott selected across Africa. And sustainability objectives mean that many ROXUL insulation for its planned downtown countries are prioritising renewable development in order hotel due to its energy efficiency, fire and to meet this demand. Ensuring that solar energy is not lost water barrier properties. through poor insulation is key to the success of solar plants. With the target to halve Lower Manhattan’s To deliver this, ROCKWOOL Technical CO2 emissions by 2030 and reduce citywide Insulation is providing several thousand emissions by 80 percent by 2050, businesses, square metres of wire mats, pipe sections households and municipal authorities all and slab insulation, which will be used in have important roles to play. We supplied tank roofs and walls, as well as pipework. CAVITYROCK for exterior wall insulation for The first deliveries have already taken place the 31-story Courtyard by Marriott hotel, and continue into 2017. opposite the World Trade Center memorial. Selected for its fire resistance, the insulation The government of Morocco aims to also appealed to the customer for its ability generate 42 percent of its electricity from to enhance guest comfort and the acoustics renewables by 2020 and 52 percent by 2030. of open spaces. Through the Morocco Solar Plan it aims to install 2,000 megawatts of solar capacity by 2020, which will constitute around 14 percent of the country’s energy mix. In 2016, ROCKWOOL Technical Insulation won the tender for the Noor Ouarzazate II and III plants, part of the world’s largest solar power complex. When complete, these plants will provide electricity to more than 1 million people, lowering carbon emissions by an estimated 760,000 tonnes per year. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 22 Resource efficiency – Insights In partnership for low-carbon, high-quality living To realise our vision for a built environment that enriches modern life while using fewer resources, we need to share and learn from others; and we’re working together to create a policy framework that supports this vision. In 2016, we actively engaged in the COP22 BetterHome, Denmark climate conference, including having provided ROCKWOOL and three other Danish insulation to the conference buildings. manufacturers of energy-saving solutions – ROCKWOOL is one of three major global Danfoss, GRUNDFOS, and VELUX – have businesses that backed the World Green Building launched the BetterHome initiative to help Council’s ambitious long-term target to ensure Danish homeowners invest in cost-effective that all buildings are, through high levels of energy-saving home improvements tailored energy efficiency, net zero carbon emission by specifically for each individual home. In addition 2050, as official sponsors of the Advancing Net to working with local tradesmen, BetterHome Zero project. also engages financial institutions and energy companies to identify customers that will benefit Europe from energy retrofits. In Europe, we support RENOVATE Europe, the only EU-wide political campaign focusing “Home owners have told us that the collaborative exclusively on renovating the existing building approach of BetterHome, where all technical stock. We are among the founders of the and financial options are presented together, European Alliance of Companies for Energy makes it much easier for them to make decisions Efficiency in Buildings and are actively involved on improving their home.” in Climate-KIC, Europe’s largest public-private Niels Kåre Bruun innovation partnership for climate change Director of BetterHome mitigation and adaptation. We’re a long-standing member of the European Council for an Energy North America Efficient Economy, a non-profit association We sponsored a feasibility study to determine looking at evidence-based policy analysis. the viability of implementing the PassiveHaus Additionally, we are members of or support standard for tall residential buildings in New York projects in national associations, NGOs, and and continued support of City University of think tanks promoting energy efficiency and New York’s high-performance wall assemblies. other relevant issues. Asia Together with members in Melaka Green Development Organisation in Malaysia, ROCKWOOL South Asia has contributed to developing a local green building rating tool, with state-wide compliance in using the tool to start in 2018. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 23 Safety, health and wellbeing Safe and sound: spaces ROCKWOOL Safety, health and wellbeing that enrich our lives IN THIS SECTION The solutions behind modern living often go unnoticed 25 Inside ROCKWOOL: how we’re doing 26 Safe, silent, sustaining 27 If you live in a city anywhere in the world, you will most likely spend In action 28 up to 90 percent of your time in a building.27 Our wellbeing goes Insights 29 hand-in-hand with the comfort of the environment where we work, live, learn, play or even – in the case of a hospital – recover. The potential “It gives you a feeling of wellbeing, safety and peace in mind that a sustainable and non-combustible insulation system with the Blue Angel certificate protects our facade.” Irmgard Wittmann Because stone wool can resist temperatures Stone wool is an important component Creating products that protect and nurture Head Master up to 1,000ºC, it can help contain fires and of comfortable and healthy living. As millions of people around the world begins Plößberg primary school avoid significant toxic smoke. This buys more well as its thermal properties, the fibrous with protecting our own people. We have Bavaria, Germany time for those inside the building to escape structure provides noise and vibration always prioritised the safety and wellbeing “The primary aspects of the lab design safely and for fire brigades to extinguish control. ROCKWOOL insulation of the 10,500 people who come to work at were its functionality and flexibility. Limiting the fire. attenuates noise passing through building ROCKWOOL each day. noise from equipment was a significant assemblies. Rockdelta products damp consideration, given the research labs are an ground-borne noise and vibration from open concept. Rockfon was a new product trains. Rockfon ceilings provide sound to us and, so far, we are very pleased with absorption, making rooms more comfortable the performance and durability.” to be in and improving our ability to communicate effectively. Hovan Stepanian Project Manager at Aecon Group Inc. and See how we’re working in partnership with others to enrich modern living on page 29. Project Manager of Toronto Scarborough Campus project ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 24 Safety, health and wellbeing The solutions behind modern living often go unnoticed The beauty of our products is that they are all around us, all the time, no matter where we are. They are quiet and sometimes go unnoticed, but the silent, often-hidden existence of these products makes our lives measurably more comfortable and enjoyable. Places for learning Offices Iconic buildings Hospitals Homes Attractive neighbourhoods Increasing cognitive Not too hot, and not too cold. Places to marvel at. Places to recover. A safe haven. Positive social impact through performance. aesthetic improvements. Product feature Product feature Product feature Product feature Product feature Our insulation products fit all Our products might go Rockfon products absorb ROCKWOOL insulation built Product feature Partition wall insulation and types of buildings and can be unnoticed yet are present sounds and do not support into the walls and/or facades Rockpanel facade boards Rockfon acoustic solutions applied to roofs, lofts, walls in landmarks like the Eiffel the growth of harmful will withstand a fire for feature unique material improve the ability of and floors, creating spaces Tower, Empire State Building, micro-organisms or bacteria, hours, which could make the properties due to the stone students to hear and thereby with a comfortable indoor Bolshoi Theatre, Torre Agbar, contributing to creating difference between having wool composition with a large understand what the teacher temperature without cold Marina Bay Sands, and healthy indoor environments. a fire in a building and a number of design variations has said. surfaces. In warm climates The Shard. building on fire. and high durability. they help to insulate against heat and reduce the need for Rockpanel boards are air-conditioning. This thermal specified for their aesthetic comfort increases productivity benefits as well as their fire and efficiency in the resilience and hard wearing, workplace. low maintenance design. Combined, these attributes help minimise lifecycle costs. Quiet railways and roads Absorbing noise and vibration. Product feature Rockdelta mats damp undesirable ground-borne noise and vibration from trains, while Lapinus fibres improve performance in car brakes. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 25 Safety, health and wellbeing – Sustainability goals Inside ROCKWOOL: how we’re doing Safety, health and wellbeing Our goal: Reduce Lost Time Incident (LTI) frequency rate by 10% and ensure 0 fatalities annually 2016 0 fatalities, LTI 3% increase 10% + 3% Target: 10% LTI reduction annually 2015 2016 highlights: Challenge: –– The most important safety achievement in 2016 is that we met In 2016, there was one serious incident at one of our factories in our goal of zero fatalities. Taking into account that we operate in Denmark when a lifting hoist broke and struck the employee. We a heavy industry, this is very significant. take all incidents seriously and learn from them. Prioritising the use of leading indicators to prevent incidents, such as reporting unsafe –– Whilst not quite achieving the LTI goal, we still remain best in conditions or situations, safety inspections and safety trainings, class in our industry. Furthermore, the safety performance in aims to help further reduce safety risks. non-mineral wool production activities saw major improvements. What’s next? In the year ahead, we plan to roll out our online safety system to the whole Group, allowing better incident investigation, root cause analysis and corrective actions management. We will assess more job roles for safety risks, implement best practice safety KPIs and pay particular attention to factories with poorer performance. We will also maintain our focus on safety during travelling and driving. We issued a new chemical management policy and manual that will be anchored in the organisation in the coming year in order to strengthen chemical management including more transparency in the supply chain. We also began making our internal processes for selecting new melting raw materials more robust by lowering the risks of non-compliance and by linking them closely to the procedure for quality assurance of raw materials. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 26 Safety, health and wellbeing Safe, silent, sustaining Fire protection Reducing Moscow’s noise stress ROCKWOOL insulation built into the walls and/or facades can Almost three quarters of Moscow’s population suffer from withstand a fire for hours, depending on the thickness of the wall. noise stress.29 In 2016, ROCKWOOL Russia launched Acoustic This can prevent the fire from spreading throughout the interior or ULTRATHIN, a product designed for people living in small flats exterior of the building, which could make the difference between who suffer the physiological effects of urban noise. With a width having a fire in a building and a building on fire. of just 27mm, this was the first such product in Russia and has been welcomed by residents who now enjoy more privacy. Comfort and wellbeing As well as ensuring fire safety, we provide affordable retrofitting “We have had really good feedback from consumers and customers that improves comfort and wellbeing. For example, studies show about this product. It is one of those things that once you have it, that the cognitive performance of both children and adults is you cannot imagine how you managed without it. Quiet privacy in affected by noise and that their ability to work and learn is therefore your own home – we should all be allowed that.” impaired in noisy environments.28 In 2016, Frederiksbjerg School Maxim Tarasov designed by Henning Larsen Architects won Denmark’s School Sales Director Building of the Year award. The highly creative design of this school ROCKWOOL Russia will help encourage pupils to move around within a series of innovative acoustically optimised rooms with ceilings from Rockfon. Stockholm’s quiet railway In 2016, we helped complete the six-kilometre commuter train tunnel beneath central Stockholm, with an estimated 56,000 daily passengers. Around 60,000 square metres of Rockdelta mats will ? mean that more than 100,000 households will be protected from Did you know? noise and vibrations – and so will the many historic buildings above We will be helping ensure fire the tracks. resilience and lasting durability of Central Park Tower in New York City, designed to become the tallest residential building in the world. More than 100,000 households are protected from noise and vibrations through Rockdelta stone wool mats. Garden Ring, Moscow. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 27 Safety, health and wellbeing – In action Taking the stress Learning in peaceful out of travel surroundings CASE STUDY Business: ROCKWOOL building insulation CASE STUDY Business: Rockfon ceilings Terminal Bersepadu Selatan University of Toronto ROCKWOOL roof insulation was the ideal Rockfon acoustic stone wool ceiling panels and suspension solution to keep passengers comfortable systems are helping the University of Toronto’s Scarborough at Kuala Lumpur’s main bus terminal. campus meet LEED Gold building standards. Architects at Bersepadu Selatan, the main As well as meeting high sustainability long distance bus terminal in the city, were criteria such as recycled content, the panels looking for a roof that would keep 52,000 also absorb noise, vital for spaces like this daily passengers cool, while also blocking where people gather and converse in out bus noise and meeting world-class fire groups. The smooth white surface of the standards. They chose ThermalRock B50, ceiling panels reflects up to 86 percent of which helps keep passengers cool by available light, dispersing it more effectively. reducing the heat penetrating through Another advantage is that the ceiling the roof, protects them against noise panels do not support the growth of harmful and is simple and fast to install, meaning micro-organisms or bacteria, contributing minimum disruption. And of course, it to creating a healthy indoor environment offers those using the building a high level for building users and meeting of fire protection. UL® Environment’s GREENGUARD low emissions Gold certification. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 28 Safety, health and wellbeing – Insights In partnership for healthy buildings We are part of global and local alliances that bring together urban planners, architects and construction firms to create healthy, sustainable buildings. These include the Active House Alliance and a number of Green Building Councils globally. We also advocate that acoustic criteria are integrated into sustainable building standards such as WELL (for buildings that support health and wellbeing), LEED and Green Globes. Europe North America Making cities safe and healthy places to live We are strongly committed to Optimized calls for the right regulatory frameworks, as Acoustics, an initiative launched at the 2016 well as voluntary sustainable building rating American Institute of Architects conference and schemes. As founding members of Fire Safe subsequently in Canada to draw attention to Europe, we join others to draw regional attention building acoustics and wellbeing. The campaign to facade fire safety and the threats of smoke includes research, awareness and education and toxicity. Engaging with a wide variety of is beginning to catalyse wider collaboration. Our stakeholders to support research and awareness role includes supporting research in independent is also critical and in 2016 we supported laboratories, drafting white papers, helping research at the Technical University of Denmark; develop a dedicated website and awareness University of Central Lancashire, UK; University materials, and contributing to the initiative’s of Edinburgh, UK; and University of Waterloo, continuing education units for architects, Canada looking at fire performance of stone wool including online options. Rockfon has been products, smoke toxicity, fire protection of cross invited to present Optimized Acoustics at the laminated timber, scaling of fire test methods and U.S. National Institutes of Health in 2017. fire performance of roofing with solar photovoltaic panels. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 29 Responsible business Driving sustainable and responsible performance At the ROCKWOOL Group, we are committed to conducting ourselves sustainably, responsibly and transparently. ROCKWOOL has signed up to the United Nations Global Compact and expresses our continued support for the Global Compact, hereby renewing our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. This commitment means continuously evolving our governance, policies, training and stakeholder dialogue. Driving sustainability performance Anti-corruption During the year, we continued to strengthen the relevant The ROCKWOOL Group recognises that corruption is a potential governance structures to support the Group’s sustainability risk in business and is dedicated to responding to this risk as ambitions. We established a Group sustainability function and comprehensively and systematically as possible. The fight against steering committee in 2016. The steering committee met corruption is part of the Business Ethics Manual of the Group. on five occasions. Further steps to ensure that business decisions The Group’s Integrity Committee consists of the CEO, Chief reflect our sustainability commitments included updating Financial Officer, a senior member of Group Management and investment processes to align with sustainability goals. In early the Group General Counsel. It oversees the Group’s compliance 2017 the Board of Directors decided to increase the focus on within competition law, anti-bribery, data privacy and export sustainability and consequently asked the Audit Committee to control. It takes a zero tolerance stance on corruption in any form, include monitoring of the Group’s sustainability performance as as outlined in our Business Ethics Manual, while at the same time a part of the Committee’s area of responsibility. offering a timely and consistent response to all issues raised through our anonymous whistle blower system. Supply chain and human rights Sourcing is done in accordance with the Group Procurement Engaging our people Policy, which requires that suppliers of direct materials with an All employees with third party contacts and indirect employees annual spend more than EUR 100,000 sign the Code of Conduct, must undertake e-learning training in Business Ethics. Additional aligned with the 10 principles of UN Global Compact and now training is given in countries with high corruption ratings and for available in 12 languages. So far, 94 percent have signed the Code, Group sourcing and procurement staff. The Group’s whistle up from 76 percent in 2015. We carried out 121 supplier evaluations blower policy encourages employees, suppliers, distributors and in 2016, two of which led to corrective actions. A project was customers to expose any corrupt practices or misconduct with initiated to review current internal procedures within the supply their anonymity protected. In 2016, we investigated eight integrity chain to ensure they are sufficiently robust. Human rights are incidents, three of which were reported and investigated as a result part of the ROCKWOOL Group’s Social Charter. Read more of whistle-blowing. about our approach to human rights in the ROCKWOOL Group Annual Report available at rockwool.com/investor-relations/ financial-reports. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 30 Responsible business The ROCKWOOL Foundation The ROCKWOOL Foundation is an impartial, financially self-supporting institution that engages in activities for the public good. It carries out independent research into issues relevant to society and develops innovative solutions to social problems in the form of practical interventions. With 23 percent of the ROCKWOOL Group The Foundation was also particularly involved in dividend going to the ROCKWOOL Foundation, trialling initiatives aimed at raising rates of its focus is on five key issues: immigration and employment and levels of education among integration; tax and undeclared work; family disconnected young people, including young economics and the labour market; marginalised people from ethnic minority backgrounds, and groups and risk behaviour; and a special area of this work will continue in the coming years. emphasis: disconnected youths. In 2016, the As well as research, the Foundation works to find Foundation conducted research across the five practical solutions to societal challenges. issues and shared its findings with policy makers Interventions are tried and tested in collaboration and the wider public, contributing insight to a with expert partners, with the joint goal of scaling number of publications, TV and radio broadcasts any successful interventions to a national level. In and presentations to parliamentary committees. 2016, the interventions unit added two new initiatives: an integration programme addressing why young people from ethnic minorities are 23% more frequently in neither education nor employment; and an initiative that looks at drop-outs from education. See the Foundation’s annual report at www.rockwoolfonden.dk Did you know? In 2016, the ROCKWOOL Foundation ? of the ROCKWOOL Group focused on the issue of social mobility, funding a study by Rasmus Landersø at dividend going to the the Research Unit and Nobel laureate ROCKWOOL Foundation James Heckman, Professor of Economics at the University of Chicago. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 31 Appendix – Our sustainability goals Progress on our sustainability goals Safety, health and wellbeing CO2 Emissions Reclaimed waste Our goal: Reduce Lost Time Incident (LTI) frequency Our goal: Reduce CO2 from our factories (t CO2 / t wool) Our goal: Increase the number of countries (currently rate by 10% and ensure 0 fatalities annually five) where we offer the reclaiming of product waste from market 2016 0 fatalities, LTI 3% increase 10% 2016 1.7% Reduction 2016 No change + 3% Target: 10% LTI reduction annually 1.7% Target: 10% reduction Target: 20% reduction 15 countries 30 countries 2015 2015 2022 2030 2015 2022 2030 Water consumption Energy efficiency Landfill waste Our goal: Reduce water consumption within our Our goal: Reduce energy usage within own Our goal: Reduce landfill waste from our factories (m3/t wool) (non-renovated) building stock (kWh/ m2) factories (tonnes) 2016 5% increase 2016 No change 2016 3% Reduction + 5% Target: 10% reduction Target: 20% reduction Target: 35% reduction Target: 75% reduction 3% Target: 40% reduction Target: 85% reduction 2015 2022 2030 2015 2022 2030 2015 2022 2030 All baselines were set at 2015 ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 32 Appendix Performance data and GRI index Sustainability governance Reporting criteria Reporting methodology The Group Sustainability function is led by the Head This 2016 report covers the calendar year and is Based on stakeholder dialogue and the GRI standards, of Group Sustainability who reports to the Senior in line with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G4) key performance indicators (KPIs) were selected and Vice President for Group Marketing, Communication guidelines. A materiality analysis was conducted in reported in order to provide a balanced and and Public Affairs, a member of Group Management. 2016 in collaboration with an external party in order to representative picture of our business. Most of the The Head of Group Sustainability is responsible determine the most material topics for ROCKWOOL data in this report was gathered by individual business for coordinating and tracking progress of Group Group and its stakeholders. These material topics are units and reported to the Group head office. The data Sustainability Goals, which are reported directly listed in the GRI table in this appendix and throughout was then consolidated and verified internally. Some to Group Management. Key sustainability-related this report. data in this report including financial, governance, decisions are made within the Group Sustainability some social and, to a limited extent, environmental Steering Group comprising two members of Group Reporting boundary data comes from our Annual Report, which has been Management; a Managing Director; Group Safety, The scope of this report is the ROCKWOOL Group assured by external auditors. Health, Environment and Quality Director; and Head and all our mineral wool producing companies in of Group Sustainability. which we hold the majority of shares. This means a total of 70 legal entities in 35 countries and 28 factories in 18 countries. For safety data, this scope is extended to cover the whole Group. You can find the list of our companies (including the degrees of ownership) on page 117 of our 2016 Annual Report available at www.rockwool.com/investor-relations/ financial-reports. Additional COP content can be found at www.rockwool.com/sustainability ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 33 Appendix – Key performance data Category Indicator GRI-G4 Value 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Note Tonnes wool produced Mt 2.18 2.22 2.29 2.30 2.34 1 Anti-corruption Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken SO5 Number – 2 3 3 1 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of SO8 kEUR – – – – – non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Workplace safety Fatalities LA6 Number 1 – – – – Frequency of LTI – employees and contractors LA6 no./mill hrs 3.7 4.5 3.2 3.1 3.2 2 (per million hours worked) Environmental management Factories certified to ISO 14001 and/or OHSAS 18001 Number 12 12 18 17 17 Percent of factories certified to ISO 14001 and/or % 44 44 67 63 61 OHSAS 18001 Audits for environment, health, safety Number 60 65 94 123 107 3 Environmental laws and Fines – monetary value EN29 kEUR – 2 – 1 2 regulations — non-compliance Non-monetary sanctions EN29 Number – – – – – Energy Energy consumption (in 28 factories) EN3 GWh 4,139 4,361 4,444 4,474 4,466 1 Energy per tonne stone wool (28 factories) EN5 MWh/t 2.06 1.97 1.94 1.94 1.91 1 Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions EN15, EN16 Mt CO2 1.60 1.58 1.64 1.59 1.59 1, 4, 5 CO2 direct (Scope 1) EN15 Mt CO2 1.26 1.24 1.28 1.28 1.27 1, 4, 5 Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) CO2 indirect (Scope 2) EN16 Mt CO2 0.34 0.34 0.35 0.31 0.32 1, 4, 6 CO2 direct (Scope 1) per tonne stone wool (28 factories) EN15 kg CO2 /t 585 562 561 555 544 1, 4, 5 CO2 indirect (Scope 2) per tonne stone wool (28 factories) EN16 kg CO2 /t 155 152 153 136 135 1, 4, 6 CO2 direct and indirect (Scope 1+2) per tonne stone wool EN15, EN16 kg CO2 /t 740 714 714 691 679 1, 4, 5, 6 (28 factories) CO2 from downstream transportation – European Division (EN30) tonnes 23,162 26,899 30,821 30,760 CO2 e ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 34 Appendix – Key performance data Category Indicator GRI-G4 Value 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Note Ozone depletion Emissions of ozone-depleting substances EN20 t CFC11 eq negligible negligible negligible negligible negligible Air emissions NOx per tonne stone wool EN21 kg/t 0.63 0.66 0.76 0.62 0.77 7 SO2 per tonne stone wool EN21 kg/t 2.69 2.97 3.32 3.22 3.24 7 CO per tonne stone wool EN21 kg/t 15.39 15.15 12.45 7.76 2.24 7 Ammonia per tonne stone wool EN21 kg/t 1.11 1.41 1.33 1.3 1.17 7 Phenol per tonne stone wool EN21 kg/t 0.18 0.18 0.15 0.16 0.15 7 Formaldehyde per tonne stone wool EN21 kg/t 0.1 0.06 0.09 0.05 0.05 7 Particulate matter (PM10) per tonne stone wool EN21 kg/t 0.44 0.49 0.6 0.43 0.63 7 Water Water consumption per tonne stone wool m³/t 1.31 1.37 1.32 1.35 1.39 8 Water consumption excl. rainwater per tonne stone wool 1.27 1.33 9 Water consumption total EN8 million m³ 2.86 3.04 3.02 3.05 3.24 8 Water withdrawal by source Groundwater own abstraction EN8 million m³ 1.04 0.97 0.96 0.92 1.0 8 Municipal water a.o. utilities EN8 million m³ 1.36 1.67 1.61 1.63 1.81 8 Rainwater own abstraction EN8 million m³ 0.18 0.16 0.21 0.22 0.13 8 Surface water own abstraction EN8 million m³ 0.27 0.25 0.25 0.29 0.30 8 Waste water from external source EN8 million m³ – – – – – Water consumption significantly effecting water resources EN9 million m³ – – – – – 10 Percent of water consumption with significant effect EN9 % – – – – – Waste & Recycling Total waste generated EN23 tonnes 358,200 197,100 185,140 189,730 201,573 Total waste per tonne stone wool EN23 kg/t 164 89 81 82 86 Waste landfilled EN23 tonnes 150,500 87,900 86,900 93,960 91,230 1, 11 Waste for external recycling EN23 tonnes 174,200 77,600 91,750 73,550 84,673 Waste for external recovery (energy) EN23 tonnes 8,300 7,300 10,900 8,600 13,160 Waste to landfill per tonne stone wool kg/t 69 40 38 41 39 1 Recycling of residue from other industries tonnes 564,900 619,400 543,815 845,950 740,550 Percent recycled content (secondary melt raw materials + (EN2) % 25.9 27.9 23.7 37.4 31.7 reclaimed waste per tonne stone wool) Products and packaging reclaimed EN28 tonnes 12,600 23,200 15,280 14,200 18,110 12 ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 35 Appendix – Key performance data Notes 10 Environmental engineering firm Ramboll Environ conducted a water scarcity assessment of all ROCKWOOL stone wool 1 2015 adjusted to 28 factories compared to last year’s report, production sites in early 2017. The assessment identified four as 2015 is baseline year for sustainability goals. 2016 covers factories in Malaysia, India and Russia as being in either highly 28 factories. or extremely highly water stressed areas, while two factories 2 Lost days count begins the day after the accident and in Spain and Hungary were in potentially highly or extremely connotes scheduled work days. Minor (first-aid level) injuries highly water stressed areas. In each of the six cases, the are not included. results indicate that the factories’ overall water consumption is unlikely to be materially relevant when compared to the 3 2014 and 2015 values adjusted. overall availability of water in the basin where each factory is 4 Our methodology for calculating the Group’s direct (Scope located. Nevertheless, we will ensure going forward that the 1) and indirect (Scope 2) CO2 emissions is based on ‘The implementing water efficiency measures in these factories Greenhouse Gas Protocol’. We used ‘The IPCC Second is prioritised in line with the Group goal of 20 percent Assessment Report (SAR–100 year)’ as reference for calculating improvement by 2030. our global warming potentials. Other indirect emissions 11 2015 corrected value. (Scope 3) are not included as these are considered negligible compared to the enormous savings of the products. 12 Products and packaging reclaimed by external partners are not covered in the Group figures, only the part directly from 5 Scope 1 is verified for European factories for 2015. As our factories. verification data for 2016 has yet to be submitted, 2016 data is based solely on internal data. 6 Scope 2 emission calculated with market based values for 2015 (baseline year) and 2016. Emissions factors are from 2015. 7 2016 covers 28 factories; 5 factories in South East Asia and China replaced with representative average. 8 2015 data adjusted to cover new definition (entire site). 9 New parameter. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 36 Appendix – GRI index (G4) Indicator Level Description Value Reference Strategy & analysis G4-1 core Statement of CEO about relevance of sustainability SR: p.4-5 to organisation and strategy G4-3 core Name of the organisation AR: p.117 Group Companies G4-4 core Primary brands, products, and services AR: p.22-31 – Market and trends G4-5 core Location of the organisation’s headquarters AR: p.117 Group Companies G4-6 core Number of countries operating AR: p.6-7 – ROCKWOOL 2016 G4-7 core Report the nature of ownership and legal form AR: p.117 – Group companies G4-8 core Markets served AR: p.8-9 – World leader with local presence G4-9 core Scale of the organisation AR: p.6-7 – ROCKWOOL 2016 AR: p.8-9 – World leader with local presence AR: p.42 – 5 year overview AR: p.117 – Group companies G4-10 core Total number of employees AR: p.6-7 – ROCKWOOL 2016 G4-11 core Total employees covered by collective There are collective bargaining agreements in the bargaining agreements majority of the countries where we are active. In the countries where we have collective bargaining agreements in place the majority of employees are covered G4-12 core Describe the organisation’s supply chain. AR: p.39 – Fulfilling the UN Sustainable Development Goals G4-13 core Significant changes during reporting period None G4-14 core Precautionary approach or principle addressed by The ROCKWOOL companies have acceded to the organisation the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC)’s Environmental Charter for Sustainable Development – Principles for Environmental Management G4-15 core Externally developed economic, environmental ROCKWOOL has signed up to the United Nations and social charters, principles or other initiatives Global Compact and would like to express our subscribed to or endorsed continued support for the Global Compact and hereby renew our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles G4-16 core Memberships of associations and national or SR: p.17, 23, 29 international advocacy organisations (refers to primarily memberships at organisation level) G4-17 core Entities included and excluded in consolidated AR: p.114 – Note 30 – General accounting financial statements policies applied AR: p.117 – Group companies ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 37 Appendix – GRI index (G4) Indicator Level Description Value Reference G4-18 core Process report content (Materiality SR: p.33 Assessment, etc.) G4-19 core Material aspects Energy efficiency; Circular economy; Fire resilience; Safety, health & wellbeing; water efficiency and management; public/private sector collaboration G4-20 core Boundary for material aspects within organisation SR: p.33 G4-21 core Boundary for material aspect outside organisation SR: p.33 G4-22 core Restatements of information As a new goal for reduction of CO2 emissions has been made, the baseline year has been changed to 2015 G4-23 core Significant changes in scope and boundary SR: p.33 G4-24 core List of stakeholder groups engaged by the SR: p.17, 23, 29 organisation G4-25 core Basis for identification and selection of stakeholder SR: p.17, 23, 29 G4-26 core Approach to stakeholder engagement SR: p.17, 23, 29 G4-27 core Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder SR: p.17, 23, 29 engagement G4-28 core Reporting period 1st January 2016 – 31st December 2016 G4-29 core Date of most recent previous report The previous report covered financial year 2015 and was published on 25th August, 2016 G4-30 core Reporting cycle Annual G4-31 core Contact points Head of Group Sustainability Anthony Abbotts: sustainability@rockwool.com G4-32 core GRI indicators The GRI table is part of the Sustainability Report G4-33 core Assurance The report has not been externally verified G4-34 core Governance structure SR: p.33 G4-56 core Organisation’s values, principles, standards and SR: p.30 norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 38 Appendix – GRI index (G4) Indicator Level Description Value Reference Specific Standard Disclosures Economic performance G4-EC1 specific Direct economic value generated and distributed AR: p.72-78 Financial statements Materials G4-EN2 specific Percent of recycled content (secondary melt raw SR: p.34-35 materials per tonne stone wool) Energy G4-EN3 specific Energy consumption (in factories) SR: p.34-35 G4-EN4 specific Energy consumption outside of the organisation SR: p.34-35 G4-EN5 specific Energy intensity SR: p.34-35 G4-CRE3 specific Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from buildings SR: p.34-35 Water G4-EN8 specific Water consumption total SR: p.34-35 Emissions G4-EN15, G4-EN16 specific Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions SR: p.34-35 G4-EN17 specific Other relevant indirect GHG emissions SR: p.34-35 G4-EN21 specific Significant air emissions SR: p.34-35 Products and services G4-EN27 specific Extent of impact mitigation of environmental SR: p.3-29 impacts of products and services Supplier environmental assessment G4-EN32, LA14, SO9 specific Percentage of new suppliers that were screened SR: p.30 using environmental criteria, labour practices, society and human rights Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA6 specific Type of injury and rates of injury SR: p34-35 Training and education G4-LA9 specific Average hours of training per year per employee by SR: p.30 gender, and by employee category ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 39 Appendix – GRI index (G4) Indicator Level Description Value Reference Supplier assessment for labour practices G4-LA14 specific Percentage of new suppliers that were screened SR: p.30 using labour practices criteria Customer health and Safety G4-PR1 specific Percentage of significant product and service SR: p.24-29 categories for which health and safety impact are assessed for improvement Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-HR10 specific Percentage of new suppliers that were screened SR: p.30 using human rights criteria Anti-corruption and Compliance G4-SO5 specific Confirmed incidents of corruption and SR: p.30, 34-35 actions taken G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number SR: p.34-35 of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Supplier assessment for impacts on society G4-SO9 specific Percentage of new suppliers that were screened SR: p.30 using criteria for impacts on society ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 40 Appendix References 1 T. W. Dahl, et al. 2011, International Geology Review (Volume 53 10 Shaping the Future of Construction – A Breakthrough in Mindset 22 Data are estimates based on a review of the scientific literature Numbers 7-8, June-July 2011) ‘The human impact on natural and Technology, World Economic Forum 2016 by Wageningen University. The data compare high tech rock reserves using basalt, anorthosite, and carbonates as raw greenhouse grown tomatoes on stone wool in Benelux with 11 Firesafeeurope.eu/ Brandsikkert Denmark, World Fire Statistics materials in insulation products’ soil grown tomatoes in open fields in the Mediterranean area 12 WHO ‘Burden of disease from environmental noise. 2 Potential carbon savings of stone wool insulation product 23 Climate-KIC is the EU’s largest public private partnership Quantification of healthy life years lost in Europe’ http://www. segments of the ROCKWOOL Group and corresponding global addressing climate change through innovation to build a euro.who.int/en/health-topics/environment-and-health/noise/ warming potential of those segments and the corresponding low carbon economy. publications/2011/burden-of-disease-from-environmentalassurance report issued by PwC in May 2017. This calculation noise.-quantification-of-healthy-life-years-lost-in-europe 24 Reuters: ‘EU regulators poised to seek deeper cut in energy assumes a zero insulation baseline for technical insulation. use: draft’ (2016): http://www.reuters.com/article/us-eu-energywww.rockwool.com/carbonsavings 13 See report ‘Potential carbon savings of stone wool insulation efficiency-idUSKCN11F20R product segments of the ROCKWOOL Group and 3 Renovate Europe, Briefing Note ‘Energy Poverty’ March 2017 corresponding global warming potential of those segments’ 25 Data are estimates based on a review of the scientific literature 4 United Nations, Economic & Social Affairs ‘World Urbanization and the corresponding assurance report issued by PwC in by Wageningen University. The data compare high tech Prospects’ (2014), https://esa.un.org/unpd/wup/Publications/ May 2017 (www.rockwool.com/carbonsavings) greenhouse grown tomatoes on stone wool in Benelux with Files/WUP2014-Report.pdf soil grown tomatoes in open fields in the Mediterranean 14 CSRhub.com area. Furthermore the calculation assumes an 80/20 split for 5 C40, ‘Urban Efficiency II: Seven Innovative City 15 ISO 14021:1999 and LEED v4 greenhouse grown production with and without recycling of Programmes for Existing Building Energy efficiency’ (2016), drainage water for stone wool grown crops in Benelux http://www.c40.org/research 16 FIW Munich, Report on Findings E3.3-2016/01 26 Technical Working Group Report ‘One City Built to Last 6 The facts are a summary of a scientific review of 17 International Energy Agency (2013): ‘Transition to – Transforming New York city buildings for a low-carbon future’ dr. ir. Ep Heuvelink and Prof. dr. ir. Leo Marcelis from Sustainable Buildings – Strategies and Opportunities (2nd edition, 2014): http://www.nyc.gov/html/gbee/downloads/ Wageningen UR. Hussain to 2050’: http://www.europarl.europa.eu/RegData/etudes/ pdf/TWGreport_2ndEdition_sm.pdf BRIE/2016/583767/EPRS_BRI(2016)583767_EN.pdf 7 Renovate Europe, Briefing Note ‘Energy Poverty’ March 2017 27 Building Green: ‘We Spend 90% of Our Time Indoors. Says 18 www.iea.org/publications/freepublications/publication/ Who?(2016): https://www.buildinggreen.com/blog/we-spend8 European Commission. JRC Science and Policy Reports: ‘Energy Building2013_free.pdf 90-our-time-indoors-says-who Renovation: The Trump Card for the New Start for Europe’(2015), http://publications.jrc.ec.europa.eu/repository/bitstream/ 19 McKinsey report Cost Abatement Curve 28 Effects of noise and reverberation on speech perception and JRC92284/eur26888_buildingreport_online_2015-03-25.pdf http://www.mckinsey.com/business-functions/sustainability-andlistening comprehension of children and adults in a classroom resource-productivity/our-insights/greenhouse-gas-abatementlike setting, Maria Klatte, Thomas Lachmann, Markus Meis, 9 Briefing note of Renovate Europe: ‘Energy poverty – nobody cost-curves Noise & Health, Issue 49, Volume 12, 2010 should have to choose between heating and eating’ (2017): http://renovate-europe.eu/wp-content/uploads/2017/03/ 20 Global Alliance for Buildings and Construction, ‘Global 29 http://newizv.ru newizv.ru: ‘Save Our Ears’ (2008): http://newizv. REC-Briefing-note-v4-1-2017.pdf Roadmap towards low-GHG and resilient buildings’ ru/news/society/22-02-2008/85154-spasite-nashi-ushi. BPIE Report: ‘Energy Poverty Handbook’, October 2016, November 2016 html?format=html&slug_for_redirect=society%2F2008-08http://bpie.eu/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/ 22%2F85154-spasite-nashi-ushi 21 Copenhagen Economics (2012): ‘Multiple benefits of investing in energypovertyhandbook-online.pdf energy efficient renovation of buildings’: http://renovate-europe. European Parliament, Briefing May 2016: ‘Energy poverty eu/multiple-benefits-study – protecting vulnerable consumers’: http://www.europarl. europa.eu/RegData/etudes/BRIE/2016/583767/EPRS_ BRI(2016)583767_EN.pdf ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 41 Appendix – Trademark The ROCKWOOL Trademark ROCKWOOL® – Our trademark Trademarks The ROCKWOOL trademark was initially registered in Denmark ROCKWOOL®, ROXUL®, Rockfon®, Rockpanel®, Grodan®, Lapinus®, as a logo mark back in 1936. In 1937, it was accompanied with a Rockdelta®, Chicago Metallic ®, Fast ® and Heck.® word mark registration; a registration which is now extended to more than 60 countries around the world. The ROCKWOOL trademark is one of the largest assets in the ROCKWOOL Group, and thus well protected and defended by us throughout the world. Please help us protect our trademark: –– The ROCKWOOL® trademark must always be written in capital letters. –– The ROCKWOOL trademark must always be followed by a descriptive noun. Example: We produce ROCKWOOL products, ROCKWOOL insulation or ROCKWOOL stone wool. –– Always write the ROCKWOOL trademark completely. Never abbreviate, change or modify it. –– The ROCKWOOL word is not the generic term for insulation or stone wool, and may not be used as such. Use instead e.g. the term ROCKWOOL insulation. –– The first time you mention the ROCKWOOL trademark, it must include the registration symbol ®. Using ROCKWOOL as a company name is without registration symbol and may be used without a descriptive noun. Example: At ROCKWOOL we are rising to the challenges of modern living. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2016 42 Appendix Credits Front cover: GettyImages Page 2: Adam Mørk/Picture of UN City, Copenhagen Page 5: Amble Design/shutterstock Page 6: Adam Mørk Page 8: Picture 1: Brandon Bourdages/shutterstock Picture 3: Tim Robbins/offset Page 11: Picture 1: Tommaso Altamura / EyeEm/GettyImages Picture 3: Daria Scagliola and Stijn Brakkee/Kenni Andersen Page 17: Picture of Circular building/ARUP Page 18: Christian Mueller/shutterstock Page 24: Milton Brown Page 27: ROCKWOOL Group Page 28: Picture 1: Spectral-Design/shutterstock Page 29: Adam Mørk Page 30: Adam Mørk Page 31: Phil Boorman Designed and produced by SALTERBAXTER MSL ROCKWOOL International A/S Hovedgaden 584 DK-2640 Hedehusene Denmark CVR No. 54879415 Tel: +45 46 56 03 00 www.ROCKWOOL.com twitter.com/ROCKWOOLint linkedin.com/company/ROCKWOOL-group facebook.com/ROCKWOOLinternational
