CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 CONTENTS CSR 2016 Our commitment 4 CSR strategy 5 Reporting principles and materiality 8 Stakeholder engagement 9 Customers 10 Personnel 14 Products 23 Environment 32 Finance and Governance 39 GRI Content Index 43 FINANCIAL CORPORATE REVIEW 2016 GOVERNANCE 2016 OUR YEAR 2016 Our Year Financial Corporate 2016 Review 2016 Governance 2016 ABOUT THE REPORT The Stockmann Group’s reporting consists of four reviews: ‘Our year 2016’ Business Review, Financial Review, Corporate Governance, and this Corporate Social Responsibility review, which presents our CSR themes, targets and progress according to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines. FROM THE CEO “Stockmann supports the UN’s Global Compact initiative. Accordingly, Stockmann promotes human rights, labour rights, environmental work and anti-corruption measures. This report is also the Stockmann Group’s Communication on Progress (COP) for Global Compact.” Lauri Veijalainen CEO The full CEO’s review is available on the ‘Our Year 2016’ Business review. READ ALL the annual reviews at year2016.stockmanngroup.com STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 3 TO THE READER 2016 was a year of turnaround and also a demanding year for our employees, characterized by organizational changes, personnel reductions and the establishment of new ways of working, as we strived to improve Stockmann’s profitability. Through the efficiency programme measures, our operating result was positive following two years of heavy losses. We conducted active stakeholder dialogue, and placed growing emphasis on customer experience. We continued on our path towards a responsible and transparent supply chain, and increased the use of sustainable materials in our own brands’ clothes. We committed to reducing plastic bags and started the renewal of our shopping bags selection in our department stores. We also reduced our food wastage considerably. Lindex extended textile recycling in its stores and introduced the ‘Even Better Denim’, a collection that contains postconsumer recycled cotton and that is made with improved water processes and energy efficiency. Lindex discontinued its Generous concept and integrated plus sizes in all its fashion concepts. Stockmann’s new logistics centre, which has been granted the environmental LEED Gold-level certificate, opened during the year and will reduce our logistics emissions going forward. This CSR report has been compiled to present our efforts towards even more responsible business. Have a good read, and send us feedback at csr@stockmann.com if you have any comments. Johanna Stenbäck CSR Manager STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 4 OUR COMMITMENT Commitment to responsible operations is at the core of employees and management staff without exception. Stockmann’s values and daily ways of working. Our value Stockmann also requires its suppliers and partners to abide by proposition is to provide a premium shopping experience these principles. in department, fashion and online stores. In our CSR work Our CSR work is systematic and it is developed constantly. this means commitment to sustainable development and Open dialogue and cooperation with our stakeholders, and offering our customers responsible shopping experiences. communication and reporting about advancements in our responsibility work are an essential part of our CSR. We focus our CSR work on what is most important and Our Corporate Social Responsibility work covers the entire value material to our business. The material aspects and the agreed chain in Stockmann’s operations. Responsibility starts in the CSR themes create a systematic and persevering foundation for supply chain, from ensuring safe working conditions to Stockmann’s corporate responsibility strategy. minimizing environmental impacts, and offering our customers the choice of responsibly produced products in our selections. We place the customer at the core, and pay close attention to UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE employee wellbeing as well as environmental aspects. We DEVELOPMENT GOALS guarantee the safety of our products and inspire our customers to make responsible choices. Stockmann is committed to contributing to the United Nations Our responsibility work is guided by Stockmann’s strategy Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), adopted by the UN and values, the CSR strategy and national laws and regulations General Assembly in 2015. These goals, which are part of the valid at any given time in the countries in which we operate. The new agenda for sustainable development in order to end most important of the international agreements and poverty, protect the planet, and ensure prosperity for all, include recommendations that guide us, is our commitment to the a set of 17 ambitious SDGs to be achieved by 2030. We have principles of the UN Global Compact. The operating principles of identified four goals that are most material to our core business Stockmann’s Code of Conduct define ways of working for all and that we can have the most effect on. RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION DECENT WORK AND CLIMATE PARTNERSHIPS AND PRODUCTION ECONOMIC GROWTH ACTION FOR THE GOALS Our most important goal This goal encapsulates our Improving energy efficiency We are in this together: our incorporates our CSR vision to responsibility towards our and climate change customers, employees, offer our customers responsiemployees and people in our mitigation through setting shareholders, suppliers, ble shopping experiences and supply chain in providing a fair emissions targets are central authorities, as well as other our long-term commitment working environment, and to Stockmann’s organizations and partners all towards a responsible and towards our shareholders in environmental work. pay an important role in transparent supply chain. striving for profitable business. achieving these goals. OUR CSR VISION // WE OFFER OUR CUSTOMERS RESPONSIBLE SHOPPING EXPERIENCES. WE ARE COMMITTED TO WORKING FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE FUTURE. STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 5 CSR STRATEGY The CSR strategy defines Stockmann’s priorities and during the year. Stockmann’s business strategy, values, the Code goals of its responsibility work. In our CSR strategy for of Conduct, our materiality analysis and the 10 principles of the 2016-2018, we set tangible targets with concrete actions United Nations Global Compact form the basis for Stockmann’s to further improve our status as a responsible corporate CSR strategy. citizen. Lindex’s ambition is to be recognized as a leading fashion retailer, known as one of the most sustainable, open and trusted companies in the industry. Lindex seeks to go beyond business These goals, presented in detail on the following pages, have as usual and to drive change. Ambitious goals involving fibres, been set to support the Group strategy and the aims of our processes and manufacturing include the commitment to business operations by enhancing customer focus and making 80 per cent of Lindex’s assortment from more improving efficiency. We work determinedly to meet these goals, sustainable sources by 2020, and sourcing 100 per cent of which are grouped under the five material CSR themes, and cotton as either organic cotton, BCI cotton (Better Cotton cover the whole value chain. The CSR strategy was approved by Initiative) or recycled cotton. Sustainability is considered from a the Stockmann Management Team at the beginning of 2016, lifecycle perspective, from initial design to reuse and recycling while the specific targets, action points and KPIs were completed when the clothing is no longer wearable. CSR STRATEGY // 20 16 –20 18 KEY PRIORITIES CUSTOMER PERSONNEL PRODUCTS ENVIRONMENT Inspiration for Motivated High-quality Reduced responsible and engaged selection with impact on the choices retail experts sustainable environment choices and a transparent supply chain h pp roac e ss a b usin n able su stai ct ith a a FINA mp NCE � GO abi lity w a lC o Stock VERN ANCE P rofit lob mann ’s valu NG ,U es � Code d uct of Con STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 6 C SR TARGETS & KEY PERFORMANCE INDIC ATORS (KPIS) THEMES ACTION POINTS AND PROGRESS 2016 STATUS CUSTOMER We build ongoing We continued active dialogue with all stakeholders. Our Net promoter Target not dialogue to raise score (NPS) was 40; improved, but not yet on the long-term target level met INSPIRATION customer satisfaction of 60 (scale -100+100). FOR RESPONSIBLE We share information We shared information about sustainable choices and CSR work through In progress CHOICES about CSR work and our channels, including reporting, website, social media, responding to sustainable choices queries by customers, media, and NGOs, and by educating sales personnel. Our target is to even better inspire our customers with sustainable choices. We engage in CSR and We donated sample products, materials and food through our charity On target charity projects on a partners and engaged in charity projects, such as Lindex’s pink ribbon regular basis and round-up campaigns. We ensure Customer There were zero incidents of breaches of customer privacy, as targeted. On target Privacy PERSONNEL We increase wellbeing While there was progress in the right direction, Stockmann’s Target not at work Organizational Health Index (OHI) score, 38, did not yet meet our target met MOTIVATED of 50 (scale 0-100). AND ENGAGED We promote clear work 85% of Stockmann Retail and Real Estate personnel in Finland had In progress RETAIL roles and targets performance and development discussions. Our target is 100%. At EXPERTS Lindex, all permanent employees have annual employee appraisal meetings with their manager. We ensure safe working There was a total of 148 (127) reported workplace accidents in Finland, Target to environment and in addition 86 on the journey to and from work. In Sweden, there be set was a total of 62 (113) reported workplace accidents, including the journey to and from work. None of the accidents led to severe injury. A further target for reducing workplace accidents will be set in 2017. PRODUCTS We offer a wide There were zero product recalls in own brand products, as targeted. On target selection of safe and HIGH-QUALITY lasting quality products SELECTION WITH We promote We shared information about sustainable choices through our channels. In progress SUSTAINABLE sustainable brands and Our target is to make the sustainable brands and environmentally friendly CHOICES AND A environmentally products in our selection more well-known among our customers. TRANSPARENT friendly products SUPPLY CHAIN We offer a competitive The share of organic food sales of the total food sales was 4.4 per cent, On target selection of organic and was on the same level as last year (4.6 per cent), as targeted. This products level is industry leading, compared with the Finnish average of 2.0 per cent*. *) Estimate by the Finnish Organic Food Association Pro Luomu: share of organic sales of total food sales in grocery shops in Finland in 2016 We increase the use of More than 50 per cent of the Lindex assortment was made from more In progress sustainable materials in sustainable materials in 2016. The goal is that 80 per cent of Lindex our own brand clothes will be made from sustainable materials by 2020. Approximately garments 90 per cent of all Lindex cotton is more sustainable, such as organic and Better Cotton. The goal is to reach 100 per cent by 2020. During 2016, Lindex launched new ‘Even Better Denim’ styles that contained more sustainable cotton as well as post-consumer recycled cotton, which represents one step towards closing the material loop. In 2016 Lindex sold approximately 28 million garments made from more sustainable materials. STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 7 C SR TARGETS & KEY PERFORMANCE INDIC ATORS (KPIS) THEMES ACTION POINTS AND PROGRESS 2016 STATUS PRODUCTS We increase the use of In addition to NOOM women’s clothes, garments made of organic cotton In progress sustainable materials in will be included in the spring 2017 collection of Stockmann’s own HIGH-QUALITY our own brand children’s brands Bogi, Cube&CO and Bel. SELECTION garments WITH SUSTAINABLE We add transparency in We published a comprehensive supplier and factory list for fashion own In progress CHOICES AND A our own brands’ value brands, as targeted. The home area is to be included by the end of 2018. TRANSPARENT chain SUPPLY CHAIN We co-operate to improve We continued working towards the target of getting 100 per cent of our In progress working conditions in our own brand suppliers and factories to sign the Stockmann Code of own brands’ supplier Conduct and those producing in risk countries to sign the BSCI Code of network Conduct, and becoming BSCI audited by the end of 2018. ENVIRONMENT We continue to improve We achieved the target of a 9 per cent reduction in energy consumption, In progress our energy efficiency as we had committed to in the Finnish retail sector’s energy efficiency REDUCED agreement for 2009-2016. Our further target is to improve the energy IMPACT efficiency of our properties by 4 per cent by 2020. ON THE ENVIRONMENT We reduce the We set the course to achieving the target of reducing domestic transport In progress environmental impact emissions by 10 per cent by 2018, with a significant reduction in the of our logistics amount of transport loads. We minimize waste and We continued to decrease our food wastage, according to the target of On target find possibilities for -25 per cent by 2018. In 2016, biodegradable waste decreased for another re-use and recycling year in a row, by 15 per cent. 70.5 per cent of the waste generated in Stockmann department stores in Finland was directed to recycling, reaching the target level of 70 per cent. We promoted recycling by donating products, materials and food to charity. With a new partner in Oulu, we achieved our target of having at least one partner for food donation in each Delicatessen. FINANCE & We strive for ethical and We continued the roll-out of our CoC e-learning. At the end of the year, In progress GOVERNANCE transparent operations 33 per cent of the Stockmann support functions and department store through commitment to supervisors had completed the training. Further roll-out has been PROFITABILITY the Stockmann Code of planned for 2017 to reach the target of 100 per cent of the Group’s WITH A Conduct (CoC), the UN personnel by the end of 2018. SUSTAINABLE Global Compact and We continued the work towards the requirement of getting 100 per cent BUSINESS Business Social of our suppliers to sign the Stockmann Code of Conduct and those in risk APPROACH Compliance Initiative countries to sign the BSCI Code of Conduct by the end of 2018. (BSCI) We provide economic We returned to profit, as the Group’s adjusted operating result in 2016 In progress added value to all our was up, to EUR 20.2 million (EUR -28.5 million). The net profit for the stakeholders year still remained negative, and the Board of Directors suggests no dividend be paid to the shareholders. Suppliers and personnel remain the stakeholders receiving the most economical added value: purchases from suppliers were EUR 981.4 million and salaries and other employee benefit expenses totalled EUR 250.8 million in 2016. We provide transparent We renewed our reporting by publishing integrated reviews of the In progress and reliable CSR business operations, financials, governance and CSR. Achieving this communications with milestone prepares us for the target of publishing a fully integrated report an integrated view for the year 2018. We increased transparency through publishing detailed information about our CSR strategy targets. We carry out a human A self-assessment survey was conducted in Lindex sales countries in late In progress rights assessment with 2016, to study the fulfilment of human rights. This study was the first step key stakeholders towards our goal of carrying out a human rights assessment with our key stakeholders by the end of 2018. STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 8 REPORTING PRINCIPLES AND MATERIALITY This Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 2016 review is This Stockmann CSR review is in compliance with the part of the Stockmann Group’s annual reporting which Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines, and in consists of four reviews: ‘Our year 2016’ Business Review, accordance with the Core option of the guidelines. The report Financial Statements, Corporate Governance, and this has not been reviewed in full by a third party. Financial indicators review which presents the focus areas and results of the which are presented in the financial statements are externally Stockmann Group’s responsibility work according to assured. The G4 Specific Standard Disclosures are presented under the five Stockmann CSR themes. GRI G4 Guidelines. The review is intended for our key Stockmann’s subsidiary Lindex publishes a CSR report of stakeholders and it is published annually. its own, with more detailed information about its CSR work and also provides additional information on its website at lindex.com. REPORTING PRINCIPLES MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT The reporting period for this review is the financial year from Our work focuses on those CSR topics and activities that are 1 January to 31 December 2016. The previous report, covering most important, or material, to our business. Looking at the year 2015, was published on 23 February, 2016. materiality is an ongoing process at Stockmann. During the years The CSR review for 2016 covers all of the Stockmann 2012 – 2014 Stockmann defined its material sustainability aspects Group’s own operations, which in 2016 comprised three divisions for reporting according to the requirements in the GRI G4 Stockmann Retail, Real Estate and Lindex – in 17 countries, the reporting guidelines. 31 material aspects were identified and then Group’s shared functions and headquarters in Helsinki in categorized under five CSR themes: customers, employees, Finland, and the purchasing offices in five countries in Asia. products, environment, finance & governance. These themes The figures reported in the CSR review do not include also define the content and structure of this CSR review. The department store operations in Russia due to the divestment on materiality assessment process is described in full on the Group 1 February 2016, nor does the report cover Lindex shops in website and in the previous 2015 CSR review. Russia, which were closed by May 2016. During the preparation of the Stockmann CSR strategy The supply chain is covered to the extent defined in the 2016-2018, the CSR themes were revisited, re-evaluated and materiality analysis. The report does not include information about updated where needed. Lindex’s franchising stores. There is a total of 37 franchising stores To address the aspects specific to its business, Lindex in 6 countries, which are managed by 5 franchising partners. engages in a continuous materiality assessment of its own, to The GRI indicators have been selected according to gain insight from its stakeholders and to complement the Group materiality. The GRI content index can be found at the end of the materiality assessment. In 2016, Lindex started a stakeholder review. Our goal is to report the relevant indicators from our main assessment that will continue in 2017. While the results showed operating countries, which are Finland and Sweden, based on differences among stakeholder groups, they all placed the the revenue and employee count. Due to reporting differences greatest importance on aspects linked to Lindex products along within the Group’s divisions, some of the indicators describing the product lifecycle, such as material choices, product safety personnel and the environment are reported only for Finland, and social conditions in their production. To meet this interest, which accounted for 45 (52) per cent of revenue in 2016 and 40 Lindex sustainability reporting will focus on the product lifecycle (46) per cent of personnel at year-end. These exceptions and the point of view. measurement and accounting policies are described in connection with the relevant indicator. The goal is to gradually expand and unify our reporting to make it more comprehensive. STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 9 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Stockmann engages in active and ongoing dialogue with its information as required for listed companies through stock stakeholders to strengthen relations and better respond to exchange announcements, financial reports and the annual the expectations and wishes placed on it. In our CSR strategy reporting, the Group’s website, audio webcasts and regular work, we have identified five key stakeholder groups that investor relations meetings. The Annual General Meeting of most affect and are affected by our business. The groups and shareholders is normally held in March. our stakeholder dialogue with them are outlined below. GOODS SUPPLIERS AND SERVICE PROVIDERS Long relationships with goods suppliers and service providers are CUSTOMERS key to our sustainability work and continuous improvement in Customers are our most important stakeholders and one of our production. We seek to develop our partnerships in order to values is to inspire our customers. We are in direct dialogue with ensure a good business environment for all, and the best customers in stores and in addition through customer service possible service to our customers. All suppliers and service and social media with hundreds of contacts every day. We providers are expected to follow the Stockmann Code of arrange customer surveys and have a customer panel to enable Conduct. We engage in active direct dialogue with the suppliers Stockmann department stores to better understand customer and producers of our own brands through our local purchasing needs and expectations towards Stockmann. We engage offices, through meetings and workshops, through regular visits customers to share their ideas. One example of this is a to suppliers and in connection with inspections of factories and customer expert programme that was launched at the beginning production units. We encourage our suppliers to take part in of 2016 to plan and develop the new department store in Tapiola, training events and workshops organized under the Business to be opened in March 2017. We share information via customer Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI). We meet suppliers for encounters and service, our website, printed materials and international and domestic brand products in regular purchasing reports. negotiations, where sustainability issues are also discussed. PERSONNEL AUTHORITIES AND ORGANISATIONS We value our personnel and their commitment to the company. By utilizing networks, memberships in several organisations or Our goal is to be a sought-after employer on the labour market. other means, we engage in dialogue with authorities and 2016 was a demanding year for our employees, characterized by organisations concerning improvement work and development organisational changes and the establishment of new ways of projects. We cooperate with NGOs and participate in different working. Employee wellbeing and coping with workload due to types of charity work. We provide general information on our constant changes were raised as a topic by Stockmann website, respond to specific information requests and take part personnel and is something that has been taken seriously by the in seminars and meetings. management. We work continuously to improve the working atmosphere and dialogue with employees. During the year, the Group’s employees have been involved in interaction and KEY TOPICS RAISED IN 2016 dialogues in several ways and through various channels, including the intranet, team meetings and information sessions The key sustainability topics and concerns raised by our for large audiences. Stockmann has engaged in discussion with stakeholders in 2016 included, for example, the speed and the personnel and listened to them through surveys, including an availability of customer service, customer satisfaction, employee Organizational Health Index (OHI) survey. ‘New Stockmann’ wellbeing and workload, human rights and social conditions in kick-off events were organized in all department stores and at the the supply chain of textiles and food products, human rights risks Takomotie office during the autumn. related to cotton production and traceability of materials, protection of Syrian refugees’ rights in Turkish supply chains, SHAREHOLDERS AND INVESTORS sustainable materials and certificates in general, fur products in Stockmann aims to be an attractive and sought-after investment our selection, chemicals in clothes and cosmetics, use of plastic target on the capital market. The key topics and concerns raised bags, food waste, selection of sustainability-certified products, by shareholders and investors are financial performance, such as chocolate and coffee, animal rights in the context of strategy execution, share price performance and dividend halal meat, the packaging of stockmann.com online store orders, distribution. Inquiries concerning sustainability have somewhat recycling, and social engagement. Further topics and increased in recent years, and concern customer and employee Stockmann’s response to them are presented in the relevant satisfaction, for example. We provide shareholder and investor section of the review. STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 10 CUSTOMERS Customers are our most important stakeholders and one of the company’s values is to inspire our customers. We respect and listen to our customers and make every customer encounter special. We work actively on improving our dialogue with customers to better understand their needs and expectations regarding Stockmann. Stockmann complies with valid competition and privacy legislations in its operations and promotes free competition in its sector. CUSTOMER ORIENTATION The Stockmann department stores are known for their customeroriented service. Top-rated, professional customer service is achieved through regular personnel training from the recruitment stage onwards, including comprehensive induction arrangements for employees. Stockmann’s value ‘We inspire our customers’ strongly guides the company’s operations, and considerable attention is given to providing a best-in-class service that AIMING TO IMPROVE exceeds expectations. Customer satisfaction surveys and cusCUSTOMER SATISFACTION tomer and employee feedback provide valuable information that guides the Group’s divisions in developing their operations. Our customers’ opinions are extremely important to us. Every weekday, we receive a huge amount of feedback and Information concerning customer relationships is utilized in answer hundreds of phone calls, e-mails and social media improving customer service and sales, in daily management of comments. We send weekly surveys to our loyal customers, personnel, in developing the skills, remuneration and commitasking them to rate their shopping experience. We collect ment and in the design of training programmes. feedback through customer satisfaction surveys and exit polls, social media and numerous customer encounters. CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (PR5) We want to gain a better understanding of our customers’ needs and expectations so we can develop our At Stockmann department stores the measurement of customer operations accordingly. For example, our sales personnel satisfaction is an ongoing process. The knowledge we can can now easily forward customer feedback received in receive by measuring our customers’ satisfaction and by receiva sales situation using a tablet. Customer feedback and ing feedback is valuable. The information that is received through satisfaction is monitored weekly at the department stores, surveys enables us, for example, to identify areas for developand the data for each department is reviewed monthly in order to ensure a sufficient sample size. ment and improvement. All feedback gathered through encounCustomer satisfaction data is supplemented with a Net ters in the department stores, over the phone, via email and Promoter Score (NPS) that indicates each customer’s willingsocial media are gathered in one place for analysis. ness to recommend Stockmann to friends or acquaintances. In late 2015, we started to systematically measure customer The NPS ranges between -100 and +100. At the end of 2016, satisfaction using the Net Promoter Score (NPS). During the Stockmann’s NPS was 40, falling short of the set target of 60. year, we have sent out thousands of customer satisfaction However, the indicator is trending in the right direction as we continue our efforts to improve customer satisfaction. surveys. The response rate has been high. The NPS is also one of our strategic Key Performance Indicators. See also ‘Aiming to improve customer satisfaction’. The topics that received the most feedback at Stockmann Retail were the Crazy Days campaigns, the online store and its Stockmann uses a customer panel as an instrument for logistics and customer service in general. To speed up informaengaging with customers. The panel, formed in 2014, consists of tion flow from the stores to buying and elsewhere in the organithousands of Stockmann loyal customers. sation, sales personnel now have a fast track for conveying Customer satisfaction is at the core of the business and customer wishes for certain products or brands, for example, new tools have been taken into use to improve customer by using an internal feedback channel on their tablet. perception. At the Delicatessens, a phone application for feedback was piloted in the spring. Customers can contact us STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 11 DIGITAL TOOLS ENABLE BETTER SERVICE Several improvements were made to the multichannel customer experience in 2016. The sales personnel in the department stores’ fashion, cosmetics and household departments and the Delicatessens now carry tablets that enable them to check product information and availability and to make reservations and orders for products from the warehouse or other department stores. The tablets also allow them to quickly check information on campaigns, events, sales news or training material, as well as to follow up on Stockmann’s advertising and posting on social media. The internal feedback channel allows the sales personnel to forward any customer feedback or requests for products without delay. The tablet tools were introduced in Finland in autumn 2015, and by the end of 2016 there were nearly 800 tablets in use. The staff has been pleased with how the new tools assist them in their sales work. A pilot for the use of tablets at the Tallinn and Riga department stores began in the autumn. through feedback channels and social media, and a response is To make customer feedback visible to personnel working sent to each customer who requests this. Stockmann and Lindex in support functions, several ‘Customer now’ events were each use separate customer feedback channels. The quality of organized and feedback was also presented on the intranet. customer service and average response times for customer Particularly successful customer service achievements were queries are followed closely with quick and easy thumb up or celebrated and rewarded during the year. down questions. Peak times for customer feedback occur before Several requested improvements were introduced in the Christmas and during the Crazy Days campaigns, during and new version of the Stockmann.com online store in November, after which the response times are longer than usual. such as product availability information for department stores. Customer satisfaction measurement at Stockmann also The Stockmann app, downloadable to smartphones, improves includes exit polls, and in the Stockmann department stores the the omnichannel experience, offering information about cammystery shopper method. paigns, topical products and offers. Customers can use the app Social media has become an increasingly important as their loyal customer identification and see their purchase channel for our customers to express their opinions. intake. The role of the app will increase in 2017, as communicaStockmann’s social media presence has grown in the past years, tions to loyal customers will shift to a more digital direction. and it includes accounts on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and LinkedIn, with different target groups. THE DIGITAL FIT TING ROOMS PILOT which began at the Helsinki lingerie department was expanded to all department stores in Finland in the second half of the year. By the end of the year, Stockmann had a total of 75 digital fitting rooms that allow customers to ask for another size or colour to try on and to call a salesperson for assistance. STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 12 Customer wishes for the new department store MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS At the beginning of 2016, we launched a customer expert programme New Stockmann for Tapiola (‘Uutta Stockaa Tapiolaan’) Stockmann respects the rights of the consumer and engages in where our customers could participate through social media in responsible marketing. This policy is included in the group-wide the planning and development of the new department store. For Code of Conduct. Our marketing communications are perexample, customer experts were invited to workshops with the formed according to the Consolidated ICC Code on Advertising themes department store experience, food & home, and fashion and Marketing Communication Practice, the Consumer Protec& beauty. The many roles of a department store came up in the tion Act and our marketing strategy. discussions. The customers wanted attention to be paid to both Our marketing communications avoid all misleading local, everyday shoppers as well as those coming from further practices, such as false or deceptive messages and omission of away for something special. Easy solutions for everyday life were important information. Our marketing is never inappropriate or requested, as well as little moments of luxury. Digital services to offensive. These practices are known and followed by all of the support and speed up everyday shopping were identified as company’s marketing planners and are overseen by the Marketnecessary, along with the possibility of spending time in the ing Director of each business. department store, with the desire for experiences and the eleCustomer perspectives and needs have been widely ment of surprise. A holistic, excellent service experience mapped in conjunction with Stockmann strategy work. on the sales floor was mentioned by many. Our value proposition is to offer a premium Wishes that came up in the panels have shopping experience and to ensure that we been fulfilled as much as possible, for are worthy of our customers’ trust every example the concrete wishes for day, in all service situations and resting areas around the departchannels. ment store, and ideas for the Lindex uses brand tracking service lounge area with sofas, to follow-up brand perception. cell phone charging stations Feedback is always listened and a pick-up point for online to and adjustments are purchases. made where necessary. While most feedback on Customer surveys at marketing is positive, Lindex Lindex has received some criticism Lindex arranged two customer regarding its choice of modsurveys in its main markets els and the gender perspecSweden, Norway and Finland tive on kids’ clothes. during 2016. The response rate Lindex has its own brand was 40 per cent, with altogether strategy and marketing guidelines more than 60,000 responses for both regarding images, tonality, choice of surveys. The topics of the surveys related models, retouch management etc. as to in-store customer experience and LINDEX FASHION well as social media guidelines. Lindex is customer service. The results showed that IN ALL SIZES a member of the self-regulatory Swedish In autumn 2016, Lindex most customers were either satisfied or Advertising Ombudsman (RO) organizaintegrated plus sizes in all very satisfied with the overall experience, their fashion concepts and tion, founded by the industry to review and the level of satisfaction had increased discontinued their Generous and maintain standards. RO receives from the previous year. To maintain a concept. The integration was complaints about advertising and high level of customer satisfaction, best made to make women of assesses whether the advertising follows all sizes and shapes feel inpractices are shared and there are marthe Consolidated ICC Code. RO also cluded and to be able to shop ket-based targets, follow-ups and supfrom all Lindex collections. provides information, guidance and port available for stores. The topics that The autumn campaign featraining in the field of ethical marketing. have received most feedback at Lindex tured plus size models Ashley Members can also get copy advice for have been online store orders, selection, Graham and Candice Huffine. specific campaigns. sustainability, and the More at Lindex Lindex has received a lot of Stockmann’s business divisions attention for the reform and loyal customer program. In the autumn of support non-profit projects of charity the feedback from customers 2016, plus sizes were integrated to Lindex has been very positive. organizations as part of their commercial fashion concepts and campaigns, with a campaigns and activities, as presented positive response. on page 40. STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 13 INCIDENTS OF NON-COMPLIANCE WITH approximately 1.8 million loyal customers, More at Lindex with REGULATIONS CONCERNING MARKETING 3.8 million members, and until its divestment, the Hobby Hall COMMUNICATIONS (PR7 ) loyal customer programme. The companies keep in touch with At the end of the reporting year one complaint was made to The their loyal customers on a regular basis and offer them exclusive Council of Ethics in Advertising in Finland about mannequin deals and benefits with a monetary value. The loyal customer dolls in a Stockmann department store. The complaint was not systems’ data file descriptions can be found on the units’ respecyet resolved at the time of publishing this report. tive websites. The Swedish Advertising Ombudsman received no subEach of the loyal customer programmes has its own missions regarding Lindex’s advertisements during the year. customer registers, compiled in order to manage customer Lindex has never received any reprimands or been found in relationships and for customer service and marketing purposes. breach of standards by the Advertising Ombudsman. There were The personal data of Stockmann’s customers and of shareholdno incidents of non-compliance with legislation or voluntary ers attending its General Meetings is handled confidentially in principles in 2016. accordance with the applicable legislation. COMPLAINTS REGARDING BREACHES CUSTOMER PRIVACY OF CUSTOMER PRIVACY AND LOSSES OF CUSTOMER DATA (PR8) Stockmann and its employees respect the privacy and inviolabilDuring a year, Stockmann receives several queries from customity of the rights of its customers. We do not reveal or use cusers regarding how it uses personal data. These cases are dealt tomer information otherwise than in strict accordance with with and in 2016 none of them led to follow-up measures. There Stockmann’s customer privacy policy. Training on customer were no complaints or cautions from the authorities on the loyal privacy is included in the new employee induction programme. customer systems. In 2016 the Group’s divisions had three loyal customer programmes: the Stockmann customer programme with STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 14 PERSONNEL Motivated and engaged retail experts are the backbone of cost savings target of EUR 50 million. The actions include the our business. We treat our employees fairly and equally renewal of Stockmann’s support functions and reducing the according to the principle of equal opportunities. Employheadcount, renegotiations of supplier terms and conditions, and ees are paid a fair level of remuneration for their work, and release of store space from Stockmann’s own retail operations to their personal and professional growth and development is external tenants resulting in lower rental costs. In 2016, there encouraged. We encourage our employees to look after their were several actions that led to personnel decline. Additional measures targeting further annual savings of approximately wellbeing and provide them with healthy and safe workEUR 20 million during 2017 were launched in June. ing conditions. Our aim is to be an attractive and well-liked Every year, Stockmann employs seasonal employees employer in the labour market. mainly as campaign helpers during the Crazy Days campaigns and Christmas. In 2016, these helpers were mainly recruited The Stockmann Group’s Human Resources (HR) policies are through a recruiting agency, and so were not included in Stockbased on the company’s values, HR strategy and Code of Conmann’s payroll, which shows as a reduction in personnel. duct, on top of which the divisions have their own more detailed Reductions in logistics were due to the introduction of the HR policies that support the success of individuals and the wellnew, more efficient distribution centre in May 2016. This centre in being of the personnel. The implementation of good HR policies Tuusula, southern Finland, combines the existing five wareis monitored through personnel surveys, performance appraisal houses into one and improves the omnichannel operations by discussions and other feedback channels. Cooperation also takes speeding up delivery times, among other benefits. The distribuplace in local personnel committees and the Group Employee tion centre became fully operational during autumn 2016, after Council. The Human Resources Director, who reports to the CEO the warehouses in Finland had moved in stages to the new of Stockmann Group, is responsible for the HR of the company. centre. The warehouse in Riga will move in 2017. The largest codetermination negotiations of the reporting year, concerning the support functions, started in June and were EMPLOYMENT concluded at the beginning of August. The target was to considerably flatten the organisational structure, eliminate overlaps and The Stockmann Group is a major employer the company had simplify processes. A new lean organisation, that will adjust the 8,324 (9,734) employees in 16 countries at the end of 2016. The number of Stockmann’s employees in line with the scope of highest number of employees was working at Lindex, with a total current operations, was discussed with the personnel during the of 4,427 (4,733) employees at year-end. Stockmann Retail had codetermination negotiations. 3,464 (4,471) employees at the end of the year, Stockmann Real During the year 2016, altogether four codetermination Estate employed 85 (71) employees, Stockmann Group’s shared negotiations were held, which concerned around 3,620 persons functions employed 216 (325) employees and the company’s in Finland. The reduction need was estimated to be about 495 purchasing offices 132 (134) employees. employees. At the end, 281 persons were laid off. In addition, around 80 people from the support functions were offered a EMPLOYEES new position as a sales assistant and around 60 people were BY DIVISION offered a position in the support functions with new employment conditions. The negotiations concerned personnel in support functions, ICT, logistics and Hobby Hall. The layoffs mostly affected the personnel in support functions and logistics. The Stockmann Retail 42 % (3,464) number of department store sales assistants was not reduced. Stockmann Real Estate 1 % (85) The divestment of Hobby Hall, which took place on 31 Group’s shared functions 3 % (216) Lindex 53 % (4,427) December 2016 as agreed in April 2016, led to the transfer of Purchasing offices 2 % (132) approximately 150 Hobby Hall employees to SGN Group as part of the transaction. As of 1 May 2016, Hobby Hall’s logistics operations were transferred to Posti, with all of Hobby Hall’s warehouse personnel, around 130 employees, being transferred to Posti as existing employees. CHANGES IN EMPLOYMENT IN 2016 The closing down of the Oulu department store at the end Following the launch of an efficiency programme in February of January 2017, a decision that was already made in February 2015, a number of actions have been taken to achieve the annual 2015, will lead to a personnel reduction of around 230 people. STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 15 These reductions have been taking place gradually during 2015of the total Finnish workforce. In Sweden the number of employ2017, as many employees started seeking new jobs when the ees was 2,382 (2,550), and the share of men was 5 (5) per cent close-down was announced. Replacement employees have and the share of women was 95 (95) per cent. Together, these been recruited through a recruitment agency, and are not in two countries cover 68 (72) per cent of the total personnel of Stockmann’s payroll. 8 324 (9,734) employees. In November 2016, Stockmann signed a five-year cooperation agreement with Tech Mahindra to produce part of Stockmann’s ICT services. As a result, a transfer of 33 employees from EMPLOYEES BY COUNTRY Stockmann to Tech Mahindra will take place on 1 January 2017. Stockmann will maintain an ICT organisation of about 40 40% 3,500 employees. 31% 3,000 The divestment of the Russian department store business 29% 2,500 to Reviva Holdings Limited resulted in the transfer of approxi2,000 1,500 mately 2,300 employees to the new owner on 1 February 2016, 1,000 as agreed at the end of 2015. However, department store opera500 tions in Russia were classified as discontinued operations already 0 in the reporting for 2015, so this reduction in personnel was FINLAND SWEDEN OTHER shown already in the figures for 2015. MEN WOMEN NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY CONTRACT, REGION AND GENDER (G4-10) Seasonal variations The Stockmann department stores and Lindex offer many young Employment contracts people an opportunity to become familiar with the retail sector, In retail the need for fixed-term employees is high, as the sume.g. in the form of practical training periods of various educamer and Christmas seasons increase the need for seasonal tional institutions. During 2016, Stockmann’s Finnish department employees. Among the Stockmann Group’s employees, 16 (20) stores had on average 1,350 (1,500) Crazy Days campaign per cent had fixed-term employment contracts in 2016; women helpers both in the spring and in the autumn. However, in the represented 93 (92) per cent of the employees and men 7 (8) per last few years, these helpers have been increasingly recruited cent. In 2016, the share of women among permanent employees through a recruiting agency, so in the spring, only 292 were on was 87 (85) per cent and the share of men was 13 (15) per cent. Stockmann’s payroll and in the autumn there were none. In The number of full-time employees was 3,297 (3,764); women addition, the department stores and support functions offered represented 78 (82) per cent and men 22 (18) per cent of the work experience to almost 220 (500) summer employees and full-time workforce. The number of part-time employees was more than 360 (400) interns during the reporting year. 5,027 (5,970), 60 (61) per cent of the workforce. The share of Lindex offers internships both at the Head Office and in women among the part-time employees was 94 (90) per cent stores and cooperates with different universities regarding and the share of men was 6 (10) per cent. internship positions. At the Head Office there are about 20 interns per year and most of them are placed in the Designand Purchasing Department. Each year, Lindex employs about 20 FIXED-TERM / FULL-TIME / seasonal employees during the summer and Christmas holidays. PERMANENT PART-TIME They work at the Head Office, at the distribution centre or the 8,000 6,000 Finance Department. In Lindex stores, extra workforce is needed 84% 60% 7,000 5,000 around the summer and Christmas holidays. This need is solved 6,000 4,000 mainly by offering more hours to part-time employees and extra 5,000 40% 4,000 3,000 employees connected to the store. 3,000 2,000 16% 2,000 1,000 1,000 Supervised and self-employed workers 0 0 Use of supervised workers or self-employed workers is minimal FIXED-TERM PERMANENT FULL-TIME PART-TIME in Stockmann Group, the former being limited to some cases in marketing. MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN Tenants’ employees Regional and gender distribution A number of people working in sales positions at Stockmann Of the Stockmann Group’s employees, the highest number of department stores are employees of Stockmann’s tenants in, for employees was in Finland, 3,315 (4,455) employees. The share of example, restaurants, shop-in-shops and concession-departmen was 20 (22) per cent and share of women 80 (78) per cent ments. STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 16 EMPLOYEE TURNOVER (LA1) discussions and other feedback channels. At Lindex, all permaThe Stockmann Group’s personnel turnover was 19 (17) per cent nent employees have annual employee appraisal meetings with in continuing operations in 2016. However, the turnover depends their manager. In Finland, it is our target that 100 per cent of the to a great extent on the local labour market. In Finland, the personnel have a performance and development discussion, turnover rate was 13 in continuing department stores (12 per cent and in 2016 we came close, with a result of 85 per cent. in all Finnish department stores in 2015). The turnover rate was Stockmann has played a leading role in codetermination significantly higher, 20 per cent, in the Oulu department store, issues in Finland. The company’s Employees’ Council was set up which is to be closed at the end of January 2017. In Sweden, the in 1924 – over fifty years before legislation was passed in 1979 on turnover rate was 6 (5) per cent. legal requirements for codetermination between employees and employers in companies. In Finland, Stockmann Group’s diviEMPLOYEE BENEFITS (LA2) sions have their own Employees’ Councils that convene four The Stockmann Group offers its personnel the benefits required times a year. A similar model is followed in the Baltic countries. by local legislation in each of the countries in which it operates. Human resources matters concerning Finland are handled at the These benefits might include occupational health services, Group Council, whose meetings are held twice annually. insurance against occupational injuries and diseases, parental Two employee representatives participate in meetings of leave and retirement benefits. Personnel benefits do not vary Stockmann’s Board of Directors. One of these representatives is between part-time and full-time employees. elected by the employee representatives of Stockmann’s Group In most countries, the employees are offered benefits that Council and the other by the association representing Stockclearly go beyond the requirements set by legislation, such as mann’s senior salaried employees. The employee representahealth insurance and meal benefits. All employees can purchase tives have the right to attend and speak at Board meetings. products using an employee discount in stores belonging to the During the year 2016, Stockmann’s employees have been Group. Stockmann supports recreational and leisure activities for engaged in interaction and dialogues in several ways. For exampermanent employees, for instance by supporting sports and ple, several information sessions regarding strategy progress through various staff clubs. In 2016, the company’s support for were held by the new CEO Lauri Veijalainen, along with other employees’ leisure activities amounted to approximately EUR sessions about the advancement of development projects such 100,000 (EUR 100,000) in Finland. as digital services, which were held for the employees of the All Lindex employees are entitled to receive a health and support functions. fitness benefit of a maximum of SEK 1 500 for sports and other At Lindex, quarterly results and strategy meetings are held health-related activities, such as massage and mindfulness classes for all employees by the Lindex CEO Ingvar Larsson. Along with conducted during the year. The company also gives financial Group and Lindex strategy, future development areas are presupport to a non-profit sports association at the Lindex Head Office sented in these meetings and questions are answered. Each year called “Lif”, which arranges different sports activities, lectures and after the summer holidays, an inspirational event with varied topics get-togethers for its members from all Head Office departments as from the management, related to Lindex vision and strategies, is well as the Lindex Sweden country office. Lindex also provides its held for all Lindex employees. “Breakfast with Ingvar” is a popular personnel discounts for a number of external sports clubs. concept where small groups of personnel are invited to meet and Every year, Stockmann awards medals of merit to its discuss current topics with the Lindex CEO. During introduction long-serving employees. The tradition started in 1924, and over days for new employees, representatives from management meet 22 000 medals have been distributed over the 90 years. Medals and introduce the new employees to each area of Lindex. of merit are awarded for careers of 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45 In November 2016, there was an employee walkout by the and 50 years with the Stockmann Group. In 2016, 557 (741) senior salaried employees working at support functions at the medals were awarded to employees of Stockmann, of which 469 Takomotie office to voice discontent towards the HR policy. This (546) were given in Finland and 88 (99) in the Baltic countries. call was taken seriously by the management, and we work One 45-year and four 40-year career medals were awarded in continuously to improve the working atmosphere and dialogue Finland. Medals of merit for 50 years of service have been rarely with employees. For example the following HR processes are awarded in the company: 69 in total since 1924. underway to improve employee wellbeing: the renewal of the Lindex has its own reward scheme according to which rewarding and bonus scheme, for which employees were invited employees are rewarded for 25 years of service. In addition, all to give ideas, principles for remote work, renewal of initiative units reward employees on their 50th birthdays. process, and improvements to the ways of working of the Employees Council. LABOUR AND MANAGEMENT MINIMUM NOTICE PERIODS REGARDING RELATIONS OPERATIONAL CHANGES (LA4) Stockmann operates according to the notice periods specified in TThe Stockmann Group monitors the implementation of good local labour legislation in all its operating countries. In Finland, HR practices through personnel surveys, performance appraisal the notice period is between two weeks and six months, STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 17 depending on the duration of the employment relationship. In Internal Audit. In 2015, Stockmann introduced a group-wide Sweden, the minimum is one month. Minimum notice periods whistleblowing reporting channel, which is provided by an regarding operational changes have not been defined in retail external partner. The channel is a tool for Stockmann’s own sector collective bargaining agreements. employees, as well as for business partners and other stakeholders, to report suspected or detected violations of the Company Code of Conduct or other corporate policies. All whistleblowing FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND reports and discussions are treated seriously and handled COLLECTIVE BARGAINING confidentially. All incidents are reported to the Director of Internal Audit and to the Director of Legal Affairs. The Stockmann Group respects the basic rights of its employees During the year, a handful of incidents were reported to freedom of association and collective bargaining. We recogthrough the channel, and they were treated seriously and hannise that the fulfilment of these rights is at risk in our supply dled confidentially. However, none of the incidents were severe. chain, and thus we support their fulfilment through the BSCI In 2013, Stockmann temporarily laid-off most of its staff in Code of Conduct that sets requirements for Freedom of AssociaFinland, around 5 000 employees for 12 working days to achieve tion and Collective Bargaining, and the other measures cost savings. Service Union United PAM challenged the proceexplained in ‘Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices and dure on behalf of two of Stockmann’s employees. While StockHuman Rights’ on page 29. mann’s actions were judged to be legal in the district court, the court of Appeal ruled in September 2016 that Stockmann should COVERAGE OF COLLECTIVE BARGAINING have tried to find replacement work for these employees and is AGREEMENTS (G4-11) required to compensate the lost income. In Finland, approximately 79 (82) per cent of the Stockmann Group’s personnel are covered by collective agreements. All Lindex employees in Sweden, Norway and Finland, excluding HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT senior salaried employees, are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Stockmann respects its personnel’s freedom of The Stockmann Group respects and promotes all human rights, association and right to engage in collective agreement activity. as defined in the Code of Conduct. The company does not monitor the extent of union membership, but it does compile statistics on those employees in Finland HUMAN RIGHTS REVIEWS AND IMPACT whose trade union membership fee is deducted from their ASSESSMENTS (HR9) salary. In 2016, these employees accounted for 32 (31) per cent Most of the Stockmann Group’s own employees work in counof the Group’s personnel working in Finland. In other countries of tries classified by the BSCI as low-risk countries for human rights operation, statistics on union membership have not been colviolations and therefore no human rights assessment of Stocklected. mann’s own operations has been conducted thus far. That said, a self-assessment survey was conducted in Lindex sales counRISKS OF VIOLATIONS OF RIGHT TO EXERCISE tries in late 2016, to study the fulfilment of human rights. This FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE study was the first step towards our goal of carrying out a human BARGAINING (HR4) rights assessment with our key stakeholders by the end of 2018. Most of the Stockmann Group’s own employees work in counSee ‘Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices and Human tries classified by the BSCI as low-risk countries for human rights Rights’ on page 29 for information about the supply chain. violations. Freedom of association in the supply chain is monitored with BSCI audits and by Stockmann’s own audits conducted by CSR specialists working in the purchasing offices. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Occupational health care is arranged in accordance with local GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR laws and regulations in all countries of operation. Employee LABOUR PRACTICES AND HUMAN wellbeing and occupational safety are discussed regularly in the RIGHTS Employees’ Councils, which operate in accordance with the requirements of local legislation and represent all personnel GRIEVANCES ABOUT LABOUR PRACTICES groups. Preventative work is also an important focus in the occu(L A16, HR12) pational safety day, which is organized for the whole Group every Stockmann employees are entitled to report any violations or other year. In addition, coaching on working ability has been suspected abuse of the Code of Conduct or other corporate arranged for supervisors in Finland, aiming to increase wellbeing policies to their supervisor, their unit’s security manager, the at work and reduce absences and the costs of absence. company management, the legal department, or the Group’s STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 18 TOWARDS A BETTER WORK CULTURE An Organisational Health Index (OHI) staff survey that tracks in 2014. According to the HR Director, the results of the survey organisations’ health and performance was conducted at reflected the several major changes implemented simultaneously Stockmann for the third time during the second half of 2016. during the past few years, and not all implementations were as The results of the latest survey indicated that openness and trust successful as intended. The results of the survey will be carefully had increased, while the clarity of the strategy had decreased. reviewed in each department, and they will be used as a basis for The overall grade describing the organisation’s ability to reach its discussions on developing our procedures. The survey was sent full potential fell from the previous survey, although it remained to 2,200 employees in Finland in November, and the proportion slightly better than the grade given in the first OHI staff survey of respondents, at 55 per cent, was higher than previously. EMPLOYEE WELLBEING Takomotie office, wellbeing days at Itis, voluntary eyesight inspections and a sports weekend lottery by Otium, a foundation that An Organizational Health Index (OHI) survey was carried out supports employee wellbeing at Stockmann. among Stockmann’s employees for the third consecutive year to measure employee wellbeing and the ability of our organization SICKNESS ABSENCES AND WORKPLACE to reach its full potential. The survey was sent to 2,200 employACCIDENTS (LA6) ees in Finland, and 55 per cent responded, which was an increase The sickness absence rate was 4.2 (4.4) per cent of regular on before. While there was progress in the right direction, Stockworking hours in Finland in 2016, and abroad it was 5.0 (4.6) per mann’s Organizational Health Index (OHI) score, 38, did not yet cent of hours worked. There was a total of 148 (127) reported meet our target of 50 (scale 0-100) and efforts towards workplace accidents in Finland, and in addition 86 on the way to employee wellbeing and coping at work will be continued. work. In Sweden, there was a total of 62 (113) reported workplace During the year, there were various efforts to improve accidents, including the journey to and from work. Out of those employee wellbeing as well as supporting work and family life in Sweden, 26 happened at the distribution centre and 35 at balance. In November, we took part in the national bring your child Lindex shops. In addition, 15 close calls were recorded. In Sweto work day, a day dedicated to showing children the everyday den, most accidents were due to slipping and falling over things work life of their closest adults, as well as making use of children’s as well as dropping and lifting things. None of the accidents led fresh ideas at the workplace. Events with special programmes for to severe injury. kids were organised in the Stockmann’s Takomotie Office as well In 2016, medical occupational health care covered all as the Itis and Tallinn department stores. See the boxed text. employees in Finland whose employment had continued for At the Takomotie office, external lectures to support wellbemore than 4 months, i.e. 3,041 (3,691) persons at year-end. The ing and find new strength for work were held for support functions occupational health care services of the Group’s units in Finland personnel in the auditorium with Skype access. Thanks to positive are arranged via the company’s own occupational health clinics feedback, the target is to continue similar sessions on a regular and outsourced services. The personnel at the Group’s own basis, to improve access with video access, and arrange them for clinics mainly serve employees in the Helsinki region. In other people working in department stores as well. locations and for Finnish Lindex stores, occupational health Kick-off events to share information about the Stockmann services are provided through outsourcing. In Finland, the costs strategy and to celebrate the ‘new Stockmann’ were held for employ­ of occupational health services totalled EUR 1.7 (1.9) million. The ees in the capital region, Turku and Tampere during the autumn. net cost of occupational health services was approximately EUR Small events to boost wellbeing at work include a ‘take the 230 (190) per employee in Finland. Information on the distribustairs’ theme week, the ‘sports day of your dreams’ event at the tion by gender is currently not available. STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 19 TRAINING AND EDUCATION Systematic, continuous training is a core part of our HR practices and carried out mostly through various in-house training courses and activities in all businesses and for all employee categories. TRAINING (LA9) The number of training hours at Stockmann Retail and Real Estate in Finland was a total of 35,000 hours (29,300 hours) or 4,670 days (3,900 days). This includes training for sales supervisors, sales and product training, training towards a professional qualification and other training to increase professional competence. The total number of training hours for Lindex in Sweden was 15,343 (2015: 54,075 in all Lindex countries) during 2016. Calculated for 1,742 employees, this equals an average of 8.8 (11.1) hours per employee. Out of these, 11,080 hours were spent on training and 4,263 hours were spent on introductions. Statistics on training hour distribution by gender or by employee categories or other countries of operation are not collected in equal detail. Stockmann in Finland organizes various training courses focusing on employee orientation on products and services, and sales skills for all employees and on using a tablet tool as part of the sales process. In addition, all new employees in the department stores take part in the BASE training. In department stores, sales supervisors were trained to CHILDREN’S DAY improve their skills in supporting and coaching their teams in AT WORK meeting the customer, in order to gain better results in customer service and sales. Training for additional sales was also organized Our employees’ children were given the opportunity to visit for sales personnel. During the autumn, Stockmann’s sales their parent’s workplace and become familiar with the daily concept was renewed and a new type of sales training according routines at the department stores as part of the Bring your child to work day. The theme day was held across Finland to the new concept was piloted. This sales training will be scaled for the first time on 18 November with the aim of introducup in January 2017. ing children to their own parent’s or other close adult’s The reporting year was characterized by many changes in work and making use of children’s and young people’s the organization, and to support managers and supervisors in fresh ideas at the workplace. Stockmann, support functions coaching was provided related to A number of our staff’s children convened on three afternoons at the Itis department store, where they excodetermination negotiations and layoffs. pressed their desire of being given real work to do. First the Not included in training hours, employee coaching was children were given personnel name tags, after which they carried out for 2000 hours in total while revisiting the Stockmann were assigned duties that included training at Delicatesvalues and the strategy process. For example in sales, ’value pop sen cash desks, collecting shopping trolleys, clearing ups’ were organized to discuss the new values and Stockmann Christmas decorations, collecting orders using the sales strategy. personnel’s tablets, attaching security tags on products, hanging up price signs and decorating. The most exciting Stockmann supports the combining of work and studies. part of the day for the children was their visit to the control For example, several opportunities for apprenticeship training centre, where they could look at the surveillance cameras were offered, including opportunities to study for the Specialist and for example look for their mothers. Finally, it was time Qualification for Shop Managers and the Further Qualification in to have snacks in the staff cafeteria and participate in the First-Line Management. ‘Your dream department store’ drawing competition. Children were also welcomed at the Takomotie office. Briefing sessions on CSR issues in the supply chain were In addition to getting to know their parents’ work stations held during the year for buyers and merchandise managers of and colleagues, the children drew pictures of their dream Stockmann’s own brand in support of the goal of a responsible, department store, watched videos about Stockmann in the transparent and traceable fashion product supply chain. The auditorium and took photos with the Crazy Days ghost. In personnel’s environmental awareness is enhanced through Tallinn, a Christmas event was organised for children and continuous training and regular internal communication, outthe programme included a tour of their parents’ workplace and a visit by Santa Claus. lined in the section ‘Environment’, on page 32. The progress in the roll-out of the Stockmann Group’s Code of Conduct e-learnSTOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 20 ing programme is outlined in the section ‘Communication and principles of this programme are updated regularly, the most training on anti-corruption policies and procedures’, on page 42. recent update being in September 2015. At Lindex, continuous professional development is proAs part of its normal operations, Stockmann’s occupamoted through various in-house training courses and activities tional health services take the working ability perspective into as well as external education to meet individuals’ needs for their consideration with every appointment and advise employees on leadership. A number of different types of training were given at severe work-related diseases and any other risks associated with Lindex’s Head Office during 2016. The Lindex Leadership Prowork, and give recommendations where necessary, for example gram training was given in the form of both group and individual for a more suitable work station. Supportive management training, with an average of 16 hours of training per manager. practices, a safe working environment and the possibility of Lindex provided a basic introduction to all areas of sustainability varied nutrition during the work day are also considered part of within the retail business to its leaders and persons in key roles, the support for employees’ ability to work. Information on preto 27 participants with an average of 6 hours per person. To ventative action is also given out during the Group’s occupational strengthen knowledge on the different Office programs Lindex safety day event, which was last held in the spring of 2015. has held classes with 26 participants and an average of 3 hours At Lindex, employees are encouraged to try new roles per person. To strengthen employees’ abilities to meet the within Lindex, between stores and offices as well as between challenge of finding a work-life balance, Lindex offered mindfulcountry organisations and Head Office to gain new experiences ness classes where 36 persons each received 10 hours of mindand perspective. This is considered a success factor in developfulness education and information. ing Lindex further, and a way to retain competent personnel. Introduction days for new Lindex employees are held at Opportunities for a shift within the company are provided least twice a year. During 2016, 44 persons attended the introthrough Lindex internal labour market, including internship duction days with an average of 8 hours per person. Training was opportunities in another role for shorter periods. provided on salary and budgeting issues for 10 leaders with 3 Performance management is used at Lindex to follow-up hours per person. 400 leaders and employees attended training and support employees at an early stage in order to promote in working against goals and setting own goals with the ambition their working ability and health. Different modes of support for that all employees should have greater understanding and the return to work after a sickness absence, such as work in trial knowledge of Lindex’s strategy and clearly see their own connecperiods or part-time sick leave, are actively used at Lindex. The tion and contribution to Lindex’s overall goals. Team building company also has a drug abuse programme to intervene in activities and workshops are held on a regular basis to boost cases involving substance abuse. The principles of this proteam performance, with topics such as personality analysis, gramme are available on the company intranet. Lindex has a group processes and giving feedback. close cooperation with the occupational health services, Previa, in work-related diseases and any other risks associated with PROGRAMMES FOR SKILLS MANAGEMENT work, and for giving recommendations where necessary, for AND LIFELONG LEARNING (LA10) example for a more suitable work station. The latest addition to Continuous development at work and an active internal labour boost employee wellbeing is mindfulness classes. market are Stockmann’s strengths. Having the opportunity to switch duties between divisions, functions and countries proMANAGING CAREER ENDINGS motes learning and the retention of competent personnel in the The decision to close down the Oulu department store in early company’s service. Many members of the Group’s management 2017 resulted in a personnel reduction of around 230 people. To have experience from various parts of the company, including support the Oulu department store personnel in this change, a customer service duties. programme called Voima ‘Strength’ was launched during the Stockmann uses an early intervention model to follow-up spring 2015 and it ran throughout 2016. The programme was and support employees at an early stage in order to promote their supported by the Finnish Work Environment Fund. The aim of working ability and health. The working ability discussion is a tool the programme was to ensure respect and a sense of value for managers, for confidential discussion, and is recommended for during the close down, and to empower personnel and maximize use when something has changed in an employee’s ability to work. their possibility for re-employment. With education and training Follow-up for sickness absences requires co-operation between in applying for work, the emphasis was to support the wellbeing the manager and the occupational health services, and sometimes of the personnel and to ensure excellent customer experience involves a personnel representative and the HR department. If until the end. sickness absences exceed the limit of the 30 days or 10 periods in a year that are set as the threshold, a discussion on the employee’s working ability is initiated. Different modes of support for the return to work, such as work in trial periods or part-time sick leave, are actively used at Stockmann. The company also has a drug abuse programme to intervene in cases involving substance abuse. The STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 21 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY, Information on the average age of the employees is preEQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN sented in the ‘Staff Figures’ table. Information on minority group AND MEN & NON-DISCRIMINATION membership is not collected, as this is not permitted under Finnish legislation. Stockmann treats all of its employees fairly and equally, and values the diversity of its employees. Discrimination is strictly EQUAL PAY (LA13) forbidden. Stockmann has an equality plan which is regularly updated. The Stockmann has an equality plan which is regularly updated purpose of the plan is to raise structural issues in work duties and and approved in the company’s Employees’ Council (see ‘Labour set improvement targets to achieve a more equal working enviand management relations on page 16’). With the aid of statisronment through statistics. tics, the purpose of the plan is to point out structural issues in Remuneration of women and men working at Stockmann work duties and to set improvement targets for achieving a more in Finland is monitored with the aid of an index of monthly or equal working environment. hourly salaries that compares women’s salaries to men’s salaries The realization of equality is promoted in all employment (index 100) per employee category. The latest update of the index categories. Mutual respect and abiding by mutually set rules is was on 31.12.2016. The index is only indicative, as it does not take part of this. In recruitment, candidates are evaluated in the spirit into account the diversity of job roles and descriptions in each of equal opportunity, and men and women are hired for any category. For sales persons, warehouse and office personnel, the position, without bias for traditional women’s or men’s jobs. Age, wages are according to the collective trading sector labour agreesex or conviction is only considered if there is a justified reason ment and based on e.g. work experience and the cost-of-living based on the position. category, which depends on the locations of the workplace. To balance the age breakdown among sales persons, we The ratio of basic remuneration of women to men by give emphasis to recruiting competent middle-aged female and employee category is as follows: Sales persons, hourly salary male personnel as sales persons for Stockmann department index 98; Warehouse personnel, hourly salary index 94; Office stores. personnel, monthly salary index 97; Professional and managerial Lindex has its own equality and diversity plan. Diversity is staff, monthly salary index 83. seen as a competitive advantage for an international fashion In 2016, Lindex started a salary review to monitor any company, where all employees are united in their passion for differences in salaries between women and men in the same job fashion, customers and trade. Lindex values ​​and develops roles. The foundation of Lindex personnel policy is that salaries employees’ job performance and skills regardless of age or are market related and competitive as well as connected to the ethnicity, and wants to be perceived as an attractive company for responsibility of the role and achieved results. Differences in both women and men. Active equality and diversity work within salary because of sex, functional limitation, ethnicity, sex-transLindex contributes to increased motivation and satisfaction cendent identity, sexual orientation, religion and other beliefs, among employees, which in turn increases the company’s age or parental leave is not acceptable. The collective agreement competitiveness and profitability. The great majority of Lindex sets the guidelines for the salary audit. personnel are women and it is considered a challenge to get men to seek employment in Lindex stores and to some extent in TOTAL NUMBER OF INCIDENTS OF office positions too. The gender balance is better in the support DISCRIMINATION (HR3) functions, for example IT and expansion. During the reporting year, altogether five complaints of discrimination were made, of which two were in Lindex Norway and three DIVERSIT Y (LA12) in Lindex Finland. Depending on the complaint, they were hanIn 2016, women comprised 88 (87) per cent and men 12 (13) per dled by Lindex HR, through a union, or an authority such as the cent of the Group’s personnel. The proportion of female managSwedish Equality Ombudsman (DO). All five complaints were ers is high in all functions: of all the managerial staff working in found groundless. Finland and abroad in 2016, 57 (59) per cent were women. On the Stockmann Board of Directors, three out of the eight (2015: three out of eight) members were women. While choosing the members of the Board of Directors diversity is taken into account, so that the persons represent different fields and professions, international backgrounds, and varying age and gender. In summer 2016, the Management Teams of the Stockmann Group and Stockmann Retail were merged to speed up decision-making. At year end, five (2015: two) out of eleven of the Group’s Management Team members were women. STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 22 STAFF FIGURES 2012–2016 20161) 20152) 2014 2013 2012 Number of personnel 31 December 8,324 9,734 12,143 15,441 16,041 in Finland 3,315 4,455 6,382 7,033 7,553 abroad 5,009 5,279 5,761 8,408 8,488 Personnel on average 9,006 10,762 12,157 14963 15,603 Personnel as full time equivalents, on average 6,562 7,643 8,916 11,422 11,898 Average age of personnel 37 36 353) 35 34 in Finland 40 38 36 35 34 abroad 36 35 353) 34 34 Turnover of permanent employees, on average, % 20 17 213) 23 26 in Finland 20 11 8 10 13 abroad 20 22 303) 34 37 Sickness absences, % 4.7 4.5 4.13) 4.2 4.5 in Finland 4.3 4.4 4.1 3.8 4.2 abroad 5 4.6 4.03) 4.6 4.8 Share of full-time/part-time employees of personnel, % 40/60 39/61 43/57 44/56 42/58 in Finland 49/51 47/53 45/55 45/55 42/58 abroad 34/66 32/68 41/593) 43/57 42/58 Reported workplace accidents in Finland, number 148 127 185 238 212 Staff costs, EUR million 290.5 321.5 356.3 397.8 405.1 Staff costs, share of revenue % 22.3 22.4 22.2 19.5 19.1 Staff training expenses in Finland (excluding direct wage costs), EUR million 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 1) figures include Hobby Hall and Oulu employees 2) continuing operations 3) includes also discontinued operations STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 23 PRODUCTS We offer our customers a wide selection of safe, durable, mechanisms. In Finland, also Finnish Customs, the Finnish quality products with sustainable choices. We promote Safety and Chemicals Agency (Tukes) and the Finnish Food sustainable brands and environmentally friendly products. Safety Authority (Evira) promote and supervise product safety. We focus on the responsibility, transparency and traceability Stockmann Delicatessen and the company’s central kitchen have an extensive internal quality assurance and testing of our supply chains. We increase the use of sustainable system for product safety. In addition to compliance with legal materials in our own brand garments. and official requirements, the central kitchen is certified in accordance with the international food safety standard ISO Stockmann’s department stores and Lindex’s fashion stores offer 22000, which goes beyond the legal requirements by, for an extensive range of products, consisting of more than 600 example, including additional self-surveillance in the form of a thousand product titles. These products sold in our stores must product safety group. The central kitchen prepares Meals, Deli fulfil the quality, environmental and product safety requirements and cafeteria products for all the six continuing department set for them at any given time. stores in Finland. During its renovation in 2016, special attention was paid to saving water, along with the overall improvement of the kitchen’s operations, and we are constantly seeking to further CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY & improve its operations. PRODUCT COMPLIANCE PRODUCT RECALLS (PR2) The Stockmann Group is responsible for the safety of the prodProduct recalls are handled in accordance with Stockmann’s ucts it sells, ensuring that they do not pose a risk to customers’ product recall instructions, which specify responsibilities and the health or property. action required. The instructions cover both food and non-food The company’s buying organisation makes sure that products and have been approved by the CSR steering group. products comply with the valid requirements set in legislation, In 2016, there were no public recalls involving own brand such as chemical and product safety legislation. Products are products sold by Stockmann department stores or Lindex. Nor tested by their manufacturers and importers, and by Stockmann were there any product safety, quality or other similar defects in the case of its own brand products and requiring product recalls regarding the own imports, on the basis of regular samStockmann central kitchen’s products or pling and risk analysis. Testing ensures that products imported by Stockmann. During the the products fulfil all quality and safety reporting year, there were no legal actions or requirements set by legislation or the stricter fines associated with the health or safety risks of requirements set by Stockmann. own brand products. In addition, Stockmann follows product notifications issued COMPLIANCE WITH THE by the European Union in PROVISION AND USE OF order to inform customers PRODUCTS AND SERVICES (PR9) as quickly as possible about There were no fines for non-compliance with EVEN BET TER DENIM products that pose a risk. In October 2016, Lindex launched laws and regulations concerning the provision RAPEX, the EU rapid alert new Even Better Denim styles. and use of products and services during the system, facilitates the These products were made reporting year. exchange of information from organic, Better cotton and between Member States postconsumer recycled cotton and the Commission on and with processes that use less water, energy and chemicals. All ENVIRONMENTAL measures taken to prevent details such as zips, buttons and PERFORMANCE OF or restrict the marketing or rivets were the most sustainable PRODUCTS use of products posing a alternative on the market. The serious risk to the health Even Better Denim styles were SUSTAINABLE MATERIALS IN OUR and safety of consumers, also dyed with a cleaner dyeing GARMENTS process that is better for the with the exception of food, environment and the people Responsibility is integral to the processes pharmaceutical and making the product. involved in clothing design and procurement of medical devices, which are materials and products, and these processes are covered by other part of the operations of the Stockmann Group. STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 24 We are set to systematically increase is to have 100 per cent of the cotton used the amount of environmentally less Today, in Lindex’s clothes comes from more 50% harmful, or sustainable, raw materials in sustainable sources, such as organic the Group’s own brand fashion products cotton, Better Cotton or recycled cotton. In according to our sustainability categoriza2016 Lindex reached 90 per cent. tion. For example, we define sustainable of Lindex product In 2016, Lindex sold approximately cotton as the use of organic cotton, Better range is made from 28 (27) million garments made from cotton (BCI-cotton) or recycled cotton. sustainable materials sustainable materials. 100 per cent of Lindex ’Even Better Denim’ styles that Lindex’s newborn assortment, kids’ basic 90% were launched in October 2016 contained assortment as well as 90 per cent of post-consumer recycled cotton, which women’s basic assortment are made of comes from garments collected from sustainable materials. consumers. Lindex uses also pre-conof Lindex cotton is Today 100 per cent of Lindex’s sumer recycled cotton that is made from either organic, Better denim assortment is ‘Better Denim’, which textile industry waste. means that it is made from sustainable cotton or recycled Sustainability is part of Lindex’s material and with processes that use less long-term strategy, with ambitious sustainwater, energy and chemicals. In autumn ability goals set for 2020 for fibres, pro2016, Lindex launched new ‘Even Better cesses and production. One of the goals is Denim’ styles that contained more susto have 80 per cent of Lindex clothes made from sustainable tainable cotton as well as post-consumer recycled cotton, which materials by 2020. Today, more than 50 per cent of Lindex represents one step towards closing the material loop. See the clothes are made from sustainable materials. Another 2020 goal boxed text and ‘Encouraging customers to recycle’ on page 38. ORIGIN AND TRACEABILITY OF COTTON Cotton is a substantial component in fashion and household textile products. Cotton is grown in countries where the risk of human rights violations is high, and conventional cotton is difficult to trace due to, among other things, the mixing of cotton obtained from different sources at different stages of the supply chain. These risks apply to the textile industry as a whole. Stockmann does not accept cotton from Uzbekistan because of the human rights and environmental risks associated with the country’s cotton production. This policy has been included in our supplier contracts. We have a regular dialogue with our suppliers and organizations to improve the traceability of conventional cotton but there is no established method to trace its exact origin in a reliable way. Organic cotton and recycled cotton comes from systems that work to ensure traceability. Approximately 80 per cent of the cotton used in the Group’s own brand products is from more sustainable sources, meaning it is either certified organic cotton, Better Cotton (BCI) or recycled cotton. Most of the sustainable cotton is used in Lindex’s products. Lindex’s goal is that 100 per cent of the cotton used in their clothes will come from more sustainable sources by 2020. In 2016, Lindex reached 90 per cent. 100 per cent of the cotton used in Lindex’s basic assortment for newborns and kids comes from sustainable sources. The share of organic cotton will also be increased in Stockmann’s own-brand clothes. In addition to NOOM women’s clothes, garments made of organic cotton will be included in the spring 2017 collection of Stockmann’s own children’s brands Bogi, Cube&CO and Bel. STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 25 Stockmann is continuously searching for possibilities to SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS AS PART OF expand the number of products made from sustainable materials. DEPARTMENT STORE SELECTION Among Stockmann’s own brands, NOOM women’s clothes as Stockmann department stores offer an extensive selection of well as Bogi, Cube&CO and Bel children’s clothes will have organic products, consisting of around 600 thousand product titles. Our cotton products in their spring 2017 collection. Tencel is another broad product selection offers consumers opportunities to make sustainable material that is being introduced in Stock­mann’s own responsible purchase choices. In the areas of fashion, cosmetics brands clothes in 2017. We are also looking into the possibility of and home products, the choice includes products made from using Better Cotton in Stockmann’s own brands. organic and recycled materials and products with an eco-label, such as the Swan Label, energy label or the Ökotex 100 label. USE OF CHEMICALS Stockmann encourages its sales persons to find out about the When producing garments, chemicals are used in processes choice of eco-labelled products in their areas of responsibility and such as colouring, printing and washing. The Stockmann Group to offer them to customers who appreciate them. Information for fulfils the requirements of REACH and actively works to limit the personnel concerning the various labelling schemes on environuse of harmful chemicals in all of our products. mental aspects, sustainability and origin is available on the StockAs part of the Group’s efforts to reduce the use of hazardmann intranet. Sales persons’ knowledge of eco-labels is surous chemicals, the use of perfluorinated compounds (PFCs) has veyed annually in audits and is recorded in the audit reports. been banned since 2014. The ban affects all outerwear at Lindex The range of organic cotton in the brand garments on sale and children’s outerwear in Stockmann own brand products, in Stockmann department stores has been extended over the these items are now treated with Bionic-finish®ECO instead. years. New sustainably profiled brands have also been introTHE SELECTION OF RESPONSIBLE CHOCOLATE WAS EXPANDED During Christmas 2016, our department stores offered a larger than before selection of responsible chocolate. The cocoa used in these products is certified as having been obtained from responsible sources and the packaging includes a certification label such as UTZ Certified, Fair Trade or Rainforest Alliance. Cocoa is farmed in countries where the risk of human rights violations is high. By using cocoa certified by a third party, we can ensure that its production is responsible and subject to supervision. The annual comparison published by Finnwatch examines different retailers’ selection of certified boxes of chocolate. In 2015, Stockmann had 6 responsible boxes of chocolate in its selection, whereas in 2016 the number had grown to 13. In addition to boxes of chocolate, Stockmann’s selection includes plenty of other sustainability certified and organic chocolate products, such as chocolate bars. Responsible chocolate has been a frequent topic in our supplier negotiations in recent times. Starting in 2017, we have decided to use UTZ Certified cocoa in Stockmann’s own brand chocolates, the Stockmann Choco brand. STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 26 THE STOCKMANN DELIC ATESSEN was the first to start selling the vegan product Nyhtökaura, or Pulled oats, in January 2016, and Härkis, made from broad beans, in August 2016. Environmentally friendly vegetarian products are also sold at the Delicatessen’s service counters, including Härkis bolognese, Härkis lasagne and teriyaki Pulled oats. duced in 2016, for example children’s brands using organic PRODUCT GUIDELINES (PR6) cotton, such as the Finnish Papu and Vimma brands. The Group’s divisions prepare guidelines on product selections and purchasing operations as necessary. Our supplier requireSUSTAINABILIT Y CERTIFIED PRODUCTS ments ban certain practices from our own brand products, such IN THE DELICATESSEN as sandblasting for jeans, and also set fundamental requireThe Stockmann Delicatessen food departments’ selections ments for animal rights, including angora and merino wool, include more than 1 500 organic products. The share of organic leather, fur, feathers, down, as well as guidelines for cotton and food sales as a percentage of total food sales is regarded as one chemicals. In addition, Stockmann department stores have of the Key Performance Indicators (KPI) of our product selection. responsibility policies for wood originating from natural tropical In 2016, the share of organic food sales of the total food sales forests, and for fish and shellfish products and eggs. The policies was 4.4, on the same level as last year (4.6 per cent), as targeted. are available on the Group website in full. Since 2012, fireworks This level is industry leading, compared with the Finnish average have not been sold in the department stores. Lindex does not sell of 2 per cent*. The slight decline was due to getting rid of some products made from real fur. of the products with the lowest rotation, as part of reducing food Customer feedback on disputed products in our product wastage. In addition, Stockmann Delicatessen offers a large selection is carefully considered by the buying organisation. Over number of Fair Trade and other sustainability certified food the years, particular questions and concerns have been expressed products. See the boxed text about sustainable chocolate. by customers regarding certain products at the Stockmann Stockmann Delicatessens have a Marine Stewardship department stores. These include: products with fur, following Council (MSC) certificate and since the beginning of 2017, also which fur coats are no longer stocked in the selection; WWF red an Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC) certificate. The listed tropical shrimps and tuna, so we now only sell Agricultural MSC-certified fish products consist of imported wild fish that is Stewardship Council (ASC) or Global Cap certified tropical caught responsibly, without endangering fish stocks, and the shrimp, and Friends of the Sea (FOS) certified fresh tuna; foie origin of the fish is traceable all the way to where it was caught. gras, following which we have checked with our French supplier The ASC-certification stands for responsibly farmed seafood that that the farming conditions are responsible, and for which we also aims at minimising the environmental and social footprint of carry domestic, undisputed options; Halal-meat, for which our commercial aquaculture with industry best practice. suppliers follow the same EU regulations on animal rights as all We do not sell any endangered species as classified by the our meat suppliers. Finnish Ministry of the Environment and the Finnish Environment Institute. We favour Finnish fish products and fish products classiPRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELLING fied as ‘green list’ by WWF Finland and we have constantly Fashion products made from materials with reduced environreduced the fish products classified as ‘red list’ from our selections. mental impacts, such as organic cotton or recycled fibres, are *) Estimate by the Finnish Organic Food Association Pro Luomu: share of organic sales of total food sales in grocery shops in Finland in 2016 STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 27 clearly marked. Lindex’s products are marked with a ‘Sustainable chains were also raised. These concerns are addressed in this Choice’ label and Stockmann’s own brand fashion products chapter. made from organic cotton are marked with the ‘Organic Cotton’ label. New labels will be added during 2017, as new sustainable materials, such as Tencel, are introduced to Stockmann’s own BUYING PRACTICES brands. We tell our customers about the origin of the products. The OUR INSTRUCTIONS FOR SUPPLIERS country of origin is marked on all Stockmann own brand clothing When choosing a supplier, we pay attention to a number of and on the garments sold by Lindex, on the care label attached factors. The most important criteria are: the fit with the Stockinside the garment. The target is for the country of origin to be mann Group’s needs, supplier know-how and ability to deliver, marked on all Stockmann’s own brand home products or on quality and price, CSR with the focus on working conditions and their price tags. environmental issues, and the potential for long-term relationStockmann follows the EU regulations on food labelling. ships. All factories need to fulfil the Stockmann Group’s starting For example, allergens and mandatory comprehensive informarequirements and commit to the BSCI Code of Conduct and tion on nutritional value are clearly marked on the packaging continuous improvement. We aim for long relationships with labels of all the products made in Stockmann’s central kitchen, suppliers. Stockmann’s own food brands and own imports. Compliance The Supplier Code of Conduct is the backbone of our with regulations is ensured through training, stakeholder engagebuying practices. Stockmann does not own any factories or ment and continuous monitoring of the legislation for foodstuff. production facilities, apart from the central kitchen of the Stockmann Retail division, discussed separately. Instead, the fashion SUPPLY CHAIN products sold in Stockmann department stores and Lindex stores At Stockmann responsibility starts in the supply chain, from are made by contractors. Most of these products, over 90 per ensuring safe working conditions to minimizing environmental cent, are bought via Stockmann Group’s purchasing offices in impacts. Responsible, transparent and traceable supply chains Asia. In 2016, Lindex garments were bought from 153 (160) form one of Stockmann’s CSR focus areas and are important for suppliers and made in around 258 (290) factories. Stockmann’s our stakeholders. As over 70 per cent of the Group’s revenue own brand garments were bought from around 150 (120) supplicomes from fashion, we focus especially on responsibility in the ers and made in around 215 (190) factories, and around half of fashion supply chain. Our reporting on the supply chain covers the garments were purchased directly and half through purchasthe buying practices in Stockmann’s own operations and ing offices. The biggest producer of the Stockmann Group’s own Stockmann Group’s own brands’ supply chain, based on risk brand fashion products is Bangladesh (37 per cent) and next is assessment, and the ability to have an influence. China (33 per cent). Stockmann Retail and Lindex use the same In the retail sector, the value chain – a product’s journey suppliers and factories to a large extent. from raw material to customer – is often long and contains many All suppliers are expected to follow the Stockmann Code of stages. A significant percentage of the fashion products we sell Conduct. In addition, we require that our own brands’ supply are our own brand products, designed by our own designers, chain complies with the Supplier Code of Conduct, which incorand which cannot be purchased anywhere else. In Lindex this porates the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) Code of applies to the majority of the products. Conduct, complemented with Stockmann’s additional requireIn the Stockmann department stores, the major part of ments related to e.g. animal rights, chemicals and environmental merchandise are international brand products, but we carry also matters. a wide selection of own brand products in women’s, men’s and Unauthorized subcontracting is a risk for compliance with children’s wear, as well as home and food products. For example, our Code. Our producers are always required to inform us about in the beginning of 2016, Stockmann launched a new own the possible use of sub-contractors in advance. As a result of our fashion brand – ‘cut & pret’. In the launch of this new brand, we risk analysis, we have banned the use of sub-contractors in also emphasized the importance of a responsible and transparBangladesh altogether, this being a zero tolerance issue which ent supply chain. will lead to no further orders being placed. Our stakeholders, including customers and governmental New instructions and alignments can be made according and non-governmental organisations, are showing increasing to the human rights risks identified. At the moment, our aligninterest in our work in the supply chain. The questions raised ments include, for example, the prohibition of the sandblasting include our buying practices, the countries of manufacture, our method for jeans, as it can be hazardous to workers’ health if it is Supplier Code of Conduct, the right to freedom of association, carried out without proper protective equipment or training, a risk living wages, human rights assessments, our own audits, and that is controlled by not placing orders with factories that have remediation for human rights violations. In 2016, human rights gear for sandblasting. See ´Product guidelines’ on page 26 for risks related to cotton production and traceability of materials as more information. well as protection of Syrian refugees’ rights in Turkish supply STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 28 MANAGING AND DEVELOPING SUPPLY CHAINS Our local CSR specialists provide training and support to THROUGH BSCI suppliers and factory owners, to help them make improvements The Stockmann Group has been a member of the Business in line with our Code of Conduct and environmental requireSocial Compliance Initiative (BSCI) since 2005. BSCI is a busiments, while also performing announced and unannounced ness-driven initiative for companies committed to improving audits. Our local production and quality controllers also visit the working conditions in factories worldwide. The BSCI Code of production units on a daily basis to ensure that conditions meet Conduct sets out 11 core labour rights which the participating our requirements, and report on any suspected violations of the companies and their business partners undertake to incorporate Code of Conduct. in their supply chain in a step-by-step development approach. In addition to audits and training, every aspect of suppliers’ The requirements set in the Code are Freedom of Associaoperations is rated according to a ‘supplier scorecard’, which tion and Collective Bargaining, fair remuneration, decent working forms the basis for development. Suppliers are evaluated by the hours, occupational health and safety, special protection for score card twice a year, with the Code of Conduct vs. perforyoung workers, protection of the environment and ethical busimance being included as a parameter. Based on the evaluation, ness behaviour. It also prohibits discrimination, child labour, we grade our suppliers, and those with the best results get the bonded labour and precarious employment. At Stockmann most orders. Group we actively communicate about the BSCI Code of Conduct to our suppliers and producers, and cooperate with them to REMEDIATION IN CASE OF HUMAN RIGHTS ensure a better chance of improving working conditions in our VIOLATION supply chains. In the case of a human rights violation, we work together with the Factories in countries classified as high-risk by the BSCI, supplier to remediate the victim. No new orders are placed until where Stockmann and Lindex own brand products are manufacthe violation has been corrected and the victim has been comtured, are regularly audited by our own audits, conducted by our pensated. own local personnel, and by BSCI audits conducted by a third party. TRANSPARENCY THROUGH FACTORY With the introduction of the new BSCI Code of Conduct DISCLOSURE the audit protocol also changed. The new audit protocol has Our goal is to provide transparent communications on issues become mandatory for all audits from the beginning of January that interest our stakeholders, and therefore we disclose our 2016. Audits complying with the new BSCI Code of Conduct have fashion suppliers and the factories producing own brands fashbegun in May 2015. If deficiencies are identified, a corrective ion products on the division’s websites. action plan is formulated and its implementation is monitored. Local working conditions are also influenced through various BUYING PRACTICES FOR FOOD international conventions and initiatives. AND BRAND PRODUCTS In addition to our own brand products, well-known brand prodACCORD IN BANGLADESH ucts are purchased for sale at Stockmann department stores. In 2013, we joined the Accord on Fire and Building Safety in The responsibility issues regarding international and domestic Bangladesh, due to the risk posed by substandard factory buildings in the country. According to the agreement Stockmann is committed to having all of the factories producing garments Production in Turkey for the Group audited on the basis of three different inspections, concerning fire safety, electricity and structural issues. The structural inspection includes calculations on the load-bearing capacity, which is something that cannot be inspected in audits made by BSCI or our internal audits. CO-OPERATION WITH SUPPLIERS THROUGH LOCAL PRESENCE Stockmann Group has six local purchasing offices in China (Shanghai and Hong Kong), Bangladesh, India, Turkey and Pakistan. The offices play a key role in developing working conditions and identifying risks. The approximately 130 persons employed altogether by the offices are tasked with supervising purchasing and production. They review the procedures of each factory that they use before any orders are placed, and after which systematic responsibility work continues. STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 29 brand products are assessed during the purchasing negotiations good documentation through seminars and workshops, and by and supplier agreements. providing training for responsible persons at the factories. The Stockmann Delicatessen uses well-known and reliable EU suppliers and favours long-term relationships. In general, Trade union affiliation Stockmann does not directly import grocery products from outside The right to join a trade union and to engage in collective barthe EU to Finland. The suppliers of the few products imported by gaining is a basic right that we uphold. Unfortunately, in many of Stockmann that are produced in a risk-country have joined the our production countries the trade unions are weak and the BSCI. A risk-assessment has been made to identify those produnderlying causes are complex and often multifaceted. In many ucts, with the biggest risks in the supply chain, due to production of the factories that we use, there are functioning workers’ comor origin of the main ingredient in a risk-country. During 2016, mittees that give the employees the opportunity to engage in briefings on CSR themes were arranged for food buyers. dialogue with the factory management. These committees are in no way equivalent to a functioning trade union, and are not seen as a replacement. Having the opportunity to join a trade union SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOUR and engage in collective bargaining is the primary goal, but PRACTICES AND HUMAN RIGHTS establishing trade unions remains the workers’ own responsibility. Stockmann is responsible for putting pressure on the supplier SUPPLIER CRITERIA FOR LABOUR PRACTICES, to ensure that this right is not violated. Factory employees are HUMAN RIGHTS AND THE ENVIRONMENT informed of their rights through the BSCI policies that are placed (L A14, HR10, EN32) visibly at the workplace. We encourage factory managers to take According to our procurement practices, all factories need to part in BSCI training related to the freedom of association and fulfil the Stockmann Group’s minimum requirements and comcollective bargaining. mit to the BSCI Code of Conduct before starting cooperation. These include requirements for labour practices, human rights Wages and compensation and environmental actions. The purchasing offices review the Paying incorrect wages is a common problem. In compliance operating models and quality levels of each factory that they use with the Code of Conduct and local law, suppliers must pay the before entering into a contract and starting production. country’s statutory minimum wage to their employees as a A significant percentage of the own brand fashion products minimum requirement. This is not enough, however, since the – 96 per cent – are manufactured in areas classified as risk counminimum wage is seldom at a sufficient level to cover basic tries by the BSCI. We are aware that there is a risk of violation of needs and also provide some discretionary income. We think the Code of Conduct and we are actively working to ensure that it should be possible to live on the wage earned by a factory compliance. Our risk analysis presented below, shows five areas worker. We believe that raising the national minimum wage is the of risks for the Code of Conduct. In addition, we are looking into key to raising wage levels, as it also raises wages on higher pay the possibility of better incorporating human rights and children’s grades. In Bangladesh, we have co-operated with other comparights into our assessments. Our goal is to carry out a human nies in appeals to the Bangladeshi government to raise the rights assessment with our key stakeholders by the end of 2018. minimum wage. Stockmann does not own any factories or production faciliRISK ANALYSIS ties of its own, and is typically a minor buyer in the eyes of its suppliers and their factories. As a consequence, we cannot, only Management systems by our own efforts, raise the salaries of factory workers. For Problems with the management system may lead to poor control example, an increase in the buying price is not directly linked to over procedures at the factory or with subcontractors. There may the wages paid to the workers, and cannot be expected to benefit be a lack of people responsible for the management system or a the workers without separate proof of this. We urge the supplier lack of internal policies in the factory. We put emphasis on giving to provide fair compensation and improve welfare through advice and assisting factories to improve their management benefits such as child care, free lunches, transport, and the systems and on training factory managers to establish internal opportunity for education on health and finances – which we controls over their supplier chain. implement through the ‘Health Enables Return (HER)’ project. The wages paid is a factor considered in the supplier Documentation scorecard (see ‘Co-operation with suppliers thorugh local presShortcomings concerning copies of employees’ ID cards, or ence’), and those suppliers with the best scores receive more wage lists, or other documentation are a common problem. Lack orders than the others. We work with the question through BSCI of proper documentation hampers the verification of compliance but also by benchmarking other initiatives. We actively follow the with the code, such as paying the correct wages, checking worker discussion on the living wage, participate in round-table discusage and respecting overtime limits. If the documentation is sions and other initiatives on the issue – such as the Better Work, insufficient, the supplier is deemed as not having complied with Fair Wage Network by the Fair Labour Association and various the requirements. We work to alert suppliers to the importance of other round-tables and consider new ways of addressing the issue. STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 30 BSCI AUDITS 2012-2016 Working hours Scoring according to earlier audit protocol Overtime work that exceeds the limits in the Code of Conduct is a widespread problem in most of our production countries. 120 Overtime work is difficult to remedy as there are several reasons 100 for it. Firstly, the employees in the factories may say that they 80 want to work overtime in order to earn more money. In cases 60 40 Good where the employees work far away from home, they want to be 20 Improvements needed able to work a lot over an intensive period and then return home. 0 Non-compliant Secondly, it may be lucrative for the supplier to organise over2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 time in order to increase production. Stockmann’s, like other fashion companies’, lead times represent a risk of overtime. In order to minimize the risk, a production capacity assessment is conducted prior to placing orders. Community projects BSCI AUDITS 2016 Scoring according to new audit protocol Our clothing orders create employment opportunities, particularly for women, in developing countries. Local wellbeing and environmental protection is also promoted by various projects to support the status and wellbeing of women, the education of Outstanding 7% children, and environmental protection in the manufacturing Good 11 % countries. We are involved in the School of Hope, Solmaid High Acceptable 67 % Insufficient 16 % School, and Health Enables Return (HER) projects. We are also involved in several projects to reduce water consumption and other environmental impacts. Read more on Lindex website. AUDITS AND INSPECTIONS (LA15, HR11) The Stockmann Group engages in an ongoing dialogue and in regular auditing of the producing factories, both through its own audits and the BSCI audits to identify negative human rights impacts according to our risk analysis. zero-tolerance issues. The main findings in the audits were A total of 123 (142) BSCI audits were conducted in factories non-compliance with the requirements on working hours or located in risk countries that manufacture Stockmann’s own allowing one day off every seven days, and issues with health brand products for the company’s department stores and Lindex and safety, the management system and fair remuneration. in 2016. Of these, 80 (114) were full audits As of 14 January 2017, all BSCI audits and 43 (28) were re-audits. They all comwill be semi-announced by default, plied with the new BSCI audit protocol. providing producers a four-week time 123 The BSCI audits are conducted by internaframe during which the audit will be tionally accredited independent auditors. conducted. This new approach will further The results are presented in the graphs: contribute to improving the audit quality. 2016 results according to the new scoring BSCI audits Until this point, most audits have been system and 2012-2016 results according made after being fully announced, allow92 to the old scoring system, with part of the ing the producer to know the exact date of 2015 results and all of the 2016 results the audit. converted to the old scoring system to In addition to these external audits, allow comparison over the years. own audits the Stockmann Group’s CSR specialists The most common BSCI audit result working in our purchasing offices carried 144 was ‘acceptable’, which was received by out 92 (116) audits. Of these, 84 (90) were 65 per cent of the full audits and 70 per full audits and 8 (26) re-audits. cent of follow-up audits. 19 per cent of the By signing the Accord on Fire and full audits and 14 per cent of the follow-up Accord inspections Building Safety in Bangladesh, Stockmann up audits scored either ‘outstanding’ or in Bangladesh is committed to having all of the factories ‘good’. None of the factories producing for producing garments for the Group audited the Stockmann Group received the audit on the basis of three different inspections: result ‘unacceptable’ or were caught with fire safety, electricity and structural issues. STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 31 The structural inspection includes calculations on the loadOur suppliers are expected to follow the applicable bearing capacity of a building, which is something that cannot be environmental legislation. In addition, an environmental code, in inspected in audits made by the BSCI or our internal audits. In use in our purchasing offices, sets requirements for water 2016, 109 fire safety and electricity inspections were made in treatment, chemicals handling, waste treatment, emissions and factories producing for the Stockmann Group, along with 35 continuous improvement. At the same time, we have been structural inspections. During 2016 the remediation work contincooperating with our suppliers in improvement projects covering ued, and today, 71 per cent of the issues found in factories responsible water management, energy efficiency and use of producing for Lindex and Stockmann own brands have been chemicals through Lindex. For example, together with its remediated. suppliers and denim experts Lindex screened its denim After each audit, no matter whether it is a BSCI audit, production to grade the environmental impact. As a result, some Stockmann’s own audit or an Accord inspection in Bangladesh, washes, such as extra rinses, were dropped and other washes an audit report with corrective action plan (CAP) is put together. were combined. Together these changes made significant Each task on the CAP is given a deadline and progress is monisavings – water consumption was reduced with up to 42 per cent tored. The most common findings are detailed in the risk analysis. and energy usage was reduced by 27 per cent. These more During 2016, 3 (4) of our goods suppliers and 4 (11) factosustainable techniques have been implemented in all Lindex ries held the Social Accountability 8000 (SA8000) certificate, denim production. Today, 100 per cent of the Lindex denim considered a best practice by the BSCI initiative, but not set as a selection is ‘Better Denim’, made from more sustainable material requirement by the BSCI or Stockmann. and with processes that use less water, energy and chemicals. SYRIAN REFUGEES IN THE SUPPLY ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECTS IN THE SUPPLY CHAINS IN TURKEY CHAIN (EN33) Around eight per cent of Stockmann Group’s own brand garWater is an essential part of Lindex long-term sustainability ments are produced in Turkey, where refugees from Syria are at commitment, as textile production consumes large quantities of risk of being abused due to their vulnerable status. A standard water and it is a prerequisite for the business, and because operating procedure is in place for Stockmann Group’s suppliers access to clean water is essential to human life. to follow if they identify Syrian refugees working in the supply Through Lindex, we have been involved for years in chain. The suppliers have been trained on the procedure, for sustainability projects in the Group’s important production example regarding applying for work permits and for paying the countries, such as Bangladesh and India, where there are gross minimum wage, until a work permit is obtained, in order to challenges with water scarcity and clean water. During the last compensate for the lack of social security payments. The work years, these projects have been proven to be an effective way to has been done in co-operation with ASAM, the Association for increase environmental awareness and improve processes. We Solidarity with Asylum Seekers and Migrants. aim for as many suppliers as possible to participate in these projects and to transition to more resource-efficient and cleaner production. The water-related cooperation projects during 2016 SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR includes the Partnership for Cleaner Textiles in Bangladesh ENVIRONMENTAL PRACTICES (PaCT), the Sweden Textile Water Initiative (STWI), the Better Cotton Initiative. Lindex is also a longterm partner to WaterAid Textile production is water-intensive. Water impacts our supply and supports their work in improving access to safe water, chain mostly through the irrigation of cotton fields and through improved hygiene and sanitation in the world’s poorest the wet processes of textile production, such as dyeing and communities. In 2016, Lindex continued and strengthened its washing. Water consumption and water treatment should thereengagement iin water related issues. More information can be fore be as efficient as possible. found on Lindex website. STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 32 ENVIRONMENT Stockmann’s objective is to reduce the environmental RAISING INTERNAL AWARENESS ON impact of the company’s business operations. We ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES acknowledge the environmental impacts of our operations Every employee’s input is required for the achievement of our and strive to prevent adverse effects by cutting emissions, environmental goals and objectives. The personnel’s environincreasing the efficiency of energy and water consumption mental awareness is enhanced through training and regular and carrying out waste sorting and recycling. To ensure internal communication e.g. through the intranet and informacontinuous improvement, we monitor our compliance with tion screens in the personnel facilities. the Group’s quality and environmental systems and our Stockmann has an e-learning package on environmental fulfilment of the environmental goals and objectives set. topics, launched in 2015. The e-learning package focuses on environmental knowledge, waste management and energy efficiency, and it is also available for Stockmann’s tenants who Stockmann complies with valid environmental legislation and operate in the same premises as the department stores. Stockrequires the same from its partners. Environmental work at mann’s environmental specialist regularly visits the department Stockmann is based on the CSR strategy and on the environstores and guides the personnel with regard to environmental mental policy. The management of environmental responsibility targets and trains new tenants in recycling practices. During the is coordinated by the Communications and CSR function and is reporting year, topical environmental matters were also discussed part of the divisions’ day-to-day operations. The divisions indein morning briefings for department store personnel. pendently set specific environmental targets, define indicators for monitoring the achievement of these targets and establish appropriate management practices. MATERIALS PACKAGING MATERIALS ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Stockmann aims to minimize the environmental burden of packaging materials and offer customers material efficient A certified management system is in use for operations in Finsolutions. Our selection choices follow the Finnish ‘Optikassi land as follows: all Stockmann department stores and support 2009’ research on environmental impacts throughout the life functions in Finland are ISO 14001 certified and Stockmann’s cycle of packaging materials. We follow technical and legislative central kitchen has been granted the ISO 14001 and ISO 22000 developments as well as customer experience closely and aim to certificates. The operating methods of Stockmann’s environoffer new solutions proactively. mental management system have also been adopted in the In 2016, we made a voluntary commitment to reduce plastic. department stores in the Baltic countries. In connection with this, we started the renewal of our shopping Lindex does not have a certified environmental managebag selection, introducing more recycled materials and paper bag ment system in use. Lindex stores mainly operate in leased premoptions, and we increased our in-store communications about ises in shopping centres, which mean that in addition to the shop’s sustainable choices in shopping bags. In the process, the selection energy-efficient concept, environmental issues are taken into of the thinnest plastic bags, with the least opportunities for reuse, account to the extent possible within the property in question. will be reduced, and thin plastic bags are no longer available for Stockmann’s purchasing offices operate near production our customers on a self-service basis at the Delicatessen and the sites and they have made efforts to assess and minimise the Daily cosmetics cashiers. These actions are part of Stockmann’s harmful environmental impacts of their suppliers’ factories. commitment to sustainable development, to reduce the amount Stockmann considers environmental aspects when planof plastic waste and litter for our part. See the boxed text. ning and managing operations and when procuring products The Stockmann Group can influence choices of packaging and services for the Group’s own use. In 2016, Stockmann Real materials and the amounts used, especially when procuring Estate engaged in a large competitive bidding for cleaning, waste goods for its own use. The divisions’ purchasing offices actively management and real estate services. Environmental criteria had monitor developments in the packaging industry and aim to use an important role in the negotiations. The service providers need high-quality packaging and to reduce unnecessary use of packto commit to Stockmann’s operating principles, and the cleaning aging material through material efficiency. services have an important role in achieving Stockmann’s ambiAt our Delicatessen service points the plastic boxes for tious recycling targets. As a result of the bidding, changes were ready meals, pastries and other service counter products are made in real estate service providers and cleaning services, for made of 50 per cent recycled plastic. The cardboard boxes used example in Turku, where cleaning will continue with local small for packaging items purchased in the stockmann.com online businesses. store are partially made of recycled fibres. STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 33 The Stockmann Group reports on packaging materials used, in accordance with the EU Packaging Directive. For the Group’s operations in Finland, the reports are submitted to the Finnish Packaging Recycling Rinki. The materials reported include plastic bags and other materials used in stores to package goods for customers, and packaging materials unpacked at the logistics centres. For most of Stockmann’s imported goods, the reporting responsibility for product packaging materials lies with Stockmann’s logistics partner, Tuko Logistics. Lindex also reports on its use of packaging materials to the relevant authorities in the countries in which it operates, such as Sweden, Norway and the Baltic countries. This reporting is summed up on the Group website (EN1). ENERGY EFFICIENCY The Group’s energy consumption mainly consists of electricity, MORE RESPONSIBLE heating and district heating. Energy is consumed by the lighting, SHOPPING BAGS ventilation, heating and cooling systems in the stores, warehouses and offices, as well as by other equipment and machinStockmann’s selection of plastic, paper and reusable ery in these facilities, including lifts, escalators, refrigeration and shopping bags is being renewed to make them more IT equipment. sustainable. In October 2016, we were among the first to Stockmann has focused on energy efficiency for over a make the commitment to reduce the use of plastic bags. We have increased in-store communications on different decade. The commitment given in 2013 to the Finnish retail shopping bag alternatives, and during the next year, chargsector’s energy efficiency agreement on behalf of the Stockmann ing for plastic bags will be gradually expanded in the dedepartment store operations in Finland has further strengthened partment stores for non-food consumer goods in order to the dedication to energy efficiency. According to the commitment reduce the consumption of plastic bags. These measures set for 2009-2016, our target was to achieve a 9 per cent reduccome as a part of Stockmann’s social responsibility comtion in energy consumption, and we reached this target. Under mitment to reduce the use of plastic bags in accordance with the principles of sustainable development. We aim to the agreement, Stockmann has conducted energy reviews in its act as a forerunner in environmental issues and to play our premises and implemented further energy efficiency improvepart in reducing plastic waste and litter. ments according to the prepared action plan. The energy reviews The renewal of the selection was started in 2016. are also required under the energy efficiency legislation that came For example, Globe Hope reusable bags made from into force at the beginning of 2015. Negotiations concerning the Stockmann’s old outdoor advertisements were sold at the Crazy Days in the autumn, and our Delicatessens sell retail sector’s new energy efficiency agreement for 2017-2025 are reusable bags made from old sails. Reusable bags, parongoing, together with other retail sector companies. ticularly those made from recycled materials, offer a good In 2016, Stockmann continued with the energy efficiency alternative to plastic bags, and for this reason the selection programme by focusing on monitoring and optimising the runand attractiveness of reusable bags will be increased both ning hours of building systems and lighting control in all premises, in the Delicatessens and in the department stores. Grey to achieve further reductions in electricity consumption. plastic bags containing more than 90 per cent of recycled material were also introduced in the Delicatessens in the In logistics, Stockmann’s new distribution centre in Tuusula autumn. Other new alternatives containing more sustainwill reduce internal transports as the earlier four warehouses in able materials will be added to the selection during 2017. Finland were centralised into one. The distribution centre, opened At the same time, we are reducing our selection of thinner in the spring of 2016, serves the department stores and online plastic bags that are poorly suited for reuse. store in Finland and in the future, it will also serve the Baltic At the Delicatessens’ fruit and vegetable departments, customers can choose from free paper and biodecountries. It received the LEED Gold certification in autumn 2015. gradable bags or reusable fruit and vegetable bags that are LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) is an subject to a fee alongside thin plastic bags. Since the start internationally recognized rating system to promote sustainable of 2017, small bags made of thin plastic are no longer disconstruction and design standards. There are four levels of played at cash desks and cashiers no longer actively offer certification – Certified, Silver, Gold and Platinum. During the plastic bags to wrap such items as frozen foods. In future, planning and construction of this 29,000 square metre distribupaper or plastic bags will be given to customers at the cash desks upon request. tion centre, sustainable development and other environmental perspectives, such as energy efficiency, were taken into account. The project received a high rating, especially in the efficiency of STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 34 ENVIRONMENTAL CERTIFIC ATE FOR THE NEW LOGISTICS CENTRE Stockmann’s logistics centre, which launched its operations in April 2016, was awarded with the LEED Gold environmental certificate. Encompassing 29,000 square metres of floor space, the building was designed with sustainable development and environmental aspects in mind. Its geothermal heating system generates the necessary heating and cooling energy. Lighting consists of LED lights. Located in Jussla, Tuusula, the largely automated logistics centre will, once at full capacity, serve all of Stockmann’s department stores in Finland and the Baltic countries and the Stockmann online store. The centralisation of the warehouses cuts transportation distances and thus carbon dioxide emissions. energy consumption mainly due to the distribution centre’s use of sample of stores. According to this, the areas of lighting, cooling geothermal energy, which has proven to be efficient and sufand ventilation and escalators account for approximately 90 per ficient: the building uses only geothermal energy for heating and cent of the energy consumption, and hence energy reduction cooling, and no additional energy was needed for these purposes measures will focus on these, and especially on lighting. As a in 2016. The possibility for the use of solar energy as an energy result, the use of LED lights will be increased. To reduce carbon source for the distribution centre has also been investigated. dioxide emissions, Lindex prioritizes energy from renewable sources. The extensive renovation of the Turku department store’s Delicatessen brought important improvements to energy efficiency, as all the refrigeration equipment, the cold room and freezer room were changed and renewed and the new equipment uses carbon dioxide as a refrigerant. The new freezers have lids, ENERGY AND WATER CONSUMPTION and the curtains installed to cold storages can be preset. New 2014-2016 (EN3, EN4, EN8) refrigeration equipment will also be taken into use in the new 2016 2015 2014 Tapiola department store that opens in March 2017. DIRECT CONSUMPTION During the reporting year, energy efficiency improvements Heating fuel (MWh) 430 434 318 Natural gas (MWh) 19,443 16,677 18,603 were also achieved through the renovations of some of the INDIRECT CONSUMPTION escalators and lifts in the Helsinki department store. In the DelicaElectricity (MWh) 127,279 128,278 131,301 tessen food departments, energy was saved during the summer District heating and cooling (MWh) 81707 83,013 85,491 by means of night purging to utilise cool night air in the ventilation Water (m3) 224,957 242,369 235,235 of the department stores. Several department changes took place in the Helsinki Figures for District heating and cooling for 2015 and 2014 and Heating fuel for 2015 department store during the year, and when possible, the lighting restated due to calculation errors. was changed to LED-based lighting and lighting controls were Heating Fuel and Natural Gas data is based on metered data for Stockmann and estimations for Lindex. Purchased heating and cooling energy consumption covers made adjustable during these renovations. Lindex’s stores have all the Group’s functions. Heating and cooling data for Stockmann is based on also focused on minimising energy consumption, and all stores invoicing and data from service providers. Due to the significant amount of follow an efficient energy consumption checklist as a routine estimations and extrapolation in heat consumption for Lindex, the data quality is considered fair. Reporting on water covers all the Stockmann functions and Lindex’s practice. Lindex’s long-term goal is to become energy neutral distribution centre. The reporting on energy and water consumption excludes through the use of renewable energy sources. An indebt study discontinued operations (Russian department stores, Lindex Russia for 2016) and about electricity consumption was made in a representative franchising operations. STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 35 EMISSIONS GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS IN 2016 (EN15, EN16, EN17 ) Reporting on greenhouse gas emissions serves as a manageThe Stockmann Group’s emissions are presented in the table ment tool in the Stockmann Group, providing a basis for defining below. In 2016 the highest emissions, around 70 per cent, came the areas where emissions should be reduced and for setting from the generation of purchased energy (Scope 2), especially reduction targets. We are constantly developing the way we electricity, which remained on the same level as previous year. A calculate our carbon footprint. little over half of the electricity used by Lindex is renewable energy The calculation of Stockmann’s carbon footprint in 2016 purchased from Bergen Energi, for which the emissions are zero. covers the functions of the Stockmann Retail, Real Estate, Lindex Scope 3 indirect emissions are presented where relevant; the and Group shared functions in all the countries of operation, biggest such emissions can be attributed to logistics and waste. excluding discontinued department stores in Russia and franThe adjusted total reported emissions declined by seven chise operations. In Stockmann Retail operations, the figures per cent. This was mainly due the closure of Lindex shops in also cover the emissions by our tenants in the department Russia and the consequential decrease in scope 2 emissions, as stores, who operate 48 per cent of the gross leasable area of the well as a decrease in logistics emissions, both internal and properties owned by Stockmann Real Estate. external. An underlying reason for the latter was Stockmann This is the seventh time that Stockmann is reporting its Retail’s withdrawal from department store business in Russia. greenhouse gas emissions, covering the whole Group. The However, the reporting for Stockmann Retail logistics emissions comparison figures are presented for 2014 and 2015, and the is not fully comparable, and the decrease is partially due to changes in the scope of the calculation are explained in the differences in reporting scope in logistics. comments column. There was an increase in the emissions for refrigerants due Mitopro Oy has consulted us in the calculation of the to more extensive than usual replacement of old refrigeration carbon footprint in 2016. The calculation was carried out in equipment. Emissions on business travel and mail delivery accordance with the international Greenhouse Gas (GHG) declined. Emissions from waste remained on the same level as in Protocol reporting principles. the previous year. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 2014–2016 (EN15, EN16, EN17, EN30) Change tCO2 2016 tCO2 2015 tCO2 2014 2015–2016 in % Comments DIRECT EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1) 3,100 2,500 1,900 24 % Stationary combustion 170 170 140 0% Refrigerants 2,900 2,300 1,800 26 % Increase in refigerants emissions due to more extensive than usual replacement of old refrigeration equipment. INDIRECT EMISSIONS FROM 47,500 48,900 56,300 -3 % Decrease in total Scope 2 emissions compared to 2015 PURCHASED ENERGY (SCOPE 2) is caused by Lindex Russia discontinued operations. Purchased electricity 33,100 34,400 37,900 -4 % Emissions of electricity purchased by Lindex from Bergen energi are zero. Heating and cooling 14,400 14,500 18,400 -1 % Significant amount of estimation for Lindex, quality of data is fair. Stockmann Retail heating consumption has increased during 2016. OTHER INDIRECT EMISSIONS 16,200 20,500 21,700 -21 % (SCOPE 3) Vehicles 300 300 400 0% Internal logistics 2,800 3,400 3,300 -18 % Decrease in mail delivery CO2 emissions. Distribution emissions remained at the same level as 2015. External logistics 10,000 13,600 14,700 -26 % Decrease due to withdrawal from department store business in Russia and change in reporting scope. Data for 2016 and 2015 nof fully comparable. Business travel 1,100 1,200 1,300 -8 % Decrease in air travel miles. Waste 2,000 2,000 2,000 0% TOTAL 66,800 71,900 79,900 -7 % AVOIDED EMISSIONS 1,100 1,700 1,500 Carbon emissions neutralized by certified climate projects by logistics operator. (NET EMISSIONS) 65,700 70,200 78,400 The reporting excludes discontinued operations (department stores in Russia) and franchising operations. The 2015 figures for refigerants and logistics emissions have been restated due to calculation errors. The figures presented in the table are rounded to the nearest hundred tCO2. STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 36 CDP SCORE ucts for the department stores. When the central kitchen was In addition to publishing its annual report, Stockmann Group renovated in 2016, special attention was paid to minimizing water also reports on its greenhouse gas emissions in the international consumption, through the installation of water saving nozzles Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) survey. In 2016, Stockmann’s and designing new ways of cleaning with less water. score was good with the score B (2015: 94B), according to the The wastewater from operations goes into the municipal CDP’s new streamlined scoring (A, A-, B, B-, C, C-, D, D-). The sewer systems. The company has no emissions into the water score presents a company’s progress using a four-step system, nor is water recycled or reused in the operations. approach: the completeness of the company’s response (disclosure); the extent to which the company has assessed environINDIRECT WATER CONSUMPTION IN THE mental issues, risks and impacts in relation to its business SUPPLY CHAIN AND USE PHASE (awareness); the extent to which the company has implemented Textile production is water intensive. Water usage in our supply actions, policies and strategies to address environmental issues chain is discussed in the section ‘Supplier assessment for envi(management); and particular steps the company has taken ronmental practices’ on page 31. which represent the best practices in the field of environmental Our indirect impact also includes water consumption in the management (leadership). Score B means that the company has use phase, the way the garments are washed at home by our taken actions to address environmental issues beyond initial customers and how they are discarded. As part of our excellent screenings or assessments. customer service, customers are offered information on how to use and wash products, and on recycling alternatives, so that the lifecycle of the product can be extended and environmental WATER impacts can be minimized. In addition, Lindex provides tips and product care instructions for washing, drying, repairing aimed at WATER CONSUMPTION IN OUR OWN reducing the environmental impact of garments on its website and OPERATIONS (EN9, EN10, EN22) with in-store materials. See also ‘Encouraging customers to recycle’ Water consumption in Stockmann’s own operations is minimal, on page 38. and the operations take place in areas where there is currently no scarcity of water. Measuring and minimizing water consumption is nevertheless an important part of Stockmann’s environmental EFFLUENTS AND WASTE responsibility. Stockmann’s water consumption is presented in the table ‘Energy and water consumption 2014-2016’. The waste generated by the divisions’ operations is mainly packMost of the Group’s water consumption takes place in the aging waste, such as cardboard and plastic. The Stockmann department stores’ restaurant, kitchen and sanitary facilities. In the Retail division generates biodegradable waste as a result of the divisions and the Group’s support functions, the water used at the operations of the central kitchen and the Delicatessen food different business locations is supplied by the local water utility. departments as well as Real Estate’s tenants operating restauWater consumption is minimised by instructing personnel rants and cafés. We pay close attention to waste sorting and and tenants, preventing and repairing even the smallest leaks recovery by providing training for personnel and tenants, developand procuring more efficient water fittings to replace older ones. ing the guidance and making sorting practices more convenient. To decrease water consumption, waterless urinals are in use in The waste sorting is managed in accordance with the ISO certain customer washrooms in Stockmann department stores. 14001 environmental management system, and the results for Stockmann has only one production facility of its own, the the various business locations are monitored on a monthly basis. central kitchen which prepares Meals, Deli, and cafeteria prodOur goal in Stockmann’s operations in Finland is to reduce the WASTE 2014-2016, TONS (EN23) Stockmann Finland Stockmann Baltics Lindex Total 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 RECYCLABLE WASTE Cardboard and paper 1,620.8 1,804 1,988 236 206 247 1,205 1,211 1,311 3,062 3,221 3,222 Combustile waste 1,017.1 1,113 1,197 0 0 3 25 94 110 1,042 1,207 1,207 Bio waste 1,364.2 1,630 2,224 172 174 154 1 476 1,537 1,804 1,804 Other (plastic film, metal, glass) 140.8 148 141 20 23 27 78 0.1 236 239 171 172 Mixed waste: 231 253 250 470 444 438 5 5 3 706 702 702 Landfill waste 0 41 42 0 41 41 Combustile waste 231 212 209 231 212 212 HAZARDOUS WASTE 13.2 11 7 16 13 9 1 0 0 30 24 23 TOTAL 4,618.1 5,212 6,058 915 860 879 1,314 1,310 2,137 6,847 7,382 7,383 WASTE UTILIZATION, % 100 99 99 49 48 50 100 100 100 93 95 93 STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 37 WASTE WEEK Stockmann participated in the Waste Week campaign organised by the Consumers’ Union of Finland at the end of August and beginning of September. During the campaign, a pop-up restaurant in the Helsinki city centre Delicatessen prepared delicacies from food that would have otherwise gone to waste. Reducing food waste is one of Stockmann’s strategic goals for minimising the environmental impacts of its operations. amount of waste and recycle as much as possible of the remainIn Helsinki, we cooperate on a continuous basis with the ing waste as material. The total amount of waste decreased in Reuse Centre and its Näprä unit. Material samples from Stock2016 in Finland by approximately 11 (15) per cent. The target for mann’s design studio were donated to Näprä throughout the the recycling rate was 70 per cent. The recycling rate in departyear. In 2016, samples of clothes, sheets, towels, toys, as well as ment stores in Finland was 70.5 per cent. baby products and the previous year’s Christmas wrapping Waste management systems differ between Finland and materials were donated to Hope ry, a non-profit organisation the Baltic countries. The differences concern, for example, waste that supports Finnish families with limited means. legislation, the number of different waste fractions and final Stockmann Delicatessens collaborate closely with different disposal of waste. charitable organizations. After finding a food donation partner in Decreasing food wastage has been a focus area in our Oulu, we achieved our target of having at least one food donaenvironmental work in recent years, with the aim of halving food tion partner in each Delicatessen. For example, in Helsinki, Itis waste from the 2014 level by the end of 2016. This target was and Turku, several agreed charitable partners retrieve donations almost reached. In our CSR strategy, we have set a further target 6 times per week. The range of food products donated was to decrease food wastage by 25 per cent from the 2015 level by expanded in 2015, and now includes almost all kinds of grocerthe end of 2018. Through preventative measures, such as pruies, in addition to bakery products, which we have been donating dent and skilful buying and expanded charity collaboration, for years now. The donated products are edible though they do Delicatessens have been able to significantly reduce the amount not fulfil all our quality requirements. The reasons for removal of biodegradable waste. In 2016, biodegradable waste decreased from sale include a strange form or a dent in a vegetable, one by 15 per cent, for another year in a row. See the next chapter bad grape in a grape box and faulty packaging. about food donations from Delicatessen. Lindex regularly donates unsold products to different charity organizations, in accordance with its clothes recycling and SYSTEMATIC REUSE AND LOSS PREVENTION donation policy. The stores themselves decide where to donate THROUGH PRODUCT DONATIONS the garments. At the Head Office, product samples are sold at a Stockmann department stores and the support functions work garment sale every month, and leftover garments are donated to together to promote recycling by donating unsold products, different charities. The purchase offices also donate garments to product samples, and leftover materials to agreed local partners different charities. and various recycling workshops. STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 38 ENCOURAGING TRANSPORT CUSTOMERS TO RECYCLE We provide our customers with the The Group serves customers in a number of opportunity to recycle. For example, different countries and continents, and the in Finland customers can return distribution of goods to these various stores used electrical appliances and involves transport emissions. Considerable electronic equipment, batteries, attention is paid to the efficient and less fluorescent lamps and energy environmentally harmful movement of goods. saving bulbs to Stockmann departFlows of goods from the Asian purchasing ment stores. Electrical appliances offices to the distribution centres are usually by and batteries can also be returned sea. Lindex is an active member of the Clean in Estonia. Every year, various Shipping network, which requires that shipping recycling campaigns are organized THE DENIM SHOES companies promote cleaner shipping and in cooperation with Stockmann’s are Lindex’s first product made register their vessels in the Clean Shipping suppliers. For example, a campaign with materials collected from Index registry. Lindex’s customers. The postto recycle frying pans, cutlery and consumer denim used in the cookware was organized with shoes was collected by Myrorna, ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Hackman in all the department a Swedish second hand chain OF TRANSPORTING PRODUCTS stores in Finland, and clothes that gets part of its materials AND PEOPLE FOR OWN take-back is continuous by Knowlfrom Lindex textile recycling OPERATIONS (EN30) in store. Other parts of these edge Cotton Apparel clothing To minimize travel, videoand tele­ shoes were sustainable as well: brand. During the Christmas period, for example, the soles were conferencing equipment is increasingly customers were able to return the made with FSC certified natural utilised in meetings. Attention is paid to grease produced by cooking their rubber, sourced from sustainably emissions from business travel, and lowChristmas ham to the Helsinki managed forest, and the factory emission options are preferred for such trips. flagship department store. This in Pakistan, where the shoes Company travel guideline recommends were made, received Fair trade campaign, playfully titled ’Kinkcompensation. travel via train or bus over own car, and kutemppu’ in Finnish, was the joint leasing cars have maximum emissions. effort of several organisations, and The new distribution centre for the the collected grease was used to department stores, opened in 2016, is produce diesel fuel, and the profit expected to decrease transport distances was donated to charity. significantly in the Helsinki region. The first results of this will be Started as a pilot in Sweden in 2014, Lindex’s customers obtained during 2017. Transport is continuously being optimized can now hand in used textiles and clothes for recycling and reuse through route planning, choosing optimally sized transport in all stores in Sweden, Norway and Finland. The ‘Reuse and equipment, taking advantage of return transport, using new recycle’ programme is a part of the company’s long term ambiequipment with low emissions, and systematic follow-up and tion to close the material loop. During 2016, altogether over active engagement with transport suppliers. 27 000 kilograms of textiles were collected. CO2 emissions from internal and external logistics and business travel are reported in the table ‘Greenhouse gas emissions 2014-2016’. LINDEX REUSE REC YCLE Customers can now hand in textiles for reuse and recycling at any Lindex store in Finland, Sweden and Norway. The ‘Reuse and recycle’ programme is a part of the company’s long term ambition to close the material loop. To achieve this, Lindex works with partners: Myrorna in Sweden, Fretex in Norway and Remeo in Finland. The collected textiles are given a new life in second hand shops or through recycling where they become part of new products, such as clothes for the industry or isolation material. Only approximately two per cent cannot be reused or recycled and is instead burned for energy. STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 39 FINANCE AND GOVERNANCE Commitment to responsible operations forms a core part Stockmann Group’s economic performance is explained in of our daily ways of working. In our decision-making, full in the 2016 Financial Statements which can be found at we follow principles of good corporate governance. year2016.stockmanngroup.com. The Stockmann Code of Conduct, our values and management practices form a framework for our DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND procedures and efforts to promote a sustainable future. DISTRIBUTED (EC1) We aim for long-term profitable operations and are taking The Stockmann Group’s operations bring economic added value several structural measures in order to turn our business to the company’s stakeholders, operating areas and market back to profit. areas. The majority of the economic added value goes into personnel salaries and other remuneration. The distribution of economic added value to different stakeholders is illustrated on page 40, and presented in detail for the past five years in the table below. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Stockmann plc shares are listed on Nasdaq Helsinki. The company had 49,813 (52,415) registered shareholders at the The Stockmann Group achieved a positive operating result in year-end. The dividend policy set by Stockmann’s Board of 2016 after two years of heavy losses. The Group’s adjusted Directors is to distribute more than half of the earnings from operating result in 2016 was up, to EUR 20.2 million (EUR -28.5 ordinary operations. No dividend was paid on the 2015 result. million). Adjusted operating costs decreased by more than EUR The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting 65 million and helped improve the result despite lower revenue. no dividend to be paid on the 2016 result. The Group’s revenue in continuing product areas and businesses Information on salaries and other remuneration of the was down by 4.1 per cent. Of the Group’s three divisions, the Board of Directors, the CEO and the Management Team can be fashion chain Lindex and the Real Estate business are profitable, found in the 2016 Corporate Governance review at while Stockmann Retail was still loss-making. Earnings per share year2016.stockmanngroup.com. in continuing operations were EUR -0.33 (EUR -1.24), or EUR -0.12 (EUR -2.43) including discontinued operations. DISTRIBUTION OF ECONOMIC ADDED VALUE TO DIFFERENT STAKEHOLDERS EUR million 2016* 2015* 2014 2013 2012 Producing added value Customers Sales excluding VAT, other operating income, financial income 1,305.2 1,435.8 1,606.0 2,041.6 2,118.8 Goods suppliers and service providers Costs of goods, materials and services purchased, includes capital goods and paid rents -981.4 -1,147.6 -1,320.4 -1,567.3 -1,610.4 Added value produced by Stockmann 323.9 288.3 285.6 474.3 508.4 Distribution of addedd value Personnel Salaries, wages and pension contributions -250.8 -281.9 -315.5 -353.5 -361.0 Shareholders Dividends 0.0 0.0 0.0 -28.8 -43.2 Investors Financial expenses -23.9 -22.1 -23.8 -32.1 -34.2 Public sector Other social security payments, taxes -52.4 -54.7 -37.0 -22.7 -45.4 Distributed to stakeholders in total -327.1 -358.7 -376.3 -437.0 -483.8 Retained in the company to develop operations -3.2 -70.4 -90.7 37.2 24.6 * Continuing operations STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 40 VALUE TO STAKEHOLDERS Impacts CUSTOMERS Sales excluding VAT, Resources other operating income, financial income EUR 1 303.2 mill. PROFESSIONAL EMPLOYEES STAFF & Salaries, wages, pension ORGANISATION contributions and other benefits EUR 290.5 mill. BRAND STOCKMANN SOCIETY Social security payments PRODUCTS GROUP & taxes EUR 52.4 mill. SUPPLIERS � OMNICHANNEL OTHER PARTNERS SERVICES Cost of goods, materials & services EUR 981.4 mill. FINANCIAL RESOURCES � PROPERTIES INVESTORS � SHAREHOLDERS Financial expenses NATURAL RESOURCES EUR 23.9 mill. No dividends in 2016 DONATIONS TO CHARIT Y (EC1) As part of its corporate social responsibility, Stockmann may Finnish families with limited means. Stockmann also took part in make donations to non-profit public benefit organizations that a campaign organised by Home Instead senior care, encouragfund education, culture, research and other social projects in the ing customers to buy Christmas flowers for lonely elderly people countries where Stockmann operates. with limited means. Charity work is guided by the donation policy that is During the year, Stockmann donated the Group website available on the company’s website. Donations to charity are and the Stockmann online store website to the Red Cross evaluated separately from the company’s commercial activities Hunger Day collection. In Helsinki, we supported Helsinki Pride and may not be linked to past, present or future business and the ‘Peli poikki’ demonstration against racism, for example. transactions. They are decided on by the CEO. Lindex has been a partner for the Pink Ribbon project since In addition, Stockmann’s business units may also support 2003 and since the start Lindex has together with its customers non-profit projects of public benefit organizations as part of their donated approximately EUR 12 million to support breast cancer commercial campaigns and activities. research. In 2016, the campaign included a specially-designed In 2016, Stockmann department stores continued coPink Collection, with 10 per cent of the sales price being donated. operation with Hope ry, a non-profit organisation that supports A pink leather bracelet and annual sales of the Pink Ribbon also CHRISTMAS C AMPAIGN WITH HOPE Over the Christmas period, customers were encouraged to take photos in front of a photo booth backdrop in each department store and to share them using hashtag ‘Christmas is for sharing’. For each new photo shared on Instagram using the hashtag, 0.50 euros was donated to Hope ry. Employees in the Helsinki area donated old toys fit for Christmas presents via Hope ry. STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 41 contributed hugely to this year’s fundraising, which amounted to and the principles of responsible import trade by the Internaa total of EUR 1.2 million in all operating countries. tional Association of Department Stores (IADS) since 2002. During 2016, Lindex engaged in several round-up camThrough Lindex, we are additionally committed to volunpaigns for charity. During the campaigns customers were invited tary initiatives, such as the Better Cotton Initiative and the Fair to round-up their purchases with an amount that would be Wage Network. donated in full to a charity. Grievance mechanisms for labour practices and human rights are discussed on page 17. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE RECEIVED (EC4) To support and empower our personnel during the close down of CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y ORGANISATION the Oulu department store, we engaged in a programme called Stockmann’s Corporate Social Responsibility Steering Group, Voima ‘Strength’. This programme received financial support from whose Chairwoman is Nora Malin, Director, Communications, is the Finnish Work Environment Fund during 2015-2016. responsible for steering, developing and monitoring CSR within the Stockmann Group. The CSR Steering Group approves Group-level guidelines, sets goals for responsibility and defines CORPORATE GOVERNANCE procedures which are implemented with the help of normal management systems. The Stockmann’s CSR strategy is agreed Stockmann issues a separate review on its Corporate Governon and followed up in the CSR Steering Group, and approved by ance highlighting its governance model. The review is part of the the Stockmann Management Team. Annual reporting at year2016.stockmanngroup.com. Separate working groups related to CSR targets and topical Stockmann operates in an ethical manner, complying with issues are set up as necessary to prepare or implement the the international and national laws and regulations valid at any issues or decisions that have been dealt with by the CSR Steering given time in the countries in which it operates. Such laws and Group. During 2015-2016, working groups with experts from regulations concern securities markets, competition, consumers, Stockmann Retail and Real Estate were set up to prepare the marketing, product liability, employment, the environment, CSR strategy for 2016-2018. privacy and equality. In its business operations, Stockmann aims In addition, Stockmann’s environmental management to exceed the minimum requirements stipulated by laws, regulagroup convenes regularly, to follow-up on environmental mantions or conventions. agement issues as required for the ISO 14001 certificate. Stockmann’s Code of Conduct, available on the Group’s The Lindex Management group is responsible for the website, defines the ways of working that all employees and overall sustainability directions and strategies at Lindex, working management staff must follow, without exception. It covers the in line with the Stockmann Group level strategy. The global following areas: sustainability team supports the Management group in setting • Compliance with legislation and ethical operations targets, strategies and overall directions. Each department and • Free competition and consumer rights sales country organization then aligns their sustainability work • Employees and working conditions accordingly. Sustainability topics are discussed regularly at Lindex • The environment Management group meetings and are implemented and fol• Corruption and conflicts of interest lowed up through the regular management systems. Stockmann’s Communications and CSR function is We also require our suppliers and partners to abide by these responsible for development, coordination and reporting of the principles. The Code is complemented by a set of more detailed Group’s corporate social responsibility activities. rules and guidelines which are in harmony with it. Stockmann’s operations are also guided by international treaties and recommendations, such as the UN’s Universal ANTI-CORRUPTION AND ANTIDeclaration of Human Rights and Convention on the Rights of COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR the Child, the ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Stockmann’s policies relating to anti-corruption and anti-comEnterprises. Stockmann is committed to the UN’s Global petitive behaviour are included in the Stockmann Code of Compact initiative since 2011, and accordingly promotes human Conduct and further specified in the Stockmann anti-corruption rights, labour rights, environmental protection and antipolicy, approved in 2014. Both are available on the Group webcorruption measures. Stockmann is committed to contributing to site. Their content is incorporated in the Code of Conduct the United Nations Sustainable Development goals, explained in e-learning. ´Our commitment´ on page 4. Stockmann’s employees and management must act in the Other voluntary commitments include the principles of the best interests of the company and in a manner that avoids Business Social Compliance Initiative on group-level since 2005, conflicts of interest. Stockmann strives to carry out transparent the Bangladesh Accord on Fire and Building Safety since 2013, and responsible operations. STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 42 For years already, Stockmann personnel has been jects and investments, and are reported to the Board of Directors instructed on Stockmann policies regarding the acceptance of as needed. The company’s risk management, risk factors and samples, gifts, travel expenses or other monetary benefits, internal control systems are explained in more detail in the 2016 especially from suppliers, through the Employee Discount Rules. Corporate Governance review at year2016.stockmanngroup.com Likewise, the Lindex Ethical Policy has provided a foundation for counteracting all forms of corruption at Lindex, and has been COMMUNICATION AND TRAINING ON ANTIapplied in all countries of operation and informed to all suppliers CORRUPTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES before entering into cooperation. For example, our suppliers are (SO4) not permitted to give any gifts, other than ordinary courtesy Employees are trained in matters related to the Code of Conduct corporate gifts, or any other benefits to individual employees. and encouraged to contact their supervisor if the best course of Stockmann is a founding member of Transparency Suomi action is unclear. The Group-wide Code of Conduct is published ry, the Finnish chapter of Transparency International, an organion the Group website and communicated internally via the sation that works to combat international bribery and corruption intranet. and that operates in 90 countries. Roll-out of the Stockmann Group’s Code of Conduct e-learning programme, launched in late 2015, continued during CORRUPTION RISK ASSESSMENT 2016. The target is for each Stockmann employee to complete The Group’s international operations pose challenges for resothe training programme by the end of 2018 and to operate lute anti-corruption action. Anti-corruption policies are included according to the principles outlined in the Code of Conduct. By in the BSCI Code of Conduct and the Stockmann Supplier Code the end of 2016, 33 per cent of Stockmann’s support functions’ of Conduct, which are implemented in our own brands’ supply personnel and department store supervisors had successfully chain. completed the training (2015: 35 per cent of support functions The Board of Directors has approved the company’s risk personnel). Further roll-out has been planned for 2017. management policies, which concern all of the Stockmann During 2016, a revision was made to the Lindex Ethical Group’s divisions and areas of business. An essential part of policy in order to adapt it to present circumstances as well as to internal control is the Internal Audit, which operates as an indeincorporate it as a part of the Stockmann Code of Conduct. In pendent unit under the CEO and reports its observations to the 2017, the Stockmann Code of Conduct, the Lindex Ethical policy, Board of Directors. the Anti-corruption policy and the incorporated whistle-blowing Stockmann’s Board of Directors and the Group Managesystem will be developed into an e-learning programme for all ment Team regularly evaluate the risk factors to which business Lindex employees to complete. operations are exposed and the sufficiency of risk management The Employee Discount Rules and Lindex Ethical Policy actions, as a part of the strategy process. Risk management is also contain information on anti-corruption policies. supported by internal control systems and guidelines. Risk management guidelines have been drawn up separately for the INCIDENTS AND LEGAL ACTIONS following areas, among others: IT and information security, (SO5, SO6, SO7 ) finance operations, environmental issues, misconduct, security In 2016, Stockmann was not informed of any corruption-related and insurance. lawsuits against the Group. Stockmann does not make political The divisions’ respective management is responsible for contributions or donations to any politicians, political parties or making financial and strategic plans in their own units and for related organizations, either directly or indirectly. There were no analysing business risks and evaluating actions, as a part of legal actions or fines for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, or strategy planning. Business risks are also analysed outside the monopoly practices or their outcomes in 2016. strategic process, especially in connection with significant proSTOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 43 GRI CONTENT INDEX Level of Page and section in the Further information Code GRI content reporting CSR review or other location or omissions GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the President and CEO fully 2, From the CEO, 4, Our Commitment, 5-7, CSR strategy, CEO's review in ' Our year 2016 Business Review Organisational Profile G4-3 Name of the organisation fully 39–42, Finance and Governance G4-4 Primary brands, products and services fully Our year 2016 Business Review G4-5 Location of the organisation's fully 8, Reporting Principles and Materiality headquarters G4-6 The number of countries where the fully 8, Reporting Principles and Materiality, organisation operates, and names of 23–31, Products countries where either the organisation has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form fully Our year 2016 Business Review, Financial Review G4-8 Markets served fully Our year 2016 Business Review G4-9 Scale of organisation fully Our year 2016 Business Review G4-10 Total number of employees by fully 14–22, Personnel employment contract, region and gender G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered fully 14–22, Personnel by collective bargaining agreements G4-12 Organisation's supply chain fully 23–31, Products, & Supplier and factory lists for fashion own brands suppliers on the Group's website: http://www. stockmanngroup.com/en/supplier-andfactory-list and Our year 2016 Business Review G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting fully Financial Review / Report by the Board of In February Stockmann completed the sale of its period regarding the organisation's size, Directors department store operations in Russia to Reviva structure , ownership, or its supply chain Holdings Limited. With the deal, the entire stock of Stockmann’s Russian subsidiary AO Stockmann and the business of its the seven department stores in Russia were transferred to a new owner. Lindex also closed its stores in Russia during spring 2016. In April Stockmann announced that it was selling its subsidiary Hobby Hall to the Finnish SGN Group. This deal was concluded on 31 December 2016. The department store in Oulu was closed at the end of January 2017, a decision that was made in spring 2015. G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary fully Corporate Governance Review, Financial approach or principle is addressed by Review, Notes to the Consolidated Financial the organisation Statements G4-15 Externally developed charters, principles fully 39–42, Finance and Governance or initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 Memberships of associations and fully stockmanngroup.com Information on memberships of associations and advocacy organisations advocacy organisations by Stockmann and Lindex is published on the Group’s website. Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the organisation's fully Financial Review, Notes to the Consolidated consolidated financial statements Financial Statements G4-18 Process of defining the report content fully 8, Reporting Principles and Materiality The materiality assessment process is described in full on the Group website and in the previous 2015 CSR review. G4-19 Material aspects fully 8, Reporting Principles and Materiality The materiality assessment process is described in full on the Group website and in the previous 2015 CSR review. G4-20 Aspect boundary for each material fully stockmanngroup.com The materiality assessment process is described aspect within the organisation in full on the Group website and in the previous 2015 CSR review. G4-21 Aspect boundary for each material fully stockmanngroup.com The materiality assessment process is described aspect outside the organisation in full on the Group website and in the previous 2015 CSR review. STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 44 G4-22 Restatements of information provided in fully Changes reported in connection with relevant previous reports performance indicators. G4-23 Significant changes from previous fully Changes reported in connection with relevant reporting periods in the scope and performance indicators. aspect boundaries Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged in fully 9, Stakeholder engagement the organisation G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of fully 9, Stakeholder engagement stakeholders with whom to engage G4-26 Organisation's approach to stakeholder fully 9, Stakeholder engagement engagement G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been fully 9, Stakeholder engagement, and relevant raised through stakeholder engagement sections in CSR review Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period fully 8, Reporting Principles and Materiality G4-29 Date of the most recent previous report fully 8, Reporting Principles and Materiality G4-30 Reporting cycle fully 8, Reporting Principles and Materiality G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding fully 3, To the Reader, ' Our year 2016 Business the review or its contents Review G4-32 GRI content index fully 43–47 G4-33 Organisation's policy with regard to fully 8, Reporting Principles and Materiality The report has not been reviewed in full by a external assurance third party. Financial indicators which are presented in the Financial Review are externally assured. Mitopro Oy consulted us in the calculation of the carbon footprint in 2016. Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the fully 39–42, Finance and Governance, and organisation and committees Corporate Governance Review Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organisation's values, principles and fully 4, Our commitment, codes 39–42, Finance and Governance SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Reporting on aspects identified as material. Disclosure on Management Approach Disclosure of management approach fully 4-42 The DMA for each material aspect is presented (DMA) under the relevant theme or under its own heading. Economic Impacts Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and fully 39–42, Finance and Governance distributed G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from partially 39–42, Finance and Governance government Procurement Practices G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local no The aspect is defined material but the indicator is suppliers at significant locations of not suitable. Additional information on operation Procurement practices is provided in section 'Products' (pp. 23-31 ) and on the Group's website with list of fashion own brands suppliers (Stockmann, Lindex) Environmental Impacts Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume fully stockmanngroup.com Information on the use of packaging materials by Stockmann Retail and Lindex is published on the Group’s website. Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the fully 32–38, Environment organisation G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the no 32–38, Environment A limited amount of data is collected on energy organisation consumption outside the organisation for EN17 / Scope 3 review. G4-EN5 Energy intensity no The energy intensity of the Stockmann department stores in Finland is monitored and used as basis for energy efficiency measures but currently not reported. G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption no 32–38, Environment Detailed information on the various efforts to decrease energy consumption is given in the report section 'Environment'. However, amount of reductions in joules cannot be reported at the moment. STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 45 Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source fully 32–38, Environment G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by fully 32–38, Environment The company has no emissions into the water withdrawal of water system. G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water fully 32–38, Environment Water is not recycled or reused in the operations. recycled and reused Biodiversity G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, no Not a material aspect. The company’s managed in, or adjacent to, protected department stores and stores are located in areas areas and ares of high biodiversity value zoned as commercial properties. As commercial outside protected areas functions are not located in conservation areas or other areas rich in terms of biodiversity, the Group’s impacts on biodiversity are low. Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) fully 32–38, Environment emissions (Scope 1) G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) fully 32–38, Environment emissions (Scope 2) G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) fully 32–38, Environment emissions (Scope 3) Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and fully 32–38, Environment The wastewater from operations goes to destination municipal sewer systems. There is no water discharge referred to by GRI from Stockmann's operations. G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and fully 32–38, Environment disposal method G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant fully GRI Content Index During 2016, there were no environmental spills accidents or breaches related to environmental aspects. Products and Services DMA: Environmental performance of products G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitagation of no The aspect is defined material but the GRI environmental impacts of products and indicator is not suitable for Stockmann's services operations. Information material to Stockmann is presented in the 'Products' section of the report, in chapter 'Environmental Performance of Products' (pp.X). G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their no The aspect is defined material but the GRI packaging materials that are reclaimed indicator is not suitable for Stockmann's by category operations. Information about Stockmann's efforts in encouraging customers to recycle and is presented in the ´Environment´section of the report, in chapter 'Effluents and Waste' (pp.X). Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of fully 32–38, Environment transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were partially 23–31, Products screened using environmental criteria G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative partially 23–31, Products environmental impacts in the supply chain, and the actions taken G4-EN34 Number of grievances about fully GRI Content Index There were no grievances about environmental environmental impacts filed, addressed, impacts filed or addressed through formal and resolved through formal grievance grievance mechanism during 2016. In mechanisms Stockmann Retail division, there is a widely used mechanism in place for reporting minor defects regarding environmental practices, such as interference in recycling practices. STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 46 Social Impacts Labour Practices and Decent Work Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new fully 14–22, Personnel Information on the distribution by gender or by employee hires and employee turnover age group is not available at this level of detail. by age group, gender, and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time fully 14–22, Personnel employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant location of operation Labour/Management Relations G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding fully 14–22, Personnel operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, fully 14–22, Personnel Information on the distribution by gender is not occupational diseases, lost days, and available. absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per fully 14–22, Personnel Information on the distribution by gender and employee by gender, and by employee employee category is currently not available. category G4-LA10 Programmes for skills management and fully 14–22, Personnel lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving fully 14–22, Personnel regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and fully 14–22, Personnel Information on minority group membership is not breakdown of employees per employee collected, as this is not permitted under Finnish category according to gender, age legislation. group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration fully 14–22, Personnel The reporting covers Stockmann’s operations of women to men by employee in Finland. category, by significant locations of operation Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were fully 23–31, Products screened using labour practices criteria G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative fully 23–31, Products impacts for labour practices in the supply chain and actions taken Labour Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labour fully 14–22, Personnel practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Human Rights Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of fully 14–22, Personnel discrimination and corrective actions taken Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in fully 14–22, Personnel which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at a significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Human Rights Assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of fully 14–22, Personnel operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments STOCKMANN PLC / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 47 Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were fully 23–31, Products screened using human rights criteria G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative fully 23–31, Products human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human fully 14–22, Personnel rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Society Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on antifully 39–42, Finance and Governance corruption policies and procedures G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and fully 39–42, Finance and Governance actions taken Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by fully 39–42, Finance and Governance While the indicator is reported, the aspect is not country and recipient/beneficiary identified material. Anti-competitive Behaviour G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for antifully 39–42, Finance and Governance competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of nonfully 23–31, Products compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and Service Labelling G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer fully 10–13, Customers satisfaction Marketing Communications G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products fully 23–31, Products G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of nonfully 10–13, Customers compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated fully 10–13, Customers complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for fully 10–13, Customers non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services
